L17|Externalities in Knowledge Production: Evidence from a Randomized Field Experiment|Do contributions to online content platforms induce a feedback loop of ever more user-generated content or will they discourage future contributions? To assess this, we use a randomized field experiment which added content to some pages in Wikipedia while leaving similar pages unchanged. We find that adding content has a negligible impact on the subsequent long-run growth of content. Our results have implications for information seeding and incentivizing contributions, implying that additional content does not generate sizable externalities, neither by inspiring nor by discouraging future contributions.
L17|Externalities in knowledge production: Evidence from a randomized field experiment|Do contributions to online content platforms induce a feedback loop of ever more user-generated content or will they discourage future contributions? To assess this, we use a randomized field experiment which added content to some pages in Wikipedia while leaving similar pages unchanged. We find that adding content has a negligible impact on the subsequent long-run growth of content. Our results have implications for information seeding and incentivizing contributions, implying that additional content does not generate sizable externalities, neither by inspiring nor by discouraging future contributions.
L17|In search for stability in crypto-assets: are stablecoins the solution?|Stablecoins claim to stabilise the value of major currencies in the volatile crypto-asset market. This paper describes the often complex functioning of different types of stablecoins and proposes a taxonomy of stablecoin initiatives. To this end it relies on a novel framework for their classification, based on the key dimensions that matter for crypto-assets, namely: (i) accountability of issuer, (ii) decentralisation of responsibilities, and (iii) what underpins the value of the asset. The analysis of different types of stablecoins shows a trade-off between the novelty of the stabilisation mechanism used in an initiative (from mirroring the traditional electronic money approach to the alleged introduction of an “algorithmic central bank”) and its capacity to maintain a stable market value. While relatively less innovative stablecoins could provide a solution to users seeking a stable store of value, especially if legitimised by the adherence to standards that are typical of payment services, the jury is still out on the potential future role of more innovative stablecoins outside their core user base. JEL Classification: E42, L17, O33
L17|When Paywall Goes AWOL: The Demand for Open Access Education Research|As universities cut library funding and forego expensive journal subscriptions, many academic organizations and researchers, including the American Educational Research Association (AERA), are moving towards open-access publications that are freely downloadable by anyone with a working internet connection. However, the impact of paywalls on the consumption of academic articles is unclear. We provide novel evidence on this question by exploiting a natural experiment in which six high-impact, usually gated AERA journals became open access for a two-month period in 2017. Using monthly download data, and an always-open access journal as a control group, we show that making journals open access increased article downloads in those journals by 60 to 80% per month. Given a per-article download price of $36, this suggests a download elasticity of about 0.3 to 0.4.
L17|L’impatto sociale della produzione di scienza su larga scala: come governarlo?|L’appropriazione di conoscenze è oggi forse più importante della proprietà di capitali tangibili nel determinare la distribuzione dei redditi. Il paper analizza l’impatto socioeconomico e le ricadute distributive dell’attività delle (grandi) infrastrutture di ricerca (IR). Dopo aver definito le IR e rilevato che esse generano un beneficio sociale netto, gli autori sostengono che, sotto il profilo distributivo, la possibilità per le imprese private di appropriarsi gratuitamente della conoscenza prodotta dalla ricerca pubblica (finanziata dai contribuenti) aggrava le disuguaglianze. Tra i possibili rimedi, gli autori propongono la creazione di un nuovo tipo di impresa pubblica come polo della creazione di conoscenza.
L17|: Blockchain et pays en développement : vers une technologie maîtrisée ?|"(english) Blockchain technologies are very popular, but the way they actually work is often not really understood. Expectations are sometimes disconnected from reality. This is true in the field of application of these technologies to developing countries. We show it by i) describing the details of the blockchain technologies ii) comparing their potentialities with the deter- minants of development and iii) showing the limitations of the blockchain technologies to boost development. We then present technological devices additional to blockchains better suited to the development process by introducing the notion of \blocks host"". _________________________________ (français) Les technologies liées à la blockchain sont omniprésentes dans les media mais leur fonctionnement est souvent peu compris et les attentes vis-à-vis de ces technologies sont parfois déconnectées de la réalité. Le domaine du développement ne fait pas figure d'exception, nous le montrons en décrivant tout d'abord plus en détails les technologies liées aux blockchains, puis nous comparons leurs possibilités vis-à-vis des besoins dans ce domaine et faisons apparaître les limites d'application. Enfin, sans revenir sur les limites de la vision technocratique en rapport des besoins réels, nous proposons des pistes technologiques complémentaires aux blockchains mais mieux adaptées au processus de développement, en introduisant la notion d'hébergeur de blocs."
L17|The good MOOC and the universities|We propose a model to analyze competition between an on-line course and a traditional brick-and-mortar supply for higher education. The brick and mortar supplier is physically located and students pay a transportation cost to attend the traditional course. On the contrary, the on-line course is free, without transportation cost but students incurred a fixed homogeneous disutility when choosing this type of course. We derive the optimal fee policy of a single university as a function of its location and the fixed cost associated with the on-line course. We also study the impact of distant learning on the competition between two brick and mortar universities. One university is assumed to enjoy a central position, whereas the other one is located at the extreme left of the town. We discuss equilibria and market sharing in non-regulated (i.e pure fee competition) and regulated (i.e. quantity competition) settings. Finally, public issues are addressed. In particular, the socially optimal provision of MOOC and the supply of MOOC by universities are carefully discussed.
L17|Does Online Access Promote Research in Developing Countries? Empirical Evidence from Article-Level Data|Universities in developing countries have rarely been able to subscribe to academic journals in the past. The “Online Access to Research in the Environment” initiative (OARE) provides institutions in developing countries with free online access to more than 5,700 environmental science journals. We analyze the effect of OARE on scientific output in five developing countries. We apply difference-in-difference-in-differences estimation using a balanced panel with 161,450 observations derived from 36,202 journal articles published by authors affiliated with 2,490 research institutions. Our approach allows us to explore effects across scientific fields, i.e. OARE vs. non-OARE fields, within institutions and before and after OARE registration. We benefit from the fact that variation in online access to scientific literature is exogenous at the level of scientific fields. Additional self-selection issues are dealt with by using an endogenous binary variable model estimated by a Bayesian Markov-Chain-Monte-Carlo method. We provide evidence for a positive marginal effect of online access via OARE on publication output that ranges between +48% and +57%. Our results suggest that the most productive institutions benefit the most from OARE while the least productive institutions barely benefit from it.
L17|Financial incentives for open source development: the case of Blockchain|Unlike traditional open-source projects, developers of open-source blockchain-based projects can reap large financial rewards thanks to a modern form of seignorage. I study to what extent this novel form of financing generates incentives to innovate. I consider a developer working on an open-source blockchain-based protocol that can be used only in conjunction with a protocol-specific crypto-token. This token is first sold to investors via an auction (the ICO phase) and then traded on a frictionless financial market. I establish that seignorage is effective at providing capital and at generating incentives to develop the protocol. Its effectiveness is however limited by the fact that, in all equilibria of the game, in each post-ICO period there is a positive probability that the developer sells all his tokens and, as a consequence, no development occurs.
L17|Why are some online courses more open than others?|This paper studies the determinants of the intellectual property license of the Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) provided on a French platform. While they can opt for a traditional intellectual property right license, the vast majority chooses among creative commons licenses. Considering the ordering in terms of degree of openness of these licenses, we study the course-, teacher- and institution-related factors driving this decision. We observe that the field of study of the course and the characteristics of the institution providing the course play a role. We explain this result by the teachers' variable awareness and preferences with regard to open practices. We also find support for the idea that those willing to raise revenues by selling goods complementary to the MOOC (e.g. a textbook, certificate of completion or bundle of courses) are less likely to choose an open license.
L17|"""Brain gain"" on Wikipedia: Immigrants return knowledge home"|Economic literature acknowledges the impact of immigration on cross-border patenting and scientific publications. However, the role of immigration ows in the dissemination of knowledge in a broader sense is yet to be assessed. In this paper, I estimate the effect of immigration on the facilitation of online knowledge reagrding destination countries in the native languages of immigrants. To quantify online knowledge, I focus on one of the world's most viewed online knowledge platforms, Wikipedia. I combine data on immigration ows between the pairs of immigrants' origin and destination countries with contributions to Wikipedia describing the countries of immigrants' destinations in the languages spoken in immigrants' origin countries. I specifically focus on knowledge domains describing science and culture. In order to draw a causal inference, I use shocks to immigration due to economic and political crises as exogenous shocks to Wikipedia content and analyze subsequent changes in the contributions to Wikipedia. An increase in immigration yields more knowledge contributed to Wikipedia about science and culture in destination countries in the native languages of the origin countries. Interestingly, the increase in contributions is driven by anonymous contributors. In the Wikipedia community, these are considered occasional contributors who care personally about the topics they contribute to. The increase in content generated anonymously is driven by longer contributions.
L17|Unemployment and online labor|Online labor markets experienced a rapid growth in recent years. They allow for long-distance transactions and offer workers access to a potentially 'global' pool of labor demand. As such, they bear the potential to act as a substitute for shrinking local income opportunities. Using detailed U.S. data from a large online labor platform for microtasks, we study how local unemployment affects participation and work intensity online. We find that, at the extensive margin, an increase in commuting zone level unemployment is associated with more individuals joining the platform and becoming active in fulfilling tasks. At the intensive margin, our results show that with higher unemployment rates, online labor supply becomes more elastic. These results are driven by a decrease of the reservation wage during standard working hours. Finally, the effects are transient and do not translate to a permanent increase in platform participation by incumbent users. Our findings highlight that many workers consider online labor markets as a substitute to offline work for generating income, especially in periods of low local labor demand. However, the evidence also suggests that, despite their potential to attract workers, online markets for microtasks are currently not viable as a long run alternative for most workers.
L17|Open Source and Competition Strategy Under Network Effects| This study analyzes a firm’s decision to adopt an open source strategy in the development of a primary system product that has an indirect network effect on complementary accessory products, and evaluates its impact on market competition and social welfare. It shows that firms are likely to switch from a proprietary development strategy to an open source strategy as the network effect decreases, and a firm’s strategy also depends on consumers’ attitude toward future utility. This result implies that the presence of open source systems can benefit proprietary firms due to consumers’ higher willingness-to-pay for accessory products, and can lead to greater industry profit and social welfare. This study also shows that when the system development cost is non-negligible, firms prefer an open source strategy due to the cost-saving effect, but society is worse off due to a fragmented market with multiple system products.
L17|Identifying Phosphorus Hot Spots: A spatial analysis of the phosphorus balance as a result of manure application| In this paper, we analyze the phosphorus balance as a result of manure application on the parish level for Denmark and investigate its local geographic distribution. For our analysis, we determine phosphorus loads for the five main animal groups and the phosphorus demand of the fifteen major crop categories. To identify statistical significant local patterns of phosphorus over- and undersupply we apply Getis-Ord Gi* hot spot analysis. Our results show that there is a large variability in the phosphorus balance within Denmark. Statistically significant hot spots appear mainly along the west coast, while cold spots are predominantly present on southern and eastern coasts towards the Baltic Sea. The proximity of oversupply areas to water bodies and other environmental sensitive areas reinforces the need for further phosphorus regulation. These findings show the importance of a spatial targeted regulation, which allows different levels of phosphorus application depending on local economic and environmental circumstances, e.g., distance to an environmental sensitive region.
L17|Robots Are Us: Some Economics of Human Replacement|Will smart machines do to humans what the internal combustion engine did to horses – make them obsolete? If so, can putting people out of work or, at least, good work leave them unable to buy what smart machines produce? Our model’s answer is yes. Over time and under the right conditions, supply reduces demand, leaving everyone worse off in the long-run. Carefully crafted redistribution policies can prevent such immiserating growth. But blunt policies, such as limiting intellectual property rights or restricting labor supply, can make matters worse.
L17|Does Online Access Promote Research in Developing Countries?|Universities in developing countries have rarely been able to subscribe to academic journals in the past. The “Online Access to Research in the Environment” initiative (OARE) provides institutions in developing countries with free online access to more than 5,700 environmental science journals. Here we analyze the effect of OARE on scientific output in five developing countries. We apply difference-in-difference estimation using panel data for 18,955 articles from 798 research institutions. We find that online access via OARE increases publication output by at least 43% while lower-ranked institutions located in remote areas benefit less. Results are robust when we apply instrumental variables to account for information diffusion and Bayesian estimation to control for self-selection
L17|Disclosure Rules and Declared Essential Patents|Many standard setting organizations (SSOs) require participants to disclose patents that might be infringed by implementing a proposed standard, and commit to license their “essential” patents on terms that are at least fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (FRAND). Data from these SSO intellectual property disclosures have been used in academic studies to provide a window into the standard setting process, and in legal proceedings to assess the relative contribution of different parties to a standard. We develop a simple model of the disclosure process to illustrate the link between SSO rules and patent-holder incentives, and examine the model's core predictions using a novel dataset constructed from the disclosure archives of thirteen major SSOs. The central message of the paper is that subtle differences in the rules used by different SSOs can influence which patents are disclosed, the terms of licensing commitments, and ultimately long-run citation and litigation rates for the underlying patents.
L17|Entry in Beauty-Contest Games|"We study how voluntary participation in Beauty Contest Games (BCGs) affects the actions and payoffs of type-heterogenous players. In a BCG, players have two goals --one personal, the other social-- and so BCGs appropriately model relevant economic situations like participating in a social network, partaking in the coding of an open-source software, or the choice of research topics by academics, among others. Key in these and other cases is the concept of ""social norm"" that will emerge in the associated ""community"", and so people's entry choices will depend crucially on their expectations regarding not only how many but who (which types) will join in. We find that in equilibrium there is entry as long as the BCG is ""attractive"" and that there might be multiple equilibria, each indexed by its associated social norm. We also find that, when finite, there is an odd number of equilibria and that --if ordered based on the value of the associated social norm-- odd/even equilibria are stable/unstable. Further, for low attractiveness, equilibrium social norms are univocally associated with the extrema of the distribution of types in the economy, so that stable/unstable equilibria are linked to maxima/interior minima. We find that ""universal"" communities in which everybody joins the BCG (as implicitly assumed by the literature) only occur when the BCG is sufficiently attractive and the economy's average type is not extreme. In non-universal communities, social norms are affected by the attractiveness of the BCG and the functional form of the distribution of types in the economy (especifically, its skewness around extrema). Attractiveness affects both the size and the composition of the community. Thus, an increase in attractiveness could lead both to the entry of new members and to the exit of some others."
L17|Structural analysis of domestic meat supply on development regions|he paper contributes to market research in the agri-food sector, by analyzing the structure of domestic meat supply from slaughtering, by species (cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, poultry) at national level and on the eight development regions. Also, for each species presented, the study deepens the age or production categories that are the subject of the meat offer. Thus, at the country level, pigs and poultry provide the largest share of the meat supply, each representing 39% of total, cattle provide 14% of the offer, sheep 7% and goats only 1%. At species level, calves and other young cattle represent the largest part of the cattle supply (67%), and for pigs, almost all pork is provided by animals over 50 kg (99.89%). In the sheep species, lambs provide 67% from slaughtering, and in goats, kids represent 97% of the meat supply of their species. Poultry slaughterings include hens, chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese and other poultry, of which chickens provide the largest share of poultry meat supply (64.8%). At the level of development regions, the most of cattle slaughterings are done in the North-East Region, the West Region occupies the first place in pork slaughterings, the South Eastern Region has the largest sheep and goat meat offer, and the South-Muntenia Region provides the largest quantity of poultry meat.
L17|A Blockchain Application in Energy|Abstract This report documents a blockchain application developed for the energy sector that enables distributed market coordination for decentralized energy systems. As its core element, it utilizes Ethereum-based smart contracts to facilitate market matching between individual producers and consumers of electricity. The motive for this application was to understand the process of developing blockchain applications with industrial partners. Moreover, the purpose of this exercise was to examine whether Ethereum-based smart contracts could be effectively utilized for similar applications in industry and society at large. The application and the discussions during its development indicate that similar horizontal market structures may spring up in value chains in which the dynamicity of the market is growing and in which the roles of the market actors are shifting from fixed roles towards switch-role markets.
L17|Distributed Workflow Management with Smart Contracts|Abstract This report documents a blockchain application developed for the real estate sector. The application enables distributed workflow management in a complicated transaction process: the selling of a share of stocks in a housing corporation. As its core element, the application utilizes Ethereum-based smart contracts to facilitate the interaction of various parties involved, as well as the Interplanetary File System (IPFS) to combine data from a number of separate information pools. The motive for this application has been to understand the process of developing blockchain applications with industrial partners. Moreover, the purpose of this exercise has been to examine whether Ethereum-based smart contracts could be effectively utilized for applications in industry and finance. The application and the discussions during its development indicate that similar, market-driven workflow structures may appear in value chains where the number of parties is high and where the sources of information are numerous yet disconnected.
L17|Is necessity the mother of disruption?|This study investigates the origins of disruptive innovation. According to the canonical model, disruptive innovations do not originate from existing customers - in contrast with what the user innovation literature would predict. We compiled a unique historical and content-analytic dataset based on 62 cases identified from the disruptive innovation literature. We found that 44% of the disruptive innovations in this sample were originally developed by users. Disruptive innovations are more likely to originate from users (producers) if the environment is characterized by high levels of turbulence in customer preferences (technology). Disruptive innovations involving high functional (technological) novelty, tend to be developed by users (producers). Users are also more likely to be the source of disruptive process innovations, and to innovate in weaker appropriability environments. Our paper is among the first to link the disruptive and user innovation literatures. We contribute to both and offer guidance to managers on the likely source of disruptive threats.
L17|Economic downturn and volunteering: Do economic crises affect content generation on Wikipedia?|In this paper, we address the impact of surging unemployment on online public good provision. Specifically, we ask how drastically increased unemployment affects voluntary contributions of content to the online encyclopedia Wikipedia. We put together a monthly country-level data set, which combines country specific economic outcomes with data on contributions to the online encyclopedia. As a source of exogenous variation in the economic state we use the fact that European countries were affected by the financial crisis in the US in September 2008 with different intensity. For European countries, we find that the economic downturn is associated with more viewership, which channels higher participation of volunteers in Wikipedia expressed in editing activity and content growth. We provide evidence for increased information search online or online learning as a potential channel of the change in public goods provision, which is a potentially important side effect of economic downturn.
L17|Does Wikipedia matter? The effect of Wikipedia on tourist choices|We document a causal influence of online user-generated information on realworld economic outcomes. In particular, we conduct a randomized field experiment to test whether additional information on Wikipedia about cities affects tourists' choices of overnight visits. Our treatment of adding information to Wikipedia increases overnight visits by 9% during the tourist season. The impact comes mostly from improving the shorter and incomplete pages in Wikipedia.
L17|Crowdfunding in Wine| Crowdfunding has recently emerged as a novel way of financing new ventures. This coincides with a growing interest in wine as an investment good and with a search for new funding opportunities by wine makers. In this study, we first suggest a brief review of the literature on wine and finance as well as on how crowdfunding is entering the wine sector. In particular, we question who are the potential investors willing to engage in wine crowdfunded projects, and what kind of revenue could attract them. To go further, we also exploit an original survey where interviewees are asked about their wine consumption and purchase, their knowledge about crowdfunding, their relation to the Internet, their investment and project related to wine crowdfunding and their expectations concerning the returns from this type of contribution. We suggest that, among all forms of crowdfunding, the donation/voluntary contribution side, driven by intrinsic motivation, is likely to remain marginal compared to crowdfunding as an investment or a form of early purchase - a retail form of the “en primeur” sales. More generally, we ask how the public can help finance this sector and diversify the way wine is sold.
L17|PROFIT ORIENTED BUSINESSES vs SERVICES PROVIDING BUSINESSES|The tourism sector is a major component of the economy, as a sector as well as an entrance factor towards all the other economic activities. This study is organized in an empirical form, together with a review of specialized literature, through the studying of the possible correlations between the tourism sector's performance and the importance of forming an organization culture within this sector. To answer the paper's purpose, the following research techniques have been used: content analysis of the research carried out, as well statistical methods for the analysis of data and the interpretation of results. The study's results indicate that, despite the field's importance being uncontestable, the specialized literature in our country, at least, does not dedicate any paper towards the research of tourism enterprises' organizational culture. There are some references to the hospitality industry, meaning hotels and public nutrition, but a study on the organization culture of travel agencies has not yet been carried out. It has come to the conclusion that the emancipation of consumers can stimulate competition, increase efficiency, as well as rethinking the strategies of tourism-sector firms.
L17|Ideological Segregation among Online Collaborators: Evidence from Wikipedians|Do online communities segregate into separate conversations about “contestable knowledge”? We analyze the contributors of biased and slanted content in Wikipedia articles about U.S. politics, and focus on two research questions: (1) Do contributors display tendencies to contribute to topics with similar or opposing bias and slant? (2) Do contributors learn from experience with extreme or neutral content, and does that experience change the slant and bias of their contributions over time? Despite heterogeneity in contributors and their contributions, we find an overall trend towards less segregated conversations. Contributors tend to edit articles with slants that are the opposite of their own views, and the slant from experienced contributors becomes less extreme over time. The experienced contributors with the most extreme biases decline the most. We also find some significant differences between Republicans and Democrats.
L17|From technological to symbolic innovation? Open source, Maker Movement and global demand for 3D printers|The recent turbulent evolution of the 3D printing industry is strictly related with two important phenomena: the widespread adoption of Open Source (OS) business models by new companies on the one hand, and the increasing importance of communities of users, such as the so-called Maker Movement, on the other. This study is the first to analyze the factors that drive the adoption of different types of 3D printers and argues that, in line with the classification introduced by Hirschman (1982), 3D printers should be considered as both technological and symbolic innovations in order to understand their adoption patterns. While technological innovations are adopted for their technical utility, the adoption of symbolic product innovations serves mainly to communicate a novel social meaning to a specific pre-existing product. The recent growth of communities of interest that strongly endorse the OS philosophy, like the Maker Movement, has led 3D OS printers to gain many of the features of symbolic innovations. Taking advantage of an international sample of 3D printer users from 39 different countries, our study shows that while the high-quality 3D printers of established producers (3D proprietary printers) are mainly adopted for technologically-driven reasons, the adherence to the Maker Movement and to its ethical values is an important driver behind the adoption of 3D OS printers. Moreover this is especially true for the users that started to use 3D printers after 2011, when the Maker philosophy started gaining great momentum. The findings show that the global demand for 3D printer is increasingly fragmented between users driven by different motivations in their adoption choices. In this respect, the study advances our understanding about the interplay between OS business models, communities of interest and innovation adoption and inform managers on the importance of recognizing and exploiting the novel symbolic nature of 3D OS printers.
L17|Academic copyright in the publishing game: a contest perspective|Abstract As scientists are motivated by readership rather than by royalties, one might doubt that academic copyright is required for stimulating research. Consequently, establishing an open access regime is currently intensively being discussed. We contribute to the literature by using a contest-model in which differently talented researchers compete for limited journals space. The contest perspective adds a rent-seeking motive into the publishing game which questions that private incentives for research are always too low due to the positive externalities of scientific progress. In our model, open access always leads to higher social welfare when incentives are too high. When incentives are too low, then open access is only superior if the benefits from larger readership is sufficiently high.
L17|Ideological Segregation among Online Collaborators: Evidence from Wikipedians|"Do online communities segregate into separate conversations about ""contestable knowledge""? We analyze the contributors of biased and slanted content in Wikipedia articles about U.S. politics, and focus on two research questions: (1) Do contributors display tendencies to contribute to topics with similar or opposing bias and slant? (2) Do contributors learn from experience with extreme or neutral content, and does that experience change the slant and bias of their contributions over time? Despite heterogeneity in contributors and their contributions, we find an overall trend towards less segregated conversations. Contributors tend to edit articles with slants that are the opposite of their own views, and the slant from experienced contributors becomes less extreme over time. The experienced contributors with the most extreme biases decline the most. We also find some significant differences between Republicans and Democrats."
L17|Open business models and venture capital finance|We investigate the differences in venture capital (VC) governance of investee firms with Open Business Models, specifically Open Source Software (OSS), versus closed business models. Due to OSS’s pronounced complexity and uncertainty, we conjecture that VC-backed OSS firms are more frequently staged and syndicated. We present robust empirical evidence from the United States that OSS ventures have more financing rounds and are more likely to be syndicated, and mixed evidence that OSS ventures have a larger number of syndicated investors.
L17|Who is forked on GitHub? Collaboration among Open Source developers|In this article we investigate which characteristics of the developers involved in the creation of Open Source software favor innovation in the Open Source community. We utilize a unique database, obtained by web-scrapping GitHub from January to March, 2016. The results of the analysis show that higher reputation in the community improves up to a certain degree the probability of gaining collaborators, but developers are also driven by reciprocity, which is consistent with the concept of gift economy. There exists also a statistically significant network effect emerging from the standarization -- developers using the most popular programming languages in the service are likely to have more collaborators. Providing additional contact information improves the chance of having coworkers. The obtained results can be generalized for the population of mature users of GitHub.
L17|Disruptive technologies and networking in telecom industries|This article discuss’ how economics of scale in supply and demand in the telecommunication industry has developed and how this has had great effect on the widespread usage and popularity of smart phones. By using this as a theoretical ground the paper looks into technical innovation in the telecommunication industry and finds significant similarities between the industry development and the literature on disruptive technology, which finds that incumbent companies are not able to react in a successful way when disruptions occur in their industry. By studying how the telecommunication industry developed around the introduction of the smart phone and looking closer into the reactions of major players such as Apple, Google, Microsoft and Nokia, we find evidence supporting the finding in the literature of an inadequate strategies among incumbent companies. Large incumbent companies are focused too much on incremental innovation of their products which have a more clear short-term return and a solution of this problem is to focus less on short-term efficiency and to allow the individual researcher to follow his/her own ideas’ to a larger extent.
L17|Voluntary Provision of Public Knowledge Goods: Group-Based Social Preferences and Coalition Formation|In this paper we develop a private-collective model of voluntary public knowledge production, where group-based social preferences have an impact on coalition formation. Our theoretical model builds on the large empirical literature on voluntary production of pooled public knowledge goods, including source code in communities of software developers or data provided to open access data repositories. Our analysis shows under which conditions social preferences such as 'group belonging' or 'peer approval' influence stable coalition size, as such rationalising several stylized facts emerging from large scale surveys of Free/Libre/Open-Source software developers (David and Shapiro, 2008), previously unaccounted for. Furthermore, heterogeneity of social preferences is added to the model to study the formation of stable, but mixed coalitions.
L17|The L&E of Intellectual Property – Do we get maximum innovation with the current regime?|Innovation is crucial to economic growth – the essential path for lifting much of the world population out of dire poverty and for maintaining the living standard of those who already have. To stimulate innovation, the legal system has to support the means through which innovators seek to get rewarded for their efforts and risks taken. Amongst these means, some, such as the first mover advantage or 'lead time,' are not directly legal; but secrets and intellectual property rights are legal institutions supported for the specific purpose of stimulating innovation. Whilst the protection of secrets has not changed very much over recent years, intellectual property (or IP) has. IP borrows some features from ordinary property rights, but is also distinct, in that, unlike physical goods, information, the object of IP, is not inherently scarce; indeed as information and communication technologies expand, the creation and distribution of information is becoming ever cheaper and in many circumstances abundant, so that selection is of the essence ('on the internet, point of view is everything'). New information builds on already existing information. Where rights on information extend too far, their monopolising effect may hamper innovation. The paper investigates the underlying structure of IP rights and surveys what we know empirically about the incentive effects of IP as about industries that flourish without formal IP. L'innovation est essentielle à la croissance économique, elle-même la voie obligée pour faire sortir une grande partie de la population mondiale de la misère et pour maintenir le niveau de vie des personnes qui en sont déjà sorties. Pour stimuler l'innovation, le système juridique doit soutenir les moyens par lesquels les innovateurs cherchent rémunération de leurs efforts et des risques pris. Parmi ceux-ci, certains comme l'« avance de départ » ne sont pas directement juridiques; mais le secret commercial et la propriété intellectuelle sont des institutions juridiques soutenues dans le but précis de stimuler l'innovation. Alors que la protection des secrets n'a pas beaucoup évolué au cours des ans, la propriété intellectuelle (PI) l'a bien. La propriété intellectuelle emprunte certains traits de la propriété classique des biens matériels, mais est aussi distincte, en ce que, contrairement aux biens matériels, l'information – l'objet de la PI – n'est pas par nature rare ; en fait, à mesure que les technologies de l'information et des communications s'étendent, la création et la distribution de l'information devient toujours moins chère. Dans certains cas, l'information devient même abondante à telle enseigne que la sélection et essentielle ('on the internet, point of view is everything'). L'information nouvelle s'appuie sur de l'information déjà disponible. Là où les droits sur l'information, et notamment la PI, s'étendent trop loin, leurs effets monopolisateurs risquent d'interférer avec l'innovation. Le texte examine la structure sous-jacente des droits de propriété intellectuelle et fait un survol de ce que nous savons de manière « empirique » sur les effets incitatifs de la PI de même que des industries qui prospèrent sans droit de propriété intellectuelle formel.
L17|Flipping journals to open: Rethinking publishing infrastructure|The resignation of the editorial board of an Elsevier-owned linguistics journal and its open access reorganization could get the ball rolling for other journals to follow suit. This case is a reminder that open access means more than just providing access to an article; it means rethinking the whole process of publishing. Open access also raises important questions about who owns the critical information infrastructure for online publishing.
L17|Who is afraid of pirates? An experiment on the deterrence of innovation by imitation|In the policy debate, intellectual property is often justified by what seems to be a straightforward argument: if innovators are not protected against others appropriating their ideas, incentives for innovation are suboptimally low. Now, in most industries and for most potential users, appropriating a foreign innovation is itself an investment decision fraught with cost and risk. Nonetheless, standard theory predicts too little innovation. Arguably the problem is exacerbated by the sensitivity of innovators to fairness; imitators do get a free lunch, after all.
L17|Big from the beginning: Assessing online contributors’ behavior by their first contribution|The objective of this paper is to investigate the process of involvement in open online communities producing knowledge, via the link between the first contribution and the level of contribution reached. While most studies consider the career of contribution following the first contribution, we focus on what happened before and during the first contribution. We challenge the fact that becoming a core member starts with peripheral contributive activities and results from a continuous learning process, as explained by the theory of community of practice. On the contrary, and coherent with epistemic community theory, our results, based on 13,000 answers to a survey on the use of, and contributions to Wikipédia, show that the future level of users’ involvement depends on the period of time between the discovery of Wikipedia and the first contribution (negative effect), and of the effort made in the first contribution (positive effect). Implications for management are also discussed.
L17|Voluntary Provision of Public Knowledge Goods: Group-Based Social Preferences and Coalition Formation|In this paper we develop a private-collective model of voluntary public knowledge production, where group-based social preferences have an impact on coalition formation. Our theoretical model builds on the large empirical literature on voluntary production of pooled public knowledge goods, including source code in communities of software developers or data provided to open access data repositories. Our analysis shows under which conditions social preferences such as 'group belonging' or 'peer approval' influence stable coalition size, as such rationalising several stylized facts emerging from large scale surveys of Free/Libre/Open-Source software developers (David and Shapiro, 2008), previously unaccounted for. Furthermore, heterogeneity of social preferences is added to the model to study the formation of stable, but mixed coalitions.
L17|The Decision to Produce Altcoins: Miners' Arbitrage in Cryptocurrency Markets|Bitcoin has become the de facto 'gold' standard among cryptocurrencies as it is the most widely accepted in commerce, has the largest mining network, and greatest volume of transactions. Because of this, miners of other SHA-256 cryptocurrencies will tend to convert those altcoins into bitcoin in order to transact in a meaningful way with the real economy. The result is that bitcoin mining regulates that of all other SHA-256 blockchains. Specifically, what matters is the expected number of bitcoins produced per day given a unit of hashing (mining) power, whatever the equivalence in the coin being mined. If mining for a different coin would yield a greater return in bitcoins at the margin (per day) for a miner, an apparent arbitrage opportunity will exist to direct mining effort at that cryptocurrency and subsequently exchange those for bitcoin. These opportunities, once taken, quickly eliminate the profitable arbitrage and appear to operate in a fairly efficient and predictable manner. A model is developed in this paper to formalize this process where cryptocurrency miners seeking to maximize production in terms of bitcoins earned in a day will exploit any such opportunities. If no such opportunities exist, they will simply revert to mining bitcoins directly. There are some important implications to this process, such as a tendency for cryptocurrencies to fall in price relative to bitcoin over time, and for changes in bitcoin mining difficulty to indirectly influence the market prices of altcoins. Finally, it seems that those undertaking this process of miners' arbitrage do so at the expense of speculators and noise traders who make decisions regarding buy and sell trades without the use of fundamental data. These participants generally have poor timing, follow trends, and over-react to good and bad news. Altcoins are produced by miners and subsequently offered for sale in the market in order to obtain bitcoins; meanwhile noise traders serve as the only bid-side to the market, on average.
L17|A Model of corporate donations to open source under hardware–software complementarity|In recent years there has been an increasing diffusion of open source projects as well as an increasing interest among scholars on the topic. Open source software (OSS) is developed by communities of programmers and users, usually sponsored by private firms, is available in the public domain and redistributed for free. We present a model of open and closed source software competition in a differentiated oligopoly of hardware–software bundles. Hardware and software are complement goods and OSS is financed by hardware firms. Results are several. Hardware firms contribute to the development of open source, although the level of contribution is not socially optimal. OSS availability has a positive impact on hardware firms’ profits and prices, whereas the closed source producer is harmed by OSS competition. Furthermore, we analyze under what circumstances hardware firms have incentives in investing in OS projects. The model can explain the increasing participation in OS projects of several embedded device producers and server producers. Although we focus on hardware, this model can be generalized to a wide range of complementary goods and services, such as IT training, web hosting, and Information and Communication Technology (ICT) consultancy services.
L17|Flipping Journals to Open: Rethinking Publishing Infrastructure|Open access means that research outputs, such as articles and data, are free of restrictions on access and free of restrictions on use. In the light of recent market developments in academic publishing, we argue in this essay that the discourse about open access must include a discussion about research infrastructure and innovation in academic publishing.
L17|Why do users choose Open Source software? Analysis of the network effect|This article analyses the phenomenon of using the Open Source software. Its aim is to verify the existence of a positive direct network effect that characterizes using of the Open Source software. The multivariate probit model is used to extract factors motivating users to the usage of the Open Source software. Special attention is paid to demographic characteristics of users, as well as to the impact of users' acquaintances, such as family, work and school on using the Open Source software. The results of the conducted analysis confirm our research.
L17|Open Access Journals And Academics' Behavior|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12131-abs-0001""> The rising star of scholarly publishing is Open Access (OA). Even some traditional journals now offer this option on author payment, and many full freely accessible journals are now available to scholars, providing relief to research institutions increasingly unable to afford the escalating subscription rates of serials. However, proper recognition of full OA journals by the community remains a major obstacle to overcome if they are to become a viable alternative for scholarly communication. Through a survey, this work investigates economics scholars' attitudes to OA, and attempts to outline the state of practices and norms governing individuals' publication choices. ( JEL L17, L86, O33)"
L17|Identifying The Effect Of Open Access On Citations Using A Panel Of Science Journals|" type=""main"" xml:lang=""en""> An open-access journal allows free online access to its articles, obtaining revenue from fees charged to submitting authors or from institutional support. Using panel data on science journals, we are able to circumvent problems plaguing previous studies of the impact of open access on citations. In contrast to the huge effects found in these previous studies, we find a more modest effect: moving from paid to open access increases cites by 8% on average in our sample. The benefit is concentrated among top-ranked journals. In fact, open access causes a statistically significant reduction in cites to the bottom-ranked journals in our sample, leading us to conjecture that open access may intensify competition among articles for readers' attention, generating losers as well as winners. (JEL L17, O33)"
L17|Appropriability and Incentives with Complementary Innovations|" type=""main""> This paper analyzes the effects on incentives to invest in the development of complementary innovations within research and development (R&D) collaborations of two alternative appropriability regimes: an “openness regime” whereby parties make an ex ante commitment to reciprocal access to each other's R&D outputs and an “exclusion regime” whereby no such commitment is made. We consider a model with efficient bargaining ex ante in which firms do not compete in the final market. Assuming that the complementary innovations constitute a common input and that agents make complementary investments in its private exploitation, we find that, when complementarities are sufficiently strong, a commitment to openness may provide greater incentives than an exclusion regime. The theoretical framework may be applied to interpret Open Source Software licenses, intellectual property rights licensing arrangements within research joint ventures and royalty stacking issues. From a public policy standpoint, the paper allows to identify conditions under which the openness regime may be an appropriate choice to elicit further development of publicly funded technologies."
L17|Dynamics of Open Source Movements|" type=""main""> This paper considers a dynamic model of the evolution of open-source software projects, focusing on the evolution of quality, contributing programmers, and users who contribute customer support to other users. Programmers who have used open-source software (OSS) are motivated by reciprocal altruism to publish their own improvements. The evolution of the open-source project depends on the form of the altruistic benefits: in a base case the project grows to a steady-state size from any initial condition; whereas adding a need for customer support makes zero-quality a locally absorbing state. We also analyze competition by commercial firms with OSS projects. Optimal pricing policies again vary: in some cases the commercial firm will set low prices when the open-source project is small; in other cases it mostly waits until the open-source project has matured."
L17|Competition in the Cryptocurrency Market| We analyze how network effects affect competition in the nascent cryptocurrency market. We do so by examining the changes over time in exchange rate data among cryptocurrencies. Specifically, we look at two aspects: (1) competition among different currencies, and (2) competition among exchanges where those currencies are traded. Our data suggest that the winner-take-all effect is dominant early in the market. During this period, when Bitcoin becomes more valuable against the U.S. dollar, it also becomes more valuable against other cryptocurrencies. This trend is reversed in the later period. The data in the later period are consistent with the use of cryptocurrencies as financial assets (popularized by Bitcoin), and not consistent with ``winner-take-all'' dynamics.
L17|Impact Of The New Media Knowledge On The Organization Management|Due to globalization new media strongly impacts organizations and management approaches. Access to social media platforms, open source movement, online collaboration, rapid communication and increasing power of consumers push hierarchical organization towards flexibility and adaptability. New media offers a wide range of channels for information on competitors, for brand promotion and to new markets. But competitors have also access to the same instruments. Globalization in terms of communication on collaborative platforms, determines organizations to adopt cross-cultural and cross-organizational approaches to ensure sending the right message to the right market at the right time. Maintaining organization globally competitive implies top human resources with a trans-disciplinary background and knowledge of using the new media infrastructure sustained by a right organizational structure. This paper aims at demonstrating, with some examples too, how new media is leading decision making process to a new level for protecting organization’s image setting new norms and principles for organization and people in order to achieve best results.
L17|What Drives Academic Data Sharing?|Despite widespread support from policy makers, funding agencies, and scientific journals, academic researchers rarely make their research data available to others. At the same time, data sharing in research is attributed a vast potential for scientific progress. It allows the reproducibility of study results and the reuse of old data for new research questions. Based on a systematic review of 98 scholarly papers and an empirical survey among 603 secondary data users, we develop a conceptual framework that explains the process of data sharing from the primary researcher’s point of view. We show that this process can be divided into six descriptive categories: Data donor, research organization, research community, norms, data infrastructure, and data recipients. Drawing from our findings, we discuss theoretical implications regarding knowledge creation and dissemination as well as research policy measures to foster academic collaboration. We conclude that research data cannot be regarded a knowledge commons, but research policies that better incentivize data sharing are needed to improve the quality of research results and foster scientific progress.
L17|Standards, consortia, and innovation|The development of formal ICT standards is a challenging form of collaborative innovation, combining consensus decision making and R&D rivalry. To supplement this formal standard setting process, it has thus become frequent that part of the involved firms creates ad hoc consortia to better align positions on a common technology roadmap. This paper aims to assess whether such consortia can effectively mitigate R&D coordination failure through enhanced cooperation. We first develop a theoretical model showing that depending on the nature of firms' incentives to contribute proprietary technology, different types of R&D coordination failure – namely a Public Good or Rent Seeking problem – may occur in equilibrium. Using a large panel of standards, we then confirm empirically the prediction that consortia have different effects on innovation under a Public Good or Rent Seeking regime. Overall, we observe an increase in innovation after a firm joined a consortium. However, this effect is significantly weakened or even reversed for standards characterized by a strong Rent Seeking regime.
L17|Participation motifs and the emergence of organization in open productions|We study how organization emerges from interdependent problem solving behavior of participants in an open production system. We consider individual problem solving attempts as acts of production embedded in an evolving bipartite network which affiliates organizational participants to organizational problems. We document how local configurations of network ties (or motifs) linking participants to problems emerge from – but at the same time sustain decentralized problem solving activities. Structural characteristics of the observed network suggest specific dependence hypotheses linking participants to problems. We explore these hypotheses by examining problem solving attempts performed by 135 participants in an open source software project on the 719 problems (software bugs) recorded during a complete release cycle of the software. Our empirical strategy relies on the specification and estimation of newly derived stochastic actor-oriented models (SAOM) originally conceived for the analysis of social networks. We find that individual problem solving behavior is activated by the interaction between local configurations of network ties, the level of experience of problem solvers, and the level of difficulty of problems. The discussion focuses on the broad theoretical implications of the study for the relation between work practices and organizational structures.
L17|Crowdsourcing: la descentralización del conocimiento y su impacto en los modelos productivos y de negocio| [ES] La participación activa del usuario en la Red no solo ha empezado a fomentar nuevos modelos productivos, sino también todo un modelo de negocios alrededor de los mismos. Muchas empresas están comenzando a explotar ventajas competitivas, en costes o en diferenciación, derivadas de la participación del usuario y su disponibilidad a colaborar en diversos proyectos en los que no siempre media, necesariamente, contraprestación económica; y cuando existe, suele ser inferior a la que exigiría un profesional medio por realizar el mismo trabajo. En este trabajo se analiza el fenómeno del crowdsourcing desde ambas vertientes, así como el importante impacto económico y social que genera esta nueva forma de trabajo. Dado que la base del crowdsourcing se encuentra en el efecto red, se comienza realizando un planteamiento crítico basado en la consideración de Internet como un espacio participativo que empodera a individuos y agentes económicos y en el que se analizan sus ventajas y límites. Posteriormente, y en base al estudio de diferentes casos, se sistematizan las características principales del crowdsourcing para definir tres modelos básicos en función de su consideración como modelo de negocio, como producción colaborativa con fines altruistas o como un híbrido de ambos.
L17|Open source software subsidies and network compatibility in a mixed duopoly|Open source software (OSS) generally offers a high-quality alternative to proprietary software (e.g. Linux, Apache, Android, etc.) for many applications. Although OSS is usually free of charge, its diffusion remains limited. Should government intervene to promote the diffusion of OSS, and offer potential adopters some learning or financial support? This paper examines whether public subsidies for OSS are socially desirable, and how the extent of compatibility between OSS and proprietary software (PS) might influence the optimal subsidy offered. We consider a mixed duopoly model in which a PS company competes with an OSS community. Users are heterogeneous in their ability to use OSS, and their utility depends on the number of users who adopt the same or compatible software (existence of network externalities). Four situations are distinguished: full compatibility between OSS and PS, full incompatibility, and one-way compatibility (either only OSS or PS is compatible). We show that if the government places more weight on consumer surplus, public subsidies are welfare-enhancing. But the optimal subsidy level is larger with full compatibility and PS compatibility than full incompatibility and OSS compatibility. These results suggest that government policy towards OSS should be conditional on the degree of compatibility between PS and OSS.
L17|Innovative business models for high-tech entrepreneurial ventures: the organizational design challenges|Entrepreneurial ventures operating in high-tech industries are more and more adopting innovative business models, which are based on use of the market for ideas instead of the market for products or on the leveraging of communities of users and developers. A common characteristic of these innovative business models is their dependence on innovative technological knowledge and, consequently, on the ways in which intellectual property rights over this knowledge are designed (i.e., tight vs. loose appropriability regime). This chapter grounds on mainstream organizational design theories to speculate on how high-tech entrepreneurial ventures should organize internally to successfully implement these innovative business models. Specifically, it analyzes how firms’ structure, decision rights, and human resource management practices should be adapted to the need of generating, absorbing, and protecting innovative technological knowledge. Heeding a recent call in management literature, we will conduct our analysis considering organizational design variables both at the individual and firm level.
L17|Open Access Journals & Academics' Behaviour|The rising star of scholarly publishing is Open Access. Even some traditional journals now offer this option on author payment, and many full freely accessible journals are now available to scholars, providing relief to research institutions increasingly unable to afford the escalating subscription rates of serials. However, proper recognition of full Open Access journals by the community remains a major obstacle to overcome if they are to become a viable alternative for scholarly communication. Through a survey, this work investigates economics scholars’ attitudes to OA, and attempts to outline the state of practices and norms governing individuals’ publication choices.
L17|The Evolution of ICT Standards Consortia|Theoretical and empirical analyses have, as yet, shed very little light on the role of ICT standards consortia in the standard setting landscape. Standards consortia are private industry alliances of likeminded organizations that share the same interest to sponsor, develop and standardize technologies. This article is the first approach to analyze structures of a large sample of standards consortia to provide evidence on how consortia are formed, organized and why they appear or disappear in the market. Analyses reveal that standards consortia have distinct characteristics, which help to explain and justify their presence in the standard setting context. The observation of consortia existence over the last 15 years identifies relationships between the formation, termination and merger of standards consortia with respect to market and technology development. Moreover we test if organizational structures are connected to the likelihood of consortia termination. Results of a survival analysis reveal that the probability of consortia success is especially connected to structures that determine coordination among members as well as the scope and focus on technology and markets.
L17|Smarten Up! Open Data, Toolkits and Participation in the Social City|The current era of austerity is placing increasing pressure on governments everywhere to do more with less, particularly at the local level where government services have the greatest impact on citizens' everyday lives. Thereby the roles of information and communication technologies and citizens are highlighted. This article is designed to yield insights into how local city administrations can facilitate and optimize citizen involvement in the context of the co-production of city services deploying mobile devices. Cities can be seen to open up public data aiming at offering new opportunities for the generation, use and integration of, among others, economic, social and environmental data. They seek to do so via city-hosted toolkits allowing users – which are the most important users of the city's urban environment and generating the most current data and knowledge that may inform and enrich governing practices, such as planning - to develop mobile applications emphasizing local deployment. The analytical framework focuses on the role of the (purposefully) city-provided toolkit and the citizens' capacities to engage in the public domain guided by the Living Lab approach. In doing so, the dynamics between the provided tools (and data) addressing the needs of the city and citizens underpinning citizens' everyday life experience in navigating and appropriating the urban space, are drawn out. The empirical results are used as preliminary evidence to yield a more rounded understanding of co-production of e-government information and services leveraged as a core innovative process, currently being played out, in the city of Athens (Greece) and Ghent (Belgium).
L17|Open Data, Big Data and Crowdsourcing: Emergent Mobile Apps Business Models|The aim of this paper is to discuss the business model of a free social GPS mobile app for public transportation. The app functioning relies on open data and crowdsourcing. The crossing of transporter data (open data) and service users' data (crowdsourcing) feed the app's algorithm, which in the end enhance the public transportation experience. The hinge and tensions between for profit and not for profit sides of the data stemming from open data and crowdsourcing are questioned in the implementation of the company business model as well as the role and function of the business model in the start-up strategy.
L17|Open Source Software: Competition with A Public Good|This paper looks at price and quality competition in software markets under two different forms of competition—one where two proprietary firms first choose quality and then engage in price competition, and second where a proprietary firm faces competition from an open source software (OSS) firm that allows its users to determine quality level and provides the software at zero price. We find that OSS competition never improves quality for consumers who value quality highly. However, it may provide greater quality to users with a low valuation for quality. In addition, we find that although OSS has a zero market price, the public good nature of OSS competition can lessen price competition, making the proprietary firm better-off with increased profit but leaving consumers worse-off with lower surplus. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2014
L17|Network Externalities, Incumbent’s Competitive Advantage and the Degree of Openness of Software Start-Ups|This paper proposes a formal model that analyzes the degree of openness chosen by start-ups when entering the software industry. In line with the literature, we label as degree of openness the extent to which software start-ups mix open source (OS) and proprietary solutions in the portfolio of software products they offer. We relate the choice of the degree of openness to two key characteristics of the market segments in which software start-ups operate: the strength of the network externalities and the competitive advantage of the incumbent. Specifically, by modelling (price) competition between an incumbent and an entrant in two ways, i.e., the entrant is price-setter or price-taker, we derive the necessary condition(s) in terms of the strength of network externalities for observing the adoption of a business model that comprises the offering of both proprietary and OS solutions by the entrant (i.e., hybrid business model). Then, we highlight that, if a hybrid business model is the choice, the degree of openness chosen in equilibrium increases along with both the strength of the network externalities and the competitive advantage of the incumbent. This result holds indifferently whether the software start-up is modelled as a price-setter or a price-taker. An empirical test run on a sample of European start-ups in the software industry supports these theoretical predictions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
L17|Competition in the Cryptocurrency Market|We analyze how network effects affect competition in the nascent cryptocurrency market. We do so by examining the changes over time in exchange rate data among cryptocurrencies. Specifically, we look at two aspects: (1) competition among different currencies, and (2) competition among exchanges where those currencies are traded. Our data suggest that the winner-take-all effect is dominant early in the market. During this period, when Bitcoin becomes more valuable against the U.S. dollar, it also becomes more valuable against other cryptocurrencies. This trend is reversed in the later period. The data in the later period are consistent with the use of cryptocurrencies as financial assets (popularized by Bitcoin), and not consistent with “winner-take-all” dynamics.
L17|Web Technologies Development Supporting Contemporary Project Management Needs|During the last two decades, projects have become increasingly important and recognizable tools for achieving competitiveness, strategic aims and much needed positive changes. The consequence of this, among other things, is the growing number of projects which emerge and are carried out in all business systems around the world. With the growing number of projects, there arose the need for trained project managers. In order to successfully do their tasks, it is very important for project managers to know and understand various techniques and methods of project management. The rate at which the number of formally trained project managers is growing and the dynamics of their adaptation to the specifi cities of today’s business environment is still insuffi cient. Development of user-friendly IT support tools which would enable project managers to successfully implement projects without previous very long and intense project training imposes itself as a possible and increasingly available solution to the above mention problem. The development of IT technology and software increased enormously in the last decade. The emergence of Web 2.0 technology finds new solutions, very useful and applicable also in the field of project management. These options are currently still underutilized by companies when dealing with projects. Capabilities of existing and emerging solutions of Web 2.0 development and the open source community create important value and the potential to increase the efficiency of project management.The emergence of the Semantic Web (Web 3.0) currently being developed and implemented, with its innovations and technologies based on semantic and artificial intelligence, is expected to greatly change the present concepts of doing business. In the paper we will analyze the importance and possibilities arising from new web technologies (especially Web 2.0 and Web 3.0) when dealing with project management issues.
L17|Opening Access to Research|Many scholarly journals charge high prices to libraries, exclude the wider public altogether, and generate excessive profits. Open access regulation can mitigate these problems when authors are required to publish in journals which offer free and immediate access by readers, or make freely available a substitute to the published article. The former policy is likely to lead to publication fees, making authors less inclined to publish and less willing to publish in selective journals. The latter policy makes available only an inferior version of the published article but may be consistent with authors publishing for free.
L17|The Hybrid Open Access Citation Advantage: How Many More Cites is a $3,000 Fee Buying You?|We study the hybrid open access (HOA) citation effect. Under HOA Pilot agreements, HOA is assigned for all articles of eligible authors. We use unique data on 208 (1,121) HOA (closed access) economics articles. We control for the quality of journals, articles and institutions and citations to RePec pre-prints. Performing Poisson quasi-maximum likelihood regressions, HOA turns out to be a significant predictor of citations with marginal effects ranging between 22% and 26%. However, once we additionally control for institution quality and citations to RePEc pre-prints, the marginal HOA citation advantage turns out to insignificant and drops to 0.4%.
L17|What Drives Academic Data Sharing?|Despite widespread support from policy makers, funding agencies, and scientific journals, academic researchers rarely make their research data available to others. At the same time, data sharing in research is attributed a vast potential for scientific progress. It allows the reproducibility of study results and the reuse of old data for new research questions. Based on a systematic review of 98 scholarly papers and an empirical survey among 603 secondary data users, we develop a conceptual framework that explains the process of data sharing from the primary researcher’s point of view. We show that this process can be divided into six descriptive categories: Data donor, research organization, research community, norms, data infrastructure, and data recipients. Drawing from our findings, we discuss theoretical implications regarding knowledge creation and dissemination as well as research policy measures to foster academic collaboration. We conclude that research data cannot be regarded a knowledge commons, but research policies that better incentivize data sharing are needed to improve the quality of research results and foster scientific progress.
L17|Open Access Journals & Academics’ Behaviour|The rising star of scholarly publishing is Open Access. Even some traditional journals now offer this option on author payment, and many full freely accessible journals are now available to scholars, providing relief to research institutions increasingly unable to afford the escalating subscription rates of serials. However, proper recognition of full Open Access journals by the community remains a major obstacle to overcome if they are to become a viable alternative for scholarly communication. Through a survey, this work investigates economics scholars’ attitudes to OA, and attempts to outline the state of practices and norms governing individuals’ publication choices.
L17|Spillovers in networks of user generated content: Pseudo-experimental evidence on Wikipedia|I quantify spillovers of attention in a network of content pages, which is challenging, because such networks form endogenously. I exploit exogenous variation in the article network of German Wikipedia to circumvent this problem. Wikipedia prominently advertises one featured article on its main site every day, which increases viewership of the advertised article. Shifts in the viewership of adjacent articles are due to their link from the treated article. Through this approach I isolate how the link network causally influences users' search and contribution behavior. I use a difference-in-differences analysis to estimate how attention spills to neighbors through the transient shock of advertisement. I further develop an extended peer effects model which relaxes the requirement of an exogenously given network. This model enables the estimation of the underlying spillover. Advertisements affect neighboring articles substantially: Their viewership increases by almost 70 percent. This, in turn, translates to increased editing activity. Attention is the driving mechanism behind views and short edits. Both outcomes are related to the order of links, while more substantial edits are not.
L17|Content Management Systems (Cms) Open Source Websites|Firms need flexible software applications, which may be adaptable to dynamic changes of the modern business environment; they also need more control over their software costs, security and trust in purchased and implemented software. Moreover, they need to be free of individual software vendors and license costs for the software, etc. The solution of this problem consisted in open source applications and open source technology has proven that it can often provide high-quality software being a challenge for old models of software development and maintenance. The first content management system was announced in the late 90s. The offer of such software systems is varied and each of them has its own characteristics. This requires a comparative analysis of viable open-source systems in order to choose the most appropriate imposed goals. In this context, the paper illustrates the use of an open source content management system, like WordPress, to develop a content site in design of websites and analyze its characteristics.
L17|Institutional change and information production|The organization of information production is undergoing a deep transformation. Alongside media corporations, which have been for long time the predominant institutions of information production, new organizational forms have emerged, e.g. free software communities, open-content on-line wikis, collective blogs, distributed platforms for resource sharing. The paper investigates the factors that favoured the emergence of these alternative systems, called peer production. Differently from most of the previous literature, the paper does so by considering technology (i.e. digital code) as an endogenous variable in the process of organizational design. On this basis the paper argues that the diffusion of digital technology is a necessary but not sufficient condition to explain the emergence of peer production. A similarly important role has been played by the specific set of ethics that motivated the early adherents to the free software movement. Such an ethics indeed operated as a sort of “cultural subsidy” that helped to overcome the complementarities existing among distinct institutional domains, and let a new organizational species to emerge.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L17|Industry equilibrium with open-source and proprietary firms|We present a model of industry equilibrium to study the coexistence of open-source and proprietary firms. Two novel aspects of the model are (i) participation in open source arises as the optimal decision of profit-maximizing firms, and (ii) open-source and proprietary firms may (or may not) coexist in equilibrium. Firms decide their type and investment in R&D, and sell packages composed of a primary good and a complementary private good. Open-source firms share their technological advances on the primary good, whereas proprietary firms keep their innovations private. The main contribution of the paper is to determine conditions under which open-source and proprietary firms coexist in equilibrium. Interestingly, this equilibrium is characterized by an asymmetric market structure, with few large proprietary firms and many small open-source firms. We also study the limiting economy and present conditions under which large numbers favor cooperation in R&D.
L17|Institutions, culture, and open source|We analyze the impact of institutional and cultural factors on the supply side of open source software (OSS). OSS is a privately provided public good: it is marked by free access to the software and its source code, and is developed in a public, collaborative manner by thousands of volunteers as well as profit-seeking firms. Our cross-country study shows that a culture characterized by interpersonal trust and self-determination/fulfillment values has a positive impact on OSS activities and the number of developers. The supply side of OSS also benefits from the enforcement of intellectual property rights. A low degree of regulation and openness towards scientific progress has a positive impact on the number of OSS developers, but the latter not on the number of active or core developers.
L17|Academic publishing and open access|Digital technologies have transformed the way many creative works are generated, disseminated and used. They have made cultural products more accessible, challenged established business models and the copyright system, and blurred the boundary between producers and consumers. This unique resource presents an up-to-date overview of academic research on the impact of digitization in the creative sector of the economy.
L17|Research Of Factibility For The Commercialization Of The Blackberry In International Markets, Estudio De Factibilidad Para La Comercializacion De Zarzamora En Mercados Internacionales|Blackberry production has been expanded recently years in different parts of Mexico. Production in Michoacan has reached the highest level, due to favorable weather conditions, soil and water that prevail in the region. There are several states that contribute to the national production of blackberries including Jalisco, Mexico, Colima, Distrito Federal, QuerÃ©taro, Nayarit and Guanajuato. Along with Michoacan these areas produced more than 61 thousand tons of blackberry. The Blackberry market is mainly as a fresh product, and industrial use is focused on the preparation of jams, wines, juices and concentrate. Their is high demand for these products in developed countries. This study identifies and determines the macroeconomics of trade, as well as regulations on international trade that influence the sales of Mexican blackberries in international markets. We examine the business opportunities for this high profitabile, versatile fruit for consumption and export potential.
L17|Open Access, Social Norms & Publication Choice|The aim of this paper is to shed light on scholarly communication and its current trajectories by examining academics’ perception of Open Access, while also providing a reference case for studying social norm change. In this respect, the issue of publication choice and the role of Open Access journals casts light on the changes affecting the scientific community and its institutional arrangements for validating and circulating new research. The empirical investigation conducted also offers a useful vantage point for gauging the importance of localised social norms in guiding and constraining behaviour.
L17|Rare Earth Elements - A New Challenge for the World Economy|"Rare Earth Elements or Rare Earth Metals (REM) are a collection of seventeen chemical elements in the periodic table, namely scandium, yttrium and fifteen lanthanides. The term ""rare earth"" arises from the rare earth minerals from which they were first isolated. They are uncommon oxide-type minerals (earths) found in Gandolinite extracted from one mine in Sweden. The first discovery was made in 1794, but it was only in 1940 that the scientist Frank Spedding developed an ion exchange procedure for separating and purifying the REM. For the next decades, they were hardly used in some ""minor"" industrial fields. Only after 2000 their importance grew, once the multitude of possibilities to use them was discovered due to technological progress. Now REM are incorporated into almost all modern technological devices: superconductors, magnets, electronic polishers, refining catalysts hybrid car components and military techniques. They are used in small quantities, but due to their extraordinary properties the prices are very high. The main problem is that China dominates this market, with 97% of total global supply. The highest concentration of rare earth metals are in Inner Mongolia in China, Mountain Pass in California U.S.A. and in Mount Weld in Australia. The developed countries are far behind China regarding production and are indeed depending on Chinese exports. Hence, there is a difficult situation on this particular market, with an uncertain future."
L17|Motivations for Open Source Project Participation and Decisions of Software Developers|We provide a rationale for open source project participation by studying the decision problems of the software programmers, whose types are different in terms of ability and intrinsic motivation. We find that motivations, both intrinsic and extrinsic, and the ability level positively affect the optimal level of effort exerted by the programmers in the open source project. In the commercial project, the programmers with higher ability exert much effort although their high level of effort is not compensated properly. Thus, the open source project might be more likely to attract capable and motivated programmers than the commercial project. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
L17|Open access, social norms and publication choice|The aim of this paper is to shed light on scholarly communication and its current trajectories by examining academics’ perception of Open Access, while also providing a reference case for studying social norm change. In this respect, the issue of publication choice and the role of Open Access journals casts light on the changes affecting the scientific community and its institutional arrangements for validating and circulating new research. The empirical investigation conducted also offers a useful vantage point for gauging the importance of localised social norms in guiding and constraining behaviour. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
L17|An Empirical Study of Consumer Behavior in the Cuban Mobile Phone Market|The adoption of mobile phones in most countries has been exceptionally rapid over the last three decades. In response to this new wave in technology, Cuban government under Raul Castro has made it clear that he will be reducing the size of Cuban state expenditure in favor of private participation in the economy, the genuine liberalization of Cuba’s telecom sector is expected to be hampered quickly over the coming years. This exploratory study therefore attempts to examine consumer behavior in new mobile phone markets. The study surveyed 315 Cuban consumers to identify their motives for purchasing new mobile phones on one hand, and factors affecting operator choice on the other. The results indicate that price and properties were the most influential factors affecting the purchase of a new mobile phone whereas price, availability and friends’ operator were regarded as the most important in the choice of the mobile phone operator.
L17|law and economics of copyright and trademarks on the Internet|This article provides an overview of the new opportunities and challenges for copyright and trademark law and economics research created by the Internet. It reviews the relevant literature in the field of copyright law, in particular as it relates to piracy, liability and market structure, Digital Rights Management, the relationship between copyright and contract, and incentives for creativity. As far as trademark law is concerned, the article describes the empirical literature, focusing on keyword advertising. The article concludes with an outlook on future research areas and methodologies.
L17|"Discussion of ""Local News Online: Aggregators, Geo-Targeting and the Market for Local News"" by George, L. and C. Hogendorn"|"This is a discussion of the manuscript ""Local News Online: Aggregators, Geo-Targeting and the Market for Local News"" by L. George and C. Hogendorn, presented at the 11th Workshop on Media Economics, which was held at the Recanati Business School, Tel-Aviv University, October 9-10, 2013."
L17|Collaborative Research as a Source of Innovation|Collaborative Research (CR) is usually regarded as a way to overcome several R&D barriers: the limitations of specific R&D projects resulting from lack of finance required for research infrastructure investment; the lack of expertise in industry (while it exists in academic institutes); and successful knowledge transfer. CR can be regarded as a strategic Open Innovation tool. In a book published in 2010 (Porath, 2010) I discussed CR on various aspects, analyzing it from the academic point of view and in the later part of the book on the practical aspects of participants and policy makers. Two recent books have been published, in which I have one chapter each. In the first one I presented a model (Porath, 2012a); and in the second a case study (Porath 2012b) regarding Open Innovation. These chapters have not dealt with CR as Open Innovation but rather presented another tool that has made Open Innovation a strategy for companies with little other choice. In this chapter I will combine the three sources into a more comprehensive picture.
L17|Open Science: One Term, Five Schools of Thought|Open Science is an umbrella term that encompasses a multitude of assumptions about the future of knowledge creation and dissemination. Based on a literature review, this paper aims at structuring the overall discourse by proposing five Open Science schools of thought: The infrastructure school (which is concerned with the technological architecture), the public school (which is concerned with the accessibility of knowledge creation), the measurement school (which is concerned with alternative impact measurement), the democratic school (which is concerned with access to knowledge) and the pragmatic school (which is concerned with collaborative research).
L17|Open Access, Social Norms & Publication Choice|The aim of this paper is to shed light on scholarly communication and its current trajectories by examining academics’ perception of Open Access, while also providing a reference case for studying social norm change. In this respect, the issue of publication choice and the role of Open Access journals casts light on the changes affecting the scientific community and its institutional arrangements for validating and circulating new research. The empirical investigation conducted also offers a useful vantage point for gauging the importance of localised social norms in guiding and constraining behaviour
L17|Spillovers in networks of user generated content: Evidence from 23 natural experiments on Wikipedia|Endogeneity in network formation hinders the identification of the role social networks play in generating spillovers, peer effects and other externalities. This paper tackles this problem and investigates how the link network between articles on the German Wikipedia influences the attention and content generation individual articles receive. Identification exploits local exogenous shocks on a small number of nodes in the network. It can thus avoid the usually required, but strong, assumptions of exogenous observed characteristics and link structure in networks. This approach also applies if, due to a lack of network information, identification through partial overlaps in the network structure fails (e.g. in classrooms). Exogenous variation is generated by natural and technical disasters or by articles being featured on the German Wikipedia's start page. The effects on neighboring pages are substantial; I observe an increase of almost 100 percent in terms of both views and content generation. The aggregate effect over all neighbors is also large: I find that a view on a treated article converts one for one into a view on a neighboring article. However, the resulting content generation is small in absolute terms.
L17|Reborn Of Romanian Brands By E-Commerce| The paper analyses the evolution of the Romanian traditional brands during the last 20 years. We started the analysis with the presentation of the most famous Romanian brands during the communist period. Then, we presented the transition of the traditional brands to the market economy, under the influence of structural transformations in economy, globalization and strong competition on the market. Some firms chose special strategies to enter on market or extend their share on market. Among them, the “reactivation” of old brands, from communist period, has an important place. The method seems to be successful and is based on the psychological implications generated by certain products in the nostalgic consumers’ minds. The analysis is close correlated with the evolution of the Internet and E-commerce. The new techniques of commercialization of the goods comprise the Internet use and promotion by Internet. That is why we will also present the impact of the Romanian traditional brands on Internet and E-commerce. We intend to know if is possible for old brands to compete on the market, if there is enough capacity for the entrepreneurs to stand out on the market, to protect and promote their products in the tough competition environment, subject to globalization, regardless of the fact that they take over an already consecrated mark or create a new one.
L17|Capital Mobility and Asset Pricing|We present a model for the equilibrium movement of capital between asset markets that are distinguished only by the levels of capital invested in each. Investment in that market with the greatest amount of capital earns the lowest risk premium. Intermediaries optimally trade off the costs of intermediation against fees that depend on the gain they can offer to investors for moving their capital to the market with the higher mean return. Those fees also depend on the bargaining power of the investor, in light of potential alternative intermediaries. In equilibrium, the speeds of adjustment of mean returns and of capital between the two markets are increasing in the degree to which capital is imbalanced between the two markets.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L17|Lock-in and unobserved preferences in server operating systems: A case of Linux vs. Windows|This paper investigates to what extent the persistence of Microsoft Windows in the market for server operating systems is due to lock-in or unobserved preferences. While the hypothesis of lock-in plays an important role in the antitrust policy debate for the operating systems market, it has not been extensively documented empirically. To account for unobserved preferences, we use a panel data identification approach based on time-variant group fixed effects, and estimate the dynamic discrete choice panel data model developed by Arellano and Carrasco (2003). Using detailed establishment-level data, we find that once we account for unobserved preferences, the estimated magnitudes of lock-in are considerably smaller than those from the conventional approaches, suggesting that unobserved preferences play a major role in the persistence of Windows. Further robustness checks are consistent with our findings.
L17|Mobile application pricing|This paper examines the pricing of mobile applications when application providers can either supply consumers directly or through a mobile platform (such as a smart phone or tablet). It is demonstrated that when platform access (i.e., purchasing a device) takes place in advance of application pricing, a non-trivial unravelling problem exists that rules out selling platform access at a positive price. Consequently, all platform revenues come from sharing application provider revenues. It is demonstrated that several restrictive conditions on application providers, such as most favoured customer clauses, can allow the platform provider to earn more profits and charge a positive access price increasing the likelihood the platform is provided.
L17|Technology, property rights and organizational diversity in the software industry|Why do open- and closed-source productions co-exist? To address this question, the paper studies the viability of distinct systems for software development. The model shows that: (a) for low design costs of modularity, both open- and closed-source productions are viable systems; (b) closed-source production is more likely to be adopted the greater the expected rents on software; and (c) production efficiency is not a necessary condition for the stochastic stability of a system to obtain. These three results can shed light on the emergence of organizational diversity in the software industry. The paper adds to the literature in three ways: first, it considers property rights and technology as endogenous variables in the process of system design; second it argues that in producing software multiple equilibrium designs may exist; and third, it shows that, in because of high rents and low design costs of modularity, production inefficiency can be persistent.
L17|Editorial statement: The first year of the European Journal of Government and Economics|In this editorial statement we present a balance of the first year of life of the European Journal of Government and Economics. We discuss the main developments that concern the journal’s indexation by academic databases. We also comment on the approval of a code of publication ethics and malpractice. Finally, we emphasise the dangers of excessive technical sophistication and the need to keep an integrated approach between the fields of political science and economics, according to the spirit of the journal.
L17|Analysis of Influential Factors on Consumer Buying Behavior of Youngster towards Branded Products, Evidence from Karachi|The aim of this study is to find out the factors that influenced on the consumer buying behavior towards the branded products. The specific objective is to find out the relationship of consumer buying behavior with the distinguish features, quality standard and comfort feeling of branded products. Consumer’s purchase intension works as catalyst to enhance the brand equity in challenging and competitive market. Several organizations pay worthy attention towards building brand image and spend money for designing marketing strategies and practices. The primary data has been collected from customers who were engaged with several branded products. This study has also collected secondary data from different resources. This study reveals that there is a significant relationship of consumer buying behavior with the distinguish features, quality standard and comfort feeling of branded products. It is recommended that the company should focus on the distinguish features, quality standard and comfort feeling of branded products and retain the customers for a longer period of time.
L17|Collective Intelligence and Neutral Point of View: The Case of Wikipedia|"We examine whether collective intelligence helps achieve a neutral point of view using data from a decade of Wikipedia's articles on US politics. Our null hypothesis builds on Linus' Law, often expressed as ""Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow."" Our findings are consistent with a narrow interpretation of Linus' Law, namely, a greater number of contributors to an article makes an article more neutral. No evidence supports a broad interpretation of Linus' Law. Moreover, several empirical facts suggest the law does not shape many articles. The majority of articles receive little attention, and most articles change only mildly from their initial slant."
L17|Group Size and Incentives to Contribute: A Natural Experiment at Chinese Wikipedia| The literature on the private provision of public goods suggests an inverse relationship between incentives to contribute and group size. We find, however, that after an exogenous reduction of group size at Chinese Wikipedia, the nonblocked contributors decrease their contributions by 42.8 percent on average. We attribute the cause to social effects: contributors receive social benefits that increase with both the amount of their contributions and group size, and the shrinking group size weakens these social benefits. Consistent with our explanation, we find that the more contributors value social benefits, the more they reduce their contributions after the block. (JEL H41, L17, L82)
L17|Open Source Software Production, Spontaneous Input, and Organizational Learning|This work shows that the modular organization of voluntary Open Source Software (OSS) production, whereby programmers supply effort of their accord, capitalizes more on division than on specialization of labor. This is so because voluntary OSS production is characterized by an organizational learning process that dominates the individual one. Organizational learning reveals production choices that would otherwise remain unknown, thereby increasing productivity and indirectly reinforcing incentives to undertake collective problem solving.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L17|Innovation 3.0: embedding into community knowledge - collaborative organizational learning beyond open innovation|The paper describes a conceptual approach for a next-generation innovation paradigm in the Digital Economy called “Embedded Innovation” (Innovation 3.0). The notion of “embeddedness” is introduced to mark the increasing challenge of integrating firms into their surrounding communities to assure the absorption of exploitable knowledge. In the paper the evolutionary steps from Closed via Open to Embedded Innovation in small and medium sized companies (SME) are described. On the basis of the firm’s different relationships and knowledge flows with respect to its surrounding communities different modes of how and what to learn from communities are defined and how this may unfold leverage effects for the innovation process. Finally, we present empirical innovation case studies on how to embed the firm into communities with the aim of ensuring knowledge absorption and collaborative learning. JEL Codes: L17, O31, O32, O33
L17|Towards a characterization of crowdsourcing practices|The word Crowdsourcing ?a compound contraction of Crowd and Outsourcing, was used by Howe in order to define outsourcing to the crowd. Beyond cost, benefits for the company can be substantial. It can externalize the risk of failure and it only pays for products or services that meet its expectations. The Crowdsourcing phenomenon covers heterogeneous situations and it has inspired a number of authors. However, we are still lacking a general and synthetic view of this concept. The aim of our work is to characterize Crowdsourcing in its various aspects. First we define of Crowdsourcing, and provide examples that illustrate the diversity of Crowdsourcing practices and we present similarities and differences between Crowdsourcing and established theories (Open Innovation, User Innovation and Open Source Software). Then, we propose and illustrate a typology of Crowdsourcing practices based on two criteria: the integrative or selective nature of the process and the type of tasks that are crowd sourced (simple, complex and creative tasks). In either case, the client firm seeks to mobilize external competencies. Relying upon the crowd can be an adequate method, because of its unique characteristics that are fostered by the Internet. Finally, we present some potential benefits and pitfalls of Crowdsourcing. JEL Codes: O32, L17, L24, L29, M19
L17|The strategic trade-offs for beneficial open innovation: the case of “open source” consortia in mobile os development|The trivialization of smartphones has given rise to an architectural reconfiguration of the mobile operating system innovation process. We have also seen the recent emergence of three ?open source? consortia: the Symbian and LiMo Foundations, and the Open Handset Alliance. In this exploratory paper, we analyse the coherence of these consortia using an open source framework to perform the necessary reconfiguration at both the technological and organizational level. In order to evaluate the coherence of this strategy, we analyse the ability of these consortia to produce standards. Bearing in mind the exploratory nature of this research, this allows us to demonstrate that, although these consortia exhibit original forms of ?open innovation?, they find it difficult to produce consortia standards by means of vertical coordination. Equally, we consider various scenarios dealing with the construction of standards, examining in particular horizontal collaboration between these consortia. JEL Codes: L15, L17, L86, L96, O33, O34
L17|How do value co-creation activities relate to the perception of firms' innovativeness?|Value co-creation is an emerging marketing and innovation paradigm describing a broader opening of the firm to its customers by providing them with the opportunity to become active participants in the design and development of personalized products, services and experiences. It has a great potential in affecting the way firms operate and innovate and has, therefore, attracted the attention of both scholars and practitioners. However, there is not yet a fully satisfactory theoretical vision about its distinctive characteristics as compared to more traditional value creation approaches. The present paper provides empirical research results in answering two research questions. The first question is: What are the principal components of value co-creation? The second question is: What is the relationship between the degree of firms’ involvement in value co-creation activities and the perception of their innovativeness. The paper starts with a review of the literature and a conceptual refinement of the value co-creation paradigm to continue with the identification of the key components of value co-creation based on a research methodology using web search and Principal Component Analysis techniques applied to data collected from a sample of 273 firms selected for being representative of the breadth of their value co-creation activities. The second part of the paper discusses the results from a linear regression analysis examining the relationship between firms’ degree of involvement in value co-creation and the perception of their innovativeness. The analysis leads to research insights about the relevance of specific value co-creation components in terms of their innovation-related outcomes. To the best of our knowledge this is the first work discussing value co-creation implementation patterns based on the relationship between firms’ involvement in value co-creation and the perception of innovativeness. JEL Codes: L1, L2, L17, O31
L17|Evaluación de los costos de implementación del software en una organización|Este documento es el resultado de una labor investigativa desarrollada dentro del conjunto de las dinámicas de trabajo de la Unidad de Informática de la Facultad de Ciencias Económicas (UIFCE) que busca establecer los procesos de implementación de software en las organizaciones, el documento abarca un análisis alrededor de los costos.Los costos de implementación y uso de software son modelados aquí con el concepto de Costo Total de Propiedad y luego reducidos en cuatro componentes fundamentales, costos de aprendizaje y capacitación, costos de licenciamiento del software, costos de hardware y costos de mantenimiento.Se realiza una conceptualización y caracterización de cada uno de estos componentes a nivel organizacional y se propone una metodología para su cálculo. Finalmente se realiza un breve acercamiento de las técnicas propuestas en la FCE-UNAL(1).Palabras Clave: Costo Total de Propiedad, Costos de Software, Costos de Licenciamiento de Software, Costos de Aprendizaje y Capacitación.
L17|A Brief Survey of the Economics of Open Source Software|The open source model is a form of software development in which the source code is made available, free of charge, to all interested parties; further users have the right to modify and extend the program. Open source software (OSS) methods rely on developers who reveal the source code under an open source license. Under certain types of open source licenses, any further development using the source code must also be publicly disclosed. In this brief survey, we will focus on several key aspects of open source software.
L17|La résolution distribuée dans les communautés Open Source : propriétés organisationnelles et modes de coordination|No abstract is available for this item.
L17|Dual licensing in open source software markets|In this paper we present a theoretical model to study the characteristics and the commercial sustainability of dual licensing, an open source (OS) business strategy that has gained popularity among software vendors. With dual licensing, a firm releases the same software product under both a traditional proprietary license and an open source one. We show that the decision to employ a dual licensing strategy occurs whenever the feedbacks of the open source community are valuable enough compared to the quality of the software that the firm is able to develop in-house. Our analysis points to the central role of an appropriate managing of OS licenses in order to balance the pros and cons of “going open source” and to make this versioning strategy viable for software vendors; our analysis also suggests a possible explanation for the observed proliferation of open source licenses.
L17|Virtual R&D Teams: A potential growth of education-industry collaboration|In this paper, we present our more than two years research experiences on virtual R&D teams in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and draws conclusions, giving special attention to the structure of virtual teams required to support education-industry collaboration. We report the relevant results of an online survey study. The online questionnaire was emailed by using a simple random sampling method to 947 manufacturing SMEs. The findings of this study show that SMEs in Malaysia and Iran are willing to use virtual teams for collaboration and the platform for industry-education collaboration is ready and distance between team members or differences in time zones, are not barriers to industry-education collaborations.
L17|A Study of Open Innovation in Telecommunications Services: A Review of Literature & Trends|This paper examines the trends, the research and studies done globally on open innovation and open business models in the field of Telecommunication Services. These include value added services pertaining to communications, online, web and media, mobile, triple/quad play, etc. on both consumer and enterprise side. In the face of severe competition, and commoditization, the current traditional Telco business models and services like Voice and Broadband are losing value rapidly causing the ARPUs of Telcos to drop, leading to a crisis in the Telecom industry. New business models based on Open Innovation & Open Business Models can help the Telcos survive and thrive through transformation
L17|Mixed Source|We study competitive interaction between a profit-maximizing firm that sells software and complementary services, and a free open-source competitor. We examine the firm's choice of business model between the proprietary model (where all software modules are proprietary), the open-source model (where all modules are open source), and the mixed-source model (where some--but not all--modules are open). When a module is opened, users can access and improve the code, which increases quality and value creation. Opened modules, however, are available for others to use free of charge. We derive the set of possibly optimal business models when the modules of the firm and the open-source competitor are compatible (and thus can be combined) and incompatible, and show that (i) when the firm's modules are of high (low) quality, the firm is more open under incompatibility (compatibility) than under compatibility (incompatibility); (ii) firms are more likely to open substitute, rather than complementary, modules to existing open-source projects; and (iii) there may be no trade-off between value creation and value capture when comparing business models with different degrees of openness. This paper was accepted by Bruno Cassiman, business strategy.
L17|What Economists Know about Open Source Software - Its Basic Principles and Research Results|For a decade, economists have been fascinated by the phenomenon of open source software (OSS). OSS is marked by free access to the software and its source code. It is developed in a public, collaborative manner by thousands of non-paid volunteers as well as profit seeking firms. Today, OSS is well established in the ICT sector and represents a new intellectual property paradigm. This paper provides an introduction into the topic OSS versus closed source software (CSS, also called 'proprietary' software). After a brief history of OSS and CSS, the differences between the open and the closed source principles and the basic logic of OSS business models are explained. Next, the paper presents what economists know about the OSS phenomena, i.e. gives an overview of the motives of the (non-paid) OSS developers, the institutions of OSS, the effects of OSS on competition, the incentives and role of firms, and finally of open source principle beyond software.
L17|The Geography of Crowdfunding|"Perhaps the most striking feature of ""crowdfunding"" is the broad geographic dispersion of investors in small, early-stage projects. This contrasts with existing theories that predict entrepreneurs and investors will be co-located due to distance-sensitive costs. We examine a crowdfunding setting that connects artist-entrepreneurs with investors over the internet for financing musical projects. The average distance between artists and investors is about 3,000 miles, suggesting a reduced role for spatial proximity. Still, distance does play a role. Within a single round of financing, local investors invest relatively early, and they appear less responsive to decisions by other investors. We show this geography effect is driven by investors who likely have a personal connection with the artist-entrepreneur (""family and friends""). Although the online platform seems to eliminate most distance-related economic frictions such as monitoring progress, providing input, and gathering information, it does not eliminate social-related frictions."
L17|open source software, a brief survey of the economics of|The open source model is a form of software development in which the source code is made available, free of charge, to all interested parties; further users have the right to modify and extend the program. Open source software (OSS) methods rely on developers who reveal the source code under an open source licence. Under certain types of open source licence, any further development using the source code must also be publicly disclosed. In this brief survey, we will focus on several key aspects of open source software.
L17|The Effectiveness of Virtual R&D Teams in SMEs: Experiences of Malaysian SMEs|The number of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), especially those involved with research and development (R&D) programs and employed virtual teams to create the greatest competitive advantage from limited labor are increasing. Global and localized virtual R&D teams are believed to have a high potential for SMEs growth. Due to the fast growing complexity of the new product, coupled with new emerging opportunities of virtual teams, a collaborative approach is believed to be the future trend. This research explores the effectiveness of virtuality in SMEs virtual R&D teams. An online questionnaire emailed to Malaysian manufacturing SMEs and 74 usable questionnaires were received, representing a 20.8 percent return rate. To avoid the bias that may result from pre-suggested answer, a series of open-ended questions asked from expertise. This study based on analyzing an open-ended question; extract four main themes among expertise recommendations on the effectiveness of virtual teams for SMEs growth and performance. These are suitable for SMEs new product design manager to realize the key advantage and importance of virtual R&D teams in the process of NPD, which lead to increase the effectiveness of the new product's procedure.
L17|Computer Mediated Transactions|No abstract is available for this item.
L17|Indicators for Dating Business Cycles: Cross-History Selection and Comparisons|No abstract is available for this item.
L17|Openness, Open Source, and the Veil of Ignorance|The open source movement evolved in the one industrial context where openness is not required by intellectual property law.1 Nevertheless, openness itself cannot be the driving force behind the open source movement. This is because openness can be achieved in many ways other than the GPL, for example, with proprietary licenses, or licenses that are even more permissive than the GPL, such as the BSD license. Early commentators explained this new development model by focussing on the motives of the programmer, such as to demonstrate skills. See the survey by Stephen M. Maurer and Suzanne Scotchmer (2006). But firms also participate in open-source collaborations, sometimes contributing significant resources (Joachim Henkel, 2006, Dirk Riehle, 2009). Doing so can be profitable even if the contributors are rivals in the market. The quality improvements or cost reductions provided by a rival’s open-source contributions may outweigh the deleterious effect of empowering the rival to be a better competitor.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L17|Innovative Business Models In The Media Industry|In the modern media industry, in addition to the traditional business model of proprietaryproducts selling, there are a number of new business models that involve free distribution of wholeproducts, or some parts of the products. The advantage of the open business model is in the valuecreation by a large community of developers, whereas the proprietary business model means a simplerform of value capture. However, open and closed business models can not exist in pure form: theproprietary model does not give enough space for innovation, while the open model gives insufficientopportunities for generating profit. An investigation of the problem of optimal business model choice atthe monopolistic market indicates that the fully closed business model is less efficient than the modelwith the closed core and open extensions; it is profitable for any firm to open all of those ideas andtechnologies that can not be used without the base module; the completely open business model isoptimal if and only if a substantial part of the consumer value is determined by additional services orinnovative activity of the users.
L17|Software Innovation and the Open Source Threat|In this paper I study how innovation investment in a software duopoly is affected by the fact that one of the firms is, or might become Open Source. Firms can either be proprietary source (PS) or open source (OS), and have different initial technological levels. An OS firm is a for profit organization whose basic software is OS and it is distributed for free. The OS firm, however, is able to make profits from selling complementary software and, on the cost side; it receives development help from a community of users. I first compare a duopoly composed by two PS firms with a mixed duopoly of a PS and OS firm and I find that a PS duopoly might generate more innovation than a mixed duopoly if the initial technological gap between firms is small. However if this gap is large, a PS duopoly generates less innovation than a mixed duopoly. I then extend the setting to allow PS firms to switch to OS or to remain PS. A PS firm wants to become OS if it gets behind enough in the technological race against a competitor. I find that the outside option to become OS might soften competition on innovation since the technological leader prefers to reduce his innovation investment to avoid the OS switch of the follower. Therefore, although the switch to OS could generate higher investment levels ex-post it might generate lower investment ex-ante. In this context I find that a government subsidy to OS firms could be potentially harmful for innovation.
L17|Intra-Day-Patterns in the Colombian Exchange Market Index and VAR: Evaluation of Different Approaches|This paper evaluates the performance of 17 different parametric and non-parametric specifications and high frequency data for Colombian exchange market index (IGBC). We model the variance of the 10-minute returns using GARCH-M and TGARCH models that take in account the leverage effect, the day-of-the-week effect, and the hour-of-the-day effect. We estimate those models under two assumptions of the behavior of the returns: Normal distribution and t distribution. This exercise is performed for two different ten-minute intraday samples: 2006-2007 and 2008-2009. For the first sample, we found that the best model is a GARCH-M (1,1) with the hour-of-the-day effect. For the 2008-2009 sample, we found that the model with the correct conditional VaR coverage would be the GARCH-M with the day-of-the-week effect, and the hour-of-the-day effect.
L17|L'allocazione del potere decisionale nelle imprese open source. Un'analisi empirica|"The paper analyzes a peculiar managerial practice, the delegation of decision authority to employees. The practice could enable firms to leverage the external knowledge developed by communities of users and developers. The work focuses on the interaction between firms doing business with open-source software firms (""OS firms"") and the community of OS developers. Specifically, we study the determinants of delegating decisional authority to employees for collaboration between the firm and the OS community. The paper draws on contributions from optimal delegation literature to formulate a number of theoretical hypotheses, which we tested using the data collected on 316 European OS firms. The estimates of a Heckman two-stage probit model indicate that the greater the strategic importance of OS for the firm, the greater the probability of delegation. Conversely, the probability is lower when the firm has accumulated more experience through prior interactions with the community and the room for divergence between the decisions made by employees and the choices that maximize firm’s pay-offs."
L17|SMEs; Virtual research and development (R&D) teams and new product development: A literature review|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are indeed the engines of global economic growth. Their continued growth is a major subject for the economy and employment of any country. Towards that end, virtual research and development (R&D) could be a viable option to sustain and ease the operations of SMEs. However, literature shows there has not been a great deal of research into the diverse characteristic of virtual R&D teams in SMEs. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R&D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the literature review is to provide an outline on the structure and dynamics of R&D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the rationale and relevance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R&D team for SMEs and new product development (NPD) has been examined. It concludes with identifying the gaps and feebleness in the existing literature and calls for future research in this area. It is argued to form of virtual R&D team deserves consideration at top level management for venturing into the new product development within SMEs.
L17|Critical factors for new product developments in SMEs virtual team|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are considered as an engine for economic growth all over the world and especially for developing countries. During the past decade, new product development (NPD) has increasingly been recognized as a critical factor in ensuring the continued survival of SMEs. On the other hand, the rapid rate of market and technological changes has accelerated in the past decade, so this turbulent environment requires new methods and techniques to bring successful new products to the marketplace. Virtual team can be a solution to answer the requested demand. However, literature have shown no significant differences between traditional NPD and virtual NPD in general, whereas NPD in SME’s virtual team has not been systematically investigated in developing countries. This paper aims to bridge this gap by first reviewing the NPD and its relationship with virtuality and then identifies the critical factors of NPD in virtual teams. The statistical method was utilized to perform the required analysis of data from the survey. The results were achieved through factor analysis at the perspective of NPD in some Malaysian and Iranian manufacturing firms (N = 191). The 20 new product development factors were grouped into five higher level constructs. It gives valuable insight and guidelines, which hopefully will help managers of firms in developing countries to consider the main factors in NPD.
L17|On the Geographic Allocation of Open Source Software Activities|Open source software (OSS) is marked by free access to the software and its source code. OSS is developed by a 'community' consisting of thousands of contributors from all over the world. Some research was undertaken in order to analyze how global the OSS community actually is, i.e. analyze the geographic origin of OSS developers. But as members of the OSS community differ in their activity levels, information about the allocation of activities are of importance. Our paper contributes to this as we analyze not only the geographic origin of (active) developers but also the geographic allocation of OSS activities. The paper is based on data from the SourceForge research Data Archive, referring to 2006. We exploit information about the developers' IP address, email address and indicated time-zone. This enables us to properly assign 1.3 million OSS developers from SourceForge to their countries, that are 94% of all registered ones in 2006. In addition we have information about the number of posted messages which is a good proxy for activity of each developer. Thus we can provide a detailed picture of the world-wide allocation of open source activities. Such country data about the supply-side of OSS is a valuable stock for both, cross-country studies on OSS, as well as country-specific research and policy advice.
L17|Quality Competition or Quality Cooperation? License-Type and the Strategic Nature of Open Source vs. Closed Source Business Models|In the ICT sector, product-software is an important factor for the quality of the products (e.g. cell phones). In this context, open source software enables firms to avoid quality competition as they can cooperate on quality without an explicit contract. The economics of open source (OS) versus closed source (CS) business models are analyzed in a general two- stage model that combines aspects of non-cooperative R&D with the theory of differentiated oligopolies: In stage one, firms develop software, either as OS or CS, or as a an OS-CS-mix if the license allows. In stage two, firms bundle this with complementary products and compete à la Cournot. The model allows for horizontal product differentiation in stage two. The finding are: 1.) While CS-decisions are always strategic substitutes, OS-decisions can be strategic complements. Furthermore, CS is a strategic substitute to OS and vice versa. 2.) The type of OS-license plays a crucial role: only if the license prohibits a direct OS-CS code mix (like the GPL), then Nash-equilibria with firms producing OS code exist for all parameters. 3.) In the equilibrium of a mixed industry with restricted licenses, OS-firms offer lower quality than their CS-rivals.
L17|Who Starts with Open Source? Institutional Choice of Start-Ups in the German ICT Sector|We analyze the characteristics of new businesses in the German ICT industry, distinguishing them based on their choice between two IPR regimes: open source software (OSS) or closed source software (CSS). The share of new firms with an OSS-based business model has increased considerably over the last several years. OSS-based firms tend to be smaller (in terms of staff and capital) and experience less shortages of capital. Only older cohorts of OSS-intensive start-ups had more difficulty than their CSS counterparts in convincing potential financiers of their viability, indicating that OSS business models are now well established. We find no evidence that the lower entry barriers for OSS firms are particularly attractive to start-ups with low human capital endowment or to necessity-motivated entrepreneurs.
L17|To patent or not to patent: a pilot experiment on incentives to copyright in a sequential innovation setting|This paper presents preliminary results from a pilot experiment dealing with the economic motivations to contribute to Free/Open Source Software (FOSS). In a seminal paper Bessen and Maskin (2006) argue that in a dynamic sequential innovation framework in which every innovation builds on previous inventions the standard argument for granting patent protection is no more valid and the innovator has at certain conditions an incentive to fully disclose the results of his works; in these same conditions, a copyright strategy could result in a tragedy of the anticommons (Heller 1998, Buchanan 2000). We study in the lab the choice of copyrighting or copylefting subsequent innovations in a dynamic setting à la Bessen and Maskin, introducing an innovative experimental design requiring real effort on the part of subjects. The players are asked to actually 'innovate' producing words from given letters, and face the choice to copyright or copyleft their words. Subsequent words can be created by modifying existing words, for free if a word is copylefted, and paying a fixed license fee if the word is copyrighted. Preliminary results show that copyleft is more likely to emerge when royalty fees are relatively high, and when the extendability, modularity and manipulability of inventions is enhanced. Moreover, copyleft innovations are sparsely started but once set in motion attract a higher number of contributors than copyrighted innovations, generating higher quality innovations and showing a more thorough exploration of possible profitable extensions. Finally, high royalty fees tend to generate anticommons effects, namely a lower rate of cooperation resulting in underuse of resources and lower innovative output.
L17|Entrepreneurial Finance and the Flat-World Hypothesis: Evidence from Crowd-Funding Entrepreneurs in the Arts|" We examine the geography of early stage entrepreneurial finance in the context of an internet marketplace for funding new musical artist-entrepreneurs. A large body of research documents that investors in early-stage projects are disproportionately co-located with the entrepreneur. Theory predicts this will be particularly true of artist-entrepreneurs with preliminary-stage projects, difficult-to-contract-for effort, difficult-to-observe creativity, negligible tangible assets, and limited reputations. At the same time, however, observers of the spatial effects of the internet and related technologies report that many economic activities have become much less geographically dependent. At an aggregate level, the internet marketplace we examine does indeed demonstrate a spatial transformation of the entrepreneurial finance process: the average distance between investors and artist-entrepreneurs is 4,831 km. However, geography still matters; investors are disproportionately likely to be local and, conditional on investing, local investors invest more. This apparent role for proximity is strongest before entrepreneurs visibly accumulate capital. Within a single round of financing, local investors are more likely to engage earlier in the funding cycle. However, this difference in the timing of investment is almost entirely explained by a particular type of investor, whom we characterize as ``family, friends, and fans."" We conjecture that these individuals, who are disproportionately co-located with the entrepreneur, have offline information about the entrepreneur and therefore derive less new information from observing the aggregate financing raised. We speculate that the path-dependent role of this offline network in conveying information to the online community limits the ``flat world'' potential of these communication technologies."
L17|Critical Factors for New Product Developments in SMEs Virtual Team|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are considered as an engine for economic growth all over the world and especially for developing countries. During the past decade, new product development (NPD) has increasingly been recognized as a critical factor in ensuring the continued survival of SMEs. On the other hand, the rapid rate of market and technological changes has accelerated in the past decade, so this turbulent environment requires new methods and techniques to bring successful new products to the marketplace. Virtual team can be a solution to answer the requested demand. However, literature have shown no significant differences between traditional NPD and virtual NPD in general, whereas NPD in SME's virtual team has not been systematically investigated in developing countries. This paper aims to bridge this gap by first reviewing the NPD and its relationship with virtuality and then identifies the critical factors of NPD in virtual teams. The statistical method was utilized to perform the required analysis of data from the survey. The results were achieved through factor analysis at the perspective of NPD in some Malaysian and Iranian manufacturing firms (N = 191). The 20 new product development factors were grouped into five higher level constructs. It gives valuable insight and guidelines, which hopefully will help managers of firms in developing countries to consider the main factors in NPD.
L17|SMEs; Virtual Research and Development (R&D) Teams and New Product Development: A Literature Review|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are indeed the engines of global economic growth. Their continued growth is a major subject for the economy and employment of any country. Towards that end, virtual research and development (R&D) could be a viable option to sustain and ease the operations of SMEs. However, literature shows there has not been a great deal of research into the diverse characteristic of virtual R&D teams in SMEs. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R&D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the literature review is to provide an outline on the structure and dynamics of R&D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the rationale and relevance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R&D team for SMEs and new product development (NPD) has been examined. It concludes with identifying the gaps and feebleness in the existing literatures and calls for future research in this area. It is argued to form of virtual R&D team deserves consideration at top level management for venturing into the new product development within SMEs.
L17|Determinants of Participation in Global Volunteer Grids: A Cross-Country Analysis|Volunteer Grids, in which users share computing resources altruistically, play a critical role in fostering research. Sharing and collaboration in Volunteer Grids is determined by many factors. These determinants define the participation in Grids and the amount of contribution to such Grids. Whereas previous studies focused on explaining researchers¡¯ and countries¡¯ willingness to share resources in Volunteer Grids based on social sharing theory, this research argues that without the appropriate technological capabilities, countries or researcher cannot implement their willingness. Based on the literature review, this paper defines the influential determinants for participating in global Volunteer Grids. Besides, this research employs a multiple regression analysis of these determinants, using a total of 130 observations collected from international data repositories. Our results show that R&D and Internet connection type (broadband or dial-up) are significant determinates for participating in Volunteer Grids. This result explains why developed countries are active and enjoy the benefits from Volunteer Grids, while developing countries still lag behind. Therefore, an increased participation in Grids cannot be solely achieved by interconnecting with developing countries through high-speed Internet backbones.
L17|Is Open Source about innovation? How interactions with the Open Source community impact on the innovative performances of entrepreneurial ventures|Practitioners generally assert that collaboration with the Open Source software (OSS) community enables young software firms to achieve superior innovation performance. Nonetheless, to the best of our knowledge, scholars have never extensively speculated about this assertion or rigorously tested it. In this paper, we attempt to do so. First, we root on the entrepreneurship literature and on the OSS research stream to discuss and empirically investigate whether entrepreneurial ventures collaborating with the OSS community (OSS EVs) achieve innovation performance superior to that of their non-collaborating peers. Then, we refer to the concept of absorptive capacity to determine which factors make OSS EVs better able to leverage their collaboration with the OSS community for innovation purposes. Our econometric estimates use a sample of 230 firms and indicate that OSS EVs collaborating with the OSS community achieve superior innovation. At the same time, the impact of community collaborations on innovation is stronger for EVs that are endowed with more skilled human capital, have experience with firm- OSS community collaboration, and actively contribute to the community.
L17|Competing on Standards? Entrepreneurship, Intellectual Property, and Platform Technologies|" ""Entrepreneurs often rely on intellectual property (IP) to earn a return on their innovations, and also compatibility standards, which allow them to supply specialized components for a shared technology platform. This paper compares the IP strategies of small entrepreneurs and large incumbents that disclose patents at 13 voluntary standard setting organizations (SSOs). These patents have a relatively high litigation rate. For small private firms, the probability of filing a lawsuit increases after disclosure to the SSO. For large public firms, the filing rate is unchanged. Although forward citations increase after disclosure for all firms, the size of this effect is the same for entrepreneurs and incumbents. These results suggest that standards increase the difference between large and small firms' incentives to litigate, rather than the relative value of their patents. We conclude that because specialized technology providers cannot seek rents in complementary markets, they defend IP more aggressively once it has been incorporated into an open platform."" Copyright (c) 2009, The Author(s) Journal Compilation (c) 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.."
L17|Competing on Standards? Entrepreneurship, Intellectual Property and Platform Technologies|" ""Entrepreneurs often rely on intellectual property (IP) to earn a return on their innovations, and also compatibility standards, which allow them to supply specialized components for a shared technology platform. This paper compares the IP strategies of small entrepreneurs and large incumbents that disclose patents at 13 voluntary standard setting organizations (SSOs). These patents have a relatively high litigation rate. For small private firms, the probability of filing a lawsuit increases after disclosure to the SSO. For large public firms, the filing rate is unchanged. Although forward citations increase after disclosure for all firms, the size of this effect is the same for entrepreneurs and incumbents. These results suggest that standards increase the difference between large and small firms' incentives to litigate, rather than the relative value of their patents. We conclude that because specialized technology providers cannot seek rents in complementary markets, they defend IP more aggressively once it has been incorporated into an open platform."" Copyright (c) 2009, The Author(s) Journal Compilation (c) 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc..<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
L17|Concurrentie, innovatie en intellectuele eigendomsrechten in software markten|This study analyzes under which circumstances it may be desirable for the government to stimulate open source software as a response to market failures in software markets. To consider whether policy intervention can increase dynamic efficiency, we discuss the differences between proprietary software and open source software with respect to the incentives to innovate and market failures that may occur. The document proposes guidelines to determine which types of policy intervention may be suitable. Our most important finding is that directly stimulating open source software, e.g. by acting as a lead customer, can improve dynamic efficiency if (i) there is a serious customer lock-in problem, while (ii) to develop the software, there is no need to purchase specific, complementary inputs at a substantial cost, and (iii) follow-on innovations are socially valuable but there are impediments to contractual agreements between developers that aim at realizing such innovations. This publication is in Dutch.
L17|On the determinants of the degree of openness of Open Source firms: An entry model|This paper examines the relationship between the degree of openness that software start-ups choose and some of the main industrial features faced by new entrants. Hypotheses derived from a formal model are tested through the implementation of econometric techniques and information provided by a novel database (ELISS). Theoretical predictions and empirical results indicate that the choice by start-ups of the degree of openness is negatively influenced by the sensitivity of consumers to price and is positively related both to the strength of network externalities their products exhibit and to the competitive advantage of the incumbent.
L17|The Economics of Open Access Publishing|This special issue of Economic Analysis and Policy is devoted to try and understand the academic publishing industry and in particular the recent move towards open access, as EAP has done in 2008. The various articles examine the motivations, the challenges and the roadblocks for authors, editors, publishers, libraries and readers. It also highlights some of the benefits of open access beyond the obvious increase in readership. Several examples from journal editors, content management providers and bibliographic data distributors are also provided.
L17|Publishing an E-Journal on a Shoe String: Is It a Sustainable Project?|The aim of this article is to report on an experiment in publishing an open access journal and learn from it about the larger field of open access publishing. The experiment is the launch of the European Journal of Comparative Economics (EJCE); an on-line refereed and open access journal; founded in 2004 by the European Association for Comparative Economic Studies and LIUC University in Italy. They embarked upon this project in part to respond to the rising concentration in the market for scientific publishing and the resulting use of market power to raise subscription prices and restrict access to scientific output. We had hoped that open access journals could provide some countervailing power and increase competition in the field. Our experience running a poorly endowed journal has shown that entry to the field may be easy; yet that making it a sustainable enterprise is not straightforward.
L17|Apropriação tecnológica na economia do conhecimento: inovação e propriedade intelectual de software na América Latina|Technology appropriation in knowledge economy: innovation and intellectual property in Latin American software industry Intellectual property rights aim at providing incentives for innovation, but can also constitute a burden for technological diffusion. This article discusses the conflicts arising from software patent protection, an area in which the assets are intangible and replicable at almost no cost. Current practices of intellectual property (IP) protection in Latin America are discussed based on their efficiency in stimulating information technologies innovation and diffusion. The methodology adopted includes the analysis of regional software industry development, firms? strategies to protect IP, legislation and the examination of software patents submission at the Brazilian IP Office (INPI). It concludes that harmonizing conflicting interests among existing and new business models and international agreements is a major task that goes beyond pure technical considerations.
L17|Virtual R & D teams in small and medium enterprises: A literature review|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the driving engine behind economic growth. While SMEs play a critical role in generating employment and supporting trade, they face numerous challenges, the prominent among them are the need to respond to fasting time-to-market, low-cost and rapid solutions to complex organizational problems. Towards that end, research and development (R & D) aspect deserves particular attention to promote and facilitate the operations of SMEs. Virtual R & D team could be a viable option. However, literature shows that virtual R & D teaming in SMEs is still at its infancy. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R & D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the state-of-the-art literature review is to provide an overview on the structure and dynamics of R & D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the foundation and importance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R & D team and SMEs has been examined. It concludes with the identification of the gaps in the existing literature's and calls for future research. It is argued that setting-up an infrastructure for virtual R & D team in SMEs still requires a large amount of engineering efforts and deserves consideration at top level management.
L17|Modified stage-gate: A conceptual model of virtual product development process|In today’s dynamic marketplace, manufacturing companies are under strong pressure to introduce new products for long-term survival with their competitors. Nevertheless, every company cannot cope up progressively or immediately with the market requirements due to knowledge dynamics being experienced in the competitive milieu. Increased competition and reduced product life cycles put force upon companies to develop new products faster. In response to these pressing needs, there should be some new approach compatible in flexible circumstances. This paper presents a solution based on the popular Stage-Gate system, which is closely linked with virtual team approach. Virtual teams can provide a platform to advance the knowledge-base in a company and thus to reduce time-to-market. This article introduces conceptual product development architecture under a virtual team umbrella. The paper describes all the major aspects of new product development (NPD), NPD process and its relationship with virtual teams, Stage-Gate system finally presents a modified Stage-Gate system to cope up with the changing needs. It also provides the guidelines for the successful implementation of virtual teams in new product development.
L17|Innovation and R&D Activities in Virtual Team|Innovation plays a central role in economic development, at the regional and national level. In the competitive environment companies are obliged to produce more rapidly, more effectively and more efficiently in new product development, which is a result of research and development (R&D) activities. It is necessary for them to put together different capabilities and services with the goal, through cooperation between suppliers and customers, service providers and scientific institutions to achieve innovations of high quality. Depending on the type of industry, the type of business, the type of innovation and the strategic objectives that have been set, firms will regularly have to modify the way in which their R&D and innovation are organized. Nowadays, shift from serial to simultaneous and parallel working in innovation has become more commonplace. Literature's have shown that collaboration is as a meta-capability for innovation. By a comprehensive reviewing of literature this article after define virtual teams and its characteristics, addressing virtual environment innovation and the relationship to R&D activities. Finally conclude that innovation cannot be successful, unless the knowledge and information in the R&D project are effectively captured, shared and internalized by the R&D project’s virtual team members.
L17|Vertical Networks, Integration, and Connectivity|This paper studies competition in a network industry with a stylized two layered network structure, and examines: (i) price and connectivity incentives of the upstream networks, and (ii) incentives for vertical integration between an upstream network provider and a downstream firm. The main result of this paper is that vertical integration occurs only if the initial installed-base difference between the upstream networks is sufficiently small, and in that case, industry is configured with two vertically integrated networks, which yields highest incentives to invest in quality of interconnection. When the installed-base difference is sufficiently large, there is no integration in the industry, and neither of the firms have an incentive to invest in quality of interconnection. An industry configuration in which only the large network integrates and excludes (or raises cost of) its downstream rival does not appear as an equilibrium outcome: in the presence of a large asymmetry between the networks, when quality of interconnection is a strategic variable, the large network can exercise a substantial market power without vertical integration. Therefore, a vertically separated industry structure does not necessarily yield procompetitive outcomes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L17|Geographic Allocation of OSS Contributions: The Role of Institutions and Culture|We analyze the impact of institutional and cultural factors on the supply side of open source software (OSS). OSS is a privately provided public good: it is marked by free access to the software and its source code, and is developed in a public, collaborative manner by thousands of volunteers as well as profit-seeking firms. Our cross-country study shows that a culture characterized by interpersonal trust and self-determination/fulfillment values has a positive impact on OSS activities and the number of developers. The supply side of OSS also benefits from the enforcement of intellectual property rights. A low degree of regulation and openness towards scientific progress has a positive impact on the number of OSS developers, but the latter not on the number of active or core developers.
L17|If not for money for what? Digging into the OS/FS contributors’ motivations|This paper analyses the data collected by two of the most significant surveys on the Open Source Software (OSS) contributors’ motivations with the aim of assessing if in the OSS products circulation we can recognise the characteristics of the modern way of giving, suggested by Godbout (2000). The analysis of the information collected seems to confirm that the intrinsic motivations (social/community and political) prevail over the extrinsic ones (monetary and signalling) when developers decide to join and stay in the OS community and that the feeling of reciprocity is shared by the majority of the community members. Therefore the OSS product circulation seems to fit into the characteristics of the gift circulation.
L17|Turning private vices into collective virtues: a simple model and an experiment on the SourceForge development community|This paper deals with the allocation of effort across the different software projects that collectively make up the Open Source Software ’ecology’. Free/Libre Open Source Software projects share many features with pure public goods; nonetheless, projects often compete for ’success’ inside the FOSS community at large. The central research question of this paper is then, how do developers choose where to direct their efforts amongst the thousands of existing software projects? How come developers choose to launch new projects when established alternatives are available? Why is the vast majority of Open Source projects a failure? The paper proposes a simple dynamic stochastic model that addresses these issues. Following methodological insight from Duffy (2006), we combine agent based simulations with human subjects lab experiments. As a benchmark, the model is simulated using a simple agent-based code assuming optimizing behaviour and risk neutrality at all times on the part of identical agents. The assumptions on optimal behaviour are then tested in the lab with human subjects, showing persistent and systematic biases in human behaviour: human players tend to be risk propense and to attach value to a label of ’project leadership’. These systematic biases are then built into a new round of simulations, showing a drastically better ﬁt with the real picture, as implied by data from the SourceForge. net dataset, and an enhancement of the evolutionary characteristics of the model (higher project quality in time). Results hints to the fact that in Open Source communities high risk propensity and excessive attachment to one’s own project can be collectively beneﬁcial. FOSS communities appear able to harness the efforts of thousands of developers, turning their risk propension and overconﬁdence into a collective gain.
L17|Share to Scare: Technology Sharing in the Absence of Intellectual Property Rights|I study the incentives of Cournot duopolists to share their technologies with their competitor in markets where intellectual property rights are absent and imitation is costless. The trade-off between a signaling effect and an expropriation effect determines the technology-sharing incentives. In equilibrium at most one firm shares some of its technologies. For similar technology distributions, there exists an equilibrium in which nobody shares. If the technology distributions are skewed towards efficient technologies, then there may exist equilibria in which one firm shares all technologies, only the best technologies, or only intermediate technologies. No other equilibria can exist.
L17|Entrepreneurship: Strategy and Structure|No abstract is available for this item.
L17|Half a Century of Public Software Institutions: Open Source as a Solution to Hold-Up Problem|"We argue that the intrinsic inefficiency of proprietary software has historically created a space for alternative institutions that provide software as a public good. We discuss several sources of such inefficiency, focusing on one that has not been described in the literature: the underinvestment due to fear of holdup. An inefficient holdup occurs when a user of software must make complementary investments, when the return on such investments depends on future cooperation of the software vendor, and when contracting about a future relationship with the software vendor is not feasible. We also consider how the nature of the production function of software makes software cheaper to develop when the code is open to the end users. Our framework explains why open source dominates certain sectors of the software industry (e.g., the top ten programming languages all have an open source implementation), while being almost none existent in some other sectors (none of the top ten computer games are open source). We then use our discussion of efficiency to examine the history of institutions for provision of public software from the early collaborative projects of the 1950s to the modern ""open source"" software institutions. We look at how such institutions have created a sustainable coalition for provision of software as a public good by organizing diverse individual incentives, both altruistic and profit-seeking, providing open source products of tremendous commercial importance, which have come to dominate certain segments of the software industry."
L17|Software Innovation and the Open Source threat| In this paper I study how innovation investment in a software duopoly is affected by the fact that one of the firms is, or might become Open Source. Firms can either be proprietary source (PS) or open source (OS) and have different initial technological levels. An OS firm is a for profit organization whose basic software is OS and it is distributed for free. The OS firm, however, is able to make profits from selling complementary software and, on the cost side, it receives development help from a community of users. I first compare a duopoly composed by two PS firms with a mixed duopoly of a PS and OS firm and I find that a PS duopoly might generate more innovation than a mixed duopoly if the initial technological gap between firms is small. However if this gap is large, a PS duopoly generates less innovation than a mixed duopoly. I then extend the setting to allow PS firms to switch to OS or to remain PS. A PS firm wants to become OS if it gets behind enough in the technological race against a competitor. I find that the outside option to become OS might soften competition on innovation since the technological leader prefers to reduce his innovation investment to avoid the OS switch of the follower. Therefore, although the switch to OS could generate higher investment levels ex-post it might generate lower investment ex-ante. In this context I find that a government subsidy to OS firms could be potentially harmful for innovation.
L17|What is the best firm size to invest?|Significant differences in the evolution of firm size distribution for various industries in the United States have been revealed and documented. For theoretical considerations, this finding puts major constraints on the modelling of firm growth. For practical purposes, the observed differences create a solid basis for selective investment strategies.
L17|Innovation and R&D Activities in Virtual Team|Innovation plays a central role in economic development, at the regional and national level. In the competitive environment companies are obliged to produce more rapidly, more effectively and more efficiently in new product development, which is a result of research and development (R&D) activities. It is necessary for them to put together different capabilities and services with the goal, through cooperation between suppliers and customers, service providers and scientific institutions to achieve innovations of high quality. Depending on the type of industry, the type of business, the type of innovation and the strategic objectives that have been set, firms will regularly have to modify the way in which their R&D and innovation are organized. Nowadays, shift from serial to simultaneous and parallel working in innovation has become more commonplace. Literature's have shown that collaboration is as a meta-capability for innovation. By a comprehensive reviewing of literature this article after define virtual teams and its characteristics, addressing virtual environment innovation and the relationship to R&D activities. Finally conclude that innovation cannot be successful, unless the knowledge and information in the R&D project are effectively captured, shared and internalized by the R&D project's virtual team members.
L17|Modified Stage-Gate: A Conceptual Model of Virtual Product Development Process|In today's dynamic marketplace, manufacturing companies are under strong pressure to introduce new products for long-term survival with their competitors. Nevertheless, every company cannot cope up progressively or immediately with the market requirements due to knowledge dynamics being experienced in the competitive milieu. Increased competition and reduced product life cycles put force upon companies to develop new products faster. In response to these pressing needs, there should be some new approach compatible in flexible circumstances. This paper presents a solution based on the popular Stage-Gate system, which is closely linked with virtual team approach. Virtual teams can provide a platform to advance the knowledge-base in a company and thus to reduce time-to-market. This article introduces conceptual product development architecture under a virtual team umbrella. The paper describes all the major aspects of new product development (NPD), NPD process and its relationship with virtual teams, Stage-Gate system finally presents a modified Stage-Gate system to cope up with the changing needs. It also provides the guidelines for the successful implementation of virtual teams in new product development.
L17|Virtual R & D teams in small and medium enterprises: A literature review|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the driving engine behind economic growth. While SMEs play a critical role in generating employment and supporting trade, they face numerous challenges, the prominent among them are the need to respond to fasting time-to-market, low-cost and rapid solutions to complex organizational problems. Towards that end, research and development (R & D) aspect deserves particular attention to promote and facilitate the operations of SMEs. Virtual R & D team could be a viable option. However, literature shows that virtual R & D teaming in SMEs is still at its infancy. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R & D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the state-of-the-art literature review is to provide an overview on the structure and dynamics of R & D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the foundation and importance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R & D team and SMEs has been examined. It concludes with the identification of the gaps in the existing literature's and calls for future research. It is argued that setting-up an infrastructure for virtual R & D team in SMEs still requires a large amount of engineering efforts and deserves consideration at top level management.
L17|Innovation Process is Facilitated in Virtual Environment of R&D Teams|Innovation is becoming the most important key issue for company's success in the 21st century. In the competitive environment it is necessary for the enterprises to put together different capabilities and services with the goal. It is widely accepted that innovation can be better achieved by working in team particularly in the virtual environments. The employed web services technology, although very popular nowadays but it is still not mature enough, so dealing with it can bring new findings. Virtual teams base on information technology are formed to facilitate transnational innovation processes and it should be noted that innovation has a positive impact on corporate performance if it is well guided. This has the pronounced effect when it comes to the learning issues as the virtual preconditions persist. In this environment the possibility of getting closer to the interest of learner from the new environment raise as the barriers being imposed by the service provider is reduced and the freedom of what is require to learn is improved. Information and communication technology has brought about significant changes in organizations and produced important benefits, including in the areas of innovation which is recognized as a prime source of national competitive advantage. This contribution proposes a conceptual model for understanding and analyzing the process of virtual R&D team as an innovation and technology assimilation facilitator when it comes to the issue of conveying innovative message for learning by individuals. The context of the knowledge-based economy introduces a major shift from serial to simultaneous R&D in the way of idea conception to technology creation is conceived. This paper briefly reviews the existing perspectives on virtual teams and their effect on innovation and technology regarding the learning capability which is being altered. It also discusses the main characteristics of virtual teams and clarifies the different aspects of virtual team application in the topic. To support the theoretical analysis, this paper provides a comprehensive review based on authentic and reputed publications. We argue that scanty research has been conducted to facilitate understanding the problem of systematically governing creative innovation toward a technology through virtual R&D teams in the atmosphere of educating individuals based on what they interest them to learn.
L17|Consideration of the virtual team work and disabled citizens, as promising opportunity providers for the e government infrastructure's formation|The Information area has revolutionized the workplace. Douglas Kruse, a professor of human resources and the director of the program for disability research at Rutgers University, states that 7% of employed persons with disabilities work 20 hours or more a week from home. While some modern countries have established “virtual teams”, which are said to be comprised of people who are geographically scattered and who work across boundaries of space and time using computer driven communication technologies, it is also true that many developing countries remain structured around conventional face-to-face teams. A motive toward virtual team working may be cost effectiveness. Increasing transport and human resource costs makes face to face contact less attractive unless they are essential. In an environment of urging to move into the direction of governing the activities via electronic moves, consideration of the individuals who deliver their services to the society in the form of virtual teams are of the primary value which should accelerate the E culture while E government is aimed at. By reviewing literature and theories, this paper present the definition and characteristics of virtual teams. A comparison of different types of virtual teams along with the application, strengths and limitations of them regarding as the promising elements of e activities are elaborated. Persons with disabilities are entitled to and capable of the same career options as their non-disabled counterparts and increasing numbers of them are taking advantage of virtual workplaces therefore creating a condition to facilitate the cultivation of e moves in the society.
L17|A conceptual model of virtual product development process|In today’s dynamic marketplace, companies are under strong pressure to introduce new products for long-term survival with their competitors. Besides, every company cannot cope up progressively or immediately with the market requirements due to knowledge dynamics being experienced in competitive milieu. Increased competition and reduced product life cycles put force upon companies to develop new products faster. In response to this pressing need there should be some new approach compatible in flexible circumstances. This paper presents a solution based on the Stage-Gate system, which is closely linked with virtual team approach. Virtual teams can provide a platform to advance the knowledge-base in a company and thus to reduce time-to-market. This article introduces conceptual product development architecture under a virtual-team umbrella. The paper describes all the major aspects of new product development (NPD), NPD process and its relationship with virtual team, Stage-Gate system and finally presents a modified Stage-Gate system. It also provides the guidelines for the successful implementation of virtual team in new products development.
L17|Экономико-Математическое Моделирование Рынка Программного Обеспечения: Монография. — М.: Вега-Инфо, 2009. — 176 С<BR>[Economic and mathematical modelling of software market]|Software market is considered as a new object for the mathematical economics. A statistical study of the server operating systems market is provided, static and dynamic models of for-profit and non-for-profit software developers mixed duopoly are built (taking into account market growth, interactions with hardware vendors, software piracy, and non-zero technical support costs). Stochastic generalizations of the Harrod – Domar model, Solow model, and the fundamental model of innovations diffusion model in terms of spatial heterogeneous economy are developed. The generalization of the Pontryagin maximum principle for distributed economic systems optimal control is formulated. The book is intended for academics specializing in mathematical economics and knowledge economics and university students of economics.
L17|Softwareentwicklung im Netzwerk. Kooperation, Hierarchie und Wettbewerb in einem Open Source-Projekt|In relativ kurzer Zeit haben Open Source-Projekte als selbst organisierte, informale (Arbeits-)Netzwerke freiwillig Arbeitender, die durch eine rechtlich spezifische Lizenz ein „oeffentliches Gut“ erstellen, neben kommerzieller Software eine hohe Bedeutung erlangt. In dieser Arbeit wird die Zusammenarbeit der Open Source-Mitarbeiter bei der Softwareentwicklung anhand einer qualitativen Fallstudie des Open Source-Projekts KDE analysiert, das eine grafische Benutzeroberflaeche besonders fuer Linux erstellt. Als zentrale Fragestellung wird die Koordination in den Arbeitsprozessen des Projekts untersucht. Daneben wird auf den Einfluss der Informations- und Kommunikationstechnik (IuK) auf die hoch virtuelle Zusammenarbeit der Softwareentwicklung eingegangen. In der Literatur ging man bisher davon aus, dass die Organisationsform Netzwerk (aehnlich wie in Unternehmen und Maerkten) nur durch eine Koordinationsform, in diesem Fall Kooperation, bestimmt wird. In dieser Studie kann nachgewiesen werden, dass neben Kooperation auch Hierarchie und Wettbewerb als Koordinationsformen in bestimmten Teilprozessen der Softwareentwicklung eine manchmal auch bedeutende Rolle spielen. Ausgehend von diesem Befund werden erste Anstrengungen durchgefuehrt, eine Theorie der Koordination zu erstellen. Zugleich werden Hypothesen und Vermutungen ueber die Auspraegung und die Bedeutung der Koordinationsformen im Open Source-Projekt KDE anhand der Neuen Institutionenoekonomie und des soziologischen Neo-Institutionalismus aufgestellt.
L17|Consumer welfare and market structure in a model of competition between open source and proprietary software|I consider a Vickrey-Salop model of spatial product differentiation with quasi-linear utility functions and contrast two modes of production, the proprietary model where entrepreneurs sell software to the users, and the open source model where users participate in software development. I show that the OS model of production may be more efficient from the point of view of welfare that the proprietary model, but that an OS industry is vulnerable to entry by entrepreneurs while a proprietary industry can resist entry by OS projects. A mixed industry where OS and proprietary development methods coexist may exhibit large OS projects cohabiting with more specialized proprietary projects, and is more efficient than the proprietary model of production from the point of view of welfare.
L17|Motivation and Sorting in Open Source Software Innovation|This paper studies the role of intrinsic motivation, reputation and reciprocity in driving open source software innovation. We exploit the observed pattern of contributions - the 'revealed preference' of developers - to infer the underlying incentives. Using detailed information on code contributions and project membership, we classify developers into distinct groups and study how contributions from each developer type vary by license (contract) type and other project characteristics. The central empirical finding is that developers strongly sort by license type, project size and corporate sponsorship. This evidence confirms the importance of heterogeneous motivations, specifically a key role for motivated agents and reputation, but less for reciprocity.
L17|Microstructure of Collaboration: The 'Social Network' of Open Source Software|The open source model is a form of software development with source code that is typically made available to all interested parties. At the core of this process is a decentralized production process: open source software development is done by a network of unpaid software developers. Using data from Sourceforge.net, the largest repository of Open Source Software (OSS) projects and contributors on the Internet, we construct two related networks: A Project network and a Contributor network. Knowledge spillovers may be closely related to the structure of such networks, since contributors who work on several projects likely exchange information and knowledge. Defining the number of downloads as output we finds that (i) additional contributors are associated with an increase in output, but that additional contributors to projects in the giant component are associated with greater output gains than additional contributors to projects outside of the giant component; (ii) Betweenness centrality of the project is positively associated with the number of downloads. (iii) Closeness centrality of the project appears also to be positively associated with downloads, but the effect is not statistically significant over all specifications. (iv) Controlling for the correlation between these two measures of centrality (betweenness and closeness), the degree is not positively associated with the number of downloads. (v) The average closeness centrality of the contributors that participated in a project is positively correlated with the success of the project. These results suggest that there are positive spillovers of knowledge for projects occupying critical junctures in the information flow. When we define projects as connected if and only if they had at least two contributors in common, we again find that additional contributors are associated with an increase in output, and again find that this increase is much higher for projects with strong ties than other projects in the giant component.
L17|Motivation and Sorting in Open Source Software Innovation|This paper studies the role of intrinsic motivation, reputation, and reciprocity in driving open source software innovation. Unlike previous literature based on survey data, we exploit the observed pattern of contributions - the .revealed preference. of developers - to infer the underlying incentives driving the decision to contribute source code. Using detailed information on code contributions and project membership, we classify software developers into distinct types and study how contributions from each developer type vary according to the open source license type and other project characteristics. We find that developers strongly sort by license type, project size, and corporate sponsorship, and that reciprocity is important only for a small subset of projects. We also show that contributions have a substantial impact on the performance of open source projects.
L17|Open Source Software, Closed Source Software or Both: Impacts on Industry Growth and the Role of Intellectual Property Rights|There is considerable debate regarding the use of intellectual property rights (IPR) to spur innovation in the software industry. In this paper we focus on the choice of intellectual property right regimes and industry growth. We begin by developing a growth optimal mixture of open source and closed source software. This optimal scenario is then used as a basis to examine the co-existence of open and closed source software within various institutional frameworks ranging from no protection, copyright to patent protection. Such an analysis is beneficial as it enables an objective comparison of the three scenarios under the assumption that both copyrights and patents serve the purpose for which they were designed. Our analysis, based on the existence or absence of spillovers, confirms that a co-existence is growth optimal for the industry. Further, we find that the move from no protection to copyright protection increases the maximum growth rate. However, despite assuming properly functioning patents, the benefits of moving from copyright to patent protection are less clear.
L17|Community-based production of open-source software: What do we know about the developers who participate?|"This paper seeks to close an empirical gap regarding the motivations, personal attributes and behavioral patterns among free/libre and open-source (FLOSS) developers, especially those involved in community-based production, and considers the bearing of its findings on the existing literature and the future directions for research. Respondents to an extensive web-survey's (FLOSS-US 2003) questions about their reasons for beginning to work FLOSS are classified according to their distinct ""motivational profiles"" by hierarchical cluster analysis. Over half of them also are matched to projects of known membership sizes, revealing that although some members from each of the clusters are present in the small, medium and large ranges of the distribution of project sizes, the mixing fractions for the large and the very small project ranges are statistically different. Among developers who changed projects, there is a discernable flow from the bottom toward the very small towards to large projects, some of which is motivated by individuals seeking to improve their programming skills. It is found that the profile of early motivation, along with other individual attributes, significantly affects individual developers' selections of projects from different regions of the size range."
L17|Innovation, Imitation and Open Source|An extensive empirical literature indicates that, even without formal intellectual property rights, innovators enjoy a variety of first-mover advantages and that `imitation' is itself a costly activity. There is also accumulating evidence that an `open' approach to knowledge production can deliver substantial efficiency advantages. This paper introduces a formal framework incorporating all of these factors. We examine the relative performance of an `open' versus a `closed' (proprietary) regime, and explicitly characterise the circumstances in which an open approach, despite its effect on facilitating imitation, results in a higher level of innovation.
L17|Motivation and sorting in open source software innovation|This paper studies the role of intrinsic motivation, reputation, and reciprocity in driving open source software innovation. Unlike previous literature based on survey data, we exploit the observed pattern of contributions - the .revealed preference. of developers - to infer the underlying incentives driving the decision to contribute source code. Using detailed information on code contributions and project membership, we classify software developers into distinct types and study how contributions from each developer type vary according to the open source license type and other project characteristics. We find that developers strongly sort by license type, project size, and corporate sponsorship, and that reciprocity is important only for a small subset of projects. We also show that contributions have a substantial impact on the performance of open source projects.
L17|The Economic Properties of Software|Software is a good with very special economic characteristics. Taking a general definition of software as its starting-point, this article Â systematically elaborates the central qualities of the commodity which have implications for its production and cost structure, the demand, the contestability of software-markets, and the allocative efficiency. In this context it appears to be reasonable to subsume the various characteristics under the following generic terms: software as a means of data-processing, software as a system of commands or instructions, software as a recombinant system, software as a good which can only be used in discrete units, software as a complex system, and software as an intangible good. Evidently, software is characterized by a considerable number of economically relevant qualitiesâ€”ranging from network effects to a subadditive cost function to nonrivalry. Particularly to emphasise is the fact that software fundamentally differs from other information goods: First, from a consumerâ€™s perspective the readability and other aspects concerning how the information is presented, is irrelevant. Second, the average consumer/user is interested only in the funtionality of the algorithms but not in the underlying information.
L17|Intellectual Property Rights and Ex-Post Transaction Costs: the Case of Open and Closed Source Software|"The economic characteristics of software and transaction costs explain, why closed source and open source software co-exist. It is about the efficient use of a non- and anti-scarce resource. But because of ex-post transaction costs that lead to information asymmetries, some property rights regarding the resource ""source code"" are not exclusively separable. Thus, the first best allocation of property rights, that would yield an optimal usage of a source code, is not realizable. Or, that is to say, a first best realization of contracts is not feasible. Hence, open and closed source software are two second best arrangements, both with specific assets and drawbacks. The principle of closed source benefits from direct (monetary) incentives and control, but has limits in its scope (size) because of transaction costs. Open source, on the one hand, benefits from its openness that creates spillovers and enables to incorporate human capital that is not acquirable for closed source firms. On the other hand, there are costs of openness, such as coordination costs (consensus finding, etc.) the danger of free riding or under provision, or forking."
L17|Microstructure of Collaboration: The Network of Open Source Software| The open source model is a form of software development with source code that is typically made available to all interested parties. At the core of this process is a decentralized production process: open source software development is done by a network of unpaid software developers. Using data from Sourceforge.net, the largest repository of Open Source Software (OSS) projects and contributors on the Internet, we construct two related networks: A Project network and a Contributor network. Knowledge spillovers may be closely related to the structure of such networks, since contributors who work on several projects likely exchange information and knowledge. Defining the number of downloads as output we finds that (i) additional contributors are associated with an increase in output, but that additional contributors to projects in the giant component are associated with greater output gains than additional contributors to projects outside of the giant component; (ii) Betweenness centrality of the project is positively associated with the number of downloads. (iii) Closeness centrality of the project appears also to be positively associated with downloads, but the effect is not statistically significant over all specifications. (iv) Controlling for the correlation between these two measures of centrality (betweenness and closeness), the degree is not positively associated with the number of downloads. (v) The average closeness centrality of the contributors that participated in a project is positively correlated with the success of the project. These results suggest that there are positive spillovers of knowledge for projects occupying critical junctures in the information flow. When we define projects as connected if and only if they had at least two contributors in common, we again find that additional contributors are associated with an increase in output, and again find that this increase is much higher for projects with strong ties than other projects in the giant component.
L17|Consumer Welfare and Market Structure in a Model of Competition Between Open Source and Proprietary Software|I consider a Vickrey-Salop model of spatial product differentiation with quasi-linear utility functions and contrast two modes of production, the proprietary model where entrepreneurs sell software to the users, and the open source model where users participate in software development. I show that the OS model of production may be more efficient from the point of view of welfare that the proprietary model, but that an OS industry is vulnerable to entry by entrepreneurs while a proprietary industry can resist entry by OS projects. A mixed industry where OS and proprietary development methods coexist may exhibit large OS projects cohabiting with more specialized proprietary projects, and is more efficient than the proprietary model of production from the point of view of welfare.
L17|Open Source Licensing in Mixed Markets, or Why Open Source Software Does Not Succeed|The rivalry between developers of open source and proprietary software encourages open source developers to court users and respond to their needs. If the open source developer wants to promote her own open source standard and solutions, she may choose liberal license terms such as those of the Berkeley Software Distribution as proprietary developers will then find it easier to adopt her standard in their products. If she wants to promote the use of open source software per se, she may use more restrictive license terms such as the General Public License to discourage proprietary appropriation of her effort. I show that open source software that comes late into a market will be less likely than more innovative open source software to be compatible with proprietary software, but is also more likely to be made more accessible to inexperienced users.
L17|Literature, Principle and the basics of Network Value Creation in R&D: The relationship with economy|The internationalization of R&D network is a recent phenomenon. In this knowledge based environment, the driving forces for this phenomenon are digitization, the internet, and high-speed data networks that are keys to address many of the operational issues from design to logistics and distribution. From the other direction to surviving in the highly competitive industry, requires strategies to collaborate with or compete with suitable firms within a network in the New Product Development process. The growing internationalization of R&D activities challenges multinational corporations (MNCs) to formulate technology strategies and manage increasingly diffuse and diverse networks of R&D laboratories and alliances in the context of disparate national institutions. Research and development functions are fundamental drivers of value creation in technology-based enterprises. Successful R&D is a function of invention and R&D network. This paper studies R&D network issues from the perspective of their impact on value creation. It is observed that most of the research activities encourage and support R&D networks and influences in economic development.
L17|Virtuality, Innovation and R&D Activities|Innovation plays a central role in economic development, at regional and national level. In the competitive environment companies are obliged to produce more rapidly, more effectively and more efficiently in new product development which is a result of research and development (R&D) activities. It is necessary for them to put together different capabilities and services with the goal, through cooperation between suppliers and customers, service providers and scientific institutions to achieve innovations of high quality. Depending on the type of industry, the type of business, the type of innovation and the strategic objectives that have been set, firms will regularly have to modify the way in which their R&D and innovation is organized. Nowadays shift from serial to simultaneous and parallel working in innovation has become more commonplace. Literature's have shown that collaboration is as a meta-capability for innovation. By a comprehensive reviewing of literature this article after define a virtual teams and its characteristics, addressing virtual environments innovation and the relationship to R&D activities. Finally conclude that innovation cannot be successful unless the knowledge and information in the R&D project are effectively captured, shared and internalized by the R&D project’s virtual team members.
L17|Virtual marketing in virtual enterprises|"Virtualization caused tremendous evolution in the economics of marketing channels, patterns of physical distribution and the structure of distributors and developed a new concept that is known as virtual marketing (VM). VM combines the powerful technologies of interactive marketing and virtual reality. Virtual enterprise (VE) refers to an organization not having a clear physical locus. In other words, VE is an organization distributed geographically and whose work is coordinated through electronic communications."" It should be mentioned that here VE encompasses all other similar phrases like Virtual company, virtual corporation, etc. One of the greatest challenges facing business owners and managers – both for traditional and virtual organizations- is finding a way to cost−effectively communicate frequently and consistently with their target markets; and the virtual marketing perform this function at the best possible. In this paper, we focus on the concept of “Virtual marketing in virtual enterprises”."
L17|Firms on SourceForge|This paper explores empirically what factors inﬂuence a ﬁrm’s decision to contribute and to take leadership in open source projects. Increasing ﬁrms’ participation in the development of open source software (OSS) is generally perceived as a puzzle. Assuming that ﬁrms face a ”Make-or-Buy” decision before using OSS, we argue that contribution is in fact the best way for them to keep control of their supplier in a context where incomplete open source licenses govern transactions. Building on this proposition, we derive predictions on the drivers of ﬁrms’ contribution and leadership in open source projects, and test them on a unique dataset of 4,808 open source projects extracted from Sourceforge. Our empirical ﬁndings conﬁrm the predictions and lend support to our hypotheses.
L17|Enabling and Sustaining Collaborative Innovation|This paper extends the principles of open source software development to a non-industry-specific level by introducing the Open Source Innovation (OSI) model. OSI exhibits main differences to other related models and concepts such as the private-collective model, commons-based peer production, R&D networks and is therefore an innovation model in its own right. In order for OSI projects to be successful, numerous factors need to be fulfilled. We make the distinction between four categories of factors: economic, technical, legal, and social. In each category, we differentiate between enabling and sustaining factors. The enabling factors must be met at the beginning of the project, whereas the sustaining factors must be satisfied as the project progresses.
L17|Of Hackers and Hairdressers: Modularity and the Organizational Economics of Open-source Collaboration| Using the idea of modularity, we study the general phenomenon of open-source collaboration, which includes such things as collective invention and open science in addition to open-source software production. We argue that open-source collaboration coordinates the division of labor through the exchange of effort rather than of products: suppliers of effort self-identify in the same way as suppliers of products in a market rather than accepting assignments like employees in a firm. We suggest that open-source software (and other) projects are neither bazaars nor cathedrals, but hybrids manifesting both voluntary production and conscious planning.
L17|You Won the Battle. What about the War? A Model of Competition between Proprietary and Open Source Software|Although open source software has recently attracted a relevant body of economic literature, a formal treatment of the process of com- petition with its proprietary counterpart is still missing. Starting from an epidemic model of innovation di?usion, we try to ?ll this gap. We propose a model where the two competing technologies depend on dif- ferent factors, each one speci?c to its own mode of production (prof- its and developersï¿½ motivations respectively), together with network e?ects and switching costs. As the speed of di?usion of these tech- nologies is crucial for the ?nal outcome, we endogenize the parame- ter in?uencing it across the population of adopters. We ?nd that an asymptotically stable equilibrium where both technologies coexist can always be present and, when the propagation coe?cient is endogenous, it coexists with winnerï¿½takeï¿½all solutions. Furthermore, an increase in the level of the switching costs for one technology increases the num- ber of its adopters, while reducing the number of the other one. If the negative network e?ects increase for one of the two technologies, then the equilibrium level of users of that technology decrease.
L17|The division of labor and voluntary production|The objective of this work is to run through some of the organizational characteristics of voluntary production, such as open source, the professions and scientific communities. To do so, the work considers production as division of labor rather than as production function. It finds that voluntary production exhibits: (1) the contribution of effort rather than of products; (2) self-selection in effort contribution; (3) a redundant division of labor characterized by social learning by doing; (4) a formal and informal hierarchical coordination. (81 words.)
L17|Some Policy Issues on Open Source and Proprietary Software|Software industry is a fast growing sector of the economy which is undergoing significant changes both for the presence of the open source mode of production and for the challenges of globalization and convergence with other industries. This paper analyses the role of open source software (OSS) on competition and innovation in the software industry and debates the economic rationales for promoting the adoption of OSS by national and local governments.
L17|Corporate governance e società della conoscenza. Tra teoria e prassi|In this work we redefine governance in a way that goes beyond the traditional separation between power and control in a multi-stakeholders model setting. Governance is defined as a sustainable/ecological process of power sharing and legitimacy acquisition both within and outside the company. Our major focus in this paper is on the sustainability of such a process. We argue that there are two major neg-entropic and self-organizing forces, which have found only little room in the current debate, and that, according to our perspective, change profoundly the way the problem of governance has been traditionally faced: knowledge and ethics. Considering these two main forces leads us to two major conclusions about reflexive firms as process-engine to consolidate cooperation and altruism between agents not always self-interested also if often interested to make huge quantity of money and high profits. A new meta-Corporation where management can’t be a simple neutral technical function but an emotional intelligence, a motivational resource of organization to rebuilding an evolutionary sharing identity. The first is that the sustainability of this ecological process of governance requires stakeholder sharing a common set of goals and values ex-ante rather than ex-post, when this value has been already defined. The second is to draft the elements of meta-corporation that is capable to do both as sense making like sharing interests of stakeholders and management, or facing and manage multidimensional complexity of “personal capitalism”, peer production, emergent systems, extreme events, hyper extended networks. In a simple word a great or small network company able to building sustainable ecologies of value.
L17|On the civic role of firms in emerging ecologies of value|Knowledge is the main competitive assets in today economy. This resource, differently from the others firms have traditionally managed, increases its value through sharing and diffusing. Adoption, in fact, does not only contribute to increase its trustworthiness, but also to broadening its scope and application. The development of global digital infrastructures such as Internet has even enhanced the potential advantages that may derive from sharing knowledge. In this paper the development of ecologies of value, context of knowledge sharing where parties partecipate to the production of a collective value, is presented as alternative strategy to protecting the value of knowledge through intellectual property right. Being able to leverage on the potential disclosed by collective interaction in ecology of values requires participants not exploiting open accessibility to their own advantage. This calls for the emergence of a new ethic. An ethic of the abundance, where people develop a complete consciousness of the potential deriving from sharing knowledge for their own success and happiness. The role of firms in emerging ecologies of value is to promote the development of such an ethic by setting up context of interaction that are open, based on tolerance and mutual transparency
L17|Perspectives on Free and Open Source Software|"What is the status of the Free and Open Source Software (F/OSS) revolution? Has the creation of software that can be freely used, modified, and redistributed transformed industry and society, as some predicted, or is this transformation still a work in progress? Perspectives on Free and Open Source Software brings together leading analysts and researchers to address this question, examining specific aspects of F/OSS in a way that is both scientifically rigorous and highly relevant to real-life managerial and technical concerns. The book analyzes a number of key topics: the motivation behind F/OSS—why highly skilled software developers devote large amounts of time to the creation of ""free"" products and services; the objective, empirically grounded evaluation of software—necessary to counter what one chapter author calls the ""steamroller"" of F/OSS hype; the software engineering processes and tools used in specific projects, including Apache, GNOME, and Mozilla; the economic and business models that reflect the changing relationships between users and firms, technical communities and firms, and between competitors; and legal, cultural, and social issues, including one contribution that suggests parallels between ""open code"" and ""open society"" and another that points to the need for understanding the movement's social causes and consequences."
L17|Competing on Standards? Entrepreneurship, Intellectual Property and the Platform Paradox|"This paper studies the intellectual property strategy of firms that participate in the formal standards process. Specifically, we examine litigation rates in a sample of patents disclosed to thirteen voluntary Standard Setting Organizations (SSOs). We find that SSO patents have a relatively high litigation rate, and that SSO patents assigned to small firms are litigated more often than those of large publicly-traded firms. We also estimate a series of difference-in-differences models and find that small-firm litigation rates increase following a patent's disclosure to an SSO while those of large firms remain unchanged or decline. We interpret this result as evidence of a ""platform paradox"" -- while small entrepreneurial firms rely on open standards to lower the fixed cost of innovation, these firms are also more likely to pursue an aggressive IP strategy that may undermine the openness of a new standard."
L17|Open Source Software and Economic Growth: A Classical Division of Labor Perspective|The article turns to classical economic insights on the division of labor and to institutional reasoning to identify some costs and benefits of Open Source Software (OSS) and proprietary software production. It suggests that, thanks to its licenses, OSS favors market expansion more than proprietary software does by tapping into spontaneous work input. The spontaneous tapping leads to a division of labor that exhibits what the article calls redundant economies. By generating a circle of knowledge growth, reuse, and sharing, redundant economies lead to increasing returns, which are crucial for economic growth.
L17|Floss (Free/Libre Open Source Software): A Theme For Cultural Differences Study|Geert Hofstede presented statistical evidence purporting to identify intercultural co-operation and its importance for survival in his scholarship work “cultures and organizations”. This article presents a study, which describes how differences in national culture can affect or influence the participation of programmers who produce open source software (OSS). The four important dimensions of national cultures considered by Hofstede model namely Power Distance Index (PDI), Individualism Index (IAV), Masculinity-Feminity Index (MAS) and Uncertainty Avoidance Index (UAI) are selected and correlated with the Geographical Distribution of Developers Index (GDD) for testing the above hypothesis. It is suggested that there exists some correlation between the cultural factors and the demographics of programmers who participate in the open source movement. Finally, the manner in which these cultural factors impinge on the incentives of the programmers who are engaged in open source movement by writing codes for free are also discussed.
L17|PySAL: A Python Library of Spatial Analytical Methods|PySAL is an open source library for spatial analysis written in the object-oriented language Python. It is built upon shared functionality in two exploratory spatial data analysis packages--GeoDA and STARS--and is intended to leverage the shared development of these components. This paper presents an overview of the motivation behind and the design of PySAL, as well as suggestions for how the library can be used with other software projects. Empirical illustrations of several key components in a variety of spatial analytical problems are given, and plans for future development of PySAL are discussed.
L17|Remixing Cinema: The case of the Brighton Swarm of Angels|No abstract is available for this item.
L17|The Transaction Costs Perspective on Standards as a Source of Trade and Productivity Growth|This paper discusses the design, implementation and use of standards from the perspective of transaction costs economics. A proper design and implementation of standards may lead to a considerable reduction of transaction costs, which enhances trade and, consequently, economic welfare. A major example is the use of containers, which has drastically changed the worldwide transport infrastructure, and lowered the costs of transport of goods considerably. The example of containers also shows that network externalities play a major role in the use of standards, and that, on the other hand, worldwide standards with large sunk investment costs may lead to a lock-in. This may call for government intervention in the design and use of standards, and in the transition processes to new standards. The paper provides ample further examples of standards and on the role of the government, or clubs, with respect to these standards.
L17|Copyright vs. Copyleft Licencing and Software Development|This article aims at clarifying the role played by licenses within the increasingly relevant Open Source Software (OSS) phenomenon. In particular, the article explores from a theoretical point of view the comparative properties of the two main categories of OSS license--copyleft and non-copyleft licenses--in terms of their ability to stimulate innovation and coordination of development efforts. In order to do so, the paper relies on an incomplete contracting model. The model shows that, in spite of the fact that copyleft licenses entail the enjoyment of a narrower set of rights by both licensors and licensees, they may be preferred to non-copyleft licenses when coordination of complementary investments in development is important. It thus provides a non-ideologically-based explanation for the puzzling evidence showing the dominance, in terms of diffusion, of copyleft licenses.
L17|Procuring Innovation|To stay on top of global competition, firms and governments often need to acquire innovative goods and services, including ideas and research, from their strategic suppliers. A careful design of procurement policy is crucial to make potential suppliers generate and sell the most suitable innovation. Moreover, procurement by public agencies and large firms often set the incentives for the development of innovations economy-wide. In this paper, guided by recent micro- and macro-economic research, we discuss vices and virtues of the many ways to induce potential suppliers to create and sell innovations. We consider a menu of procurement methods and policies for best procuring new knowledge and innovative products, discussing their costs and benefits in different possible scenarios and suggesting criteria to choose among them. We explain how to optimize the degree of competition between suppliers, as well as other more practical indirect ways to stimulate innovation. We discuss the effects of standard setting activities by large, often public, procurers on innovation races. We evaluate how public and large private firm’s procurement may induce innovation and growth at the national, industry or supply network level by affecting input market prices and the returns to human capital formation. Finally, we point out how risk management methods used in procurement should be modified when innovation is a central concern for a buyer.
L17|Open Source Software Development Projects: Determinants of Project Popularity|This paper is an initial exploration of the determinants of open source project success as measured by project popularity. We simultaneously model the impact of project-specific characteristics on project popularity, and the impact of intended users and choice of operating system on the choice of end-user license. These models are jointly estimated using Full Information Maximum Likelihood Method. The results show that the software-user license, age of the project, project status, certain types of potential users, and compatibility with certain operating systems have a statistically significant impact on project popularity. An interesting finding is that GPL, the most widely used software license has an adverse impact on the popularity of an open source project.
L17|Marketing cinematografic/ Film Marketing (Romanian Version)|The film is not only a cultural product or industry, but a mixture of these two concepts, is a “sui generis” product, the outcome of creation and artistic-industrial construction. In the film industry, what usually sells is an idea, a concept. Each film is a unique creation, containing a mix of elements, combined in some way. It can therefore be considered as a prototype. When people buy a product that is new they first try, which is not just like in this industry, the film can be defined as a product that is sold only once.
L17|Türki̇ye’Ni̇n Dişa Açilma Oraninin Ölçümü, 1965-1995|The results of empirical studies on the 1980 Turkish economic reform programme frequently suggest that openness has a positive impact on growth in Turkey. However, the results of empirical literature on the relationship between openness and growth have always been under criticism for using openness variables,which are not objective measures of openness, involve measurement errors and do not capture all dimensions of openness. To overcome these criticisms, in this article,we introduce a composite openness proxy obtained using the principle component methodology that captures all dimensions of openness and provide an objective and more reliable measure of openness for Turkey.
L17|Analysis of Opportunities and Challenges for R&D Management and the Role of the R&D Society for its Improvement – A Case Study in Iran|Research and Development (R&D) management in Iran is faced to many barriers and obstacles, in which R&D units are considered as the basic core of the product development and innovation. Due to structural shortcomings, a great number of organizations and industries have not been able to find their actual status. There are about different 1141 R&D units with a dispersion pattern in Iran. This paper considers and analyzes the R&D case study in one of the provinces located in the north part of Iran in order to enhance the potential R&D activities in respect with the industrialized areas and zones. In this province, there are about 2504 industrial units of which there are only 44 R&D units certified by the state government. However, there are limit numbers of these R&D units that are extensively active. This paper also addresses the current status in respect with the R&D activities to find out why there is a lack and depression of these activities in the industrial units. By considering the opportunity and challenges of these R&D units, there is a need to change these units to be active in order to quickly respond the market and demand requirements. Finally, a few alternative solutions and improvement plans are proposed, in which the Iranian R&D Society is responsible for supporting and succeeding these action plans towards the organization goals.
L17|Do Stronger Intellectual Property Rights Widen Growth Gap?|Our study builds a model of cumulative growth in order to analyze the relationship between intellectual property rights (IPRs) and economic growth for a cross-section of countries for the period 1975-2000. This article focuses on the impacts of IPRs on growth gap between countries using a catching-up model and USPTO database. We find that IPRs affect economic growth by stimulating the accumulation of physical capital. However, the economic effects of IPRs on innovation activity are absent in this study. We find also the cumulative causation relationship between investment and growth. Lastly, our estimation results show that the wide variety of possible growth paths available to countries, depending on their 'social capability'.
L17|Job Loss in the United States, 1981-2001|I examine changes in the incidence and consequences of job loss between 1981 and 2001 using data from the Displaced Workers Surveys (DWS) from 1984-2002. The overall rate of job loss has a strong counter-cyclical component, but the job loss rate was higher than might have been expected during the mid-1990's given the strong labor market during that period. While the job loss rate of more-educated workers increased, less-educated workers continue to have the highest rates of job loss overall. Displaced workers have a substantially reduced probability of employment and an increased probability of part-time employment subsequent to job loss. The more educated have higher post-displacement employment rates and are more likely to be employed full-time. The probabilities of employment and full-time employment among those reemployed subsequent to job loss increased substantially in the late 1990s, suggesting that the strong labor market eased the transition of displaced workers. Reemployment rates dropped sharply in the recession of 2001. Those re-employed, even full-time and regardless of education level earnings declines relative to what they earned before they were displaced. Additionally, foregone earnings growth (the growth in earnings that would have occurred had the workers not been displaced), is an important part of the cost of job loss for re-employed full-time job losers. There is no evidence of a decline during the tight labor market of the 1990s in the earnings loss of displaced workers who were reemployed full-time. In fact, earnings losses of displaced workers have been increasing since the mid 1990s.
L17|On the Viability of Gift Exchange in a Market Environment|Is gift-exchange inevitably to be crowded out by impersonal market exchange? The presence of a thick-market externality indicates that this is indeed likely to be the case. But reciprocity or gift-exchange induces social relations. The utility function is extended in order to take account of social relations in the form of symbolic utility or moral sentiments. As long as moral sentiments are valued high enough it is shown that both market and gift-exchange can coexist. The spontaneous order need not necessarily select the most efficient market size however.
L17|El estancamiento de la industria colombiana|“El presente trabajo tiene por objeto mostrar cómo la gravedad y complejidad de los factores en juego en la crisis padecida por el sector manufacturero en el período 1974-82 determinaron que la industria colombiana continuara sumida en un profundo estancamiento a lo largo de los ochenta. En esta forma, mientras el capítulo primero proveerá un dimensionamiento de dicho estancamiento, el segundo se centrará en su diagnóstico. En este último, el énfasis recaerá sobre el análisis de los factores que operaron conjuntamente en ese período crítico con el fin de ofrecer una visión que destaque la convergencia desafortunada para la dinámica del sector de elementos, tanto estructurales como coyunturales, de la evolución de la economía colombiana y de la política económica implementada en ese lapso. En la sección II.N se destacará cómo, en materia de política económica, se aunaron diversos de esos componentes en un paquete claramente perjudicial para el desarrollo del sector: desde el punto de vista estructural o del largo plazo, estrategias de inspiración neoliberal que tanto en lo comercial como en lo financiero constituyeron una situación de desprotección para el sector relativa a la proveído por la estrategia precedente con su preeminencia de la política industrial. Similarmente, en dicha sección se señalará la influencia de procesos de carácter estructural como la secular concentración en la distribución del ingreso; el agotamiento de una fase del proceso sustitutivo y el estancamiento de la productividad; y el cuello de botella constituido por la oferta agrícola. Enfatizaremos en la conclusión, que en el período crítico de 1974-82 operó una sucesión de factores coyunturales de demanda primordialmente exógenos. Finalmente, la sección II.B considerará tanto la magnitud como los limitantes de la recuperación del sector a partir de 1983.”
L17|Income Distribution and the Aggregation of Private Demands for Local Public Education|No abstract is available for this item.
L17|What is the best firm size to invest?|Significant differences in the evolution of firm size distribution for various industries in the United States have been revealed and documented. For theoretical considerations, this finding puts major constraints on the modelling of firm growth. For practical purposes, the observed differences create a solid basis for selective investment strategies.
