L20|Does trust among banks matter for bilateral trade? Evidence from shocks in the interbank market|Do financial crises have an impact on trade flows via a shock to corporate risk or to bank risk? Focusing on Italy’s exports during a period characterized by both the global financial crisis and by the sovereign debt crisis, we exploit the prediction of standard trade models according to which financial shocks should be magnified by the time needed to ship a good to the importer’s country and by sector-level financial vulnerability. We also use bank-pair data on Italian banks’ assets and liabilities vis-à-vis their foreign bank counterparts in a specific country to construct proxies for the availability of trade finance in a given market. We find evidence of a negative impact of financial shocks on exports, especially to more distant countries and in more financially vulnerable sectors. The main channels seem to be mainly related to an increase in corporate risk (reflecting shocks to bank finance and to buyer-supplier trade credit), while the ‘contagion effect’ of shocks stemming from bank risk seems to be much less significant.
L20|Political connections and firm pollution behaviour : An empirical study|A firm's top manager and a government official may be connected due to special circumstances. This social relationship or political connection may provide industrial polluters with protection or a “pollution shelter” which could lead to severe environmental deterioration. This paper aims to examine the link between political connections and firms’ pollution discharges by using Chinese data. Empirical results show that political connections are the institutional origin for firms to adopt strategic pollution discharges. Government officials who are young, of low education, promoted locally and in office for a relatively long time are more likely to build political connections with polluters. This phenomenon results in inadequate enforcement of regulation and emission control. The pollution discharges of politically connected firms also vary considerably due to firm heterogeneity. This study also shows that pollution shelter effects caused by political connections are more obvious in the central and western regions, prefecture cities and capital-intensive industries.
L20|Foreign competition and the durability of US firm investments|How does the exposure to product market competition affect the investment horizon of firms? We study if firms have an incentive to shift investments toward more short‐term assets when exposed to tougher competition. Based on a stylized firm investment model, we derive a within‐firm estimator using variation across investments with different durabilities. Exploiting the Chinese World Trade Organization (WTO) accession, we estimate the effects of product market competition on the composition of US firm investments. Firms that experienced tougher competition shifted their expenditures toward investments with a shorter durability. This effect is larger for firms with lower total factor productivity.
L20|Private Labels and Product Quality under Asymmetric Information|Contrary to the existing theories of private label products, we demonstrate that the introduction of a private label product by a retailer may improve the profits of the supplier of a competing national brand product. Our theory is built on two main elements. First, the introduction of a private label product may expand the total demand for the products carried by the retailer and thus enlarge the joint profit to be split between the retailer and the supplier of the national brand product. Second, in an environment where consumers do not know the quality of the private label product, the national brand serves as a bond to assure consumers that the retailer sells high-quality products only. This quality assurance enhances the joint profit generated by the introduction of the private label product, which, in conjunction with the weakening of the retailer’s bargaining position caused by asymmetric information, may enable the national brand supplier to earn a larger profit than in the absence of the private label product.
L20|Corruption beyond the glass ceiling: do women entrepreneurs perceive corruption differently?|Adding to the corruption-gender nexus, this paper contributes across several dimensions: (a) measurement of corruption by studying whether female managers and female owners of firms perceived corruption differently; (b) using survey information at the firm level; and (c) employing a large sample of more than 100 countries. Results show that both female managers and female owners perceived corruption to be lower relative to men. Furthermore, older firms perceived corruption to be a more server obstacle, while sole proprietorships generally had the opposite view. The advantages of piercing the glass ceiling were undermined in nations with severe gender inequality.
L20|Peer effects in product adoption|We study the nature of peer effects in the market for new cell phones. Our analysis builds on de-identified data from Facebook that combine information on social networks with information on users’ cell phone models. To identify peer effects, we use variation in friends’ new phone acquisitions resulting from random phone losses and carrier-specific contract terms. A new phone purchase by a friend has a substantial positive and long-term effect on an individual’s own demand for phones of the same brand, most of which is concentrated on the particular model purchased by the friend. We provide evidence that social learning contributes substantially to the observed peer effects. While peer effects increase the overall demand for cell phones, a friend’s purchase of a new phone of a particular brand can reduce individuals’ own demand for phones from competing brands—in particular those running on a different operating system. We discuss the implications of these findings for the nature of firm competition. We also find that stronger peer effects are exerted by more price-sensitive individuals. This positive correlation suggests that the elasticity of aggregate demand is substantially larger than the elasticity of individual demand. Through this channel, peer effects reduce firms’ markups and, in many models, contribute to higher consumer surplus and more efficient resource allocation.
L20|The Unfinished Business of State-owned Enterprise Reform in the People’s Republic of China|This paper examines the progress of state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform in the People’s Republic of China. After defining SOEs and considering their scope of operation within the PRC economy, the focus of the paper is on the major reform waves that followed the deterioration of SOE profitability in the early 1990s. The oil industry serves to illustrate industry-specific SOE reform trends as well as the latest reform developments. Until today, a stable, successful, long-term arrangement of state ownership has remained elusive. SOE reform is incomplete as long as a number of fundamental governance issues are not resolved. But these are difficult to resolve in the context of Party-controlled state-owned enterprises.
L20|Retos y oportunidades del emprendimiento apalancado en tecnología digital|El objetivo de este estudio es identificar las principales barreras que enfrenta el emprendimiento apalancado en tecnología digital en Colombia y proponer soluciones de política pública que permitan superarlas para impulsar su crecimiento hacia futuro. Los resultados que aquí se presentan se basan en un taller en el cual participaron emprendedores, universidades y entidades que apoyan el emprendimiento, desarrollado por Fedesarrollo en conjunto con la firma Háptica.
L20|Equity Finance: Matching Liability to Power|There is widespread concern that the bonus culture for senior managers in limited liability companies is having adverse effects, e.g. on risk-taking, leverage and lower longer-term investment. The moral hazard of limited liability was appreciated in the 19th century, when unlimited or multiple liability, especially for bankers, was widely adopted. Whereas outside, notably retail, investors still need the protection of limited liability, we advocate moving towards a two-tier equity system, primarily for banks, with insiders, senior managers and others with influence over corporate decisions, becoming subject to multiple liability. But the transition costs of doing so suddenly would be great, so our proposal is to start by applying this initially just to Systemically Important Financial Intermediaries.
L20|Paywalls and the demand for online news|The digitisation of society has posed a challenge to news outlets. Seeking advertising revenues and facing competition for the attention of their readers, many news outlets entered the digital era with unrestricted access to their online content. More recently, news outlets have sought to restrict the amount of content available for free. We quantify the impact of introducing a paywall on the demand for news in Norway. The short-run average impact of a paywall is negative and between 3 and 4%, in the long run the effect increases to between 9 and 11%. We find heterogeneity in the response to paywalls. The largest news outlet within its market experiences larger effects than the other news outlets. After introducing a paywall, the largest news outlets face a long-run reduction in demand between 13 and 15%, as compared to the others who experience a decrease of between 8 and 11%. The timing of introducing a paywall does not seem to affect the demand response very much.
L20|Analysis of Business Development on Organic Products at Muslim SMEs (MSMEs) in Malang, Indonesia|Objective - This study aims to determine the constraints on business development of organic products run by Muslim SMEs (MSMEs) in Malang city. Businesses concerned with organic generally adopt the principles of health, ecology, justice and protection. Organic products are very popular in today's global market. This is because organic products provide great opportunity for development. However, the requirements of organic products can be quite stringent, as is the experience of developers of organic products in Muslim SMEs (MSMEs) in Malang, Indonesia. Methodology/Technique - This research analyses the root problem using a fishbone method. To determine the main problem, an AHP (Analytical Hierarchy Process) method is used. The data is obtained using FGD (Focus Group Discussion) attended by informants with an understanding of organic products produced by: Lily Group, Organic Vigur, Representatives of AOI (Organic Alliance of Indonesia) and Representatives of Pamor (Association of Organic Society) in East Java. Finding and Novelty - The research results identifies the problems faced by Muslim SMEs including: raw material, market condition, organic certification, and financial and social capital. Furthermore, the main policy issue faced by these businesses is organic certification. The implications of these policies impact market accessibility and expansion of market reach. The novelty of this research is the identification of the effect of business development policies on Muslim SMEs producing organic products.
L20|Multi-dimensional Individual Work Performance: Predictors and Mediators|Objective - Individual work performance (IWP) has been researched time and time again in the past few decades. Interestingly enough, existing research on IWP focuses mainly on the area of work production and lacks an in-depth holistic understanding of IWP and other interrelated work behaviours. In this study, IWP is explored in the context of a multidimensional construct that includes the dimensions of task, contextual, and counterproductive behaviours. The purpose of this research is to investigate whether the three variables of work engagement (WE), psychological empowerment (PE), and subjective well-being (SWB) mediate and correlate with the relationship between perceived organisational support (POS) and IWP. Methodology/Technique - 780 employees from 4 organisations in Jakarta were selected to participate in this study. The respondents were tasked with responding to five questionnaires including (1) IWP of Koopmans, (2) POS of Eisenberger, (3) SWB of Diener, (4) WE of Baker and Schaufeli, (5) PE of Spreitzer. The data was analysed using structural equation modelling. Findings - The results show that the proposed structural model aligns with the empirical data [X2 (0, N = 780) = 0, p = 1.000; RMSEA=.000]. This research concludes that the relationship between POS and IWP is best mediated by either WE, PE or SWB. Among the three mediators, WE plays the greatest role in mediating the relationship between POS and IWP. Novelty - These findings expand on previous research on the weak relationship between POS and IWP.
L20|Paywalls and the demand for online news|The digitisation of society has posed a challenge to news outlets. Seeking advertising revenues and facing competition for the attention of their readers, many news outlets entered the digital era with unrestricted access to their online content. More recently, news outlets have sought to restrict the amount of content available for free. We quantify the impact of introducing a paywall on the demand for news in Norway. The short-run average impact of a paywall is negative and between 3 and 4%, in the long run the effect increases to between 9 and 11%. We find heterogeneity in the response to paywalls. The largest news outlet within its market experiences larger effects than the other news outlets. After introducing a paywall, the largest news outlets face a long-run reduction in demand between 13 and 15%, as compared to the others who experience a decrease of between 8 and 11%. The timing of introducing a paywall does not seem to affect the demand response very much.
L20|Advertising strategy in the presence of reviews: An empirical analysis|We study the relationship between online reviews and advertising spending in the hotel industry. Combining a dataset of TripAdvisor reviews with other datasets describing these hotels’ advertising expenditures, we show, first, that online ratings have a causal demand-side effect on ad spending. Second, this effect is negative: hotels with higher ratings spend less on advertising than hotels with lower ratings. This suggests that hotels treat TripAdvisor ratings and advertising spending as substitutes, not complements. Third, the relationship is stronger for independent hotels than for chains, and stronger in less differentiated markets than in more differentiated markets. The former suggests that a strong brand name continues to provide some immunity to reviews and the latter that the advertising response is stronger when ratings are more likely to be pivotal. Finally, we show that the relationship between online ratings and advertising has strengthened over time, just as TripAdvisor has become more popular, implying that firms respond to online reviews if and only if consumers respond to them.
L20|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
L20|Job Performance Motivation of Employees Case study of ABC Co., Ltd. Suphanburi, Thailand|The objective is to study the motivation level of the employees of ABC Company Limited and compare personal factors and motivation of employees of ABC Company Limited. The equipment is a questionnaire, a sample group of 200 people and statistics used in data analysis: frequency, percentage, mean, standard deviation and value measurement result of T-Test and F-Test. According to the study, it has been found that work motivation level of employees stays at a moderate level in all 3 factors: working environment, income and growth at work. The hypothesis test results show that the different age, income, years of job experience can cause significantly different work motivation (p 0.05).
L20|Effects of higher required rates of return on the tax take in an oil province|For different reasons the oil companies might apply higher required rates of return than they did some years ago, and this will have consequences for investments and tax revenue in oil provinces. By applying various required rates of return as well as various oil prices, this study derives future Norwegian tax revenue during 2018-2050 by using a partial equilibrium model for the global oil market. The model explicitly accounts for reserves, development and production. Both investment in new reserves and production are profit driven. With rising required rates of return less of the high cost reserves become profitable to develop and investments decline. Because the government in practice carries a large fraction of the investments, less investment in a period increases the tax base and the tax income. The initial effect is offset by a subsequent reduction in production which has a negative effect on future taxes. The result is that increasing required rates of return will lead to small variations in net present value of total tax revenue. With lower oil prices, tax take increases significantly when required rates of return rise.
L20|The impact of WTO accession on Chinese firms' product and labor market power|This paper examines the causal impact of domestic trade liberalization on Chinese firms' product and labor market power. To recover both market power measures, we identify a firm's regime of competitiveness, corresponding to a product market setting and a labor market setting, at any point in time. The identification is based on implementing the distance test, which takes the dependence between both settings into account. The product market setting is defined to be imperfectly competitive if the firm sets a price-cost markup, which is our model consistent measure of product market power. The labor market setting is defined to be imperfectly competitive if the firm either pays a wage markup or sets a wage markdown. Our model consistent measure of labor market power is either the workers' bargaining power during work-firm negotiations in the former or the wage elasticity of the firm's labor supply curve capturing its wage-setting power in the latter. To establish causal evidence of trade shocks on product and labor market power, we use China's WTO accession in 2001 as an identification strategy. Reducing tariffs on intermediate inputs decreases the likelihood of shifting firms away from an imperfectly competitive labor market setting. Reducing tariffs on final goods increases the likelihood of shifting firms away from setting wage markdowns. Trade liberalization via input tariff reductions increases a firm's price-cost markup but decreases the degree of wage-setting power that it possesses, conditional on the relevant product/labor market setting. Such joint responses of firms' pricing behavior in product and labor markets to trade policy changes are important for understanding the distributional consequences of trade shocks and the underlying drivers of increased inter-firm wage disparities.
L20|Innovation policies in the digital age|This paper looks at how digitalisation is transforming innovation, and the consequent need for innovation policies to adapt. The paper shows that the digital transformation affects the economics of information and knowledge, in particular pricing and allocation. The reduced costs of producing and handling information and knowledge and the increased fluidity change innovation dynamics. Data have become a core input for innovation. Other changes include more opportunities for versioning; an acceleration in innovation, more experimentation and collaboration; servitisation; and higher risk associated with these general purpose technologies. The digital transformation also has economy-wide effects in terms of business dynamics, market structures and distribution. In view of this transformation, changes to innovation policy are required in the digital age. Innovation policies need to address data access issues; become more agile; promote open science, data sharing and co-operation among innovators; and review competition for innovation and intellectual property policy frameworks.
L20|Entrepreneurial skills and growth of Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs): A comparative analysis of Nigerian entrepreneurs and Minority entrepreneurs in the UK|The significance of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to an economy development of a country cannot be ignored. Therefore, the growth of a business depends on the development of abilities needed to execute a smooth running of day to day business activities. Research established the fact that the flat economy growth of region relies on the extent of trade activities in the area. Given this importance of enterprise, this present study aims at developing an understanding of the influence of entrepreneurial skills on SMEs in Nigeria compare with the UK, as perceived by SME owners. The research will benefit the researcher, SME owners in Nigeria, Policymakers, and other researchers. Data collection was through an online survey questionnaire, and it was administered to a population of 38 SME owners both in Nigeria and in the UK. The research followed judgmental sampling techniques to explore their experience, beliefs, and attitudes to entrepreneurial skills because of the limited time frame. Moreover, this survey was used to validate the study conceptual framework and establish an insight on the opinion of business owners of the context. The study findings were that entrepreneurial skills have a significant influence on the growth of SMEs in Nigeria and the UK. However, the respondent in Nigeria and the UK agreed that creative thinking, Problem solving and communication skills are critical for increase sales and competitive advantage. Moreover, the respondent in Nigeria strongly agrees that high level of creative thinking with a bit of problem solving and communication skills will SMEs growth. By contrast, UK minority entrepreneurs argue that great creative thinking and a balance of problem solving and communication skills are critical to SMEs growth.
L20|The Effect Of Motivator Factors And Hygiene Factors On Employee Work Motivation|This study focuses on employee motivation at PT. Bumi Bangka Belitung Sejahtera. This study applies Herzberg's two-factor theory, which is trying to find the influence between motivator factor variables and hygiene factor variables on employee work motivation. This study uses quantitative methods with survey techniques, namely by using questionnaire distribution techniques. The research subjects were employees at PT. Bumi Bangka Belitung Prosperous. Processing data using multiple regression methods, to find the significance of the relationship between research variables. The results of the study were able to answer hypothesis testing, namely, there was a significant of the relationship between motivator factors and hygiene factors with employee motivation. The results of hypothesis testing indicate that there is a strong relationship between motivator factors on employee work motivation with a correlation value of 0.855 or 85.5% and the relationship of hygiene factors to employee motivation with a correlation value of 0.940 or 94.0%. The significance of the relationship proves that motivators are able to create employee satisfaction and the significance of the relationship between hygiene factors causes employees to feel less satisfied with the factors included in hygiene. The conclusion of this study proves that the better the attention to motivator factors will increase employee motivation which determines satisfaction and neglect of hygiene factors will increasingly cause employee motivation to decline and cause dissatisfaction. Attention to work motivation of employees will be able to enrich employees to develop the organization
L20|Propensity to Patent and Firm Size for Small R&D-Intensive Firms|Abstract The Schumpeterian hypothesis about the effect of firm size on research and development (R&D) output is studied for a sample of R&D projects for R&D-intensive firms that are small but have substantial variance in their sizes. Across the distribution of firm sizes, the elasticity of patenting with respect to R&D ranged from 0.41 to 0.55, with the elasticities being largest for intermediate levels of firm size and also varying directly with the extent to which the projects are Schumpeterian in the cost or value senses. The paper’s findings at the R&D project level are compared with the literature’s findings at the line of business, firm, and industry levels, and the findings are consistent with the literature’s findings for small firms.
L20|Workplace Ostracism as a Predictor of Employee Performance and Employee Turnover- Evidence from the Banking Sector|Workplace ostracism has been identified as a separate entity from workplace harassment. Practised through banishing the target from a social group and social interaction, workplace ostracism is probable to have negative impact on the employees. Though different from harassment, it is equally destructive when it comes to the workplace environment. It manifests itself in a number of forms not only at individual level but also at the organizational level. This paper aims to explore the effects of ostracism on employee behaviour in terms of their performance and turnover. Testing the study in the banking sector, the results suggest that ostracism adversely affects employee performance. Similarly, the former leads to high turnover trend. Statistical significance has been found in the inverse relationship between workplace ostracism and employee performance; and workplace ostracism and employee turnover. The study makes a significant contribution towards the literature on Workplace Ostracism, as it examines the effect of workplace ostracism on two of the key performance indicators i.e. Performance and Turnover. The study will also provide managers with insight on the construct of ostracism will enlighten them about the costs associated with the presence of ostracism in the workplace in terms of employee performance & employee turnover.
L20|Is it possible for universities to create spiritual workplaces?|The globalized world of work poses significant challenges to universities ? ranging from increased digitalisation and virtualization, to greater diversity in student numbers, larger student intakes and the need for universities to continuously engage with business, industry and other external stakeholders. Contemporary universities have also developed a distinct managerial nature (managerilaism) which means they are increasingly managed like private sector organisations. This is in contrast to the collegial structures that prevailed in universities in previous generations. The shift from collegiality to managerilaism has implications for academics ? specifically related to autonomy, moral, motivation and commitment. Based on the Communities of Practice as theoretical framework the paper proposes an emphasis on workplace spirituality as a means to compensate for the erosion of collegiality. It further provides suggestions to university management on how to create a spiritual workplace especially for academic staff.
L20|Social Capital as Knowledge Absorptive Capacity and Firm Innovation|The objective of the study is to investigate relationships amongst social capital, potential absorptive capacity, realized absorptive capacity, and firm innovation. The data were collected by using a questionnaire from 89 leather product exporting firms from leather products businesses in Thailand. The hypothesized relationships among variables are examined by using ordinary least square (OLS) regression analysis. The results indicate that social capital have are significant positive impact on potential absorptive capacity and realized absorptive capacity. Potential absorptive capacity and realized absorptive capacity have are significant positive impact on firm innovation. This study might be useful to scholars and those who share an interest in the subject. Moreover, theoretical and managerial contributions, conclusion, and suggestions for future research are also interesting to be discussed.
L20|Deconstruction of Absorptive Capacity and Its Applications|Absorptive Capacity (ACAP) is a central construct in several areas of organization studies, e.g., strategic management, new product development, and organizational learning. The most prominent objective dimensions of ACAP are the exploratory learning?acquisition and assimilation of knowledge, transformative learning?maintaining the acquired knowledge over time, and exploitative learning?applying such knowledge to achieve superior performance (Garud & Nayyar, 1994; Lichtenthaler, 2009; Zahra & George, 2002). Recently, much has been investigated on the effect of these well-established dimensions of ACAP on firms? innovation and performance. Yet, despite a few attempts (e.g., Matusik & Heely, 2005; Vasudeva & Anand, 2011), existing literature stops short of offering other dimensions of ACAP, especially the dimensions that could represent managerial perceptions of the construct?s attributes. Quite likely, organizations? failure to understand the managerial perceptions of ACAP or effectively anticipate it in their routines may account in part for loss of their organizational and individual learning, thereby diminishing their future economic performance. In addition, there is limited research on a marketing context of ACAP though market knowledge is also a critical component of a firm?s ACAP. In seeking to address these shortcomings, this study intends to explore, clarify, and explicate other plausible dimensions of ACAP while extending the scope of ACAP beyond technology-related context. The study offers an exploratory study, using in-depth interview and online survey, to both qualitatively and quantitatively investigate the richness and multidimensionality of the concept including its implications on firms? knowledge creation outcomes from managerial viewpoints.
L20|The distribution of talent across contests|Do the contests with the largest prizes attract the most able contestants? To what extent do contestants avoid competition? In this paper, we show, theoretically and empirically, that the distribution of abilities plays a crucial role in determining contest choice. Sorting exists only when the proportion of high-ability contestants is sufficiently small. As this proportion increases, contestants shy away from competition and sorting decreases, such that, reverse sorting becomes a possibility. We test our theoretical predictions using a large panel data set containing contest choice over three decades. We use exogenous variation in the participation of highly-able competitors to provide empirical evidence for the relationship among prizes, competition, and sorting.
L20|Two Worlds Apart? Export Demand Shocks and Domestic Sales|Traditional heterogeneous firms and trade models predict no causal relationship between firms' exports and domestic sales. This paper, using a rich dataset on Turkish firms for the 2005-14 period, analyzes the relationship between firm-product sales in different markets for the first time in the literature to identify the channels that link exports and domestic sales. First, I use an instrumental variables strategy and establish that an exogenous doubling of exports increases a firm's domestic sales by 26 percent on average--a result that is mostly driven by small firms. Second, I do an analogous exercise at the firm-product level, and find coefficients that are 62 percent larger, hinting to the importance of product-specific scale effects. Moreover, I propose a novel approach to isolate the production versus non-production factors that influence firm dynamics by focusing on non-produced (or carry-along trade, CAT) exports. I find that CAT exports also affect domestic sales positively, suggesting that spillovers at the firm level such as the easing of liquidity constraints play a role. In the process, I reveal that export demand shocks influence firms' expansion in terms of employment, wages per employee, and investment.
L20|Non-profits and the Profit Non-distribution Constraint with Selfish Entrepreneurial Motivations|The profit non-distribution constraint (NDC) is the basic requirement for non-profit tax privileges all over the world. In donative non-profits it is justified by the need to prevent donors’ exploitation by firm owners. Donative non-profits, however, are not the only type of third-sector institution and in many of them the chief stakeholders are customers, not donors. In this paper we investigate the social value of the NDC in mutual non-profits where customers exert control over the firm. The main theme here is the exploitation of some customers by others, rather than the exploitation of donors by managers or owners. When customers are homogeneous, the NDC can never be beneficial. More complex is the case of customer heterogeneity. We show that in this case the NDC presents three issues. First, there are cases where intra-member exploitation occurs through the generation of accounting losses, and in such cases the NDC is ineffective from an allocative standpoint. Second, even when it prevents exploitation, the resulting allocations may be socially inferior to those that obtain in the presence of minority exploitation. We further show that non-members’ exploitation is of the same nature as minority members’ exploitation and it is just a variant of it, whereby the same results on the NDC’s effectiveness qualitatively hold in this case too. The upshot is that granting tax relief to all mutual non-profits adopting the NDC is unwarranted and a selective application of tax incentives based on the governance structure is instead needed.
L20|Internalizing Global Value Chains: A Firm-Level Analysis|A key decision facing firms is the extent of control to exert over the different stages in their production processes. We develop and test a property rights model of firm boundary choices along the value chain. We construct firm-level measures of the upstreamness of integrated and nonintegrated inputs by combining information on firms’ production activities in more than 100 countries with input-output tables. Whether a firm integrates upstream or downstream suppliers depends crucially on the elasticity of demand it faces. Moreover, integration is shaped by the relative contractibility of stages along the value chain, as well as by the firm’s productivity.
L20|Dominating Attributes Of Professed Firm Culture Of Holding Companies – Members Of The Bulgarian Industrial Capital Association|This article aims to outline the diversity of cultural phenomena that occur at organizational level, emphasizing the place and role of the key attributes of professed firm culture for the survival and successful development of big business organizations. The holding companies, members of the Bulgarian Industrial Capital Association, are chosen as a survey object as the mightiest driving engines of the local economy. That is why their emergence and development in the transition period is monitored and analyzed. Based on an empirical study of relevant website content, important implications about dominating attributes of professed firm culture on them are found and several useful recommendations to their senior management are made.
L20|Competition for retail deposits between commercial banks and non-bank operators: a two-sided platform analysis|Commercial banks’ mainstream business model, which is reliant on a stable supply of retail deposits, continues to be challenged by new and innovative sources of non-bank competition. This paper examines the implications of one such source: a substitute for commercial banks’ personal and saving accounts that provides a safer money storage option thanks to access to a central bank’s balance sheet. I model competition for retail deposits between a bank and a non-bank payment service operator by adopting the two-sided platform framework to capture the payment functionality between consumers and merchants under various configurations. I show that banks’ mainstream business model is most vulnerable when consumers perceive the two service providers as close substitutes; they have the option to sign up with both service providers; their distribution of deposit is skewed; and they are not allowed to make payments across platforms.
L20|Civic Capital and Service Outsourcing: Evidence from Italy|This paper studies whether civic capital (those persistent shared beliefs and values that help a group overcome the free rider problem in the pursuit of socially valuable activities) acts an effective restraint against opportunistic behavior in transactions by looking at the firm-level degree of service outsourcing in Italy. Our results show that firms tend to outsource more services in areas where civic capital is higher. We claim that the rise in the propensity to engage in transactions with outside service suppliers stems from the decrease in opportunism between the parties involved. We consider a dynamic specification which allows to disentangle state dependence of service out- sourcing from firm-level heterogeneity, and we use historical instruments to address the potential endogeneity of civic capital.
L20|Come Together: Firm Boundaries and Delegation|Little is known about the relationship between firm boundaries and the allocation of decision rights within firms. We develop a model in which final good producers choose which suppliers to integrate and whether to delegate decisions to integrated suppliers, when they are ex-ante uncertain about their ability. In this setting, integration has an option value: ownership rights give producers authority to delegate or centralize production decisions, depending on the realized ability of suppliers. To assess the evidence, we construct measures of vertical integration and delegation for thousands of firms in many countries and industries. Consistent with the model, we find that (i) integration and delegation co-vary positively; (ii) firms delegate more decisions to integrated suppliers of more valuable inputs; and suppliers are more likely to be integrated if (iii) they produce more valuable inputs and (iv) operate in industries with greater productivity dispersion.
L20|Managing Trade: Evidence from China and the US|We present a heterogeneous-firm model in which management ability increases both production efficiency and product quality. Combining six micro-datasets on management practices, production and trade in Chinese and American firms, we find broad support for the model's predictions. First, better managed firms are more likely to export, sell more products to more destination countries, and earn higher export revenues and profits. Second, better managed exporters have higher prices, higher quality, and lower quality-adjusted prices. Finally, they also use a wider range of inputs, higher quality and more expensive inputs, and imported inputs from more advanced countries. The structural estimates indicate that management is important for improving production efficiency and product quality in both countries, but it matters more in China than in the US, especially for product quality. Panel analysis for the US and a randomized control trial in India suggest that management exerts causal effects on product quality, production efficiency, and exports. Poor management practices may thus hinder trade and growth, especially in developing countries.
L20|The European Patent System: A Descriptive Analysis|The European Patent System consists of national patent offices (NPOs) and the supranational European Patent Office (EPO). EPO and the NPOs have granted patents in Europe side-by-side since 1980. The resulting patent system is complicated and less coordinated than might be expected. Firms must consider a number of variables when selecting the route of patenting they take within this system: price, rigour of examination, duration of examination, quality of legal redress. To date there is little descriptive evidence on how firms choose between EPO and national offices. This paper provides a rich descriptive analysis of patenting in Europe. We analyze how origin, size and technological focus of companies, affect how they choose among patent offices within the EPS and report differences in examination durations and grant rates across patent offices.
L20|R&D network formation with myopic and farsighted firms|We study the formation of R&D networks when each firrm benefits from the research done by other firms it is connected to. Firms can be either myopic or farsighted when deciding about the links they want to form. We propose the notion of myopic-farsighted stable set to determine the R&D networks that emerge in the long run. When the majority of firms is myopic, stability leads to R&D networks consisting of either two asymmetric components with the largest component comprises three-quarters of firms or two symmetric components of nearly equal size with the largest component having only myopic firms. But, once the majority of firms becomes farsighted, only R&D networks with two asymmetric components remain stable. Firms in the largest component obtain greater profits, with farsighted firms having in average more collaborations than myopic firms that are either loose-ends or central for spreading the innovation within the component. Besides myopic and farsighted -firms, we introduce yes-firms that always accept the formation of any link and never delete a link subject to the constraint of non-negative profits. We show that yes-firms can stabilize R&D networks consisting of a single component that maximize the social welfare. Finally, we look at the evolution of R&D networks and we find that R&D networks with two symmetric components will be rapidly dismantled, single component R&D networks will persist many periods, while R&D networks consisting of two asymmetric components will persist forever.
L20|The Effect of Minority Veto Rights on Controller Tunneling|"A central challenge in the regulation of controlled firms is curbing controller tunneling. As independent directors and fiduciary duties are widely seen as not up to the task, a number of jurisdictions have given minority shareholders veto rights over these transactions. To assess these rights' efficacy, we exploit a 2011 regulatory reform in Israel that gave the minority the ability to veto pay packages of controllers and their relatives (""controller executives""). We find that the reform curbed the pay of controller executives and led some controller executives to quit their jobs, or work for free, in circumstances suggesting their pay would not have received approval. These findings suggest that minority veto rights can help curb controller tunneling."
L20|Economic Policy Uncertainty in Turkey|Uncertainty over economic policy plays a key role in economic outcomes. But evidence and quantification for emerging markets are elusive because of measurement and reverse causality issues. In this paper, we construct a news-based economic policy uncertainty (EPU) index for Turkey and assess how it affects Turkish firms. To disentangle the issues of endogeneity and reverse causality, we use a difference-in-differences approach, exploiting the fact that firms with a high share of irreversible investment are more exposed to policy uncertainty. In sectors with large irreversible investment EPU has a greater effect on growth, investment, and leverage. The results are robust to different definitions of investment irreversibility, lag structure, and selection of sectors.
L20|La economía social ante los paradigmas económicos emergentes: innovación social, economía colaborativa, economía circular, responsabilidad social empresarial, economía del bien común, empresa social y economía solidaria|The social economy facing emerging economic concepts: social innovation, social responsibility, collaborative economy, social enterprises and solidarity economy. In the last two decades and prominently since the economic crisis and the crisis of legitimacy of the prevailing economic model based on for profit private businesses, a plurality of terms and notions have emerged in the academic field and in the economic and political world. They are concepts such as the social enterprises, the solidarity economy, the collaborative economy, the circular economy, the economy of the common good, the fourth sector, the social innovation and the corporate social responsibility. The objective of this paper is to explain this new wave of notions, to study their meanings and to identify their differences and commonalities in relation to the consolidated concept of social economy. This work is based on the 5 study carried recently for the European Economic and Social Committee (Monzón & Chaves, 2017). Within the framework of the Kuhn's theory of the scientific revolutions, in this paper we have proposed that in the social sciences, major changes in paradigms or scientific revolutions, and with them, changes in the language and concepts that generate a new worldview, are produced simultaneously to the great crisis and socio-economic transformations. In this framework, for the recent history, we have identified two periods of scientific revolutions in the field of the social economy / third sector, which we have called 'conceptual waves' and, between them, a period of normal science. The first wave of concepts appeared in the late seventies and eighties, with the oil crisis. During this first wave, the concepts of the social economy and of the nonprofit emerged. As rival approaches they coexisted as mainstream normal science until the second wave. The second wave of notions came out during the current economic crisis and the legitimization of the prevailing economic model. Other explanatory factors, linked to the sociology of the social scientist and of sociopolitical type, may also have influenced this proliferation of notions, such as the scientist pressure for differentiation and originality, and the positioning of some institutions in favor of some terms and against others. The social economy concept continues to be, with that of nonprofit organizations, the mainstream paradigm to refer to the 'space between the public economy and the private for profit economy'. It has a broad scientific and political consensus regarding its definition, it is well institutionalized and quantified and it has a strong scientific and social notoriety. It is a concept based on structural criteria, such as its social aims, its participatory and democratic decisional criterion and its profit distributive criterion based on the prevalence of people and labor factor over capital. Finally, it is not reduced to a few classical legal forms. Between these two main concepts of the “first wave” there are significant differences in terms of their scope and their structural criteria, as well as in terms of their systemic functions. Their main differences focus on the importance given to the social mission and the democratic criterion in the social economy approach and on the relevance of the distributive criterion, based on the non-distribution constraint, in the second approach. The following conclusions have been obtained from a detailed analysis of the different emerging concepts. First, given its novelty, there is still no broad consensus regarding their definitions. Terminological inflation is then joined by a semantic inflation. Secondly, these notions present are still in an incipient institutionalization process, if we attend their inclusion in official documents or position papers of the European institutions. Thirdly, they still present a low level of academic and social 6 notoriety, measured by their presence in specialized academic search engines, such as Dialnet and Google Scholar. From its semantic comparative analysis with that of the social economy, it can be seen that they are not rival concepts with the latter, but rather complementary and even revitalizing concepts of the social economy concept itself. This conclusion has been reached using the following typology of these concepts: Group 1, notions linked to the main challenges/fields of the system crisis and transformation; Group 2, notions linked to the reorientation of the objectives and governance of organizations and economies, both at the micro and macro level, with new assess and incentive mechanisms; and finally, Group 3, notions linked to new ways of understanding entrepreneurship. In the first group are included the concepts of social innovation, collaborative economy and circular economy, which refer to areas of system transformation such as, respectively, innovation, the digital revolution and the environment. They are transversal areas to the public, business private for-profit sector and third sector, and these paradigms constitute new approaches, both micro and macro, to face the challenges. In the second group are the notions of corporate social responsibility and the common good economy, which refer to the need to establish new mechanisms for evaluating economic performance and new incentive mechanisms that prioritize the social dimension. They are also transversal to the public, for-profit sector and third sector. Finally, the notions of social enterprise, social entrepreneurship, fourth sector and solidary economy are integrated in the third group. These last notions refer to specific entities and enterprises. In the case of social enterprises and the solidarity economy, their proximity to the social economy is maximum, to the point of being considered part of the latter. The importance of the participatory and deliberative dimension of the solidary economy concept has undoubtedly contributed to the emergence in Europe of another new term, integrating both: the 'social and solidarity economy'. In summary, the new notions that have emerged in the context of the crisis of legitimacy of the hegemonic economic model must be considered complementary and even revitalizing with respect to the concept of the social economy.
L20|The effects of innovation on the decisions of exporting and/or importing in SMEs: empirical evidence in the case of Spain|This paper analyses the involvement of small firms in international trade activities by identifying the comprehensive impact of innovation. Specifically, we study how innovation introduced by these firms determines entrepreneurial decision-making process regarding whether to engage in exporting and/or importing. Moreover, we account for several innovation outputs (product, process, and organisational/managerial innovation) when estimating the potentially interrelated decisions of whether to export and/or import. Results confirm the simultaneity of firms’ exporting and importing decisions and consequently these two decisions should be estimated together when analysing the influence incurred by the introduction of alternative types of innovation on said decisions. Furthermore, findings show complementarity between types of innovation to be relevant in explaining export and import decisions made by SMEs. Specifically, cumulative effects as a result of combining product and process innovation, as well of product, process and organisational innovation, are highly significant in explaining export decisions, while in the case of imports, the combination of product and organisational innovation is shown to be significant. These findings lead to major policy and managerial implications regarding the promotion of SMEs’ participation in international trade flows through alternative innovation strategies.
L20|R&D, IP, and firm profits in the North American automotive supplier industry|Economic theory implies that research and development (R&D) efforts increase firm productivity and ultimately profits. In particular, R&D expenses lead to the development of intellectual property (IP) and IP commands a return that increases overall profits of the firm. This hypothesis is investigated for the North American automotive supplier industry by analyzing a panel of 5000 firms for the years 1950 to 2011. Results indicate that R&D expenses in fact increase profitability at the firm level. In particular, increases in the R&D expense to sales ratio lead to increases in the profit contribution of intangible assets relative to sales. This indicates that more R&D intensive IP should command higher royalty rates per sales when licensed to third parties and within multinational enterprises alike.
L20|Financial frictions and foreign direct investment: Evidence from Japanese microdata|Using Japanese microdata for the period 1980 to 2000 we find evidence for two transmission channels from financial shocks to foreign direct investment: a collateral channel, whereby changes in the value of investors' landholdings affect their borrowing ability; and a lending channel, whereby changes in bank health affect banks' lending ability. Decreasing land values by 55% on average from their peak in 1990 to the sample mean reduces the predicted number of investments by 17%. Reducing banks' market-to-book ratios by an average 61% from their high in 1986 to the sample mean lowers predicted investment counts by 21%.
L20|The Effect of Common Ownership on Profits : Evidence From the U.S. Banking Industry|"Theory predicts that ""common ownership"" (ownership of rivals by a common shareholder) can be anticompetitive because it reduces the weight firms place on their own profits and shifts weight toward rival firms held by common shareholders. In this paper we use accounting data from the banking industry to examine empirically whether shifts in the profit weights are associated with shifts in profits. We present the distribution of a wide range of estimates that vary the specification, sample restrictions, and assumptions used to calculate the profit weights. The distribution of estimates is roughly centered around zero, but we find statistically significant estimates in either direction in some cases. Economically, most estimates are fairly small. Our interpretation of these findings is that there is little evidence for economically important effects of common ownership on profits in the banking industry."
L20|Tourism Policy for Encouraging the Development of SMEs in Belitong, Indonesia|Objective – This study discusses the role of tourism policy in the development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the province of Belitong, Indonesia. Methodology/Technique – This research applies mixed method analysis through the use of likert-scale questionnaires and interviews. The respondents completing the survey are from SME proprietors. Following the questionnaire, an interview with the Regent was delivered to confirm the findings. Findings – The research shows that people working in SMEs agree that tourism policy encourages the development of SMEs. However, it is shown that tourism policies need to be more inclusive, particularly with respect to shifting such policies from a mining (extractive) economy into a tourism economy. Novelty – This study resiliently makes suggestions for the improvement of public communication; some people fail to comprehend tourism policies which may lead to the ineffectiveness of the programs.
L20|Entrepreneurial Personality in Predicting Self-Regulation on Small and Medium Business Entrepreneurs in Pekanbaru, Riau, Indonesia|Objective – The present study was conducted to describe the psychological state of the entrepreneur in the utilization of resource potential and business development, and to identify the personality factors that most influence self-regulation in SMEs entrepreneurs. Methodology/Technique – This study was performed using a measurement scale in order to test the response of the personality factors and self-regulation of entrepreneurs of SMEs in Pekanbaru, Riau. The sample included 152 entrepreneurs of SMEs. Regression analysis was been applied to test the influence of the personality factors contributing towards self-regulation. In addition, descriptive response analysis is used to describe the response shown by the participants regarding the variables measured. Findings – The analysis shows that personality factors (openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness) have a significant effect on self-regulation in entrepreneurs in Pekanbaru City. The results also show that the personality factor neuroticism does not have a significant effect on self-regulation in entrepreneurs of SMEs in Pekanbaru, Riau. Novelty – SMEs in Indonesia hold the potential for increasing economic growth. Despite this, the Central Bureau of Statistics has recorded a decrease in the number of new SMEs from 2011 to 2014.
L20|Entrepreneurial Optimism and Creative Destruction|We provide empirical evidence that uncertainty (rather than risk) and optimism are distinctive characteristics of high-impact entrepreneurial firms (recently listed firms) relative to old, incumbent firms. Based on this evidence, we construct an entrepreneurial entry predation model with uncertainty. We show that entrepreneurial optimism can mitigate problems associated with strong incumbents' attempts to protect markets using predatory threats. Entrepreneurial optimism can also create a strategic advantage for entrepreneurs since incumbents may react by being less aggressive in product market interactions, which will benefit not only the profitability of the entrepreneur's venture but also consumers via lower prices
L20|The Role Of Business Model Innovation For Product Innovation Performance|We analyse the effect of business model innovation (BMI) on the product innovation performance of firms, based on a dynamic capabilities theoretical framework. Our empirical study is based on a large-scale representative sample of cross-industry Swedish firms participating in three waves of the Community Innovation Survey (CIS) from 2008 to 2012. We hypothesise that BMI in the form of product innovations combined with different complementary and simultaneous innovations in processes, marketing and organisation will act as isolating mechanisms towards replication by competitors, resulting in superior firm performance. Our findings provide support for such hypothesis. BMI is significantly and positively associated with superior product innovation performance. Managers should frame and align product innovations in BMI context, i.e., dynamically adapting product innovations with process, marketing and organisation innovations.
L20|日本の酒類のグローバル化 : 輸入側・最終消費の実態分析|近年，日本から海外への酒類輸出が急増している．輸出と並んで，海外での現地生産も増えている．しかし，輸入や投資を受け入れる現地では，日本産酒類のプレゼンスはどの程度高いのだろうか．本稿では，3つの分析課題を設定し，主として聞き取り調査により実態を明らかにした．第１に，日本の酒類は輸入国においてどの程度浸透しているのか．第２に，浸透を促進または阻害する要因は何か．第３に，浸透を広めるために何が必要か．この問いへの解答は次の通りである．第１に，日本産酒類の現地でのシェアはきわめて低い．最も高いケースでも，韓国における日本産ビールのシェア５％程度である．第２に，日本産酒類の浸透を牽引しているものは，和食の広まりや日本料理店の増大である．ただし，ウイスキーは日本料理とは無関係に現地のレストランやバーに浸透できている．他方，浸透を阻害している要因は，促進要因と裏腹であり，日本料理という境界に他ならない．この境界を乗り越えない限りは，日本産酒類のこれ以上の浸透は望めない．第３に，さらなる浸透のためには，現地料理とのペアリングが重要である．たとえば清酒は，ワイン以上にあらゆる食材との相性がよい．このことを強調する発信や政策的支援が必要である．
L20|Economic Policy Uncertainty in Turkey|Uncertainty over economic policy plays a key role in economic outcomes. But evidence and quantification for emerging markets are elusive because of measurement and reverse causality issues. In this paper, we construct a news-based economic policy uncertainty (EPU) index for Turkey and assess how it affects Turkish firms. To disentangle the issues of endogeneity and reverse causality, we use a difference-in-differences approach. In sectors with large irreversible investment EPU has a greater effect on growth, investment, and leverage. The results are robust to different definitions of investment irreversibility, lag structure, and selection of sectors.
L20|Explaining growth differences across firms: The interplay between innovation and management practices|This paper provides first empirical evidence of the joint effects that innovation strategies and human resource management practices exert on firm growth. It shows that investing in technology and implementing performance-based pay policies are both positively associated with a significant turnover, employment and labor productivity growth premium. However, their joint adoption does not necessarily sum the two effects. In particular, for firms strongly relying on R&D as a lever for product and process upgrading, the estimated effect of having in place monetary incentive mechanisms is null or even negative. Job enlargement and employee empowerment policies, instead, are not found to directly impact on growth, independently of the innovation strategy pursued by firms.
L20|The role of a technological platform in facilitating innovation in the global value chain : a case study of China's mobile phone industry|This study investigates the role of a technological platform in facilitating innovation in the global value chain. The literature argues that a technological platform facilitates innovation through its modular archite paradoxically facilitated by the Qualcomm platform with a low degree of modularity. Several reasons are responsible for this phenomenon. First, innovation in the mobile phone industryhas altered into a systemic innovation. Second, Qualcomm formulated a strategy that enables deep product differentiation, which precisely satisfied the upgraded domestic demands in China. Third, Chinese firms have accumulated strong capabilities that receive special technical support from Qualcomm. Fourth, stimulated by its unique licensing model, Qualcomm has been strongly motivated to help conditions and institutional arrangements, technological platforms can possibly help firms in developing countries to engage in innovation and create value.
L20|Value chain governance in the age of platforms|Global value chain (GVC) theory focuses globalisation in the late 20th century. While the theory claims to apply generally to interfirm relationships, much of GVC analysis has focused on the incorporation of developing country manufacturers into the supply chains of global lead firms. This literature has frequently expressed doubts about whether integration into such chains offers opportunities for innovation and upgrading. More recently, globalised production has seen the emergence of market and technology platforms and platform leaders. The distinctive feature of platforms is that they require innovation by other companies to turn platforms into products. Analysis of platform governance can contribute to the further development of GVC governance theory. Using secondary material on platform leaders such as Intel and Apple and primary research on Chinese-owned mobile phone companies, the paper shows how examination of governance in the context of platforms allows a recuperation of understudied and undertheorised elements of GVC governance theory.
L20|How suppliers penetrate overseas market : internationalization of Chinese firms from the value chain perspective|This paper examines how Chinese firms serving the low-end domestic market internationalize into developing country markets abroad. It adopts a value-chain-focused approach to analyze the internationalization of Chinese firms into the Vietnamese motorcycle industry. The analysis shows that it was Chinese component suppliers rather than Chinese motorcycle manufacturers that successfully penetrated low-end market at the destination. Chinese suppliers did so by focusing on production-related expertise to provide key components to many locally-owned firms that undertook end-product assembly and distribution. The findings suggest that the research on the internationalization of Chinese firms needs to be embedded in the context of industrial organization in Chinese industries and its transformation.
L20|Work Motivation and Teams|We provide a new measure of work motivation and show that motivation shapes the effects of team incentives and observation by peers on performance. In particular, we measure motivation to work hard as the deviation from the money-maximizing benchmark in a real-effort experiment. While we find that average output increases in response to team incentives and observation, we find that highly motivated workers do not respond. The reason is that highly motivated workers already work hard and increasing effort even further is very costly to them.
L20|Persistence in innovation and innovative behavior in unstable environments|The analysis of persistence in innovation can improve the understanding of firm dynamics, anticipate the effects of the different policy actions, correct macroeconomic disequilibria, help in designing the correct policies to boost R&D and, consequently, generate prosperity. Persistence of innovation is empirically explored mostly using the case of innovation leaders or followers, which may not apply to countries with poorer performances in terms of innovation. Studying the case of a moderate innovator may shed some light into the different conditions of firms and their attitude towards persistence, as well as the adoption of different policy actions to observe this heterogeneity. Additionally, the effect of firm size and industry has not yet been fully explored by the literature on innovation persistence. The present paper analyses the persistence of innovation using a dynamic panel comprising 1099 firms operating in all economic sectors of a moderate innovator country, Portugal. Firms are observed in three waves of the Portuguese part of the Community Innovation Survey (CIS), from 2004 to 2010. Using the random effects probit model, the persistence hypothesis fails to be corroborated. Such result suggest that innovation policy programs do not have long-lasting effect on innovative behavior of firms and it is unlikely that incumbent past innovators be the drivers of creative accumulation and future innovation. There is, however, some evidence that new, smaller, innovators might lead the creative wave. In this vein, there might be a rational to encourage public policies targeting start-up firms and new market entrants when innovation is the main primary funding goal.
L20|The Micro-Level Anatomy of the Labor Share Decline|"The aggregate labor share in U.S. manufacturing declined from 62 percentage points (ppt) in 1967 to 41 ppt in 2012. The labor share of the typical U.S. manufacturing establishment, in contrast, rose by over 3 ppt during the same period. Using micro-level data, we document a number of striking facts: (1) there has been a dramatic reallocation of value added to ""hyper- productive"" (HP) low-labor share establishments, with much more limited reallocation of inputs; (2) HP establishments have only a temporarily lower labor share that rebounds after five to eight years to the level of their peers; (3) selection into HP status has become increasingly correlated with past size; (4) labor share dynamics are driven by revenue total factor labor productivity, not wages or capital intensity; (5) employment has become less responsive to positive technology shocks over time; and (6) HP establishments enjoy a product price premium relative to their peers that causes their high (revenue) productivity. Counterfactual exercises indicate that selection along size rather than shocks or responsiveness to them is the primary driver of the labor share decline."
L20|Inter-Industry Wage Inequality: Persistent differences and turbulent equalization|Persistent inter-industry wage differentials are an enduring puzzle for neoclassical economics. This paper applies the classical theory of ‘real competition’ to inter-industry wage differentials. Theoretically, we argue that competitive wage determination can be decomposed into equalizing, dispersing and turbulently equalizing factors. Empirically, we show graphically and econometrically for 31 U.S. industries in 1987-2016 that wage differentials, like regulating profit rates, are governed by turbulent equalization. Furthermore, we apply a fixed effects OLS as well as a hierarchical Bayesian inference model and find that the link between regulating profit rates and wage differentials is positive, significant and robust.
L20|A value-based approach to business model innovation: Defining the elements of the concept|Business model innovation (BMI) has increasingly attracted attention by proposing the business model (BM) as a new unit of analysis in the study of innovation. However, the definition and dimensioning of the concept is still unclear. This paper thereby aims to identify a consistent set of interdependent BMI elements, aligning with a configurational approach. Taking a value-based perspective, we review the existing contributions to date and arrive at five elements of BMI, each focused on one facet of the company’s BM: (1) value creation innovation; (2) value proposition innovation; (3) value delivery innovation; (4) value capture innovation; and (5) value network innovation. This study contributes to the growing BMI literature by proposing a unique classification underpinned by a value-grounded theory of the firm. Furthermore, we describe how these five dimensions interact and explore its implications. Throughout, we illustrate our ideas with the examples of existing companies.
L20|A value-based approach to business model innovation: Defining the elements of the concept|Business model innovation (BMI) has increasingly attracted attention by proposing the business model (BM) as a new unit of analysis in the study of innovation. However, the definition and dimensioning of the concept is still unclear. This paper thereby aims to identify a consistent set of interdependent BMI elements, aligning with a configurational approach. Taking a value-based perspective, we review the existing contributions to date and arrive at five elements of BMI, each focused on one facet of the company’s BM: (1) value creation innovation; (2) value proposition innovation; (3) value delivery innovation; (4) value capture innovation; and (5) value network innovation. This study contributes to the growing BMI literature by proposing a unique classification underpinned by a value-grounded theory of the firm. Furthermore, we describe how these five dimensions interact and explore its implications. Throughout, we illustrate our ideas with the examples of existing companies.
L20|Collaborative Innovation: Creating Opportunities in a Changing World|Today’s business environment is characterised by fast and frequent change, which is often difficult to predict. As a consequence, companies need to continuously invest in the development of new business to remain competitive. However, due to the increasing complexity of the environment, internal development is often not enough, and collaborative innovation is becoming more important. There are three areas that warrant our attention. First, interest among employees and organisations to pursue entrepreneurial initiatives raises questions around the management and support that is needed to foster these initiatives and how to best organise internal corporate venturing. Second, the increasing number of start-ups provides opportunities for existing companies to tap into emerging technologies and business areas through corporate – start-up collaboration. Third, the changing nature of work provides an opportunity for existing organisations to rethink the relationship they have with their employees and to find a way to benefit from the increased flexibility of their own and other’s workers. I will raise a number of research questions in these areas and provide directions for future research in the field.
L20|Estimating the Competitive Effects of Common Ownership|If managers maximize the payoffs of their shareholders rather than firm profits, then it may be anticompetitive for a shareholder to own competing firms. This is because a manager’s objective function may place weight on profits of competitors who are held by the same shareholder. Recent research found evidence that common ownership by diversified institutional investors is anticompetitive by showing that prices in the airline and banking industries are related to generalized versions of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) that account for common ownership. In this paper we propose an alternative approach to estimating the competitive effects of common ownership that relates prices and quantities directly to the weights that such managers may be placing on the profits of their rivals. We argue that this approach has several advantages. First, the approach does not inherit the endogeneity problems of HHI regressions, which arise because HHI measures are functions of quantities. Second, because we treat quantities as outcomes we can look for competitive effects of common ownership on both prices and quantities. Third, while concentration measures vary only at the market-time level, the profit weights also vary at the firm level, which allows us to control for a richer set of unobservables. We apply this approach to data from the banking industry. Our empirical findings are mixed, though they’re preliminary as we investigate irregularities in ownership data (Anderson and Brockman (2016)). The sign of the estimated effect is sensitive to the specification. Economically, estimated effects on prices and quantities are fairly small.
L20|Corporate governance and innovation: does firm age matter?|This article investigates the relationship between corporate governance (CG) and innovation for firms of different ages. We blend data drawn from the ISS RiskMetrics and the Bureau van Dijk Orbis databases to perform micro-econometric analyses on a sample of 2200 listed firms. We show that CG may decrease research and development for all firms and that, more importantly, it has a significant and negative effect on the patenting strategy of the younger firms. Our results are consistent with the CG life cycle view, according to which young companies tend to privilege short-termism and value preservation rather than long-term risky innovation strategies. What shown and discussed in this contribution supports the proposition that firm age matters in how CG may alter innovation.
L20|Firm age and performance|Abstract Amid increasing interest in firm age and its effects on firm performance, this special issue offers an exhaustive review of the literature and a novel collection of evidence on the effects of firm age on performance, including a special focus of interest on innovation performance, financial performance, exports, survival and growth. This editorial positions the theme in the extant literature, and provides key definitions and challenges ahead in the field of evolutionary economics. It introduces the collection of articles composing the special issue. The papers offer a diversity of country contexts, as well as analytical approaches and methods. They include an exhaustive review of the literature on age and firms’ performance, and present original empirical studies focusing on the effects of age on firms’ economic outcomes on the one hand, and on innovation outcomes on the other hand. While most of the papers use econometric analysis, the level of analysis ranges from firm to individual.
L20|And the Children Shall Lead: Gender Diversity and Performance in Venture Capital|With an overall lack of gender and ethnic diversity in the innovation sector documented in Gompers and Wang (2017), we ask the natural next question: Does increased diversity lead to better firm performances? In this paper, we attempt to answer this question using a unique dataset of the gender of venture capital partners' children. First, we find strong evidence that parenting more daughters leads to an increased propensity to hire female partners by venture capital firms. Second, using an instrumental variable set-up, we also show that improved gender diversity, induced by parenting more daughters, improves deal and fund performances. These effects concentrate overwhelmingly on the daughters of senior partners than junior partners. Taken together, our findings have profound implications on how the capital markets could function better with improved diversity.
L20|Prices versus Standards and Firm Behavior: Evidence from an Artefactual Field Experiment|We conduct an artefactual field experiment in which 164 managers and senior advisors recruited from Swedish industry were presented with a task of maximizing net revenue from abatement investments under three different but equally stringent environmental policy regimes. We find that investment decisions are strongly influenced by type of policy instrument. Economic instruments and performance standards cause different attentional and judgment biases that are inconsistent with standard economic theory. Inconsistencies are larger with economic policy instruments (tax and subsidy) than with performance standards even though subjects’ attention to cost minimization was greater with economic instruments than under performance standards. Inconsistencies are larger with economic policy instruments (tax and subsidy) than with performance standards even though subjects’ attention to cost minimization was greater with economic instruments than under performance standards.
L20|Gender Wage Gap at the Top, Job Inflexibility and Product Market Competition|Research show that women are disadvantaged in inflexible occupations. We show that this will imply that female managers are on average more skilled than male managers. Due to the higher hurdles faced by women, only the most skilled among them will pursue a management career. This implies that female managers will, on average, be more beneficial for the firm when product market competition is intense. Using detailed matched employee-employer data, we find that (i) more intense product market competition leads to relatively higher wages for female managers and (ii) the share of female managers is higher in firms in more competitive industries.
L20|Verifying High Quality: Entry for Sale|When and how do entrepreneurs sell their inventions? To address this issue, we develop an endogenous entry-sale asymmetric information oligopoly model. We show that lowquality inventions are sold directly or used for own entry. Inventors who sell post-entry use entry to credibly reveal information on quality. Incumbents are then willing to pay high prices for high-quality inventions to preempt rivals from obtaining them. Using Swedish data on patents granted to small firms and individuals, we find evidence that high-quality inventions are sold under preemptive bidding competition, post entry.
L20|The role of regional context on innovation persistency of firms|This paper analyses the role of regional context on innovation persistency of firms. Using the Community Innovation Survey in Sweden, we have traced firms' innovative behaviour from 2002 to 2012, in terms of four Schumpeterian types of innovation: product, process, organizational, and marketing. Controlling for an extensive set of firm‐level characteristics, we find that certain regional characteristics matter for innovation persistency of firms. In particular, those firms located in regions with: (i) thicker labour market or (ii) higher extent of knowledge spillover exhibit higher probability of being persistent innovators up to 14 percentage points. Such higher persistency is mostly pronounced for product innovators. Este artículo analiza el papel del contexto regional en la persistencia de la innovación de las empresas. Se utilizó la Encuesta de Innovación Comunitaria en Suecia para dar seguimiento al comportamiento innovador de las empresas desde 2002 hasta 2012, en términos de cuatro tipos de innovación de Schumpeter: producto, proceso, organización y comercialización. Una vez que se controló un amplio conjunto de características a nivel de empresa, se encontró que ciertas características regionales son importantes para la persistencia de la innovación de las empresas. En particular, las empresas ubicadas en regiones con: (i) un mercado laboral más voluminoso o (ii) una mayor amplitud de los spillovers de conocimiento, muestran una mayor probabilidad de ser innovadoras persistentes, hasta 14 puntos porcentuales. Dicha mayor persistencia es pronunciada sobre todo para las empresas innovadoras en tanto a productos. 本稿では、企業の持続的イノベーションに対する地域コンテクストの役割を分析する。欧州各国で実施されているイノベーション調査(Community Innovation Survey:CIS)のスイスにおける調査結果を利用して、2002年から2012年までの企業のイノベーションの動向を、シュンペーターの理論におけるイノベーションの4つのタイプ、すなわちプロダクト・イノベーション、プロセス・イノベーション、組織イノベーション、マーケティング・イノベーションの観点から追跡する。企業レベルの特徴の拡張データセットを調整すると、地域のある特徴が、企業の持続的イノベーションに関わっていることが分かった。特に、該当の企業は(1)市場厚がある労働市場がある地域、または(2)知識スピルオーバーの効果が高く、持続的イノベーションの企業の確率が、最大で14パーセントポイントと高い地域に立地している。持続性の高いイノベーションは、プロダクト・イノベーションを起こしている企業において特に顕著である。
L20|Does One Size Fit All? Investigating Different Empowerment Orientations in the Heterogeneous Workforce of the Swedish Retail Sector|Empowerment research and practice is guided by the idea that empowered employees perform better due to a greater sense of self-efficacy and capability. Underlying this idea, there often seem to be two tacit, unexamined assumptions: first, that employees generally would prefer an empowered workplace to a less empowered one; and second, that all employees can be empowered by means of the same measures and changes as defined by empowerment research. The main research question asked in this study is whether those aspects typically associated with structural and psychological empowerment efforts at the workplace are indeed perceived as desirable and positive by all types of employees. Employees’ attitudes toward the success of empowerment efforts, and the relevance of such attitudes, are investigated by analyzing survey data from 268 employees in the Swedish retail sector. Results indicate that age and work intensity (part-time vs. full-time) as well as cohabitation have significant impacts on how empowerment efforts are viewed by employees in the sample.
L20|It Takes Two to Empower: The Communicative Context of Empowerment Change in the Workplace|Empowerment efforts at the workplace are typically divided into two analytical categories: social-structural and psychological empowerment. These have been extensively researched in terms of their application and handling as well as their outcome and general usefulness in human resource management. However, less research has dealt with communicative aspects of empowerment and the communicative interactions between change agents (managers) and recipients (employees) that frame empowerment efforts. To contribute to a more nuanced empowerment discourse, this paper uses a micro-/individual-oriented perspective on empowerment communication and theorizes why empowerment change efforts sometimes end up being counterproductive – leading to disempowerment rather than empowerment. As starting point for theorizing empowerment communication, a “basic communicative structure” is identified and analyzed as comprising a contractual and a communicative context, referring to conditions as outlined in written employment contracts on the one hand, and implicitly shared and understood definitions of the social employment situation on the other. Building on sociological and social-psychological theories of communicative interaction, it is argued that focusing on change agents’ and recipients’ mutual ascriptions of meanings to each other’s communicative messages might improve empowerment outcomes: A communicative analysis of common empowerment efforts suggests that recipients’ sensemaking of their roles and situations as defined by written employment and/or psychological contracts is not necessarily in line with the communicative meanings they ascribe to the change agents’ actions, and vice versa.
L20|Asset Specificity, Human Capital Acquisition, and Labor Market Competition|Firms let their employees operate assets to produce goods and services. Firm-specificity of asset and human capital, key concepts of transaction cost economics and labor economics respectively, play important roles in determining firms' productivity and welfare consequences of their competition. How are the degrees of firm-specificity of asset and human capital determined? We address this question through exploring a new model that captures interconnections among asset specificity, human capital acquisition, managerial capability, and labor mobility. We consider a two-period model with two firms, where period 1 is the skill-acquisition period and period 2 is the output period. In the beginning of period 1, each firm chooses a level of its asset specificity and employs a certain number of workers from the labor market. The level of asset specificity is interpreted as the extent to which the firm tailors its asset to the unique features of the firm's business strategies and products. A firm's second-period productivity is determined by its managerial capability, the extent to which its asset is tailored, and its workers' familiarity with its asset specificity. Managerial capability here means the capability of a firm's top management to develop an effective strategy and create a unique competitive position. We find that, as the importance of managerial capability increases, the labor mobility increases, and both the level of asset specificity and firm size decrease. When a firm chooses the specificity of its asset and the number of workers it employs in period 1, it estimates how many workers it will retain and how many workers it will hire from its rival in period 2. A higher importance of managerial capability increases the difference of period 2 productivity between a high-capability and a low-capability firm. Then, as the importance of managerial capability increases, each firm anticipates higher labor mobility, because a larger number of workers will move from a low-capability to a high-capability firm. Anticipation of higher labor mobility, in turn, reduces each firm's incentives to hire more workers and increase the level of asset specificity in period 1. We discuss implications of our model in the contexts of cross-industry and cross-country comparisons. In a newly emerging industry or in a business undergoing revolutionary technological changes, a business's success critically depends on the quality of its strategic decision making because these industries face a high level of uncertainty. Whereas in industries facing lower levels of uncertainty, strategic decision making is less important. These arguments suggest that the importance of managerial capability is higher in the former types of industries, and the importance tends to be lower in the latter types of industries. Our model then predicts that labor mobility is higher, specificity of asset and human capital is lower, and average firm size is smaller in industries of the former type and vice-versa in industries of the latter type. Also, as the economy makes a transition from industrial capitalism to post-industrial capitalism, modern economies are becoming increasingly knowledge intensive which renders the disadvantage to the firms that heavily rely on physical assets. Our model yields new implications regarding the consequences of the transition.
L20|A novel technology-industry concordance table based on linked inventor-establishment data|Mapping technologies into industries is frequently required in empirical innovation studies, but many concordances only provide coarse mappings. We develop a novel concordance between industries and technologies making use of linked inventor-employee data for a large sample of German patents filed at the European Patent Office between 1999 and 2011. Inventors listed on these patents are matched and disambiguated with German social security records. Employment data recorded in this database include detailed industry codes describing the industrial activities of the inventors’ establishments. These linked microdata allow us to identify the precise industrial origin of inventions, combine them with technology classifications from the inventors’ patents and to generate novel concordance tables. We evaluate our approach by comparing the concordances with existing work. Moreover, in an empirical application, we find that patent based indicators represent valid proxies for the innovation performance of industries and thus help to measure innovation in the absence of other survey based indicators. Service sector innovation activities, however, appear to be barely represented by the patenting activities of inventors and establishments.
L20|The macroeconomic consequences of raising the minimum wage: Capital accumulation, employment and the wage distribution|We study the quantitative impact of a rise in the minimum wage on macroeconomic outcomes such as employment, the stock of capital and the distribution of wages. Our modeling framework is the large-firm search and matching model. Our comparative statics are in line with previous empirical findings: a moderate increase in the minimum wage barely affects employment, while it compresses the wage distribution and generates positive spillovers on higher wages. The model also predicts an increase in the stock of capital. Next, we perform the policy experiment of introducing a 10 dollar minimum wage. Our results suggest large positive effects on capital (4.0%) and output (1.8%), with a decrease in employment by 2.8%. The introduction of a 9 dollar minimum wage would instead produce similar effects on capital accumulation without harming employment.
L20|Philippe Aghion: recipient of the 2016 Global Award for Entrepreneurship Research|Abstract Professor Philippe Aghion is the 2016 recipient of the Global Award for Entrepreneurship Research, consisting of 100,000 Euros and a statuette designed by the internationally renowned Swedish sculptor Carl Milles. He is one of the most influential researchers worldwide in economics in the last couple of decades. His research has advanced our understanding of the relationship between firm-level innovation, entry and exit on the one hand, and productivity and growth on the other. Aghion has thus accomplished to bridge theoretical macroeconomic growth models with a more complete and consistent microeconomic setting. He is one of the founding fathers of the pioneering and original contribution referred to as Schumpeterian growth theory. Philippe Aghion has not only contributed with more sophisticated theoretical models, but also provided empirical evidence regarding the importance of entrepreneurial endeavours for societal prosperity, thereby initiating a more nuanced policy discussion concerning the interdependencies between entrepreneurship, competition, wealth and growth.
L20|What do firms know? What do they produce? A new look at the relationship between patenting profiles and patterns of product diversification|Abstract In this work, we analyze the relationship between the patterns of firm diversification, if any, across product lines and across bodies of innovative knowledge, proxied by the patent classes where the firm is present. Putting it more emphatically, we investigate the relationship between “what a firm does” and “what a firm knows.” Using a newly developed dataset matching information on patents and products at the firm level, we provide evidence concerning firms’ technological and product scope, their relationships, the size-scaling and coherence properties of diversification itself. Our analysis shows that typically firms are much more diversified in terms of products than in terms of technologies, with their main products more related to the exploitation of their innovative knowledge. The scaling properties show that the number of products and technologies increases log-linearly with firm size. And the directions of diversification themselves display coherence between neighboring activities also at relatively high degrees of diversification. These findings are well in tune with a capability-based theory of the firm.
L20|Contributions of Oliver Hart and Bengt Holmström to Contract Theory|Oliver Hart and Bengt Holmstrom were awarded the 2016 Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for their fundamental contributions to contract theory. This article offers a short summary and discussion of their path-breaking work.
L20|Do Public Firms Respond to Investment Opportunities More than Private Firms? The Impact of Initial Firm Quality|Using U.S. Census data, we track firms at birth and compare the growth pattern of IPO firms and their matched always-private counterparts over their life cycle. Firms that are larger at birth with faster initial growth are more likely to attain a larger size and to subsequently go public. We estimate a model to predict the propensity to become public (“public quality”) using initial conditions. Firms in the top percentile of public quality grow 29 times larger than the remaining firms fifteen years later if they actually become public and 14 times larger if they stay private, showing a large selection effect for IPO status. Public firms respond more to demand shocks after their IPO and are more productive than their matched private counterparts. This effect is stronger in industries that are capital intensive and dependent on external financing. Overall, initial conditions predict firm growth trajectories, selection into public status and responsiveness to demand shocks. We find no evidence of public market myopia when matching by initial conditions.
L20|Interação com universidades e capacidade de absorção: um olhar para as empresas brasileiras|The main purpose of this working paper is to present the results of a survey with firms about the relationship between firm’s absorptive capacity (its dimensions and determinants) and its interaction with universities (AC and UFI, respectively). The joint measure of these two innovative process aspects is one of the main contributions of this research. We detail the process to obtain the new and primary data, show the idiosyncrasies of database and indicate some methodological challenges for further analyses. This database is small and consists of innovative firms that interact with universities by joint research with them and tend to have higher AC, especially potential AC. It is necessary specific methods for small database and that permits a better treatment answers like “without conditions to answer”.
L20|Growing Productivity without Growing Wages: The Micro-Level Anatomy of the Aggregate Labor Share Decline|"The aggregate labor share in U.S. manufacturing declined dramatically over the last three decades: Since the mid-1980’s, the compensation for labor declined from 63% to 42% of value added which is unseen in any other sector of the U.S. economy. The labor share of the typical U.S. manufacturing plants, in contrast, rose by 5%. We document that reallocation of production towards ""hyper-productive plants"" contributes two thirds of the decline while the remaining one third are caused by exit of high-labor share plants. Plants that account for the majority of production by the late 2000's arrive at a low labor share by gradually increasing value added by a factor of three while keeping employment and compensation unchanged. Other than this output response, these low-labor share plants look very similar to their peers along almost all other characteristics such as equipment investment, exposure to trade or whether they are located in right-to-work states. Labor share decline explanations that focus on the role of equipment-embodied technical change, unions or international trade only therefore seem limited. Based on novel empirical evidence, we consider alternative explanations."
L20|No Mere Tautology: The Division of Labor is Limited by the Division of Labor|We explore the intersection of growth theory and the theory of the firm with an experiment. Economic growth is possible in our experiment when agents specialize to exploit increasing returns. We find that low opportunity costs are sufficient for Marshallian internal economies, but that Marshallian external economies are slow to emerge in four probing treatment conditions. Transaction costs do not hamper external economies as we anticipated prior to collecting data. When external economies falter, it is because new ideas about the cost and value of more extensive specialization fail to emerge. Ideas are what make further divisions of the division of labor—and thus economic growth—either possible or impossible.
L20|New and Improved: Does FDI Boost Production Complexity in Host Countries?|This article examines the relationship between the presence of foreign affiliates and product upgrading by Turkish manufacturing firms. The analysis suggests that Turkish firms in sectors and regions more likely to supply foreign affiliates tend to introduce more complex products, where complexity is captured using a measure developed by Hidalgo and Hausmann (). This finding is robust to controlling for omitted variables, sample selection and potential simultaneity bias. It is also in line with the view that inflows of foreign direct investment stimulate upgrading of indigenous production capabilities in host countries.
L20|Empirical models of firms and industries|We review important developments in empirical industrial organization (IO) over the last three decades. The paper is organized around six topics: collusion, demand, productivity, industry dynamics, interfirm contracts and auctions. We present models that are workhorses in empirical IO and describe applications. For each topic, we discuss at least one empirical application using Canadian data.
L20|Towards a Political Theory of the Firm|"The revenues of large companies often rival those of national governments, and some companies have annual revenues higher than many national governments. Among the largest corporations in 2015, some had private security forces that rivaled the best secret services, public relations offices that dwarfed a US presidential campaign headquarters, more lawyers than the US Justice Department, and enough money to capture (through campaign donations, lobbying, and even explicit bribes) a majority of the elected representatives. The only powers these large corporations missed were the power to wage war and the legal power of detaining people, although their political influence was sufficiently large that many would argue that, at least in certain settings, large corporations can exercise those powers by proxy. Yet in economics, the commonly prevailing view of the firm ignores all these elements of politics and power. We must recognize that large firms have considerable power to influence the rules of the game. I call attention to the risk of a ""Medici vicious circle,"" in which economic and political power reinforce each other. The possibility and extent of a ""Medici vicious circle"" depends upon several nonmarket factors. I discuss how they should be incorporated in a broader ""Political Theory"" of the firm."
L20|The Externalities of Corruption: Evidence from Entrepreneurial Activity in China|We show that corruption affects negatively the performance of small entrepreneurial firms, which compete with corrupted industry peers. We exploit the Chinese anti-corruption campaign to establish causality and identify the channels through which corruption causes negative externalities. Small firms have lower sales growth in industries with high corruption, arguably because demand is diverted to the largest firms in their industries, which spend more in corrupting officials. Small firms also have higher financing costs in industries with high corruption and therefore invest less. Furthermore, corruption decreases the efficiency of labor and capital allocation and deters firm entry.
L20|Zone Pricing in Retail Oligopoly|We quantify the welfare effects of zone pricing, or setting common prices across distinct markets, in retail oligopoly. Although monopolists can only increase profits by price discriminating, this need not be true when firms face competition. With novel data covering the retail home-improvement industry, we find that Home Depot would benefit from finer pricing but that Lowe's would prefer coarser pricing. Zone pricing softens competition in markets where firms compete, but it shields consumers from higher prices in rural markets, where firms might otherwise exercise market power. Overall, zone pricing produces higher consumer surplus than finer price discrimination does.
L20|Towards EU Legislation on Human Rights Due Diligence: Case Study of the Garment and Textile Sector|This study assesses the legal feasibility of a EU instrument that would impose mandatory human rights due diligence (“HRDD”) requirements on companies in the garment and textile sector. The proposal serves as an example of a sector-specific approach to HRDD requirements, and could be modified to develop similar proposals in other sectors. The study also illustrates the differences between a sector-specific and a cross-sectoral approach by highlighting the implications of each in the following areas: legal bases, personal scope, and requirements and enforcement.
L20|Human Resource Professionals’ Effectiveness, Organizational Culture and High Performance Work System Link: Evidence from Pakistan|Human resource professionals’ effectiveness (HRPE) is widely discussed as the most significant factor within the organization to gain sustainable competitive advantage at the present time. Nonetheless, the study investigates the impact of organizational culture (OC) on HRPE in telecom sector of Pakistan. Moreover, it also examines the moderating role of high performance work system (HPWS) in above mentioned correlation. A total of 75 survey questionnaires were distributed to HR managers of telecom firms, out of which 40 HR manager responded which makes 53.3% response rate. The study has used SmartPLS 3 for the assessment of the hypothesized model. The statistical results have established the strong positive effect of OC on HRPE, however, findings reveal HPWS doesn’t moderate this relationship. The study concludes organizations with strong OC can achieve sustainable competitive advantage by augmenting HRPE, moreover, organizations have to align their HR strategies with robust HR system which can enhance HRPE. The findings of the study are of a great value to both theory and practice and have vital implications for academicians, practitioners and policy makers.
L20|Does Leader-Member Exchange Impact on Organizational Citizenship Behaviour Readiness? Evidence from State Government Agency|Local Government (LG) being the third-tier in Malaysian government has been identified as one of the government agencies mandated to drive economic growth and development of a district and its residents. Being one of the main service providers, LG has yet to meet the public expectations as many complaints have being filed towards its operational issues as evidenced from statistical data from Public Complaint Bureau (PCB). Thus, in responding to PCB statistics and lack in-depth research on LG, this paper aims to investigate the relationship between leader-member exchange (LMX) and Organizational Citizenship Behaviors (OCB) among LG’ employees working in Southern region of Malaysia. Multiple regression analysis from a data set of 222 respondents, after factor analysis, revealed that LMX-affect respect and LMX-contribution have positive impact towards OCB while LMX-loyalty was found to be insignificant. A moderate 54% of variance in OCB has been explained. This study has provided empirical insights in supporting social exchange theory that quality LMX relationship has the ability to invoke OCB readiness. Due to LG constant interactions with the public, enhancement in dyadic relationship can help in reducing the level of complaints and towards improving the much needed operational efficiency.
L20|Specific investment and supplier vulnerability|Apart from the familiar holdup problem, we investigate another implication of specific investment that has not been examined systematically in the literature. That is, the presence of specific investment can make a supplier vulnerable to large negative shocks to its customer’s business. We demonstrate that this vulnerability causes the supplier to under-invest and a larger volatility in the customer’s business exacerbates the supplier’s under-investment. More surprisingly, a higher degree of specificity may induce the supplier to invest more, rather than less, in the specific asset.
L20|Corporate failures and the denomination of corporate bonds: Evidence from emerging Asian economies over two financial crises|Using a novel financial data-set which covers an extensive time period between 1995 to 2012, we test for the impact of currency denomination of bonds on Asian firms’ survival probabilities. Our data span two financial crises: the 1997–98 Asian crisis and the 2007–09 global financial crisis. We find that during the former crisis firms with foreign currency denominated bonds face a higher probability of failure compared to firms with domestic bonds. On the other extreme, we find no notable differences between the 2007–09 financial crisis and tranquil times for both domestic and foreign issuers.
L20|Does foreign direct investment improve the productivity of domestic firms? Technology spillovers, industry linkages, and firm capabilities|This paper explores how industrial linkages, firm capabilities, and the geographic location of domestic firms affect the diffusion of technology brought by foreign direct investment. I hypothesize that local firms are more likely to improve efficiency when they receive better product inputs from foreign suppliers and technology support by foreign customers, and such transfer of knowledge is more effective when the recipient has high absorptive capacity and is located near the source of knowledge. Empirical test using China’s manufacturing firms finds positive productivity spillovers between foreign suppliers and their domestic customers. However, there is no positive spillovers from foreign-owned customers or competitors. Domestic firms’ in-house R&D capital facilitates learning from foreign firms. Local firms learn from both joint ventures and wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries and the effects are larger from wholly-owned subsidiaries.
L20|The impact of state development institutions on the innovative behavior of firms: Qualitative effects|Basing on a series of in-depth interviews with top executives of Russian innovation companies, the paper analyzes qualitative effects generated by the support from the state development institutions. Non-financial impacts, in particular, changes in firms’ innovation behavior, turned out to be quite significant. At the same time, tightening of formal control of the development institutions increases the risks and costs faced by the supported companies. We have identified two models of firms’ innovation behavior associated with different demand for public support instruments. These models are conditioned not so much to firms’ characteristics, but rather by the values of top managers and their views on appropriate forms of state intervention in innovation processes.
L20|A game-theoretic approach to the choice of union-oligopoly baargaining agenda|This paper investigates the selection of the bargaining agenda in a unionized industry with decentralized negotiations for different competition modes. The firms choose the agenda (Right-to- Manage, RTM vs. Efficient Bargaining, EB), considering alternative timing of the bargaining game in the case of mixed duopoly. In fact, the EB (RTM) firm can be either Stackelberg wage follower (leader) or Stackelberg output leader (follower). It is developed a two-stage game in which the typology as well as the timing of the negotiations is endogenous. It is shown that, in pure strategies, no equilibria arise for a wide set of the parameters EÖ space while RTM appears as the unique equilibrium agenda for a different, large combination of the parameters; moreover, multiple, asymmetric equilibria emerge in a limited area of the parameters EÖ space. These results are in sharp contrast to the received literature in which EB can arise as an industry bargaining institution in equilibrium.
L20|Interconnecting Theory A and ABC Model of Organizational Performance|The higher education and research institutions have an objective of creating new knowledge continuously using their people as resources and success of the organizations depend on how much new knowledge they have created during a given period of time. A simple measurement system for calculating annual research index of organizations namely ABC model has been developed by Aithal P. S. and Suresh Kumar during 2016. As per this model, the annual research performance can be determined by knowing the research index of the institution/ individuals and is calculated by considering the total number of research publications during that period. Application of the theory of organizational performance namely ‘Theory A’ can improve research productivity of educational institutions. This is a management strategy which believes in delivering target as responsibility, feeling of creativity and contribution for motivation, identifying with the organization as commitment and accountability as a hallmark of efficiency. In this paper, we have interconnected Theory A of organization performance with ABC model of research productivity in order to enhance research productivity of the organizations.
L20|Employee representation in japanese family and non-family SMEs|This paper analyzes differences in the effects of employee representations between family firms and non-family firms. First, managers from non-family firms have a more favorable response towards unions as organizations than managers from family firms. Managers from family firms tend to regard unions as harmful to their management, because unions may bring in outsiders, to the detriment of the management. Second, voice-oriented employee associations tend to exist more in non-family firms than in family ones. Third, these associations have a voice effect suppressing turnover rates in non-family firms, though not in family ones.
L20|Collaboration in international technology transfer: the role of knowledge boundaries and boundary objects|Firms increasingly use choose collaborative arrangements to get access to the most recent and advanced technologies instead of trying to develop them in-home. Several emerging economies use such arrangements particularly in the defence industry as a vehicle for technology transfer to the local industry. The effectiveness of technology transfer, however, is affected by many factors. This paper analyzes international technology transfer as a challenge of inter-firm collaboration and a challenge of cross-boundary knowledge management, and highlights the role of boundary objects to mitigate problems of knowledge boundaries such transfers. Building on a comparative case study of two international technology transfer projects, the paper contributes to the understanding of how collaboration problems can affect the transfer of knowledge across knowledge boundaries and how the use of appropriate boundary objects may improve collaboration management and the knowledge transfer.
L20|Stackelberg equilibrium in duopoly: strategic use of corporate social responsibility|This paper demonstrates that in a duopoly model with firms being concerned about profit as well as corporate social responsibility (CSR), the outcome of game may coincide with the Stackelberg outcome. We argue that owner of the firm may use CSR orientation as a strategy to become Stackelberg leader in the quantity competition game.
L20|Managing Dynamic Capabilities of Cities? From a Firm-based towards an Issue-based View of Dynamic Capabilities|The dynamic capability view (DCV) primarily addresses the question of how single firms are dealing with changing environments. In this study we explore if and how a multi-actor constellation can develop dynamic capabilities and how they come about against the backdrop of managing cities. Based on an explorative, qualitative research design, we investigate implications of the DCV for managing cities. Our single case study is set in the southwestern German city of Kaiserslautern and our results suggest that to comprehend how cities are managed in light of the DCV, existing conceptions should be refined from a firm-centered towards an issue-centered understanding, understood for our purposes as occasions where multiple actors collaborate on a temporary basis regarding a relevant and resource intensive phenomenon.
L20|The 2016 Nobel Memorial Prize in Contract Theory|Oliver Hart and Bengt Holmström were awarded the 2016 Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel for their fundamental contributions to contract theory. This article offers a short summary and discussion of their path breaking work.
L20|Growing Productivity without Growing Wages: The Micro-Level Anatomy of the Aggregate Labor Share Decline|The aggregate labor share in U.S. manufacturing declined dramatically over the last three decades: Since the mid-1980’s, the compensation for labor declined from 67% to 47% of value added which is unseen in any other sector of the U.S. economy. The labor share of the typical U.S. manufacturing plants, in contrast, rose by over 5 percentage points. We reconcile these two facts by documenting (1) an important reallocation of production towards “hyper-productive plants” and (2) a downward adjustment of the labor share of those same plants over time. These two related forces account for almost all the change in the trend of aggregate labor share in the manufacturing sector, with only a small role for exit of high-labor-share plants. Relative to their peers, plants that account for the majority of production by the late 2000's arrive at a low labor share by gradually increasing value added by a factor of three while keeping employment and compensation unchanged.
L20|Firm Survival and Innovation: Knowledge Context Matters!|The aim of this paper is to explore the differential effect of innovation on firm survival. We consider the effect of product, process and organisational innovations controlling for the role of the knowledge context and of firm absorptive capacity. At the end of the 1990s, an ad hoc survey was performed on a representative sample of manufacturing firms located in a NUTS3 area of southern Italy, and information on firm survival has been collected for 15 years. A multivariate endogenous probit model is applied to simultaneously analyse the determinants of innovation and of subsequent firm survival. Our estimates confirm that process innovation is a determinant of firm survival followed by product innovation, whereas evidence of a more novel type suggests that organisational innovation plays only a weak role. Entrepreneurial general and specific human capital exerts no direct beneficial effect on firm duration. The requirement of proper technological knowledge from the local university has been the driver of firm duration with the highest marginal effect.
L20|Motivating Workers through Task Assignment: A Dynamic Model of Up-and-Down Competition for Status|We show how competition for status that conveys explicit benefits can motivate effort in organizations such as schools, public agencies, and unionized firms in the absence of monetary incentives or intrinsically motivated workers. We develop an indefinitely-repeated labor market tournament model in which high-status agents may be rewarded either monetarily or with favorable task assignment. If monetary incentives are unavailable and the principal relies on task assignment this entails an efficiency cost relative to the benchmark case with monetary incentives. Our model offers a new perspective on the value to an employer of flexibility over job assignments within labor contracts.
L20|Market knowledge: Evidence from importers|Previous firm‐level literature established that there are substantial costs of entry into new export markets. Chaney (The American Economic Review, 104, 2014, 3600) opens the black‐box of entry costs by building a dynamic network model of international trade where firms acquire customers in new destinations through their existing customers in other destinations. Following his conjecture, this paper examines whether firms use their existing suppliers in a destination to find their first clients in those markets. I use a disaggregated data set on Turkish firms' exports and imports for the 2003–08 period, and investigate the effect of import experience on export entry. By identifying import experience using instrumental variables, and shutting down productivity channels with firm‐year fixed effects, I find that having a supplier in the destination country raises the probability of starting to export to that country by 5.5 percentage points on average, revealing a “market knowledge” phenomenon. The paper's main contribution to the literature is finding that firms' country‐specific import experience increases the likelihood of export‐market entry. Digging further to explore heterogeneous effects, I find that this effect does not exist when trading with low‐income countries, but it increases with the destination country's size, proximity, language similarity and the size of its Turkish immigrant community. Moreover, the strength of the firm's relationship with its supplier as proxied by several variables such as the share of imported products that are differentiated increases the probability of export‐market entry.
L20|The Comparative Advantages of Single and Multi-stakeholder Cooperatives|When cooperatives were first invented, it was assumed their membership would be limited to one type of user. The Rochdale Pioneers favoured consumers, and employee representation was deliberately limited to a set percentage of board members. Similarly, Schulze Delitsch and Raiffeisen privileged farmers, Buchez workers, insurance mutuals those who are insured, and so on. Recently, Italian social cooperatives have developed a different model in which all the relevant stakeholders become members: those who are cared for, the carers, the workers, and volunteers. Also, occasionally dual stakeholder cooperatives have been designed. Eroski, the big Spanish retailer, has both consumers and workers in membership, and iCoop in Korea has both consumers and farmers. This paper has two aims, to set out some of the theoretical arguments for and against multi-stakeholder governance, to look at examples of multi-stakeholder models in practice, and to generate from this a set of research questions.
L20|Reconsidering Communication Regarding Economic Phenomena. Some Hints from a Complexity Approach|This paper, inspired by the notion of complexity and the use of network analysis, is presented as a short survey on communication in economics when it is addressed to people who approach the subject neither for study nor for professional purposes. Their perception of the economic system has also been shaped by events interpreted by opinion and political leaders. Its main contribution is an attempt to avoid current misunderstandings arising from a mechanical notion of the economic system and a consequent excess of confidence in what political economy can do in pursuing welfare. To do this, after a brief review of useful perceptions of phenomena both at system level and at firm level, we will propose some hints arising from complexity and network theory for an alternative viewpoint on political prescriptions and for a better appreciation of the entrepreneurial function. At the end, we will conclude with some teaching suggestions along with final remarks about understanding economics.
L20|Audit Competition in Insurance Oligopolies|We provide a simple framework for analyzing how competition affects the choice of audit structures in an oligopolistic insurance industry. When the degree of competition increases, fraud increases but the response of the industry in terms of investment in audit quality follows a U-shaped pattern. Following increases in competition, the investment in audit quality will decrease if the industry is initially in a low competition regime while it will increase when the industry is in a high competition regime. We show that firms will benefit from forming a joint audit agency only when the degree of competition is intermediate; in this case, cooperation might improve total welfare and we analyze the effects of contract innovation on the performance of the industry.
L20|Radius Restriction and Firms' Survival: Evidence from the Coffee Franchise Industry|This paper investigates the effects of distance restrictions on the survival of coffee shops in Korea, which were implemented by South Korea¡¯s Fair Trade Commission to limit the opening of new shops by headquarters to protect franchisees¡¯ territorial rights. Using Cox proportional hazard regression analyses, we find that the radius restriction reduced the hazard rates of all coffee shops significantly. However, selective regulation on five big brands affected interbrand competition and changed the landscape of the coffee franchise industry. Different benefits across different coffee brands also widened the gap between small brand coffee shops and the rest.
L20|Das Zukunftspanel Mittelstand 2017 - Update einer Expertenbefragung zu aktuellen und zukünftigen Herausforderungen des deutschen Mittelstands|Die Digitalisierung hat sich zu einer Herausforderung für den Mittelstand in vielen Bereichen entwickelt. Zu diesem Ergebnis kommt die jüngste Expertenbefragung für das Zukunftspanel Mittelstand 2017. Neben der digitalen Transformation, die grundlegende strategische Maßnahmen erfordert, sehen die Experten weitere Herausforderungen, insbesondere in den Handlungsfeldern Innovations-/Wettbewerbsfähigkeit, Internationalisierung unter Unsicherheit und Sicherung des Unternehmensbestandes. In Folge dessen wird auch die Mittelstandspolitik zukünftig in stärkerem Maße andere Politikfelder miteinbeziehen müssen: Neben der mittelstandsspezifischen Rahmensetzung gehören hierzu sind die Ordnungspolitik, Bildungspolitik, Regionalpolitik sowie Arbeitsmarkt- und Migrationspolitik.
L20|Gründungserfolg von Wissenschaftlern an deutschen Hochschulen|Im Rahmen dieses Beitrags analysieren wir Einflüsse auf den Gründungsprozess und Gründungserfolg von Wissenschaftlern. Lediglich jeder sechste Wissenschaftler, der vor drei Jahren eine Gründungsidee hatte, wurde unternehmerisch aktiv. Die meisten Wissenschaftler geben ihre Gründungsidee aber nicht auf, sondern bleiben weiter am Ball und gründen womöglich noch in Zukunft. Darunter befinden sich vor allem Wissenschaftler mit Erfindungen, bei denen der Weg bis zur Kommerzialisierung besonders lang zu sein scheint. Wissenschaftlerinnen nehmen Hemmnisse wie fehlende finanzielle Ressourcen kritischer wahr und brechen die Gründung auch häufiger ab. Indem sie häufiger neue Arbeitsplätze schaffen, sind Teamgründungen wirtschaftlich erfolgreicher als Einzelgründungen. Gründer aus der Wissenschaft sind überwiegend nebenberuflich unternehmerisch aktiv.
L20|Kooperationen zwischen etabliertem Mittelstand und Start-ups|Die vorliegende Studie untersucht anhand von Experteninterviews die Motive, Formen sowie Herausforderungen und Erfolgsfaktoren von Kooperationen zwischen etablierten Mittelständlern und Start-ups. Während sich Start-ups durch die Kooperation den Zugang zu einem großen Netzwerk sowie branchenspezifisches Know-how erhoffen, motiviert Mittelständler der Zugang zu neuen Technologien und hochqualifizierten Fachkräften. Die Wahl der konkreten Kooperationsform leitet sich aus den jeweiligen Zielen ab. Dabei unterscheiden sich Kooperationen hinsichtlich ihrer Intensität sowie in ihrer juristischen Ausgestaltung. Damit beide Seiten erfolgreich zusammenkommen, sollte sich das Start-up bereits im Vorfeld mit den Bedürfnissen des potenziellen Kooperationspartners auseinandersetzen. Etablierte Mittelständler sollten hingegen ihr stark ausgeprägtes Sicherheitsdenken ablegen und eine innovationsfreundliche Kultur im Unternehmen etablieren. Insgesamt bietet die Zusammenarbeit für beide Seiten ein großes Potenzial. Dabei profitiert das Start-up von einer effizienten Zusammenarbeit durch kurze Entscheidungswege in den inhabergeführten Unternehmen und der etablierte Mittelstand von einer höheren Wettbewerbsfähigkeit durch die Innovationsimpulse der Start-ups.
L20|Innovation und Wachstum als Herausforderung für den Mittelstand: Update der Unternehmersicht 2017|Um seine Wettbewerbsfähigkeit zu sichern, setzt der Mittelstand vor allem auf Innovation und Wachstum. Dies ist das Ergebnis der Unternehmensbefragung zu den Herausforderungen des Mittelstands. Anders als die Experten im Zukunftspanel Mittelstand 2017 stellen die Unternehmen die Digitalisierung weni-ger in den Vordergrund. Von insgesamt 13 identifizierten Handlungsfeldern erachten mittelständische Unternehmen zudem die Fachkräftegewinnung und rechtliche Rahmenbedingungen als wichtige Herausforderungen. Unterschiedliche Herausforderungen werden im Hinblick auf Unternehmenscharakteristika, wie Alter, Größe und Wirtschaftszweig, aufgezeigt.
L20|Mind the gap: Institutional and individual antecedents of entrepreneurial trajectories in the academic context|"This study analyses institutional, job-related, and individual antecedents of entrepreneurial activi-ties from a longitudinal perspective. We take a holistic look at the start-up process incorporating entrepreneurial gestation activities (nascent entrepreneurship) and finally business creation (entre-preneurship) by combining two waves of a survey with a time interval of three years. Focusing on researchers reporting an entrepreneurial intention in wave one we found for example that pull factors as motivation to start a business reduce the probability to give up the business idea. Furthermore having generated an invention prevents researchers with a business idea from becoming a so-called ""quitter"" and pushes them towards starting their own business."
L20|When unionisation is profitable for firms in network industries|In an industry characterised by the presence of network effects, this paper investigates a duopolistic game in which firms may choose whether to bargain over wages and employment with unions or to face a competitive labour market (i.e. without unions). If unions are sufficiently risk-averse, it is shown that the presence of strong network effects makes unionisation the Pareto-efficient sub-game perfect Nash equilibrium outcome for firms. The issue of entry is also investigated.
L20|BIG data – BIG gains? Understanding the link between big data analytics and innovation| This paper analyzes the relationship between firms' use of big data analytics and their innovative performance in terms of product innovations. Since big data technologies provide new data information practices, they create novel decision-making possibilities, which are widely believed to support firms' innovation process. Applying German firm-level data within a knowledge production function framework we find suggestive evidence that big data analytics is a relevant determinant for the likelihood of a firm becoming a product innovator as well as for the market success of product innovations. These results hold for the manufacturing as well as for the service sector but are contingent on firms' investment in IT-specific skills. Overall, the results support the view that big data analytics have the potential to enable innovation.
L20|BIG data – BIG gains? Understanding the link between big data analytics and innovation|This paper analyzes the relationship between firms' use of big data analytics and their innovative performance in terms of product innovations. Since big data technologies provide new data information practices, they create novel decision-making possibilities, which are widely believed to support firms' innovation process. Applying German firm-level data within a knowledge production function framework we find suggestive evidence that big data analytics is a relevant determinant for the likelihood of a firm becoming a product innovator as well as for the market success of product innovations. These results hold for the manufacturing as well as for the service sector but are contingent on firms' investment in IT-specific skills. Overall, the results support the view that big data analytics have the potential to enable innovation.
L20|Wirtschaftliche Kosten der Cyberspionage für deutsche Unternehmen: Cybersicherheit als Grundvoraussetzung der digitalen Transformation|Cybersicherheit ist entscheidend für eine erfolgreiche digitale Transformation. Das volle Potenzial digitaler Technologien kann nur ausgeschöpft werden, wenn Institutio-nen, Unternehmen und Privatpersonen sich auf die Sicherheit ihrer Daten und Systeme verlassen können. Bislang ist das nicht der Fall, wie zahlreiche Cybersicherheitsvorfälle belegen. Insbesondere die Cyberspionage, also der Diebstahl von relevanten Unternehmensdaten und geistigem Eigentum, macht Unternehmen zu schaffen. Auch deutsche Unternehmen sind aufgrund ihrer innovativen Produkte, besonders auch im Bereich Industrie 4.0, und ihrer starken Position auf den Weltmärkten ein lukratives Ziel für Hacker. Cybercrime wird deshalb von vielen deutschen Unternehmen als die größte Bedrohung für deutsche Unternehmen und den Wirtschaftsstandort Deutschland gesehen. Tatsächlich zieht Cyberspionage enorme Kosten nach sich. Neben den direkten Kosten durch den Verlust des geistigen Eigentums und die Behebung des Schadens kommt es zu diversen indirekten Kosten wie Umsatzausfällen und Reputationsschäden. Das vorliegende Paper bietet eine qualitative und quantitative Einschätzung dieser Kosten für deutsche Unternehmen. Angesichts der Vielfalt der Kostenarten und der Höhe der Kosten ist es essentiell, Cybersicherheit als Grundvoraussetzung für alle unternehmerischen Tätigkeiten zu verstehen, um die Wettbewerbsfähigkeit und die Stabilität der deutschen Wirtschaft zu schützen.
L20|Zwischen Kooperation und Wettbewerb: Industrie 4.0 und europäisches Kartellrecht|Im Zusammenhang mit der Digitalisierung von Prozessen vernetzen sich Unternehmen untereinander zunehmend. Dies hat viele Vorteile, wie eine Steigerung von Effizienz oder Produktivität, birgt aber auch Herausforderungen, weil die geltenden deutschen und europäischen Kartellrechtsvorgaben zu beachten sind. Vor diesem Hintergrund analysiert das vorliegende Papier, inwieweit die Kooperation von Unternehmen im Rahmen von Industrie 4.0 gestattet ist und wo die Grenzen liegen. Dabei wird zwischen der Vernetzung innerhalb eines Unternehmens, der vertikalen Zusammenarbeit entlang einer Wertschöpfungskette sowie der horizontalen Kooperation etwa mit Wettbewerbern unterschieden. Gerade letzterem sind enge Grenzen gesteckt, um einen fairen Wettbewerb sicherzustellen und einen Missbrauch von Marktmacht zu verhindern. Unternehmen, welche die enormen Potentiale von Industrie 4.0 nutzen wollen, sollten sich dieser bestehenden Grenzen bewusst sein, denn andernfalls drohen für die verantwortlichen Personen sowie die beteiligten Unternehmen empfindliche kartellrechtliche Strafen. Neben einer Berücksichtigung des Kartellrechts bei der Digitalisierung von Prozessen ist daher Compliance ein wesentliches Zukunftsthema für digitalisierte Unternehmen.
L20|BIG data - BIG gains? Empirical evidence on the link between big data analytics and innovation|This paper analyzes the relationship between firms' use of big data analytics and their innovative performance in terms of product innovations. Since big data technologies provide new data information practices, they create novel decision-making possibilities, which are widely believed to support firms' innovation process. Applying German firm-level data within a knowledge production function framework we find suggestive evidence that big data analytics is a relevant determinant for the likelihood of a firm becoming a product innovator as well as for the market success of product innovations. These results hold for the manufacturing as well as for the service sector but are contingent on firms' investment in IT-specific skills. Subsequent analyses suggest that firms in the manufacturing and service sector rely on different data sources and data-related firm practices in order to reap the benefits of big data. Overall, the results support the view that big data analytics have the potential to enable innovation.
L20|The role of firms' location on persistency of various types of innovation|This paper analyzes the role of regional characteristics on innovation persistency among firms. Using five waves of the Community Innovation Survey in Sweden, we have traced the innovative behavior of firms over a ten-year period, i.e. between 2002 and 2012. On the one hand, we distinguish between four types of innovations: process, product, marketing, and organizational innovations. On the other hand, we considered various regional characteristics including knowledge stock, market thickness, and extent of knowledge spillovers. Using a dynamic Probit model, we found that, in general, those firms located in the regions with higher stock of knowledge, thicker market, and higher extent of knowledge spillovers exhibit higher probability of being a persistent innovators. Such higher persistency is mostly pronounced for product innovators.
L20|The core of the global corporate network|We investigate the network topology of a comprehensive data set of the world-wide population of corporate entities. In particular, we have extracted information on the boards of all companies listed in Bloomberg's archive of company profiles in October, 2015, a total of almost 100; 000 firms. We provide information on board membership overlap at various levels, and, in particular, show that there exists a core of directors who accumulate a large number of seats and are highly connected among themselves both at the level of national networks and at the worldwide aggregated level.
L20|Firm size distribution and employment fluctuations: Theory and evidence|We show that the firm-size distribution is an important determinant of the relationship between an industry's employment and output. A theoretical model predicts that changes in demand for an industry's output have larger effects on employment, resulting from adjustments at both the intensive and extensive margin, in industries characterised by a distribution that has a lower density of large firms. Industry-specific shape parameters of the firm size distributions are estimated using firm-level data from Germany, Sweden and the UK, and used to augment a relationship between industry-level employment and output. The empirical results align with the predictions of the theory.
L20|Plant-level employment development before collective displacements: comparing mass layoffs, plant closures and bankruptcies|This article analyzes the development of employment levels and worker flows before bankruptcies, plant closure without bankruptcies and mass layoffs. Utilizing administrative plant-level data for Germany, we find no systematic employment reductions prior to mass layoffs, a strong and long-lasting reduction prior to closures, and a much shorter shadow of death preceding bankruptcies. Employment reductions in closing plants, in contrast to bankruptcies and mass layoffs, do not come along with increased worker flows. These patterns point to an intended and controlled shrinking strategy for closures without bankruptcy and to an unintended collapse for bankruptcies and mass layoffs.
L20|Plant-level employment development before collective displacements: comparing mass layoffs, plant closures and bankruptcies| This article analyzes the development of employment levels and worker flows before bankruptcies, plant closure without bankruptcies and mass layoffs. Utilizing administrative plant-level data for Germany, we find no systematic employment reductions prior to mass layoffs, a strong and long-lasting reduction prior to closures, and a much shorter shadow of death preceding bankruptcies. Employment reductions in closing plants, in contrast to bankruptcies and mass layoffs, do not come along with increased worker flows. These patterns point to an intended and controlled shrinking strategy for closures without bankruptcy and to an unintended collapse for bankruptcies and mass layoffs.
L20|The relationship between R&D intensity and profit-sharing schemes: evidence from Germany and the United Kingdom|We study the determinants of the use of profit sharing schemes (PSS) by exploiting two datasets for Germany and the United Kingdom. Our results replicate studies for the U.S. which report a positive correlation between R&D activity and PSS use. For Germany, Granger-causality tests support a causal interpretation. Similarly to U.S.-based studies, we also find that a firm's turnover is strongly associated with PSS use whereas this does not hold for the age of a firm and its organizational characteristics.
L20|Consumer state dependence, switching costs, and forward-looking producers. A dynamic discrete choice model applied to the diaper market|This study estimates a dynamic discrete choice model to analyze the effect of switching costs on firm market power. Given the presence of switching costs for consumers in the market for disposable diapers, I show how firms apply dynamic strategies to a market for differentiated products and in a context of vertical retailer-manufacturer relationships. My findings support the existence of state dependence in consumer demand. Furthermore, I show that the firm profits would be higher in a counterfactual scenario of no switching costs.
L20|Rational Inefficiency, Adjustment Costs and Sequential Technologies|In this paper we propose a novel approach to estimate the rational inefficiency of decision making units in the presence of adjustment costs. Using sequential definitions of the production technology, we show how cost inefficiency can be decomposed into rational and residual inefficiency as well as inefficiency caused by technical change. Furthermore, we estimate lower bounds for the unobserved adjustment costs based on unexploited cost reductions due to rational inefficiency. These adjustment costs are used to evaluate the feasibility of exploiting cost reductions caused by residual inefficiency. We demonstrate the empirical applicability of our model by estimating and decomposing the cost inefficiency of U.S. coal-fired power plants using panel data which cover the period between 1994 and 2009.
L20|Deregulation and the determinants of entry: Evidence from the German interurban bus industry|Two years after the deregulation of the German interurban bus industry in January 2013, two new entrants emerged as market leaders: MeinFernbus (MFB) and FlixBus (FB). We use a comprehensive route-level data set to investigate the determinants of route entry for both providers. Applying survival models, we find that both companies show an increased probability to enter populous, centrally located routes with large shares of young inhabitants; however, they both avoid entries into routes including an airport or with low quality rail connection. Furthermore, both market leaders refrain from entering small and medium-sized routes in which another provider is already operating. In large markets, however, they both show an increased entry probability independent of the presence of a competitor.
L20|Cooperation and Mistrust in Relational Contracts|Work and trade relationships are often governed by relational contracts, in which incentives for cooperative action today stem from the prospective future benefits of the relationship. In this paper, we study how reductions in clarity about the financial consequences of actions, induced by incomplete information about the costs of providing quality, affect relational contracts in buyer-seller relationships. Under incomplete information, payoffs to actions become private information. This can impede the joint understanding of what constitutes cooperative behavior, and may thus inject mistrust into relationships, even if credibility is held constant. Comparing seller-buyer relationships with and without complete information about seller costs in the laboratory, we find that such a lack of clarity has effects on the terms of relational contracts. However, these effects only concern the distribution of rents, and not efficiency.
L20|Mutual Trustworthiness as a Governance Mechanism in Business Relationships – A Dyadic Data Analysis|Based on a literature review, we develop a research profile that illustrates that survey-based, trust-related empirical research has severe limitations. It usually carries out general relationship analysis using single end or quasi two-sided sampling and classic statistical constructs. We designed and carried out an empirical research that was highly situational, applied dyadic operationalisation, pairwise sampling, and dyadic data analysis – a special statistical approach and toolset developed by psychologists and used to analyse interdependencies in relationships. Our main contribution is methodological and theoretical since the paper gives a structured overview on the methodological challenges in analysing mutuality in trust, but also in other relational attributes. The paper not only makes these methodological problems explicit, but also offers a potential solution to overcome some of their limitations.
L20|European Integration and Australian Manufacturing Industry: The Case of Philips Electronics, 1960s–1970s|The creation of the Common Market in the European Community required electronics multinational Philips to integrate production operations across European countries. This effort had consequences for its Australian subsidiary. Rather than become a regional Philips hub with the support of its parent, as intended in the 1960s, it was absorbed by addressing changes in Australian trade policy and increased Japanese imports. The parent company’s establishment of regional supply centres in Europe and Asia left no role for the small Australian production facilities in the company’s global structure. Production and employment at Philips Australia were scaled back drastically during the 1970s.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L20|Managing Political Imperatives: Strategic Responses of Philips in Australia, 1939-1945|The Australian subsidiary of Dutch MNE Philips came under secret service surveillance and faced risk of government takeover as enemy property during World War II. It was also excluded from government contracts for communications equipment, while forced to reduce civilian production. These threats to its assets and operations required the firm to develop an adaptive corporate strategy in order to minimise political risk and also take advantage of opportunities that war production offered. This case study offers a rich insight into the processes an MNE employs to pursue dynamic strategic responses to host country political imperatives, confirming hypotheses of Ring et al. (1990). It demonstrates the relevance of historical cases to substantiating theory in strategic management.
L20|Depreciation of Business R&D Capital|We develop a forward‐looking profit model to estimate the depreciation rates of business R&D capital. By using data from BEA and NSF between 1987 and 2007, and the newly developed model, we estimate both constant and time‐varying industry‐specific R&D depreciation rates. The results comprise a set of R&D depreciation rates for major U.S. high-tech industries. They align with the main conclusions from recent studies that the rates are in general higher than the traditionally assumed 15 percent and vary across industries. The relative ranking of the constant R&D depreciation rates among industries is consistent with industry observations and the industry‐specific time‐varying rates are informative about the dynamics of technological change and the levels of competition across industries. Lastly, we also present a cross‐country comparison of the R&D depreciation rates between the U.S. and Japan, and find that the results reflect the relative technological competitiveness in key industries.
L20|Complementary assets, start-ups and incentives to innovate|We examine to what extent market conditions facilitating start-up formation affect firms' R&D investment and profits. We consider a model in which R&D efforts of an incumbent firm generate partly tacit technological know-how embodied in a key R&D employee, who might use it to form a start-up. The availability of complementary assets influences whether new firms are created and determine expected profits for start-up's founders. A large availability of complementary assets has the direct effect that the generation of start-ups is fostered. However, as a strategic effect, the incentives of incumbents to invest in R&D may be reduced because of the increased danger of knowledge loss occurring through start-up formation. We characterize the effects of an increase in the availability of complementary assets, showing that counter-intuitively there are cases in which it induces an increase in incumbents' R&D investment.
L20|Business Intelligence and Multimarket Competition|We consider a multimarket framework where a set of firms compete on two oligopolistic markets. The cost of production of each firm allows for spillovers accross markets, ensuring that output decisions for both markets have to be made jointly. Prior to competing in these markets, firms can establish links gathering business intelligence about other firms. These links have two effects. First, the quality of the good produced by the firm which forms the link increases. Second, the quality of the good of the firm which receives the link decreases. We characterize the business intelligence equilibrium networks and networks that maximize social welfare under the most interesting scenario of diseconomies of scope. We that due to externalities, the equilibrium networks may be over-connected relative to socially optimal networks creating a role for policy intervention. We also find that in some situations firms may refrain from gathering information, even if it is costlesss. Moreover, even though intelligence gathering leads to increased product quality, there exist situations where it is detrimental to both consumer welfare and social welfare.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L20|Rôles du brevet et articulation des connaissances : une analyse par la chaîne de valeur|In an environment characterized by a competition based on novelty, a knowledge-based economy valuing intangible assets, a constant pressure on costs and an increasing uncertainty, the management of intellectual property has become a key element of the competitive advantage. The issue of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) is increasingly important in the business sphere and in academic literature. This article refers to this context of intensive use of the Intellectual Property Rights. It aims at outlining how knowledge can be articulated along the “patent value chain”. The various roles of patent are presented along this value chain in order to understand how firms can both create and capture value through the management of IPRs. JEL Codes : L20, O32
L20|Cooperation in the food industry: contributions and limitations of the open innovation model|This article focuses on the multi-partner relationships between agrofood firms and external stakeholders to innovate, which some authors today call the Open Innovation model (Chesbrough, 2003). Based on various studies we have conducted on innovation and cooperation processes in agrofood companies, we show that innovation processes are not always “open”, as some companies prefer to develop their innovations internally. For various reasons (confidentiality, obstacles in protecting innovations, difficulties in establishing relationships in the absence of internal R&D, etc.) these firms can choose to innovate without recourse to external partners. Furthermore, we discuss the hypothesis that geographical proximity between companies and stakeholders would automatically result in a greater ability to absorb external knowledge and technologies. “Remote” cooperation is strong and organised proximity plays a key role in facilitating the cooperation. JEL Codes: D21, L20, L66, O32
L20|Oligopolistic competition and welfare|This chapter provides a selective survey of recent developments in the study of social welfare under oligopoly. The main topics covered are (i) the rate of cost pass-through as a tool to analyze market performance; (ii) the quantification of welfare losses due to market power in Cournot-style models; and (iii) new results from models with endogenous entry. The chapter highlights common themes across these topics and identifies areas for future research.
L20|Cooperation and Mistrust in Relational Contracts|Work and trade relationships are often governed by relational contracts, in which incentives for cooperative action today stem from the prospective future benefits of the relationship. In this paper, we study how reductions in clarity about the financial consequences of actions, induced by incomplete information about the costs of providing quality, affect relational contracts in buyer-seller relation- ships. Under incomplete information, payoffs to actions become private infor- mation. This can impede the joint understanding of what constitutes cooperative behavior, and may thus inject mistrust into relationships, even if credibility is held constant. Comparing seller-buyer relationships with and without complete infor- mation about seller costs in the laboratory, we find that such a lack of clarity has effects on the terms of relational contracts. However, these effects only concern the distribution of rents, and not efficiency.
L20|Do Mergers Among Multimarket Firms Create Value?|Merger value is frequently evaluated in single market contexts without considering possible gains stemming from firms’ multimarket presence. This study concentrates on the question through which channels, and of which magnitude, mergers among multimarket firms create incremental value. We establish a simple theoretical model that determines merger value in a multimarket firm environment. The model enables us to derive merger values as being independent of post-merger market shares, but rather dependent on pre-merger market shares. We test our hypotheses using a comprehensive dataset that encompasses information on mergers and firm-level multimarket production and innovation within the semiconductor industry. Using the pairwise stable equilibrium concept, we estimate firms’ structural value functions. Our results show that multimarket effects contribute, on average, 20% of the total merger value added. Moreover, we find that multimarket efficiency gains dominate multimarket power effects by contributing majority of the value added. We also find that our estimated merger values are well aligned with the merging firms’ post-merger stock market performance.
L20|The Diffusion of Knowledge via Managers' Mobility|Better managers and managerial practices lead to better firm performance. Yet, little is known about what happens when managers move across firms. Does a firm hiring a good manager improve its performance? If yes is there some valuable knowledge the manager has acquired and successfully diffused to the new firm? In order to answer these questions we use information related to specific activities the manager was involved in when working for previous firms. More specifically, we use information on whether the manager has worked in the past for firms exporting to a specific destination country or a specific product. Our data is rich enough to allow controlling for both manager and firm unobservables and wash out any time-invariant ability of the manager as well as overall firm performance. We find that the export experience gained by managers in previous firms leads their current firm towards higher export performance, and commands a sizable wage premium for the manager. We use several strategies to deal with endogeneity including an exogenous event study: the sudden end of the Angolan civil war in 2002. We further refine our analysis by looking at different types of managers (general, production, financial and sales) and show how specific export experience interacts with the degree of product differentiation and/or the financial vulnerability of a firm's products as well as with rising import competition from China.
L20|ifo Managerbefragung Sommer 2016: Wie bewerten Unternehmen die Arbeit der Verbände?|Nach den Ergebnissen der Managerbefragung ist eine große Mehrheit der Unternehmen Mitglied in einem (Wirtschafts-)Verband und mit der Arbeit der Verbände zufrieden. Etwa 10% denken über einen Austritt aus einem Verband nach. Der Einfluss von Gewerkschaften auf die Politik ist in den letzten Jahren gestiegen.
L20|Employment Protection and Investment Opportunities|Even though firms’ innovation efforts dwindle in reaction to weaker employment protection legislation (EPL), we show that the value of their investment opportunities actually increases. The reason is that weaker EPL discourages innovation efforts only in firms with little comparative advantage at innovation. At the same time, however, weaker EPL increases the financial and operating flexibility of firms. This flexibility gain can explain why Tobin’s q increases in reaction to weaker EPL.
L20|Inter-organizational Performance and Business Process Management in Collaborative Networks|In the global economy, collaboration is no longer an option but a requirement for the organizations that want to achieve and maintain the competitive advantage on the market. The society based on knowledge and innovation, globalization and increased competition are the stimulating factors for switching from a traditional organization to an extended organization and further to the organization connected into a collaborative network. The organization networks have many advantages but also face challenges and problems mainly linked to the complexity of the collaborative environment. One of the main challenges of the organization networks is raised by the inter-organization processes. The complexity of these collaborative processes makes them difficult to model and represent them in a form that can be understood by electronic computing systems. Collaborative processes performance representation, automation and management require a good understanding of collaboration impact on business processes. This paper identifies the main characteristics of collaborative business processes, classifies them on several criteria, identifies possible approaches for management and implementation and proposes a mathematical model for measuring inter-organizational business process performance.
L20|From The Factory Floor To The Shop Floor – Improved Supply Chain For Sustainable Competitive Advantage With Item-Level Rfid In Retail|Technological innovations change our lives at a very fast rhythm and, many times, they can have the same effect on the way businesses are carried out.Industrial development is triggered by the changing consumption and production patterns. But in some cases, it takes a while until the right use of a new technology is found and until it can bring the expected benefits to the activity. This is the case of RFID tagging, that started in the 1990s at a pallet and case level and had not bring the major improvements people expected. But the discovery of the item-level tagging brought significant benefits to the retail industry, from the manufacturing stage, the logistics, to the shop floor presence and until the product is bought by a client, sometimes even for after sale warranty. This paper intends to analyze the advantages brought by the RFID item-level tagging to the retail business. After an introduction that covers shortly the history of the RFID use in manufacturing and retail, the authors will define the RFID worldwide market and will explain the numerous ways in which this technology can be used in different industries. The third chapter of this paper will establish the business value of RFID in supply chains in retail, based on examples of success stories. As this technology needs to be implemented by all actors across the supply chain, the analysis will not only focus on the retail level, but will also evaluate the benefits of using RFID in logistics and in manufacturing operations. In conclusion, the paper will reveal arguments in favor of RFID implementation at an item level to all actors across the supply chain, as it can represent a starting point for every professional intending to improve its retail business.
L20|Organizational Culture, Strategy Implementation and Commercial Bank Performance in Zimbabwe|The study investigates the impact of organizational culture and strategy implementation on commercial bank performance in Zimbabwe. Using a four factor, six dimensional organizational culture index and an eight dimensional strategy implementation index to statistically measure culture and strategy implementation impact, the study employs ordinary least regression method to quantify and econometrically model the impact of the two variables on commercial bank performance. Data collection was achieved through questionnaire administration. The results of the study show that culture and strategy implementation have a statistically significant and positive impact on commercial bank performance. For banks which are regarded as performing (both average and high), organizational culture has strong positive effect on their performance while for smaller and poor performing banks, the effect of organizational culture was nearly neutral. Strategy implementation was also found to have strong positive effect in high performing banks and between neutral to negative effect in non-performing banks. The study concludes that the dynamic environment under which banks operate makes the impact of intangible resources differ across institutions. Based on the results of this study, it is recommended that leadership of commercial banks need to invest in creating a defining culture in banks and effective strategy implementation techniques. Utilizing such attributes remains a major determinant of commercial bank performance in Zimbabwe
L20|Kriz Dönemlerinde Uygulanan Ýnsan Kaynaklarý Politikalarýnýn Örgütsel Baðlýlýkla Ýliþkisi|Çalýþmanýn amacý kriz dönemlerinde örgütlerde uygulanan insan kaynaklarý politikalarýnýn çalýþanlarýn örgütsel baðlýlýklarýyla iliþkisini araþtýrmaktýr. Meyer ve Allen’in (1997) Örgütsel Baðlýlýk Ölçeði ile araþtýrmacýnýn uyarladýðý Kriz Dönemlerinde Uygulanan Ýnsan Kaynaklarý Politikalarý Ölçeði kullanýlmýþtýr. Regresyon analizi ile bulgular deðerlendirilmiþtir. ‘Ücret, Prim, Mesai Ücreti ve Yan Haklarda’ Kesinti Politikasý duygusal baðlýlýk üzerinde anlamlý etkiye sahipken (p=0,002 sig.
L20|Pre-emptive mergers and downstream cost asymmetry|With sufficient downstream cost asymmetry a horizontal merger will be chosen over a vertical merger. This results because the technology transfer is large and the incentive to vertically merge shrinks as the horizontal merger eliminates a cost asymmetry induced “bottleneck.”
L20|Merchant guilds, taxation and social capital|We develop a theory of the emergence of merchant guilds as an efficient mechanism to foster cooperation between merchants and rulers, building on the complementarity between merchant guilds’ ability to enforce monopoly over trade and their social capital. Unlike existing models, we focus on local merchant guilds, rather than alien guilds, accounting for the main observed features of their behavior, internal organization and relationship with rulers. Our model delivers novel predictions about the emergence, variation, functioning, and eventual decline of this highly successful historical form of network. Our theory reconciles previous explanations and the large body of historical evidence on medieval merchant guilds. In doing so, we also shed novel light on the role of the guilds’ social capital, and its importance for taxation, welfare, and the development of towns and their government in medieval Europe.
L20|On the “uniform pricing puzzle” in recorded music|This paper proposes a possible explanation for uniform pricing in the recorded music industry, based on a pooling equilibrium across different quality types. We show that an ex ante ability to invest in the probability of success – which we identify with record companies’ artists and repertoire (A&R) expenditures – makes such a pooling equilibrium more likely.
L20|Further evidence on the strategic timing of earnings news: Joint analysis of weekdays and times of day|Using combinations of weekdays and times of day (before, during, and after trading hours) of earnings announcements, we examine whether managers attempt to strategically time these announcements. We document that the worst earnings news is announced on Friday evening and find robust evidence that only Friday evening announcements represent managers’ rational opportunistic behavior. Friday evening announcements are followed by insider trading in the direction of earnings news and the largest post-earnings announcement drift. Managers also attempt to reduce interaction with investors and hide more than just earnings news by announcing on Friday evening. We find that Friday evening announcements occur later in the evening than announcements on other evenings, firms have a reduced propensity to hold conference calls, and major firm restructuring events are relatively more likely to occur after Friday evening announcements.
L20|Educational diversity and knowledge transfers via inter-firm labor mobility|This article contributes to the literature on knowledge transfer via labor mobility by providing new evidence regarding the role of educational diversity in knowledge transfer. In tracing worker flows between firms in Denmark over the period 1995–2005, we find that knowledge carried by workers who have been previously exposed to educationally diverse workforces significantly increases the productivity of the hiring firms. Several extensions of our baseline specification support this finding and confirm that our variable of interest affects the arrival firm's performance mainly through the knowledge transfer channel.
L20|Innovation and firm growth: Does firm age play a role?|This paper explores the relationship between innovation and firm growth for firms of different ages. We hypothesize that young firms undertake riskier innovation activities which may have greater performance benefits (if successful), or greater losses (if unsuccessful). Using an extensive Spanish Community Innovation Survey sample for the period 2004–2012, we apply panel quantile regressions to study the effect of R&D activities on firm growth (i.e. sales growth, productivity growth and employment growth). Our results show that young firms face larger performance benefits from R&D at the upper quantiles of the growth rate distribution, but face larger decline at the lower quantiles. R&D investment by young firms therefore appears to significantly riskier than R&D investment by more mature firms, which suggests some policy implications.
L20|Used, blocking and sleeping patents: Empirical evidence from a large-scale inventor survey|This paper employs data from a large-scale survey (InnoS&T) of inventors in Europe, the USA, and Japan who were listed in patent applications filed at the European Patent Office with priority years between 2003 and 2005. We provide evidence regarding the reasons for patenting and the ways in which patents are being utilized. A substantial share of patents is neither used internally nor for market transactions, which confirms the importance of strategic patenting and inefficiency in the management of intellectual property. We investigate different types of unused patents—unused blocking patents and sleeping patents. We also examine the association between used and unused patents and their characteristics such as family size, scope, generality and overlapping claims, technology area, type of applicant, and the competitive environment from where these patents originate. We discuss our results and derive some implications for innovation and patent policy.
L20|The impact of public support on firm propensity to engage in R&D: Spanish experience|Our objective is to estimate the effect of public low-interest loans for R&D projects on the probability of performing R&D by Spanish firms. The estimations provide evidence of the effectiveness of public low-interest loans, being the stimulus effect larger for SMEs than for large firms and also higher for manufacturing than for services. Supported firms are approximately 25 percentage points more likely to self-finance their R&D investments than non-supported firms. The effect is quite relevant if we consider that the probability of self-financing R&D activities is 53.2 percentage points higher when the firm has invested in R&D activities in the previous year. This result suggests that firms can be induced persistently to perform R&D activities by means of loans.
L20|Economic Institutions and the Location Strategies of European Multinationals in their Geographic Neighborhood| This article investigates how the location behavior of multinational enterprises (MNEs) is shaped by the economic institutions of the host countries. The analysis covers a wide set of geographically proximate economies with different degrees of integration with the old fifteen European Union members: new member states, accession and candidate countries, as well as European Neighborhood Policy countries and the Russian Federation. The article aims to shed new light on the heterogeneity of MNE preferences for the host countries’ regulatory settings (including labor market and business regulation), legal aspects (i.e., protection of property rights and contract enforcement), and the weight of the government in the economy. By employing data on 6888 greenfield investment projects, the random-coefficient mixed logit analysis shows that, although the quality of the national institutional framework is generally beneficial for the attraction of foreign investment, MNEs’ preferences over economic institutions are highly heterogeneous across sectors and business functions.
L20|Country level efficiency and national systems of entrepreneurship: a data envelopment analysis approach|Abstract This paper tests the efficiency hypothesis of the knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship. Using a comprehensive database for 63 countries for 2012, we employ data envelopment analysis to directly test how countries capitalize on their available entrepreneurial resources. Results support the efficiency hypothesis of knowledge spillover entrepreneurship. We find that innovation-driven economies make a more efficient use of their resources, and that the accumulation of market potential by existing incumbent businesses explains country-level inefficiency. Regardless of the stage of development, knowledge formation is a response to market opportunities and a healthy national system of entrepreneurship is associated with knowledge spillovers that are a prerequisite for higher levels of efficiency. Public policies promoting economic growth should consider national systems of entrepreneurship as a critical priority, so that entrepreneurs can effectively allocate resources in the economy.
L20|Formación de profesionales para la empresa del siglo XXI|The successive industrial revolutions have brought with them substantial economic and social changes. The introduction of digital technology into industry is currently giving rise to what is known as Industry 4.0, creating new business models and therefore new ways of working. In this context, the knowledge and abilities required of workers are different from those required by firms in the first industrial revolution. The key to productivity no longer lies in physical skills but in knowing how to use the huge quantity of information produced so as to provide the best solutions. Today’s businesses require a new type of professional capable of blending cross-sectoral skills with specific expertise, adapting easily to different disciplines and linking knowledge from different areas («T-shaped professionals»). Universities therefore need to adapt their syllabuses if they are to meet this new challenge successfully.
L20|La adopción de la estrategia de servitización: estudio Delphi para incrementar el conocimiento sobre la transformación del sector manufacturero|The research study described in this article seeks to bring to light the main evidence found concerning the adoption of the strategy of servitisation. The Delphi Method was used to collect statements and opinions from 33 high-ranking executives at 28 organisations of different sizes which represent an interesting cross section of the fabric of production in Britain. The findings focus on five main areas: (1) servitisation and advanced services; (2) the process of transformation: stimuli, incentives and organisational change; (3) impact on customers and manufacturers; (4) facilitators and inhibitors; and (5) the potential for businesses and for the economy. As a result, eight key points are presented here that together help to extend our knowledge of the strategic process adopted by manufacturing firms to compete on services.
L20|Crecimiento empresarial en las pequeñas empresas de la industria metalmecánica de Lima: un estudio de casos múltiple|This article analyzes the context of growth of small businesses in the metalworking industry in Lima. There are multiple factors at different levels of analysis that could trigger business growth. Growth from increased employment in companies has responded to the needs of production due to the economic situation of the country. However, this growth has not been stable over time. In addition, sales have varied over time due to price volatility of raw materials and rising inflation, which has not involved an increase in the benefit of businesses. The main source of competitiveness of small companies lies in their specialization, based on their «craft» feature and in a niche market of small size. This means that small businesses have little incentive to internationalize and generate new knowledge. In this context, the role of government is crucial to promote policies articulated to address this complex phenomenon.
L20|El reto de un nuevo modelo de crecimiento económico para China|The last 35 years have been years of change for the Chinese economy: changes in the economic structure of the country, its internal economic rules and the way in which it relates to the rest of the world. We have witnessed major efforts focused on industrial development and on maintaining a high level of exports. In the past five years, following the onset of the international financial crisis in 2008, calls by the authorities for reforms in the economic structure and model of China raise the question of whether this first great economic revolution can be seen as over, and whether we are witnessing the beginning of further changes. It also raises the issue of what consequences there may be for the economy of the country and for its businesses, and for the natural equilibrium towards which the historic and cultural development of the Chinese people has been heading for millennia.
L20|La involuntariedad en el empleo a tiempo parcial y la Gran Recesión: un análisis de género en España|Conventionally, an increased presence of women in part-time work has been linked in the relevant literature with the need to reconcile family life with work. However, in the context of the current economic recession different employment patterns have been observed. This article seeks to analyse the patterns of participation and involuntariness in part-time employment from a gender perspective. We focus on identifying the determinant factors in working part-time in relation to personal characteristics, job characteristics and major economic theories. Our findings reveal that involuntariness has increased sharply among men due, among other issues, to workforce adjustments introduced as a result of the economic recession.
L20|Depreciation of Business R&D Capital|We develop a forward‐looking profit model to estimate the depreciation rates of business R&D capital. By using data from BEA and NSF between 1987 and 2007, and the newly developed model, we estimate both constant and time‐varying industry‐specific R&D depreciation rates. The results comprise a set of R&D depreciation rates for major U.S. high-tech industries. They align with the main conclusions from recent studies that the rates are in general higher than the traditionally assumed 15 percent and vary across industries. The relative ranking of the constant R&D depreciation rates among industries is consistent with industry observations and the industry‐specific time‐varying rates are informative about the dynamics of technological change and the levels of competition across industries. Lastly, we also present a cross‐country comparison of the R&D depreciation rates between the U.S. and Japan, and find that the results reflect the relative technological competitiveness in key industries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L20|Self-employed Person, Family Enterprise, Individual Enterprise: A Legal, Fiscal and Accounting Perspective|An ambitious initiative of the European Commission, also presented the Europe 2020 Strategy, is that, by 2020, 75% of the population aged between 20 and 64 be employed. The responsibility for action in this regard must not belong to governments only, but also to companies, trade unions, NGOs, local authorities and to each person individually. An important role in creating jobs in Romania is played by the self-employed persons, individual enterprises and family enterprises. They offer unemployed people the opportunity to bring their contribution to the economy and society. In this paper, we have proposed an analysis of the self-employed persons, individual enterprises and family enterprises as ways to exercise the free enterprise and a person’s free access to an economic activity, in three areas: legal, taxation and accounting.
L20|Compared performances of French companies on the domestic and foreign markets|In France, the balance of trade has deteriorated almost continuously since the late 1990s to the early 2010s. Many studies have focused on losses in export market share. But how does the performance of French companies stand up on the domestic market? An examination of the macroeconomic data shows that the performance of companies in France has declined fairly sharply in exports, but that this decline has been rather smaller on the domestic market. At the firm level, a given companys export performance and domestic market performance have a tendency, albeit slight, to move in opposite directions. This may be due to factors such as a deliberate company strategy to target a specific market or the presence of production constraints. However, our analysis shows that a positive demand shock in the domestic market in which the company is present, resulting in a rise in domestic sales, then leads to an increase in exports. This complementarity seems to be driven by small companies and could reflect the existence of liquidity constraints. Increased sales in one market could lessen these constraints, by facilitating funding for company development in the second market. Strong domestic demand during the pre-crisis period in France is therefore not an explanatory factor of losses in export market share.
L20|Regulation, red tape and location choices of top R&D investors|This paper investigates how product and labour market regulations and red tape affect the way in which top corporate research and development (R&D) investors worldwide organise their cross-border operations. The decision about where a company locates its international subsidiaries is modelled using location-specific framework conditions, socio-economic factors and other controls commonly used in the economic geography literature. The location decision drivers are estimated using a multilevel mixed-effects logistic regression, controlling for both fixed and random effects. Our results confirm that both product market regulation (PMR) and employment protection legislation (EPL) significantly affect the location decisions of top R&D investors, as well as red tape and profit tax. The marginal effect of PMR is by far the largest, followed by EPL; the cost of starting a business and profit tax show lower marginal effects. Moreover, we found that (i) PMR and EPL are complementary (i.e. reducing one would also reduce the negative impact of the other) and (ii) of the three components of the PMR indicator —barriers to trade and investment, state control and barriers to entrepreneurship—the latter is the one with the lowest marginal effect. Policy implications are drawn accordingly.
L20|Comparative analysis of private and public provision of the water and waste services by the Italian municipalities|This paper investigates the behavior of private and publicly-owned corporations providing services in local industries that have undergone restructuring interventions since the Nineties in order to promote market contestability. Based on the approaches arising from the transaction costs theory, the paper proposes a comparative analysis of the economic and financial efficiency of a sample of local utilities supplying services in the water and waste industries, observed from 2008 to 2010. The efficiency analysis is achieved by measuring the distance from the stochastic frontier of the production costs of each firm, and the financial efficiency analysis through statement ratios. The findings of the study generally confirm the implications of the transaction costs approach and they show a wide convergence trend between privately and publicly owned organizations for the degree of utilization of input as well as for the financial efficiency analysis. There are sometimes slight differentials on the part of public companies, especially for the larger ones, which can be largely explained by the existence of more stringent welfare-oriented objectives.
L20|Firm migration to informality and trade openness in developing countries|Our main question is why a formal firm becomes informal. We hypothesize that sales behavior and trade openness and are related to this behavior. We present empirical evidence to argue that firm informalization is a strategy conducted to face a downturn in sales. However, the country level of trade openness as a proxy for the average level of managerial abilities of firms reduces the impact of a drop in sales on firm informalization. For this purpose, we draw upon data from 636 firms in 12 developing countries from World Bank surveys and apply a simultaneous equation framework with a dichotomous dependent variable.
L20|Cooperative Sustainability Analysis from the Perspective of Entrepreneurial Personality and Entrepreneurial Intention|"""Objective – This paper analyses the sustainability of cooperatives in the West-Bandung Regency from the perspective of entrepreneurial personality and intention. The aim of this paper is to see whether the viability of cooperative can still be maintained and whether it can still be taken as the foundation of the people’s economy, seen from the perspective of the aspect of its members’ entrepreneurship. Methodology/Technique – The method used is quantitative in nature using the Structural Equation Model (SEM) as the tool of analysis. Findings – The results show that the variable with the highest influence is entrepreneurial personality on intention, and the variable with the lowest influence is entrepreneurial intention on value creation. Novelty – This paper holds strong implications with one indicating that the regional government is strongly advised to facilitate and guide cooperative sustainability through formal programs such as through guided consultations on cooperative management or through seminars, workshops and trainings to develop qualified cooperative members."""
L20|Les Investissements De Sécurisation Des Sites Industriels À Risque Et La Concertation Entre Firmes Et Riverains : Une Approche Théorique|Cet article propose une modélisation de la concertation entre industries à risque et riverains sur les investissements de sécurité à mettre en oeuvre. Le modèle permet de déterminer à quels niveaux tendent à se fixer le taux de profit espéré et le taux d’investissement de sécurisation. L’intérêt des riverains, favorables à plus de sécurité, n’est pas forcément incompatible avec l’intérêt de la firme : une exigence plus grande des riverains en matière de sécurité peut s’accompagner d’une hausse simultanée de l’investissement de sécurisation et du taux de profit espéré. Dans cette situation, nous suggérons la nécessité de rendre la concertation plus équilibrée en permettant aux riverains de commander des contre-expertises en matière d’études de danger.
L20|Do Multinationals Pay Less in Taxes than Domestic Firms? Evidence from the Swedish Manufacturing Sector|There is a strong general concern amongst policymakers worldwide that multinational enterprises engage in far-reaching tax-planning activities. It is generally thought that by using transfer pricing or other techniques to shift profits, multinational enterprises can avoid taxation and thereby erode tax bases. Several attempts have been made to tackle this problem, not least through the OECD/G20 initiated Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. It is hard, however, to empirically quantify the magnitude of tax-planning activities that takes place. In this paper, we rely on census data from tax return and income statements and balance sheets reported by Swedish manufacturing firms in the 1997-2007 time period to identify possible profit-shifting activities by multinational enterprises. We study systematic differences between multinational and comparable domestic firms in tax payments, profits, earnings before interest and taxes, and equity ratios using difference-in-differences estimations based on propensity score matching. The detailed data allow us to narrow down the empirical focus and investigate not only whether multinational pay less in taxes than domestic firms, but also how tax planning activities may take place through transfer pricing and/or internal debt set-ups.
L20|The Superstar and the Followers: Intra-Firm Product Complementarity in International Trade|This paper investigates whether firms’ exports of different products within a market are systematically interconnected. Using high-quality Swedish firm-registry data from 1997-2011, I first document that the distribution of firm export sales is skewed towards their best performing products (‘superstars’). I then use a novel instrumental variable approach to identify if the ‘superstar’ products induce more trade of non-superstar products. I find evidence that the exports of low-ranked (non-star) products of a firm are contingent on the exports of a single superstar product to each destination. Extending the ‘superstar’ concept to a ‘superstar core’ of products strengthens this result. Hence, I find that the exports of non-star products complements the superstar(s) while conversely, the same complementarity is not found using low-ranked products as placebo-superstars. The main contributions of this paper is identifying a new, sizeable and systematic intra-firm-destination one-way demand driven complementarity between products that can explain export sales variation within a market. Ignoring this pattern of between product dependency may lead to an over-emphasis on product scope as products should not be viewed in isolation.
L20|Brand Loyalty and Generic Competition|"Facing generic competition, a brand-name drug company sometimes launches its own generic called an ""authorized generic"" (AG) through a third-party entity. If an authorized party transfers a substantial part of its profits to the brand-name drug company, the latter's total profit increases as a result and every branded drug that comes off the patent should have its AG version. However, in actual fact only a small proportion of branded drugs have AGs. To explain this puzzle, I develop a model that features switching costs due to the customer base a brand-name drug develops prior to generic entry. The model predicts that AGs are launched when switching costs to the generics are sufficiently low. I test this hypothess using prescription drug data and find strong support for it."
L20|Las spin-off universitarias españolas: análisis económico-financiero y factores que condicionan su cifra de negocios|En este trabajo se analiza la situación económico-financiera de las spin-off universitarias españolas en 2012 y los factores que afectan a su cifra de negocios. De la información disponible sobre 346 empresas, se de¬duce que en su mayoría son pequeñas, de servicios y jóvenes. En general se muestran solventes, aunque deben mejorar sus resultados de explotación. Su cifra de negocios media ronda los 400 mil euros, siendo las spin-off que superan este importe las más veteranas, que han surgido en universidades que ceden espacios físicos para su ubicación y se encuentran en los primeros cuartiles del ranking investigador.
L20|The Administrative Formalization Of The Small And Medium-Sized Enterprise Of The Food Industry From Ciudad Obregã“N, Sonora, Mexico, La Formalizacion Administrativa De La Pequena Y Mediana Empresa Industrial Alimentaria De Ciudad Obregon, Sonora,Mexico|The purpose of the present study was to determine the level of formalization for each element of the administrative process of small and medium-sized enterprise (SMEs). We specifically examine the food industry from Ciudad Obregon, Sonora, Mexico. We take as reference a total population of 60 companies of this sector. From this population we obtained a total sample of 52 local companies, of which 40 participated in the study (66.7%). In addition, a measurement instrument with Likert-type questions was administered to assess the elements of the administrative process (Cronbach Alfa = .880). The obtained results showed that the local SMEs of this sector do not have a formalized administrative process. This absence provides the opportunity for intervention programs and future studies of explanatory scope for deepening and understanding this type of organization
L20|Technology Entry in the Presence of Patent Thickets|We analyze the effect of patent thickets on entry into technology areas by firms in the UK. We present a model that describes incentives to enter technology areas characterized by varying technological opportunity, complexity of technology, and the potential for hold?up in patent thickets. We show empirically that our measure of patent thickets is associated with a reduction of first time patenting in a given technology area controlling for the level of technological complexity and opportunity. Technological areas characterized by more technological complexity and opportunity, in contrast, see more entry. Our evidence indicates that patent thickets raise entry costs, which leads to less entry into technologies regardless of a firm?s size.
L20|Conflict Resolution, Public Goods, and Patent Thickets|Postgrant validity challenges at patent offices rely on the private initiative of third parties to correct mistakes made by patent offices. We hypothesize that incentives to bring postgrant validity challenges are reduced when many firms benefit from revocation of a patent and when firms are caught up in patent thickets. Using data on opposition to patents at the European Patent Office we show that opposition decreases in fields in which many others profit from patent revocations. Moreover, in fields with a large number of mutually blocking patents, the incidence of opposition is sharply reduced, particularly among large firms and firms that are caught up directly in patent thickets. These findings indicate that postgrant patent review may not constitute an effective correction device for erroneous patent grants in technologies affected by either patent thickets or highly dispersed patent ownership. This paper was accepted by Lee Fleming, entrepreneurship and innovation .
L20|Regulation, Red Tape and Location Choices of Top R&D Investors|This paper investigates how product and labour market regulations and red tape affect the way in which top corporate research and development (R&D) investors worldwide organise their crossborder operations. The decision about where a company locates its international subsidiaries is modelled using location-specific framework conditions, socio-economic factors and other controls commonly used in the economic geography literature. The location decision drivers are estimated using a multilevel mixed-effects logistic regression, controlling for both fixed and random effects. Our results confirm that both product market regulation (PMR) and employment protection legislation (EPL) significantly affect the location decisions of top R&D investors, as well as red tape and profit tax. The marginal effect of PMR is by far the largest, followed by EPL; the cost of starting a business and profit tax show lower marginal effects. Moreover, we found that (i) PMR and EPL exert a mutually reinforcing negative effect on the location decision of top R&D investors and (ii) of the three components of the PMR indicator —barriers to trade and investment, state control and barriers to entrepreneurship—the latter is the one with the lowest marginal effect. Policy implications are drawn accordingly.
L20|How Do Labor Representatives Affect Incentive Orientation of Executive Compensation?|Contrary to previous literature we hypothesize that labor's interest may well – like that of shareholders – aim at securing the long-run survival of the firm. Consequently, employee representatives on the supervisory board could well have an interest in increasing incentive-based compensation to avoid management's excessive risk taking and short-run oriented decisions. We compile unique panel data on executive compensation over the periods 2006 to 2011 for 405 listed companies and use a Hausman-Taylor approach to estimate the effect of codetermination on the compensation design. Finally, codetermination has a significantly positive effect on performance-based components of compensation, which supports our hypothesis.
L20|Measuring entrepreneurship: Type, motivation, and growth|Policymakers rely on entrepreneurs to create jobs, provide incomes, innovate, pay taxes to support public revenues, create competition in industries, and much more. Due to its highly heterogeneous nature, the choice of entrepreneurship measures is critically important, impacting the diagnosis, analysis, projection, and understanding of potential and existing policy. Some key aspects to measure include the how (self-employment, new firm formation), why (necessity, opportunity), and what (growth). As such, gaining better insight into the challenges of measuring entrepreneurship is a necessary and productive investment for policymakers.
L20|Exclusive contracts with private information in successive differentiated oligopolies|Abstract The purpose of this article is to analyze the incentives of manufacturers to deal exclusively with retailers in bilaterally duopolistic industries with brand differentiation by manufacturers. In contrast with the previous literature, exclusive contracts are shown to generate higher profits for manufacturers and retailers selling highly differentiated products, who thus have an incentive to insist on exclusive contracting. However, if the products are close substitutes no exclusivity will emerge in equilibrium. Furthermore, we show that exclusive contracts decrease both consumer and social welfare.
L20|Not just like starting over - Leadership and revivification of cooperation in groups|Abstract We conduct a laboratory experiment to study how, after a history of decay, cooperation in a repeated voluntary contribution game can be revived in an enduring way. Simply starting the repeated game over—a simple fresh start—leads to an initial increase of cooperation, but to a subsequent new decay. Motivated by cooperation decay in organizations we study the potential of three interventions of triggering higher and sustained cooperation, which take place at the same time as a restart. Surprisingly, we find that the detailed explanation of the causes of the decay in cooperation of Fischbacher and Gächter (Am Econ Rev 100:541–556, 2010) combined with an advice on how to prevent decay do not have an effect beyond that of just starting over. In contrast, a one-way free form communication message sent by the leader to the followers strongly revives cooperation. We find evidence that repeated free form communication by the leader further strengthens the reviving effect on cooperation. Combining the two previous interventions does not outperform the pure effect of communication. Our content analysis reveals that leader communication is more people oriented than the expert advice.
L20|Family Control, Socioemotional Wealth, and Governance Environment: The Case of Bribes|Abstract This study examines the relationship between family control and young entrepreneurial firm’s bribing behavior around the globe. Relying on over 2,000 young firms from the World Bank Environment Survey, we find that family control helps to reduce a firm’s bribery behavior, but further investigation shows that this effect only exists in countries with weaker macro-governance environment. In countries with more established and transparent governance mechanism, family control does not seem to make any difference. We interpret our findings as the business family’s preservation of socioemotional wealth.
L20|The role of universities in the location of innovative start-ups|Abstract Start-ups increasingly find the prospect of university–industry collaborations to be a powerful driver of innovation and entrepreneurship activity. Moreover, at the geographical level, they are attracted by teaching and research institutions, either public or private. This paper focuses on the role played by universities. Our hypothesis is that geographical proximity favors the transfer of knowledge and technology from universities to industries and, consequently, represents a positive factor for regional economic development. Results show that university spillovers are positively correlated with the creation of innovative start-ups. Furthermore, the presence of human capital (graduates) exerts a significant influence on the location decisions of start-ups, being a source for competitiveness for firms close to universities. Research quality, especially in the social sciences area, attracts innovative start-ups, while third-mission activities have a weak impact on locational choice.
L20|University knowledge and firm innovation: evidence from European countries|Abstract In recent decades, firms have intensified the exploration of external sources of knowledge to enhance their innovation capabilities. This paper presents an empirical analysis of the factors that affect the importance of academic knowledge for firms’ innovation activities. An integrated approach that simultaneously considers country- and firm-level factors is adopted. Regarding the former factors, the analysis shows that the entrepreneurial orientation of university and the quality of academic research increase the importance of knowledge transfers from universities to firms. This suggests that the environmental and institutional context contributes to cross-national disparities in university-industry interactions and the effectiveness of knowledge transfer. In regard to the latter factors, the results indicate that firms oriented toward open search strategies and radical innovations are more likely to draw knowledge from universities. Furthermore, firms belonging to high technology sectors and firms with high absorptive capacity place greater value on the various links with universities. With respect to firm size, the estimates show an inverted U-shaped relation with the importance of universities as a source of knowledge.
L20|A cross-national analysis of policies affecting innovation diffusion|Abstract Innovation diffusion is important for both firms’ profitability and countries’ economic growth. For these reasons, policies that aim to reduce the main barriers to innovation diffusion are a relevant issue on the agenda of most policy makers. Although the importance of this topic is widely recognized, few studies explore public policies that aim to enhance innovation diffusion. This article attempts to fill this literature gap. Specifically, the study aims to clarify the role of policy makers in promoting new technology diffusion, to identify the barriers that affect the process of innovation diffusion and that are relevant for public policy makers and to analyze potential policies to overcome the main barriers to the diffusion of new relevant technologies. This study shows that public policies must simultaneously address the most relevant barriers to the diffusion of a new technology to be effective. Focusing on only specific barriers by developing policies with a too narrow scope may lead to poor results. The study explores a topic that is almost neglected in the innovation management literature. On the one hand, the article provides a conceptual framework for analyzing public policies. On the other hand, it proposes an overview of the repertoire of policies that policy makers can use to overcome the most relevant barriers to the diffusion of a new technology. In doing so, it also contributes to the debate about the role of the policy maker in the process of innovation development and diffusion.
L20|Innovation strategies of firms: What strategies and why?|Abstract This paper analyzes various innovation strategies of firms. Using five waves of the Community Innovation Survey in Sweden, we have traced the innovative behavior of firms over a 10-year period, i.e. between 2002 and 2012. We distinguish between sixteen innovation strategies, which compose of Schumpeterian four types of innovations (process, product, marketing, and organizational) plus various combinations of these four types. First, we find that firms are not homogenous in choosing innovation strategies, instead, they have a wide range of preferences when it comes to innovation strategy and some of the innovation strategies are “commonly” used among firms. Second, using Transition Probability Matrix, we found that firms also persist to have such a diverse innovation strategy preferences. Finally, using Multinomial Logit model, we explained the determinant of each and every innovation strategies, while we gave special attention to the commonly used innovation strategies among firms.
L20|Bizalom az üzleti kapcsolatokban. A diadikus adatelemzés egy alkalmazása<BR>[Trust in business relations - an application of dyadic data analysis]|A tanulmány arra a feltevésre épül, hogy minél erősebb a bizalomra méltóság szintje egy adott üzleti kapcsolatban, annál inkább igaz, hogy nagy kockázatú tevékenységek mennek végbe benne. Ilyen esetekben a bizalomra méltóság a kapcsolatban zajló események, cselekvések irányítási eszközévé válik, és azüzleti kapcsolatban megjelenik a cselekvési hajlandóságként értelmezett bizalom. A tanulmány felhívja a figyelmet a bizalom és a bizalomra méltóság fogalmai közötti különbségre, szisztematikus különválasztásuk fontosságára. Bemutatja az úgynevezett diadikus adatelemzés gazdálkodástudományi alkalmazását. Empirikus eredményei is igazolják, hogy ezzel a módszerrel az üzleti kapcsolatok társas jellemzőinek (köztük a bizalomnak) és a közöttük lévő kapcsolatoknak mélyebb elemzésére nyílik lehetőség. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: C49, D22, L20, M20.
L20|1st Scientific Researches Congress Humanity and Social Sciences|In this study, the evaluation of the 1st International Scientific Researches Congress Humanity and Social Sciences held on 19-22 May 2016 in Madrid will be mentioned.
L20|Import Competition and the Composition of Firm Investments|We study how foreign competition affects the composition of investments inside firms. A parsimonious model predicts that firms have an incentive to shift their investments towards more short-term assets when exposed to tougher competition. Using data on expenditures of listed US companies into various asset classes with different lifespans, we document empirical evidence that is consistent with this prediction. Over a fifteen year period between 1995 and 2009, the rise in import competition is associated with a reduction of the firm-specific asset lifespan by about 4.5% on average. We additionally exploit the Chinese WTO accession as an exogenous shock in firm expectations about future exposure to competition.
L20|A cross-sectoral analysis of climate change risk drivers based on companies’ responses to the CDP’s climate change information request|Companies are increasingly concerned with current and future climate change risks that have the potential to generate a substantial change in their business operations, revenue and/or expenditure. Therefore, the paper focusses on the companies’ perspective and aims to create a higher awareness of companies’ risk drivers when it comes to specific challenges of different sectors as well as each company within its sector. Based on companies’ responses to the CDP’s climate change information request 2013, including 125 companies from Germany, Austria and Switzerland, the paper presents a detailed companies´ perspective on climate-related risk-drivers, comprising i) changes in regulation, ii) changes in physical climate parameters and iii) changes in other climate-related developments. Hence, the paper provides insights into climate change and adaptation related risks for companies. Furthermore, the results also facilitate a comparison of risk drivers between and within sectors. This also enables companies to i) position themselves regarding the potential threat they might be facing now and in the future, ii) assess their competitive advantages and disadvantages as well as prioritize risk drivers they have to deal with by evaluating their own position within the sector-specific analysis. Regarding specific threats companies are facing, they furthermore have the possibility to take good practices and innovative ideas from companies out of different sectors into consideration, aiming for an efficient and effective adaptation to climate change. Thus, the study’s findings can also serve as an innovative starting point for further research as well as the practical implementation of adaptation measures.
L20|Decision-Making under Stress and Its Implications for Managerial Decision-Making: A Review of Literature|We examine the main theoretical models of decision making under stress and the effects of decision stress on decision making process to provide a deeper understanding of the decision making phenomenon. The literature review reveals that stress can have an impact on each stage of the decision-making process. The review also finds that decision makers could enhance their decision-making performance and prevent potential decision failures by means of adapting certain coping strategies.
L20|Quale qualità del lavoro per le donne nella meccanica modenese? Una ricerca sul campo|The concept of “Quality of Work” (in Italian, QdL) has a central role in the analysis of the working conditions. It becomes even more actual and important when the economy is going through an extended crisis and the analysis concernes the conditions of working life of women employed in a sector considered typically male as the engineering one. The paper analyzes, through the methodologies of automatic text analysis, twelve inter-views realized in 2012 in the context of the project “SONIA. The mechanics of wom-en”, a research project developed by Officina Emilia initiative of the University of Mo-dena and Reggio Emilia. The three firms (BD Torneria, WAM, TetraPak) are located in the engineering district of the province of Modena, but they are extremely different for dimension, typology and for the policies reserved to female workers. The aim of the paper is to identify which words are used by interviewees to describe the different dimensions of the Quality of Work that can be found in literature and to verify if and how these words change depending on the variables linked to size of the firm, its typology and to gender policies.
L20|Say Pays! Shareholder Voice and Firm Performance|"This article estimates the effects of Say-on-Pay (SoP), a policy that increases shareholder ""voice"" by providing shareholders with a regular vote on executive pay. We apply a regression discontinuity design to the votes on shareholder-sponsored SoP proposals. Adopting SoP leads to large increases in market value (5%) and to improvements in long-term profitability. In contrast, it has limited effects on pay levels and structure. Taken together our results suggest that SoP can be seen as a repeated regular vote of confidence on the CEO and that it serves as a disciplining device."
L20|Do generic strategies impact performance in higher educational institutions? A SEM-based investigation|This study set out to initiate an investigation into the linkage between generic strategy and performance in higher educational institutions and the moderating effect of institution-type. Using structural equation modeling (SEM), it examined the responses of a stratified sample of academics and administrative staff (n= 333) randomly selected from eight universities in northern Cyprus. Findings suggest that while there is a weak effect of differentiation strategy on performance, a strong effect was recorded for focus strategy on performance. However, no significant relationship was found between cost leadership strategy and performance in higher educational institutions. Findings further indicated that respondents from public-private universities perceived the strongest generic strategy-performance effect for their institution, followed by those from the public sector. Respondents from private institutions perceived the weakest strategy-performance effect for their institutions.
L20|Contemporary Organization And A Perspective On Integration And Development|The modern organization is becoming more complex and dynamic. Handling such an organization often requires new solutions in order to quickly counter complexity in economy, politics and private life sectors. The cure to this situation may be understanding the complex connections between elements in the system. Thereupon, in the article the modern organization is presented with the use of a network using know-why type thinking as also a model of an effective system taken from nature, which refers to two determinants – integration and development. The aim of the article is an attempt to answer the question what conditions have to be fulfilled, for the organization to give a feeling of integration and development with a detailed focus on the balance between the two factors.
L20|The effect of network externalities on entry in a Spence-Dixit model|"This paper studies the effect of consumption externalities on entry decision in network industries in a Spence-Dixit entry model. It is shown that, when entry is considered, the presence of network externalities raises the sunk cost threshold that blocks the potential competitor's entry. However, the difference between the thresholds to deter and accommodate entry enlarges: entry is relatively ""less blockaded"" but ""more deterred"" than in a standard goods industry."
L20|Исследование Специфики Применения Фактора Времени В Современных Экономических Процессах<BR>[The research of time factor application specific in the current economic processes]|Целью статьи является исследование влияния времени, как параметра, на экономические процессы и выявление особенностей такого влияния. Современная экономическая ситуация характеризуется большой динамичностью, что требует дополнительного изучения влияния времени на экономические процессы, оценки результатов влияния. В процессе рассмотрения выявлено, что современное представление о времени, как об экономическом факторе, находится на стадии формирования. По результатам исследования показано, что фактор времени рассматривается в зависимости от двух основных признаков: масштаба экономического агента и длительности временного интервала, для которого рассматривается процесс. The aim of the article is to study the effect of time, as a parameter, on economic processes and the identification of peculiarities of such influence. The current economic situation is characterized by a great dynamism that requires further study of time effect on economic processes and estimation of the results of this effect. During consideration, it was revealed that the modern idea of time as an economic factor exists at the stage of formation. The study shows that the time factor is considered as a function of two main features: the scale of the economic agent and the duration of time interval for considered process.
L20|Quantum strategy synthesis by Alphabet Inc|We make the business at the time of great transition from the digital disruption to the quantum disruption, when the multiple quantum inventions in the natural/social sciences lead to the quantum leaps realization by the modern firms in the hi-tech industries in the quantum creative economies of the scales and scopes in the quantum disruption age. At this opportunities/challenges time period, a chairman of the board of directors must take a personal responsibility for the creation and execution of the quantum strategy - a most effective winning virtuous organizational strategy - toward the optimal business model design/discovery for the prosperous effective organization in the quantum creative economies of the scales and scopes in the quantum disruption century. The quantum strategy uses the quantum strategy search algorithm, applying the quantum logic (the probabilistic logic) on the top of the inductive, deductive and abductive logics (the value based logics) with the purpose to create the most effective optimal winning virtuous organizational strategy by the chairman of the board of directors with the interlocking interconnecting directors in the modern firms in the quantum creative economies of the scales and scopes in the quantum disruption time. We study the case on the quantum strategy formulation and execution by a chairmen of the boards of directors with the interlocking interconnecting directors in the modern firms such as Alphabet Inc, expressing a great confidence that the quantum strategies will continue to be implemented by the prosperous organizations to increase their valuations in the quantum creative economies of the scales and scopes in the quantum disruption century.
L20|An analysis of Joseph Schumpeter's life, concept of innovation, and application for Estonia|This research studies a basic concept of Schumpeterian Theory by exploring the life of Joseph Schumpeter and the application for Estonia. The secondary data were taken from World Values Survey (WVS); a worldwide group of researchers observing global values and their effect on society as a whole with headquarters in Sweden. Author took the most recent data of WVS in wave six (year 2010-2014) with the total of 74,042 cases for analysis. An analysis was performed by multiple regressions and no multicollinearity problems were detected. The results show that the nature of tasks (both manual vs. intellectual and routine vs. creative) affects the importance of employees being creative. Further analysis was performed by an independent pair sample T-test and the result shows that there are differences in the nature of tasks (both manual vs. intellectual and routine vs. creative) of Estonian and global employees. Subsequently, the final analysis was performed to explore the difference in the nature of tasks in intellectual and creative Estonian and global employees. However, there is no difference in this aspect between them.
