L21|The Micro-economics of Export Supply: Firm-Level Evidence from Mexico|This paper uses firm-level data for Mexican exporters to understand how firm-level export decisions shape a country's aggregate exports. The data allows for a characterization of both the crosssectional distribution of Mexican exports, across destinations and across exporting firms, and of the time-series variation in aggregate exports and its relation to time-series variation in the export supply decisions of firms. It is found that the cross-sectional variation of exports is mostly accounted for the extensive margins of trade, particularly the extensive margin of number of products exported, while the time-series variation in aggregate exports is mostly accounted for by the intensive margin of trade, and in particular by the growth of exporting firms that retain their export status from year to year.
L21|Equity Finance: Matching Liability to Power|There is widespread concern that the bonus culture for senior managers in limited liability companies is having adverse effects, e.g. on risk-taking, leverage and lower longer-term investment. The moral hazard of limited liability was appreciated in the 19th century, when unlimited or multiple liability, especially for bankers, was widely adopted. Whereas outside, notably retail, investors still need the protection of limited liability, we advocate moving towards a two-tier equity system, primarily for banks, with insiders, senior managers and others with influence over corporate decisions, becoming subject to multiple liability. But the transition costs of doing so suddenly would be great, so our proposal is to start by applying this initially just to Systemically Important Financial Intermediaries.
L21|De l’intérêt de créer un nouveau concept: la lucrativité limitée|The Interest in Creating a New Legal Concept: Limited Lucrativity The notion of non-profit is one of the foundations of the social economy. However, this reality is never accepted as a structuring criterion in Union law. Based on an analysis of European Union law rules and the case law of the European Court of Justice (ECJ), the purpose of this article is first to show that the concept of non-profitmaking is not operational to distinguish profit-making enterprises from social economy enterprises. On this basis, the second question will be to determine what can be done to promote a better legal recognition of the social economy and its particularities in the European system. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union defines two categories of organisations: on the one hand, those organisations that do not seek profit and, on the other hand, civil or commercial law companies, which include cooperative companies. Under European Union law, certain associations, as well as all mutuals and cooperatives, are grouped together with profit-making companies. Wheter an entity is described, under its national law, as a non-profit or for-profit entity never has any beary on the application of Union’s law. It is therefore difficult to find examples in positive law where the absence of profit is valued per se and could be considered in the application of internal market and competition legislation. However, this reality has an impact on the way economic activity is carried out. Social economy enterprises therefore do not find their place in the current legal 6 frameworks. They are positioned in the same competitive perimeter as for-profit companies. How can the singularity of social economy enterprises in terms of limited profit distribution be reflected in the European Union laws? According to the binary classification currently used, neither their complete assimilation into the for-profit category nor their classification as non-profit enterprises reflect what social economy enterprises are and their needs. The first step of a useful response was taken by the ECJ in a decision concerning cooperatives. The ongoing work of the European Commission and the European Parliament to promote the concept of social enterprise in European Union law also offers interesting avenues for reflection. To go even further, we propose to introduce into EU law the notion of limited lucrativity, which would define all organisations (sometimes also called “not-for-profit entities”) which are likely to make profits but which are not intended to distribute them to their owners because their final purpose is different. This European concept would be operational because it could lead to the application of specific rules, for example on competition, public procurement or taxation. In any case, the aim would be to restore the conditions for free and undistorted competition with profit-making companies that are not subject to the same constraints on access to capital. The introduction of this concept into Union law would lead to better political recognition and legal translation at European level of one of the strong characteristics of social economy enterprises.
L21|La governance delle universita' italiane dopo la Riforma Gelmini: un'indagine empirica sui processi decisionali| In the last decades, the political and academic discussion on university governance has been characterized by two different perspectives. On one hand, the New Public Management approach, in which universities are seen as institutions in a quasi-market in which political authority appoints external agents and imposes incentive to align to its goals the interests of the universities and of those who work there. On the other hand, a perspective in which universities are understood as publicly regulated institutions, whose main aim is the cooperation between the stakeholders that sustains the fundamental relationships between different university components and the investments in human capital . In this context, we study the reform introduced in Italy by the Law 30 December 2010, n 240 that redesigned the governance of Italian universities. We use an unique dataset on Italian universities to investigate, beyond the letter of the law (and statutes), the internal governance patterns that emerged after the reform. The results show that, even in the presence of a common regulatory framework, a variety of governance models have been implemented by the universities. Such models ranges in a continuum between a vertical and a shared governance model. Furthermore, the data confirm the hypothesis that in many (even if not all) of the universities the stakeholders who hold the essential cognitive resources and the specific investments in the university, respond so as to introduce functional balances that prevent opportunistic behaviors that would otherwise expropriate their investments. Negli ultimi decenni, la discussione sui meccanismi e i modelli di governo delle università è caratterizzata sul piano politico e su quello scientifico da due visioni di fondo profondamente diverse. Da un lato, la visione del New Public Management (NPM) , in cui le università sono viste come istituzioni che operano in un quasi-mercato in cui l’autorità politica svolge il suo ruolo attraverso la nomina di amministratori esterni e impone meccanismi di incentivo volti ad allineare gli interessi delle università e di chi vi opera (gli agenti) a obiettivi prefissati. Dall’altro, una visione che guarda alle università in una logica di autonomia e insieme di responsabilità sociale verso i suoi diversi stakeholder interni ed esterni. In questa prospettiva, le università sono intese come istituzioni pubbliche finanziate e regolate nei loro obiettivi generali dallo Stato ma autonome e auto-governate, il cui problema principale è la cooperazione tra gli stakeholder essenziali e la accountability verso gli stakeholder esterni. In questo quadro si inserisce la riforma introdotta in Italia con la legge 30 Dicembre 2010, n 240. Nonostante l’iniziale ispirazione all’approccio NPM, tuttavia, l’assetto di governo alla fine risultante dalla legge e dagli statuti approvati non introduce in modo effettivo il controllo esterno tipico del NPM, ma nemmeno si rifà al modello di governance condivisa di tipo multi-stakeholder. Risulta quindi importante per cogliere i mutamenti in corso, l’analisi delle prassi di governance in atto nelle Università e delle concrete dinamiche. Solo con questa analisi si può infatti verificare l’effettivo impatto che la normativa ha avuto, ed, eventualmente, i fattori che, pur in presenza di un quadro normativo prefissato, hanno comportato una diversa implementazione di tale nuovo modello di governance. In questo articolo, sulla base di ipotesi ricavate dalla ricostruzione a grandi linee del dibattito teorico, intendiamo indagare gli effettivi modelli decisionali in atto nelle Università italiane, utilizzando i principali risultati di un’indagine sulla governance delle università nel post-riforma. L’indagine, condotta nel 2015 è stata svolta attraverso questionari on-line somministrati a tutti i Rettori e Direttori di dipartimento delle università italiane, con un elevato tasso di risposta (quasi il 40%) che rende i risultati decisamente significativi e rilevanti, data l’estrema articolazione dei questionari e, quindi la ricchezza dei dati raccolti. Nell’articolo presentiamo i dati relativi ai modelli decisionali a livello di ateneo, il peso dei diversi stakeholder nel processo decisionale relativamente ad una pluralità di ambiti di intervento (dal bilancio, alla ripartizione dei fondi di ricerca, alla gestione del personale) e le valutazioni che i Direttori danno del mutamento in atto. I risultati mostrano, che di fronte allo shock esogeno della riforma, nelle università si forma una pluralità di modelli di governance che variano in un continuum tra un modello verticale e un modello bilanciato. Inoltre, i dati confermano l’ipotesi che in molti (anche se non tutti) atenei gli agenti che detengono le risorse cognitive essenziali e gli investimenti specifici nell’università, rispondono, in base alla loro forza strategica, mediante adattamenti degli effettivi meccanismi di governance, in modo da reintrodurre bilanciamenti funzionali a prevenire i comportamenti opportunistici (tra cui l’abuso di autorità) che li esproprierebbero.
L21|Academic Shared Governance And Performance: Theoretical Issues And Empirical Evidence|In the debate surrounding various reforms in higher education systems, performance, along with how universities should be governed, have been main issues. We argue that the demand for shared governance, i.e., faculty participation in decision‐making vs. concentrated or top‐down decision‐ making, is driven by the characteristics of academic transactions. Especially in universities, shared governance prevents that the unilateral allocation of authority paves the way to the abuse of authority, which would depress incentives to undertake optimal idiosyncratic investments in human cognitive resources, or prevent cooperation in a context characterized by contractual incompleteness and transactions involving multiple specific investments and coessential resources. To empirically analyze our hypothesis, we collect original survey data of Italian universities in 2015. We find that shared decision‐making processes are correlated with better performance.
L21|Russian industrial sector in 2018: slowdown of exiting from stagnation of 2012–2016 (on business surveys’ findings)|Prolonged period of industrial business surveys conducted by the Gaidar Institute and representative range of indicators permit to resolve the first task – analyze the situation in the sector in 2018 – determine the place for the year 2018 in all the 27 years since the IET launched and carried out business surveys between 1992–2018. For this purpose, we will use aggregate indicators. The latter are usually calculated on a monthly basis on the findings obtained from monthly surveys. They became widely popular owing to promptness of the findings and shortage of data released on the Russian industrial sector. However, this approach to present surveys’ findings complicates assessment of each year as a whole. That is why we analyze all consolidated indicators in a year-on-year basis
L21|Government support of small and medium sized entrepreneurship in Russia|Support of the small and medium sized entrepreneurship (SME) sector is recognized to be one of Russia’s economic policy priorities2,3. It is customary to speak of that sector’s low level of development compared with other countries. However, when comparable estimates are applied, the gap does not appear to be catastrophic. The relative share of SMEs in the value added produced by Russia’s business sector amounts to about 44 percent, in the developed countries – OECD member states it amounts on average to 55 percent, in the USA – to 48 percent, and in Canada – to 30 percent. The problems faced by Russian SMEs, in qualitative terms, are as follows: the percentage of exporters and technological startups is low, and a greater part of that sector is unregulated; in 2018, the relative share of medium sized firms and the number of technological startups shrank even further. The conditions for and specific features of the SME sector’s development vary across Russia’s regions, and this fact is completely overlooked by prevailing legislation. According to our estimations, entrepreneurial activity in the regions does not depend on government support, instead responding to macroeconomic and institutional changes. In 2018, in a majority of Russian regions, the number of SME subjects and their turnover declined in response to shrinking personal income, especially in the regions with a high relative share taken up by the shadow sector, while the same indices increased in those regions that hosted the FIFA World Cup events.
L21|Investment climate, outward orientation and manufacturing firm productivity: new empirical evidence| Drawing on the World Bank Enterprise Surveys, we revisit the link between firm-level investment climate and productive performance for a panel of enterprises surveyed twice in time in 70 developing countries and 11 manufacturing industries. We take advantage of the time dimension available for an increasing number of countries to tackle the endogeneity issue stressed in previous studies. We also use pertinent econometric techniques to address other biases inherent in the data (e.g.measurement errors, missing observations and multicollinearity). Our results reinforce previous findings by validating, with a larger than usual sample of countries and industries, the importance of a larger set of environment variables. We show that infrastructure quality, information & communication technologies, skills and experience of the labour force, cost of and access to financing, security and political stability, competition and government relation contribute to firms’ and countries’ performances gap. The empirical analysis also illustrates that firms which choose an outward orientation have higher productivity level. Nevertheless, outward oriented enterprises are more sensitive to investment climate limitations. These findings have important policy implications by showing which dimensions of the business environment, in which industry, could help manufacturing firms to be more competitive in the present context of increasing globalization.
L21|Corporate Foresight In The Strategy Of Multinationals|The purpose of this paper is to explore corporate foresight as a new important instrument within strategic management system of multinational corporations (MNCs). The author directly connects the recent rise of corporate foresight with MNCs’ growing need to fill the gaps of traditional corporate strategic management, struggling with the challenges of today’s global turbulent business-environment (known as VUCA world characterized by unprecedented volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity). From this perspective corporate foresight is capable to provide a number of viable responses. They include significant expansion of the horizon of MNCs’ long-term future vision, enhanced capabilities of business-environment scanning (identifying not only clearly visible trends but the so-called weak signals as well) and strengthening intra-firm communications in the course of strategy development process, thus contributing to the implementation capacity of multinational corporate team. Within analysis of actual corporate foresight practices of major multinationals special attention is attached to the common features of foresight organization (standard process phases, typical set of methods used) and peculiarities related mainly to different MNCs’ sector-specific environment characteristics, including complexity and dynamics of change. The attempt is also made to disclose the actual impact of corporate foresight activities on the effectiveness of the key functions of MNCs’ strategic management. The author draws the conclusion that corporate foresight is becoming a core element of the strategic management architecture of multinational business, striving to protect and strengthen its global market positioning in increasingly turbulent and unpredictable environment. For MNCs’ top management, trying to find the right strategic course in radically changing competitive landscape, this powerful tool is increasingly playing the same role as GPS navigator for car drivers.
L21|Common Ownership in America: 1980-2017|When competing firms possess overlapping sets of investors, maximizing shareholder value may provide incentives that distort competitive behavior, affecting pricing, entry, contracting, and virtually all strategic interactions among firms. We propose a structurally consistent and scaleable approach to the measurement of this phenomenon for the universe of S&P 500 firms between 1980 and 2017. Over this period, the incentives implied by the common ownership hypothesis have grown dramatically. Contrary to popular intuition, this is not primarily associated with the rise of BlackRock and Van- guard: instead, the trend in the time series is driven by a broader rise in diversified investment strategies, of which these firms are only the most recent incarnation. In the cross-section, there is substantial variation that can be traced, both in the theory and the data, to observable firm characteristics – particularly the share of the firm held by retail investors. Finally, we show how common ownership can theoretically give rise to incentives for expropriation of undiversified shareholders via tunneling, even in the Berle and Means (1932) world of the “widely held firm.”
L21|Adoption of CSR and Sustainability Reporting Standards: Economic Analysis and Review|This study provides an economic analysis of the determinants and consequences of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability reporting. To frame our analysis, we consider a widespread mandatory adoption of CSR reporting standards in the United States. The study focuses on the economic effects of standards for disclosure and reporting, not on the effects of CSR activities and policies themselves. It draws on an extensive review of the relevant academic (CSR and non-CSR) literatures in accounting, economics, finance, and management. Based on a discussion of the fundamental economic forces at play and the key features and determinants of (voluntary) CSR reporting, we derive and evaluate possible economic consequences, including capital-market effects for select stakeholders as well as potential firm responses and real effects in firm behavior. We also highlight issues related to the implementation and enforcement of CSR reporting standards. Our analysis yields a number of insights that are relevant to the current debate on CSR and sustainability reporting and provides scholars with avenues for future research.
L21|Toward an Understanding of Corporate Social Responsibility: Theory and Field Experimental Evidence|We develop theory and a tightly-linked field experiment to explore the supply side implications of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Our natural field experiment, in which we created our own firm and hired actual workers, generates a rich data set on worker behavior and responses to both pecuniary and CSR incentives. Making use of a novel identification framework, we use these data to estimate a structural principal-agent model. This approach permits us to compare and contrast treatment and selection effects of both CSR and financial incentives. Using data from more than 110 job seekers, we find strong evidence that when a firm advertises work as socially-oriented, it attracts employees who are more productive, produce higher quality work, and have more highly valued leisure time. In terms of enhancing the labor pool, for example, CSR increases the number of applicants by 25 percent, an impact comparable to the effect of a 36 percent increase in wages. We also find an economically important complementarity between CSR and wage offers, highlighting the import of using both to hire and motivate workers. Beyond lending insights into the supply side of CSR, our research design serves as a framework for causal inference on other forms of non-pecuniary incentives and amenities in the workplace, or any other domain more generally.
L21|Factors affecting succession planning in Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Zimbabwe: a case study of Harare|Lack of proper succession planning is one of the major causes of SMEs closure or failure after the death or retirement of founder. Zimbabwean SMEs are not an exception. This study seeks to analyze factors affecting succession planning in SMEs in Zimbabwe. Employing the questionnaire as a data collection instrument and relying on heterogeneous sampling, the study; whose recommendations are 4-fold, basically found out that there is need for proper succession planning if Zimbabwean SMEs are to circumvent the problem of discontinuity after death or retirement of founder.
L21|Not All Price Endings Are Created Equal: Price Points and Asymmetric Price Rigidity|There is evidence that 9-ending prices are more common and more rigid than other prices. We use data from three sources: a laboratory experiment, a field study, and a large US supermarket chain, to study the cognitive underpinning and the ensuing asymmetry in rigidity associated with 9-ending prices. We find that consumers use 9-endings as a signal for low prices, and that this signal interferes with price information processing. Consequently, consumers are less likely to notice a bigger price when it ends with 9, or a price increase when the new price ends with 9, in comparison to a situation where the prices end with some other digit. We also find that retailers respond strategically to this consumer bias by setting 9-ending prices more often after price increases than after price decreases. 9-ending prices, therefore, usually increase only if the new prices are also 9ending. Consequently, there is an asymmetry in the rigidity of 9-ending prices: they are more rigid than non 9-ending prices upward but not downward.
L21|Corporate Social Responsibility and Profit Shifting|In this work we investigate the relationship between corporate social responsibility (CSR) and profit shifting. First, we employ worldwide data for parent firms and their foreign subsidiaries to derive a profit shifting measure. Then, drawing on legitimacy theory and risk-management strategy, we find corporate social responsibility to be positively correlated with profit shifting. In addition, we find this relationship to be stronger in parent firms in countries under the territorial tax system. We perform a battery of sensitivity tests and robustness checks to corroborate our findings. By and large, our results suggest that multinational firms with higher CSR scores shift larger amounts of profits to their low-tax foreign subsidiaries, potentially indicating strategic planning in the choice of CSR investments by multinational enterprises.
L21|Leveraging Loyalty Programs Using Competitor Based Targeting|Loyalty programs are widely used by firms but their effectiveness is subject to debate. These programs provide discounts and perks to loyal customers and are costly to administer, and with uncertain effectiveness at increasing spending or stealing business from rivals. We use a large new dataset on retail purchases before and after joining a loyalty program (LP) at the customer level to evaluate what determines LP effectiveness. We exploit detailed spatial data on customer and store locations, including locations of competing firms. A simple analysis shows that location relative to competitors is the strongest predictor of LP effectiveness, suggesting that LPs work primarily through business stealing and not through other demand expansion. We next estimate what variables best predict LP effectiveness using high-dimensional data on spatial relationships between customers, the focal firm’s stores, and competing stores as well as customers’ historical spending patterns. We use LASSO regularization to show that spatial relationships are more predictive of LP effects than are past sales data. Finally, we show how firms can use this type of predictive analytics model to leverage customer and competitor location data to substantially increase the performance of their LP through spatially driven targeting rules.
L21|Sequencing R&D decisions with a consumer-friendly firm and spillovers|This study considers a duopoly model in which both a consumer-friendly (CF) firm and a for-profit (FP) firm undertake cost-reducing R&D investments in an endogenous R\&D timing game and then play Cournot output competition. When the CF firm chooses its profit-oriented consumer-friendliness, we show that the consumer-friendliness is non-monotone in spillovers under both simultaneous-move and sequential-move with FP firm’s leadership while it is decreasing under sequential-move with CF firm’s leadership. We also show that a simultaneous-move outcome is a unique equilibrium when the spillovers are low and the CF firm invests higher R&D and obtains higher profits. When the spillovers are not low, two sequential-move outcomes appear and the CF firm might obtain lower profits with higher spillovers under the CF firm leadership.
L21|Non-linear revenue evaluation in oligopoly|In this article we investigate oligopolies where firm decision makers have multiple objectives. We focus on cases where the decision maker is incentivized by profit, and by revenue. Our innovationâ€”motivated by the internal scrutiny that is often placed on revenueâ€”is that managers derive utility from revenue in a potentially non-linear fashion. This allows for incremental changes in revenue to have different incentive effects when it comes to production choice, depending on the amount of revenue generated by the firm. We show that this intuitively appealing extension to the revenue maximisation model reverses some conventional results of that model: we derive conditions where decision makers may actually increase output in the presence of demand contractions. Whether a decision maker increases or decreases output in the presence of a demand shock depends on the concavity of their utility function with respect to revenue. Our findings help us in understanding cases of output growth in the presence of negative demand shocks.
L21|Process orientation in the modern controlling|The controlling is a combination of the target-oriented control activity, the used methods and other soft factors as well. The controlling is constantly changing because it always must meet the current challenges. Each company receives and generates a lot of data, Big Data and Data Mining help in predictive, secure and user-friendly analysis. One of the most important trend is the Industry 4.0 and the compliance to the Digital Business Models through intelligent networks and Cyber-Physical Systems. The controller is responsible for identifying and evaluating the business changes and requirements; so he will support the management in the implementation of it. We are reviewing the importance of the Industry 4.0 and how have to develop the process orientation of controlling at the modern Digital Business Models. In the paper, we will illustrate how can be achieved it by taking into account the Industry 4.0 strategy and how digitalisation can help.
L21|The Impact Of Training On Employee Effectiveness|It is commonly believed that training leads to an increase in the competencies of employees and therefore an increase in their performance. This view is based on the assumption that companies and organizations lack necessary competencies and that this shortage limits their effectiveness. The second assumption is that the increase in abilities achieved in the training process will translate into improved results. In the following article, we present an alternative thesis in which training can and often does, lead to a decrease in productivity. We present two reasons why training can lead to poorer results: 1.relative oversupply of competencies in the company and the associated misidentification of the competency gap, and2.apparent efficiency gains - i.e. not leading to improved results - in a situation where there are productivity bottlenecks that are not a result of work efficiency. This thesis is supported by research conducted during observations made by one of the authors, which is presented in the form of observations and comments. The second is the ValueView method, the results of which, are referred to in the text. In the summary of the article, we indicate ways in which the planning of training events can be improved, their subordination to short-term business objectives, and the use of modern techniques of organizational planning.
L21|Do Social Enterprises Walk the Talk? Assessing Microfinance Performances with Mission Statements|We study mission drift in social enterprises by examining whether these organizations stick to the actual mission enshrined in their mission statements. We use data from microfinance organizations (MFOs), a homogeneous group of social enterprises which have been scrutinized—and sometimes criticized—for mission drift. We focus on three publicly recognized and non-mutually-exclusive microfinance social missions identified by previous studies: poverty alleviation, women's empowerment, and rural financial inclusion. Based on hand-collected data from 199 MFOs worldwide, our results suggest strong coherence between social missions and actual practices. Hence, we argue that, with respect to MFOs’ own stated social missions, mission drift is no serious concern. The trustworthiness of social mission statements makes them suitable evaluation tools for social enterprises.
L21|Brands in Motion: How Frictions Shape Multinational Production|Following the 2016 Leave vote in the referendum on UK membership in the EU and the election of Donald Trump, trade agreements have entered a period of great instability. To predict the impact of possible disruptions to existing arrangements requires counterfactual analysis that takes into account the complex set of factors influencing the production and marketing strategies of multinational corporations. We estimate a model of multinational decision-making in the car industry. This model predicts the production reallocation and consumer surplus consequences of changes in tariffs and non-tariff barriers induced by US-led protectionism, Brexit, transpacific, and transatlantic integration agreements.
L21|Standard Setting Organizations, Information Flows and Business Strategies: An Empirical Investigation|The paper investigates the link between standards, business strategy and innovation, based upon a factor analysis of the stated ‘context’ for innovation contained in the 2012-2014 UK Innovation Survey (UKIS). The analysis reveals a distinction between pro-active ‘entrepreneurial’ strategies and reactive and ‘defensive’ strategies, as well as firms, although regarded in the survey as innovation ‘active’ have no clear innovation based objective. We combine this classification with sectoral indicators of the significance of standards to investigate how firms deliver these strategies. We find that, in addition to the important role played by the type of innovation strategy, standards have a significant impact not only on the extensive margin of R&D expenditures, but also on the likelihood that firms will invest in related complementary investments, notably in training and design. We test these propositions with a specific UKIS question on the value that firms put on standards. The positive impact that standards have on the acquisition of innovation related assets suggest that, on balance, the impact of standards has significant pro-competitive effects on an innovation system.
L21|Multiproduct Firms and the Business Cycle|Multiproduct firms account for a large fraction of economic activity and are actively engaged in changing their product mix. In this paper, I investigate changes in product scope, the number of products that a firm offers, over the business cycle and decompose the impact of such changes on aggregate output. I use the Nielsen Retail Scanner data, the weekly transactions of U.S. consumer goods, for 2007-2014. I find that firm product scope is an important margin of adjustment. The changes at the new margin are procyclical on average and heterogeneous across firms. Such product scope changes affect aggregate consumption and output by changing the total number of products available in the market and by affecting firms' markups. This decomposition is shown in a model featuring heterogeneous multiproduct firms, oligopolistic competition and free firm entry. In a recession, lower average product scope implies a lower number of product varieties, which disincentivizes consumption. Additionally, since the most productive firms have higher market shares, as the data suggests, they charge higher markups as oligopolistic competitors. The implied average markup goes up and further decreases consumption.
L21|Produktportfolio-Management im Zeitalter der Digitalisierung|Dieses Papier beschäftigt sich mit dem Produktportfolio-Management (PPM) und seiner Rolle im Zeitalter der Digitalisierung. Während einige betonen, dass strategische, langfristige Planung und PPM in Zeiten kürzerer Produktlebenszyklen, digitaler Innovationen und disruptiver Geschäftsmodelle veraltet zu sein scheinen, betonen andere die zunehmende Bedeutung von PPM, die Notwendigkeit einer effektiven Ressourcenallokation und eines Risikoausgleichs bei der Integration von Smart Products und digitalen Produkt-Service-Systemen in bestehende Produktportfolios. In der Praxis ist die Aufgabe des Value Proposition Design und Portfoliomanagements oft auf verschiedene Geschäftseinheiten, Abteilungen und Rollen (z.B. Produktmanagement, New Product Business, Servicegeschäft, Digital Business) verteilt. Die Mehrheit der Unternehmen erkennt das Potenzial eines systematischen Produktportfoliomanagements noch nicht vollständig. Sowohl die Literatur als auch die Ergebnisse unserer empirischen Studie zeigen, dass ein systematischer Ansatz für das Produktportfolio-Management zu höheren Gewinnmargen und erfolgreicheren Innovationen führt. Um den Kundennutzen zu maximieren und die Effizienz zu steigern, ist ein integrierter Ansatz erforderlich. Basierend auf einem umfassenden Literaturüberblick stellt dieses Papier einen integrierten PPM-Rahmen vor. Es soll eine Grundlage für die Diskussion darüber geschaffen werden, wie PPM in Bezug auf physische Produkte, digitale Produkte, Dienstleistungen und Produkt-Dienstleistungssysteme im Zeitalter der Digitalisierung organisiert werden kann.
L21|Family firms as kinship enterprises|"Evidence from around the globe shows that family firms are enduring, resilient forms of profit-seeking and not an archaic, transient form that will inevitably disappear. Social science research has tended to characterize the family values of these firms as producing ""efficiency distortions"" that adversely affect their financial performance. The author suggests an alternative heuristic approach of treating family firms as kinship enterprises that endure beyond the life of the firm. This approach enables us to understand how the timing of decisions about capital accumulation, expansion and diversification, as well as managerial organization, are shaped by kinship sentiments and intergenerational commitments without setting up an opposition between economic and kinship goals."
L21|Industrielle Wettbewerbsfähigkeit, Digitalisierung und berufliche Qualifizierung|"Die digitale Transformation in Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft in Deutschland ist in vollem Gang. Nicht bei allen Indikatoren der technologischen Leistungsfähigkeit Deutschlands lässt sich aber eine Vorreiterschaft bei der Digitalisierung belegen. Umso mehr werden die technologischen Trends Auswirkungen auf die Geschäftsmodelle von in Deutschland agierenden Unternehmen haben. Diese Transformation in der Arbeitswelt ist eng verzahnt mit arbeitsorganisatorischen, beschäftigtenbezogenen und qualifikatorischen Veränderungen. Die komplexe Leistungserstellung in einer digitalen Transformation setzt ganz entscheidend die Verfügbarkeit qualifizierter Arbeitskräfte voraus. Insbesondere gefordert ist in diesem Zusammenhang die berufliche Qualifizierung sowohl in der Ausbildung wie in der Weiterbildung, weil der Arbeitsweltbezug naturgemäß ganz entscheidend von der Aktualität und Passgenauigkeit der vorhandenen Qualifikationen bestimmt wird. Um die berufliche Bildung auch im Zuge der Digitalisierung zukunftsfähig zu gestalten, sind unter anderem folgende Maßnahmen zu empfehlen: Eine Erweiterung der Ausbildungsprogramme um die Themen ""Digitalisierung der Arbeit, Datenschutz und Informationssicherheit"" ist unverzichtbar. Eine Vorausschau auf qualifikatorische Veränderungen und das Monitoring vorhandener Kompetenzen kann dabei unterstützen und gibt Orientierung. Die beruflichen Schulen sind massiv zu stärken. Das Berufsbildungspersonal muss für neue digitale Aufgaben in der Breite qualifiziert werden. Bei der Vermittlung der beruflichen Bildung sollten die zukünftigen Fachkräfte insbesondere auf den Umgang mit Komplexität und Unsicherheit sowie auf höhere Anforderungen im Bereich der Soft-Skills vorbereitet werden. Neue Formen von Lernortkooperationen zwischen Unternehmen und Akteuren der beruflichen Aus- und Weiterbildung können zur Verbreitung neuer (Lern-)Technologien beitragen. Berufsbildende Schulen, Bildungszentren, Überbetriebliche Ausbildungsstätten, aber auch Forschungseinrichtungen und Universitäten können stärker zu Kooperationspartnern für Unternehmen werden. Insbesondere für KMU sollten weitere Hilfestellungen zur Qualifizierung im digitalen Wandel bereitgestellt werden."
L21|IT-Compliance nach COBIT 2019|"Das Ende 2018 von der ISACA publizierte Framework ""COBIT® 2019"" knüpft in seinem Verständnis von IT-Compliance an die Vorgängerversionen 4.1 und 5 an. Trotzdem sind in der neuen COBIT®-Version zahlreiche Änderungen und Ergänzungen enthalten, die in diesem Arbeitspapier diskutiert werden sollen. Im Ergebnis umfasst das Compliance-Verständnis von COBIT® 2019 nach wie vor sowohl die IT-Compliance als auch die IT-gestützte Corporate Compliance. Die grundlegenden Compliance-Ziele bleiben genauso erhalten, wie die Governance- und Managementpraktiken mit ihren Aktivitäten zur Sicherstellung von Compliance. Die Enabler finden sich jetzt als ""Komponenten"" wieder, werden dafür aber systematisch und komplett abgehandelt. Die Änderungen der COBIT® 2019-Produktfamilie beinhalten Erweiterungen wie Streichungen gleichermaßen. Insgesamt fällt die Compliance-Thematik ähnlich umfangreich wie in COBIT® 5 aus. In COBIT® 5 beinhalteten 26 von 37 IT-Prozessen Compliance-Aufgaben, während in COBIT® 2019 15 von 40 IT-Governance- und IT-Managementzielen das Erreichen der compliance-bezogenen IT-Ziele unterstützen. Des Weiteren stellen Compliance-Anforderungen einen eigenständigen Designfaktor dar bzw. sind Teil weiterer Designfaktoren für die IT-Governance. Trotz aller Veränderungen und Anpassungen kann COBIT® 2019 nach wie vor den mit IT-Compliance betrauten Funktionen und Personen als Orientierung und Hilfsmittel für die praktische Arbeit dienen."
L21|Taxation in the digital economy: Recent policy developments and the question of value creation|"The paper reviews the evidence on the challenges of digitalization for direct (corporate profit) and indirect (consumption) taxation. Based on both anecdotal and empirical evidence, we evaluate ongoing developments at the OECD and European Union level and argue that there is no justification for introducing a new tax order for digital businesses. In particular, the significant digital presence and the digital services tax as put forward by the European Commission will most likely distort corporate decisions and spur tax competition. To contribute to the development of tax rules in line with value creation as the gold standard for profit taxation the paper discusses data as a ""new"" value-driving asset in the digital economy. It draws on insights from interdisciplinary research to highlight that the value of data emerges through proprietary activities conducted within businesses. We ultimately discuss how existing transfer pricing solutions can be adapted to business models employing data mining."
L21|The distinct features of hidden champions in Germany: A dynamic capabilities view|Hidden Champions (HCs) are firms unknown to the wider public, but global leaders in the niche markets they serve. This paper looks at distinctive features of these firms, focusing on their dynamic capabilities. Employing a unique data base on German firms, we identify a representative sample of German HCs. Based on a matching technique, we examine differences to other firms in terms of the firms' processes, position, and path. We find that HCs' competitive strategy rests on technology leadership and customisation. HCs are more open in their knowledge management, but without compromising control over the new product development process. HCs do not invest more into innovation, but achieve higher innovation success. The higher efficiency can be linked to their superior technological capabilities and to higher investment in human capital and HR management practices that mobilise the creative potential of their employees.
L21|Is it possible for universities to create spiritual workplaces?|The globalized world of work poses significant challenges to universities ? ranging from increased digitalisation and virtualization, to greater diversity in student numbers, larger student intakes and the need for universities to continuously engage with business, industry and other external stakeholders. Contemporary universities have also developed a distinct managerial nature (managerilaism) which means they are increasingly managed like private sector organisations. This is in contrast to the collegial structures that prevailed in universities in previous generations. The shift from collegiality to managerilaism has implications for academics ? specifically related to autonomy, moral, motivation and commitment. Based on the Communities of Practice as theoretical framework the paper proposes an emphasis on workplace spirituality as a means to compensate for the erosion of collegiality. It further provides suggestions to university management on how to create a spiritual workplace especially for academic staff.
L21|The appearance of digitalisation among the viewpoints of Balanced Scorecard|In the early 1990s, Robert S. Kaplan and David P. Norton developed a balanced evaluation- and index-system that supports the implementation of the strategy. This strategic control tool is the Balanced Scorecard which approaches and evaluates the company's activities and strategy from several perspectives, viewpoints. Today, one of the most important trend is the Industry 4.0 which creates intelligent, networked value chains through cyber-physical systems. Planning and deploying this is not easy but as a strategic issue it must appear in the Balanced Scorecard. Indicators to assist in the implementation of Industry 4.0 should be built in. We are reviewing the importance of Industry 4.0 and developing a Balanced Scorecard model that includes the factors that help to implement the strategy at Industry 4.0.
L21|The impact of Fear of Negative Evaluation of Employees on Organizational Silence|Fear of negative evaluation, individual performance, capabilities and behavior of others in mind the negative reviews about the possession, distress due to them, and to live in anxiety and fear of such environmentsis defined as the avoidance. The silence of the employees organizational conscious, active and for one purpose can be specified as a form of behavior carried out. The study was applied to 80 employees in the textile sector in Konya. Positive and significant correlation was found between the variables. SPSS statistical analysis of data within the scope of the study program; correlation, regression, independent samples t-test and were analyzed by One Way ANOVA.
L21|De la responsabilité sociale : à propos des rôles respectifs de l'entreprise et de l'Etat|La revendication d’une responsabilité sociale de l’entreprise va de pair avec un recul de la capacité d’intervention des États dans le contexte de mondialisation. Cela ne saurait justifier que l’entreprise taxe et dépense en lieu et place de l’État dont elle ne peut détenir ni le pouvoir juridique, ni l’information s’agissant du bien public. L’entreprise est, néanmoins, une source de droit étant, possiblement, à l’initiative d’avancées sociales et environnementales. Son action s’inscrit dans la montée en puissance d’une dualité des ordres juridiques, un ordre étatique et un ordre privé. Ce qui ne dispense en rien d’une validation des règles par l’État ne serait-ce que pour garantir une concurrence équitable et maintenir une hiérarchie des normes. Le mode de gouvernance, qui reflète l’influence des intermédiaires financiers, procède de cette validation et détermine le choix de l’entreprise entre un profit immédiat et un profit à long terme, autrement dit sa réelle responsabilité sociale. Aussi la question, dans le contexte actuel, n’est-elle pas de substituer l’entreprise à l’État, mais de concevoir l’instance publique qui est susceptible de permettre à des entreprises mondialisées de privilégier le long terme.
L21|Consumer Resistance|This paper studies the impact of consumer resistance, which is triggered by deviations from a psychological reference point, on optimal pricing and cost communication. Assuming that consumers evaluate purchases not only in the material domain, we show that consumer resistance reduces the pricing power and profit. We also show that consumer resistance provides an incentive to engage in cost communication when consumers underestimate cost. While cheap communication does not affect behavior, persuasive communication may increase sales and profit. Finally, we show that a firm can benefit from engaging in operational transparency by revealing information about features of the production process.
L21|Do hospitals respond to decreasing prices by supplying more services?|Regulated prices are common in markets for medical care. We estimate the effect of changes in regulated reimbursement prices on volume of hospital care based on a reform of hospital financing in Germany. Uniquely, this reform changed the overall level of reimbursement â€“ with increasing prices for some hospitals and decreasing prices for others â€“ without affecting the relative prices for different groups of patients or types of treatment. Based on administrative data, we find that hospitals react to decreasing prices by supplying more services. We interpret our findings as evidence for a negative income effect of lower prices on higher volume of care.
L21|Corporate governance|Corporate governance is a recent concept that encompasses the costs caused by managerial misbehavior. Corporate governance is concerned with how organizations in general, and corporations in particular, produce value and how that value is distributed among the members of the corporation, its stakeholders. The interrelation of value production and value distribution links the ubiquitous technological aspect (the production of value) with the moral and ethical dimension (the distribution of value). Corporate governance is concerned with this link in general, but more specifically with the moral and ethical dimensions of distributing the generated value among the stakeholders. Value in firms is created by firm-specific investments, and the motivation and coordination of value enhancing activities and investment is protected by the power concentrated at the pyramidal top of the organization. In modern companies, it is the CEO and the top management deciding how to create value and how to distribute it among the relevant stakeholders. Due to asymmetric information and the imperfect nature of markets and contracts, adverse selection and moral hazard problems occur, where delegated (selected) managers could act in their own interest at the costs of other relevant stakeholders. Corporate governance is a two-tailed concept. The first aspect is about identifying the (most) relevant stakeholder(s), separating theory and practice into two different and conflicting streams: the stakeholder value approach and the shareholder value approach. The second aspect of the concept is about providing and analyzing different mechanisms, reducing the costs induced by moral hazard and adverse selection effects, and to balance out the motivation and coordination problems of the relevant stakeholders. Corporate governance is an interdisciplinary concept encompassing academic fields like finance, economics, accounting, law, taxation and psychology, among others. Like countries differ according to their institutions (i.e. legal and political systems, norms, and rules), firms differ according to their size, age, dominant shareholders or industries. Thus concepts in corporate governance differ along these dimensions as well. And while the underlying characteristics vary in time, continuously or as an exogenous shock, concepts in corporate governance are dynamic and static, offering a challenging field of interest for academics, policy makers and firm managers.
L21|SMEs' responses to potentially disruptive innovations: Does strategic entrepreneurship provide an explanation?|This study analyses how established SMEs respond to potentially disruptive inno-vations and business models in the course of increasing digitization. Drawing on the strategic entrepreneurship approach we argue that SMEs showing strategic entrepreneurial behaviour are more likely to respond to potentially disruptive innovations and business models proactively. We find that established SMEs recognizing disruptive innovations and business models as a business opportunity apply significantly more frequently strategic measures to exploit these opportunities. Observing and evaluating relevant new technologies and devel-opments is a key determinant of belonging to the group of SMEs demonstrating strategic en-trepreneurial behaviour. In our sample only a minority belongs to the group of proactive es-tablished SMEs.
L21|Fall Siemens: Darf ein profitabler Weltkonzern Ost-Standorte schließen? Eine wirtschaftsethische Reflexion|Die Ankündigung des Siemens-Konzerns, trotz insgesamt guter Gewinnlage Arbeitsplätze in strukturschwachen Regionen Ostdeutschlands abzubauen, wurde quer durch das politische Parteienspektrum von namhaften Politikern skandalisiert. Meine wirtschaftsethische Reflexion dieses Falls tritt der Skandalisierung argumentativ entgegen. In Widerspruch zum öffentlich dominierenden Wahrnehmungsmuster entwickle ich zwei Thesen: (1) Es handelt sich nicht primär um einen Konflikt Arbeit versus Kapital, sondern um einen Konflikt Arbeit versus Arbeit. Und bei der Steuerung dieses Konflikts erfüllt das unternehmerische Gewinnprinzip eine Gemeinwohlfunktion. (2) Betriebsschließungen sind für strukturschwache Regionen als Unglück zu werten, nicht aber als Unrecht.
L21|Does lender type matter for the pricing of loans?|Loan markets often contain lenders with contrasting business models and ownership structures. But does that matter for outcomes in these markets? We examine whether it does using a loan-level data set of mortgage transactions in the United Kingdom. We find the type of lender can matter for pricing behaviour. The levels of interest rates, as well as the sensitivity of rates to funding costs and borrower risk, vary between lender types. Some of these differences are consistent with theories of how agency problems might vary between types of lenders and past empirical studies. But other differences are not consistent. The results suggest further research is needed to understand how, to what extent, and why lender types affect pricing in loan markets.
L21|Firms and social policy preferences under weak institutions : Evidence from Russia|When does business support the expansion of social policy in the developing world? Existing work on managers’ preferences has tended to concentrate on the developed world, where governments can credibly commit to policy, tax evasion is constrained, and mechanisms exist to hold the bureaucracy accountable for policy implementation. In this paper, I relax these assumptions, arguing that weak institutions create opportunities for some firms to shift costs onto others: making social policy more attractive. I argue that firms with political connections are uniquely positioned to benefit from subsidies and property rights protection, which decreases the cost of social policy, while firms with low visibility can evade taxes and free-ride off universalistic social policy. Such firms will support social policy even where institutions are poor. I test this argument using a survey of 666 firms in 10 Russian regions.
L21|A Human Is Not a Resource|"The language of ""human resource management"" treats people as a means to an end. Three core tenets of human resource literature are that it is desirable to have (1) labour ""flexibility"" and ""mobility"" in a peripheral workforce, (2) individual (not social) responsibility for employment searching, and (3) a manager’s right to manage, without collective accountability. This article explores the cutting edge evidence, which show human resource theory harms productivity and human development. It explores the effects of ""HR"" in the UK, EU and international regulation on atypical work, full employment, and union voice. Where human resource beliefs have pervaded the most, the outcomes are the worst: lower productivity, higher unemployment, more inequality, less growth. To advance prosperity, economic risks must be distributed to the organisations best placed to bear them, people must have security to plan for the future, and people must have real votes at work through collective bargaining and corporate governance. Many people who themselves work in ""HR"" strongly disagree with the essential elements of their discipline. They support equality, security and democracy at work. Just as international law once affirmed that ""labour is not a commodity"", for social justice in the 21st century there must be a conviction that a human is not a resource. ""HR"" must change in name and substance, to advance human development and human rights."
L21|An Anatomy of U.S. Firms Seeking Trademark Registration|This paper reports on the construction of a new dataset that combines data on trademark applications and registrations from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office with data on firms from the U.S. Census Bureau. The resulting dataset allows tracking of various activity related to trademark use and protection over the life-cycle of firms, such as the first application for a trademark registration, the first use of a trademark, and the renewal, assignment, and cancellation of trademark registrations. Facts about firm-level trademark activity are documented, including the incidence and timing of trademark registration filings over the firm life-cycle and the connection between firm characteristics and trademark applications. We also explore the relation of trademark application filing to firm employment and revenue growth, and to firm innovative activity as measured by R&D and patents.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L21|Networks and Trade|Trade occurs between firms both across borders and within countries, and most trade transactions include at least one large firm with many trading partners. This article reviews the literature on firm-to-firm connections in trade. A growing body of evidence coming from domestic and international transaction data has established empirical regularities that have inspired the development of new theories emphasizing firm heterogeneity among both buyers and suppliers in production networks. Theoretical work has considered both static and dynamic matching environments in a framework of many-to-many matching. The literature on trade and production networks is at an early stage, and there are many unanswered empirical and theoretical questions.
L21|Oligopoly, Macroeconomic Performance, and Competition Policy|"We develop a macroeconomic framework in which firms are large and have market power with respect to both products and labor. Each firm maximizes a share-weighted average of shareholder utilities, which makes the equilibrium independent of price normalization. In a one-sector economy, if returns to scale are non-increasing, then an increase in ""effective"" market concentration (which accounts for overlapping ownership) leads to declines in employment, real wages, and the labor share. Moreover, if the goal is to foster employment then (i) controlling common ownership and reducing concentration are complements and (ii) government jobs are a substitute for either policy. Yet when there are multiple sectors, due to an intersectoral pecuniary externality, an increase in common ownership can stimulate the economy when the elasticity of labor supply is high relative to the elasticity of substitution in product markets. We characterize for which ownership structures the monopolistically competitive limit or an oligopolistic one (where firms become small relative to the economy) are attained as the number of sectors in the economy increases. Finally, we provide a calibration to illustrate our results."
L21|Common-Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm objectives and behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, the growth of intermediated asset management and consolidation in the asset-management sector has led to more pronounced common ownership links at the beneficial-owner level. Recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature’s prediction that common ownership concentration (CoOCo) can affect product market outcomes. The resulting antitrust concerns have received worldwide attention. However, because CoOCo can change the objective function of the firm, the potential implications span all fields of economics that involve corporate conduct, including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
L21|Open source hardware as a profit-maximizing strategy of downstream firms|This paper characterizes and explores a corporate strategy in which downstream firms collaborate to develop open substitute designs for proprietary hardware they would otherwise purchase from upstream suppliers. This strategy centrally involves customers themselves distributing design costs over multiple customers â€“ a strategy that is routine to producers selling to multiple customers, but which has been impractical for coalitions of customers until fairly recently. Today customers find it increasingly feasible to co-design products they may all purchase due to two technological trends. First, CAD-CAM and other design technologies are lowering downstream firms' costs to develop designs for purchased hardware inputs. Second, better communication technologies are lowering the costs of doing such projects collaboratively, even among large groups of downstream customer firms. Customer firms collaborating to develop a design for a hardware input they all purchase could in principle choose to protect their design as a club good. However, opening up collaboratively-created designs to free riders can increase the profits of the contributing firms for several reasons that we explore and model. Important among these is that free revealing draws free riders away from purchases of proprietary software or hardware to customer-developed free substitutes. This reduces the markets of upstream suppliers of competing proprietary inputs. Free riders also, in the case of hardware only, contribute to reducing the average manufacturing costs of the open hardware by increasing purchase volumes and so creating increased economies of scale. Resulting reduced unit purchase costs benefit customers contributing to the free design as well as free riders.
L21|Managerial Spillovers in Project Selection|Selecting investment or research projects is a general managerial decision, which ranges from managing the portfolio of R&D or marketing campaigns within a company, to determining the very boundaries of the firm -- which units or divisions to encompass, what acquisitions or alliances to pursue. Projects are typically assessed individually. However, the different divisions of a firm share managerial resources, so managers can transfer successful practices from one unit to another unit within the firm, or to different firms within their portfolio. This introduces managerial spillovers, so the value of a portfolio is higher than the aggregate value of the isolated projects. In this paper, we analyze the problem of selecting projects in the presence of managerial spillovers, and provide a simple algorithm that implements its solution. We find that, while a project yielding negative marginal profit can be safely discarded, it may be profitable to pass on multiple projects at once even if some of them yield positive marginal profit. Thus, ignoring the spillovers across projects and focusing on marginal profit can lead to excessively diversified firms or economies, as opposed to firms or economies with fewer (albeit possibly larger-scale) projects.
L21|Oligopoly, Macroeconomic Performance, and Competition Policy|We develop a macroeconomic framework in which firms are large and have market power with respect to both products and labor. Each firm maximizes a share-weighted average of shareholder utilities, which makes the equilibrium independent of price normalization. In a one-sector economy, if returns to scale are non-increasing, then an increase in “effective” market concentration (which accounts for overlapping ownership) leads to declines in employment, real wages, and the labor share. Moreover, if the goal is to foster employment then (i) controlling common ownership and reducing concentration are complements and (ii) government jobs are a substitute for either policy. Yet when there are multiple sectors, due to an intersectoral pecuniary externality, an increase in common ownership can stimulate the economy when the elasticity of labor supply is high relative to the elasticity of substitution in product markets. We characterize for which ownership structures the monopolistically competitive limit or an oligopolistic one (where firms become small relative to the economy) are attained as the number of sectors in the economy increases. Finally, we provide a calibration to illustrate our results.
L21|Heterogeneous Tax Sensitivity of Firm-level Investments|Firms are heterogeneous in size, productivity, ownership concentration, governance, financial structure and other dimensions. This paper introduces a stylized theoretical framework to account for such differences and to explain the heterogeneous tax sensitivity of firm-level investments across firm types. We econometrically test the theoretical predictions, taking account of selection of firms into different regimes. We find important differences in the tax sensitivity of investment of small entrepreneurial and larger managerial firms in different financial regimes that are largely in line with theoretical results.
L21|Exportations et exonérations, les deux vont-elles de pair ? Analyse empirique sur données individuelles d’entreprises françaises|Exemptions from employers' social security contributions are by far the most important item of business subsidies. Although their direct influence on job creation, which is their primary objective, has been the subject of numerous evaluations, few researches propose to estimate their influence on competitiveness. This article sheds light on the subject by addressing the issue considering the ability of firms to access external markets through exports. To this end, this article proposes an empirical analysis of the determinants of the probability of exporting, the frequency of exports and their intensity resting on micro data for a sample French manufacturing companies over the 2004-2011 period. Our results highlight a negative effect of the exemptions on companies' export commitment. It is confirmed regardless of the indicator, period and sector selected.
L21|Consumer Resistance|This paper studies the impact of consumer resistance, which is triggered by deviations from a psychological reference point, on optimal pricing and cost communication. Assuming that consumers evaluate purchases not only in the material domain, we show that consumer resistance reduces the pricing power and profit. We also show that consumer resistance provides an incentive to engage in cost communication when consumers underestimate cost. While cheap communication does not affect behavior, persuasive communication may increase sales and profit. Finally, we show that a firm can benefit from engaging in operational transparency by revealing information about features of the production process.
L21|Corporate Social Responsibility and Regulation: Taxing Ethical behaviour|This paper analyzes the impact of Corporate Social Responsibility in a monopoly setup and the implications of government intervention through a consumption tax or subsidy. Assuming that consumers have heterogeneous preferences regarding the CSR content of the private good they purchase and that their degree of altruism is positively related to their income, the paper assesses whether taxing CSR products could be welfare improving, when the tax revenues are recycled in the form of government provision of a public good that either substitutes for or complements the firm's CSR investments. When private and public investments are perfect substitutes, CSR activities should benefit from tax exemptions. However, when they are complements, the CSR products should be taxed when there is a sufficiently large marginal willingness to pay for such activities. Taxing the CSR product can then be viewed as a form of progressive taxation whereby more taxes are levied on wealthier consumers to make the public good available to everyone. Finally, given different objectives of the regulator, the question of whether taxes on CSR goods disfavor the efficient producers or rather the inefficient ones is discussed.
L21|De la responsabilité sociale : à propos des rôles respectifs de l’entreprise et de l’État|La revendication d’une responsabilité sociale de l’entreprise va de pair avec un recul de la capacité d’intervention des États dans le contexte de mondialisation. Cela ne saurait justifier que l’entreprise taxe et dépense en lieu et place de l’État dont elle ne peut détenir ni le pouvoir juridique, ni l’information s’agissant du bien public. L’entreprise est, néanmoins, une source de droit étant, possiblement, à l’initiative d’avancées sociales et environnementales. Son action s’inscrit dans la montée en puissance d’une dualité des ordres juridiques, un ordre étatique et un ordre privé. Ce qui ne dispense en rien d’une validation des règles par l’État ne serait-ce que pour garantir une concurrence équitable et maintenir une hiérarchie des normes. Le mode de gouvernance, qui reflète l’influence des intermédiaires financiers, procède de cette validation et détermine le choix de l’entreprise entre un profit immédiat et un profit à long terme, autrement dit sa réelle responsabilité sociale. Aussi la question, dans le contexte actuel, n’est-elle pas de substituer l’entreprise à l’État, mais de concevoir l’instance publique qui est susceptible de permettre à des entreprises mondialisées de privilégier le long terme.
L21|Do Fintech Lenders Penetrate Areas That Are Underserved by Traditional Banks?|Supersedes Working Paper 17-17 Fintech has been playing an increasing role in shaping financial and banking landscapes. In this paper, we use account-level data from LendingClub and Y-14M data reported by U.S. banks with assets over $50 billion to examine whether the fintech lending platform could expand credit access to consumers. We find that LendingClub’s consumer lending activities have penetrated areas that may be underserved by traditional banks, such as in highly concentrated markets and in areas that have fewer bank branches per capita. We also find that the portion of LendingClub loans increases in areas where the local economy is not performing well.
L21|The Roles of Alternative Data and Machine Learning in Fintech Lending: Evidence from the LendingClub Consumer Platform|Supersedes Working Paper 17-17. Fintech has been playing an increasing role in shaping financial and banking landscapes. There have been concerns about the use of alternative data sources by fintech lenders and the impact on financial inclusion. We compare loans made by a large fintech lender and similar loans that were originated through traditional banking channels. Specifically, we use account-level data from LendingClub and Y-14M data reported by bank holding companies with total assets of $50 billion or more. We find a high correlation with interest rate spreads, LendingClub rating grades, and loan performance. Interestingly, the correlations between the rating grades and FICO scores have declined from about 80 percent (for loans that were originated in 2007) to only about 35 percent for recent vintages (originated in 2014–2015), indicating that nontraditional alternative data have been increasingly used by fintech lenders. Furthermore, we find that the rating grades (assigned based on alternative data) perform well in predicting loan performance over the two years after origination. The use of alternative data has allowed some borrowers who would have been classified as subprime by traditional criteria to be slotted into “better” loan grades, which allowed them to get lower priced credit. In addition, for the same risk of default, consumers pay smaller spreads on loans from LendingClub than from credit card borrowing.
L21|Russian industrial enterprises in 2017 (on business surveys’ findings)|This Chapter has been prepared on the results of business surveys of industrial enterprises which have been conducted by the Gaidar Institute using a European harmonized method in monthly cycles since September 1992, covering the entire territory of the Russian Federation. The panel size is around 1,000 enterprises employing over 13 percent of industrial employees. The panel is shifted towards large enterprises for each of the segregated sub-industries. The ratio of returned questionnaires is in the range of 70-75 percent
L21|Small and medium-sized enterprises in 2016–2017|Over the period 2016–2017, a number of specialized normative legal acts were introduced with the aim of developing the small and medium-sized business sector (SMB), including the SMB Development Strategy until 2030;[1] the SMB Corporation was set up;[2] and the creation of a basic support infrastructure was completed in many regions. The Single Register of SMB Subjects was introduced in order to follow the monthly movement of their basic indices. In 2017, 77.9 percent of all organizations and individual entrepreneurs (IEs) belonged to the category of SMB subjects, while at year-end 2016, the share of SMB subjects in the national average employment rate (calculated on the basis of their average staffing number index) amounted to 37.9 percent, and in the total turnover of enterprises and organizations – to 37.1 percent. The input of SMBs, IEs including, in GDP over the period from 2011 through 2016 jumped by 0.5 percentage points, and now amounts to approximately 20 percent.
L21|Familles actionnaires|Family firms account for a large proportion of listed companies worldwide. The governance mechanisms of family firms deal with the specificities of their agency conflicts. For example, agency conflicts between shareholders and managers can be mitigated when the managers are themselves family members. The costs of agency conflicts between the family blockholding and minority shareholders, related to potential private benefits, can be offset by more effective monitoring, while a specific agency conflict related to relations between the family at large and family shareholders can emerge. The governance mechanisms put in place seem effective, since family firms appear to perform better than non-family firms. But they are also less diversified, less innovative and more sensitive to the social climate in the company. Their financial decisions reflect their shareholders? concern to preserve their control, which involves, in particular, long-term relationships with other stakeholders. This article provides a review of research findings on these topics. Classification JEL?: G30, G32, L21, L25, P12.
L21|Licensing with Free Entry|The literature on the licensing of an innovation has mainly focused on some speci c contract types. We show within the framework of a fairly general model that removing these contractual limitations will lead to extreme market outcomes. Speci cally, we nd that when the patentee can employ observable contracts that can condition on market entry, it can achieve the monopoly outcome. Furthermore, when the patentee can only use unconditional quantity forcing contracts, it captures the entire market, albeit not at monopoly price, via a single licensee. Our results point out to the signi cance, and perhaps the particularity, of observable, nonrenegotiable contracts.
L21|The effect of entrepreneurial origin on firms’ performance - The case of Portuguese academic spinoffs|We investigate the role of different entrepreneurial origin on firms’ performance by comparing academic spinoff firms with their non-academic counterparts and using alternative growth measures. Estimates based upon dynamic panel-data models reveal that academic spinoffs grow through resources accumulation and internationalization. However, comparatively to non- academic counterparts, they fail to translate these advantages into productivity gains. Also, despite younger academic spinoff outperform, in terms of sales growth, firms from different entrepreneurial origin, they fail to retain these scale effects, as they grow older. Portuguese academic spinoffs are contributing to economic development by creating new jobs, yet their relevance as a source of sustained economic value is limited so far. Policy implications are discussed in light of these findings.
L21|Intangible Investment and Firm Performance|Abstract We combine survey and administrative data for about 13,000 New Zealand firms from 2005 to 2013 to study intangible investment and firm performance. We find that firm size and moderate competition is associated with higher intangible investment, while firm age is associated with lower intangible investment. Examining firm performance, we find that higher investment is associated with higher labour and capital input, higher revenue, and higher firm-reported employee and customer satisfaction, but not with higher productivity or profitability. The evidence suggests that intangible investment is associated with growth and ‘soft’ performance objectives, but not with productivity or profitability.
L21|Relationship between dimensions of Brand Equity and 4Ps of Marketing Mix - Place, Product, Promotion, & Price: Coca Cola - Consumer Based Qualitative Survey|The relationship between dimensions of brand equity (brand association, brand awareness, perceived quality, and customer's loyalty) and 4Ps of marketing mix (product, place, price, and promotion) are examined in this paper. Cross sectional research design while following inductive approach I have explore the relationship between research variables from consumer's perspective. Total 129 participants took part in this survey. Respondents were identified and approached through convenience sampling technique. Survey questionnaire contained 16 total questions (4 demographic and 12 attitudinal and behavioural) questions with matrix based 5-Points LIKERT SCALE. Questionnaire was self designed and administered personally. Findings showed that there is significant relationship between dimensions of brand equity and 4Ps of marketing mix. The most significant dimension in terms of Coca Cola is brand association and least effective dimension has been customer's loyalty. Furthermore, most effective marketing mix tools for Coca Cola has been its product and pricing strategies while least effective has been promotional strategies. It is also found that despite being brand image with high dependability and reliability image, there is low customer's loyalty towards Coca Cola. The paper is significant because it explores the relationship from consumer's perspective. Further, it examines the association between all dimensions of brand equity and considered marketing mix feature from qualitative perspective. The limitations of research are discussed at the end of research paper.
L21|Bargaining over managerial contracts: a note|The theory of strategic managerial delegation has recently been extended by incorporating bargaining over managerial contracts (van Witteloostuijn et.al 2007, etc). Assuming that bargaining involves only the incentive rates of managers, this line of research has shown that market outcomes (profits and social welfare) depend crucially on the intra-firm allocation of bargaining powers. In the current paper we revisit the bargaining framework assuming that negotiations involve all contractual terms (incentive rates and transfers). We show that contrary to the earlier results, the market equilibrium is independent of bargaining powers, the latter determining only the transfers. Hence the outcome of our model is identical to the outcome of the delegation model with no bargaining.
L21|Entrepreneurial skills and growth of Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs): A comparative analysis of Nigerian entrepreneurs and Minority entrepreneurs in the UK|The significance of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to an economy development of a country cannot be ignored. Therefore, the growth of a business depends on the development of abilities needed to execute a smooth running of day to day business activities. Research established the fact that the flat economy growth of region relies on the extent of trade activities in the area. Given this importance of enterprise, this present study aims at developing an understanding of the influence of entrepreneurial skills on SMEs in Nigeria compare with the UK, as perceived by SME owners. The research will benefit the researcher, SME owners in Nigeria, Policymakers, and other researchers. Data collection was through an online survey questionnaire, and it was administered to a population of 38 SME owners both in Nigeria and in the UK. The research followed judgmental sampling techniques to explore their experience, beliefs, and attitudes to entrepreneurial skills because of the limited time frame. Moreover, this survey was used to validate the study conceptual framework and establish an insight on the opinion of business owners of the context. The study findings were that entrepreneurial skills have a significant influence on the growth of SMEs in Nigeria and the UK. However, the respondent in Nigeria and the UK agreed that creative thinking, Problem solving and communication skills are critical for increase sales and competitive advantage. Moreover, the respondent in Nigeria strongly agrees that high level of creative thinking with a bit of problem solving and communication skills will SMEs growth. By contrast, UK minority entrepreneurs argue that great creative thinking and a balance of problem solving and communication skills are critical to SMEs growth.
L21|Does market competition dampen environmental performance? Evidence from China|Research Summary: Departing from the extant literature, which assumes that firms pursue strong environmental performance as a differentiation strategy, we analyze the general relationship between firms’ competitive strategy and their response to heightened market competition. We find that, using a large sample of Chinese manufacturing firms between 2000 and 2005, intensified market competition has an overall negative impact on firms’ environmental performance. The negative impact is exacerbated in firms adopting a cost‐leadership strategy, but is attenuated in those adopting a differentiation strategy. The results emphasize the importance of including an examination of the particular competitive strategies chosen by firms in seeking to understand the impact of intensified market competition. Managerial Summary: Advocates of corporate social responsibility (CSR) have long argued for the differentiation role of CSR. However, managers may be misguided if the assumed benefits of differentiation critically depend on certain presumptions. In the Chinese context and focusing on the environmental dimension of CSR, our study finds a negative relationship between market competition and corporate environmental performance. It suggests that firms, to a large extent, cannot escape competition via environmental differentiation. Managers should therefore be cautious about the value of strategic investment in CSR as a viable competitive device.
L21|Influential Factors of Competitive Advantage Progression on SME Third-Party Logistics in Selangor Malaysia|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) of third-party logistics struggle to stay competitive and facing various pressure to stay competitive. One of the tactics to be competitive is to implement effective competitive measures. The purpose of this research was to explore the influential factors of competitive advantage on third-party logistics in Selangor Malaysia. Data collection included semi-structured questionnaires from 370 managers involved in logistics activities from the small and medium-sized enterprise manufacturing industries located in Selangor. Data analysis was used to identify key influential factors of competitive advantage progression. Correlation and regression analysis were conducted to test the research hypotheses. The results reflect that competitive measures needed extensive attention to stay competitive in the market. Thus, third-party logistics needs to cultivate competitive advantage knowledge and other competitive measures that will drive the third-party logistics service uniqueness. The findings may contribute to social change by helping small and medium-sized third-party logistics to improve their survival rate and to create their firm’s sustainable competitive capability and performance and as well provide solutions to challenges facing the third-party logistics.
L21|Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility and Spillover|This paper investigates the firms’ incentive of using corporate socially responsible (CSR) innovation as a device in the presence of spillover effect of such innovation. By modelling a two-period environment where a fraction of consumers is altruistic who have higher willingness to pay for the CSR product, we particularly study the firms’ decision on CSR innovation with respect to the spillover effect and the fraction of the altruistic consumers. We find that a large (small) fraction of the altruistic consumers attracts (restricts) both firms to innovate. Moreover, if the leader has only one chance to innovate (i.e., makes decision on innovation in the first period onely), a relatively large fraction could be a credible threat from the follower to the leader of innovation. Furthermore, in the situation where the leader has option of innovating in both periods, there exists a “patient area” in which the leader wishes to delay its innovation and do it with its rival in the second period. By doing so, the leader can weaken the rival’s benefit from being a follower of innovation.
L21|Determinants of profitability in the Indian logistics industry|The Indian economy has one of the highest transportation and logistics cost as a percentage of gross domestic product (13%) globally. This paper analyses trends in profitability and discusses some key macro and micro level factors influencing the Indian logistics industry comprising road transport logistics, storage and distribution. It discusses the role of macroeconomic factors such as tax policy in influencing the logistics network complexity, which in turn increase logistics costs. At a micro level, the paper uses firm-level data of 201 companies from Prowess database and estimates an econometric model to analyse major determinants of profitability in the logistics sector. The study finds that liquidity, market share, debt-equity, and age are significant determinants of profitability in the logistics sector.
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to the balance of payments, banking sector, wage arrears, and industrial development
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to the federal budget, foreign trade, Russian industrial sector, retail lending sector, and industrial development
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to Bank of Russia policy, banking system, Russian industry, budgetary institutions reform
L21|Russian industrial enterprises in 2016 (on business surveys’ findings)|Business surveys of industrial enterprises have been conducted by the Gaidar Institute using a European harmonized method in monthly cycles since September 1992, covering the entire territory of the Russian Federation. The panel size is around 1,000 enterprises employing over 13% of industrial employees. The panel is shifted towards large enterprises for each of the segregated sub-industries. The ratio of returned questionnaires is in the range of 70-75%. Business survey questionnaire contains a limited number of questions (not more than 15–20). The questions are of a qualitative and not quantitative nature. Simple questions structure allows the respondents to fill out the questionnaire quickly and without using any documents. It is paramount that respondent at each enterprise is a manager of the highest level who has a full understanding of state of business and is directly linked to the business management.
L21|Antecedent and Consequence of Customer Company Identification toward Relationship Marketing at PDAM Tirta Khatulistiwa Pontianak, West Kalimantan Indonesia|"""Objective –This study sets out to examine the conceptual framework and empirical test of CCI toward on the PDAM Tirta Khatulistiwa Pontianak, West Kalimantan Indonesia. It is also keen to explore how customers identify the company and what the antecedents and consequences of the identification which will give impact on customer relationships. This study contributes to the practical and scientific marketing that the identification of customers to the company can be used by company to make products that match customer expectations. Furthermore, the presence of CCI can be used by the company to establish marketing relationships with the customers. Methodology –This study is explanatory approach, 210 customers from three service areas were recruited as participants. The study used SEM inferential statistical approach where Smart PLS program was used as the analysis technique. Findings –Results of this study showed that: Customers of PDAM Tirta Khatulistiwa identify companies based on five dimensions, including; external company image, employee in services, company's products, characteristics of the company and the technology used by the company. In addition consequences of CCI is positive for relationship marketing. Finally, employee in services, products the company, and technology used by the company has contributed to the development of CCI. Novelty – The study put emphasize with its original data on building resource-based strategy (RBV)."""
L21|Establishing Local Wisdom Values to Develop Sustainable Competitiveness Excellence|"""Objective – This research aimed to dig into local wisdom, values that grew and thrived amongst Balinese as well as its application in the tourism sector, particularly tourism marketing. The area scope of this research was Ubud and its surrounding area. Methodology/Technique – This research used ethnographic studies to describe and interpret the culture, social group or system. Even though the cultural meaning was very extensive, the ethnographic studies only focused on the patterns of activity, language, beliefs, rituals, and ways of life (Sukmadinata, 2006). Findings – The results showed that the values of society local wisdom had always accompanied the development of the Ubud area since the inception of civilization to become an international tourist area. These local wisdom values were the competitiveness excellence factors that were unique and difficult to imitate. As the result of the consistent application of local wisdom values, the tourism sector in Ubud could be sustained until today. Theoretically, this research had been able to uncover that the modern marketing concepts had existed on the values and practices of local wisdom implementation. Novelty – The model of developing competitiveness by implementing local culture became the further development of model stated by Barney and Clarke (2007) and Vorhies et al. (2009)."""
L21|Independent directors: Less informed but better selected than affiliated board members?|This paper examines the relationships between independence, director unobservable ability and firm performance. We develop an original empirical strategy based on the AKM model to estimate separately director fixed effects (as a measure of individual ability) and firm fixed effects. We show that board independence has an ambiguous impact on corporate performance because of two opposing forces: one related to the director nomination process, the other one related to board functioning. On one hand, we report that independence is positively correlated with individual fixed effects, an evidence consistent with a nomination process of independent directors based on individual ability. On the other hand, and regarding board functioning, we show that independence, netted out individual ability, is negatively correlated with firm performance suggesting that independent board members experience an informational deficit (as compared to affiliated directors).
L21|John Kenneth Galbraith et l’évolution des structures économiques du capitalisme : d’une théorie de l’entrepreneur à une théorie de la grande entreprise ?|Dans cet article nous revisitons le concept de technostructure forgé par John K. Galbraith dans Le nouvel État industriel, en le resituant dans son analyse de l'évolution des structures du capitalisme, et plus précisément du passage du capitalisme entrepreneurial au capitalisme de la grande entreprise. En distinguant d'une part la figure de l'entrepreneur et d'autre part les fonctions de l'entrepreneur, nous montrons que si la figure de l'entrepreneur disparaît progressivement, elle est supplantée par la technostructure qui est amenée à remplir les fonctions autrefois dévolues à l'entrepreneur. En confrontant le point de vue de Galbraith avec les théories de l'entrepreneur et les théories managériales de l'entreprise, nous mettons en lumière l'originalité et la spécificité de l'analyse de Galbraith qui, en retenant une conception « gestionnaire » de l'entrepreneur, propose une théorie de la grande entreprise qui « dérive » de sa théorie de l'entrepreneur. Classification JEL : B25, L21, L26.
L21|Investment climate, outward orientation and manufacturing firm productivity: New empirical evidence|Drawing on the World Bank Enterprise Surveys (WBES), we revisit the link between investment climate and firm productive performance for a panel of enterprises surveyed twice in 70 developing countries and 11 manufacturing industries. We take advantage of the surveys done at different times in an increasing number of economies, to tackle the endogeneity issue which has been seen as a problem in previous studies. We also use pertinent econometric techniques to address other biases inherent in the data, in particular measurement errors, missing observations, and multicollinearity. Our results reinforce previous findings by validating, with a larger than usual sample of countries and industries, the importance of a larger set of environment variables. We show that infrastructure quality (Infra), information and communication technologies (ICT), skills and experience of the labor force (H), cost of and access to financing (Fin), security and political stability (CrimePol), competition (Comp) and government relation (Gov) contribute to firms’ and countries’ different performances. The empirical analysis also illustrates that firms which chose an outward orientation have higher productivity levels. Nevertheless, outward oriented enterprises are, at the same time, more sensitive to investment climate limitations. These findings have important policy implications by showing which dimensions of the business environment, in which industry, could help manufacturing firms to be more competitive in the present context of increasing globalization.
L21|Training Strategies and Skill Development Amid Weak Institutions: Evidence from Russia|How do firms decide between different strategies for acquiring highly skilled workers? Ronald Coase (1937) famously argued that firms face trade-offs between “making” required inputs within the firm and contracting with outside actors to “buy” them. Similar trade-offs abound in deciding between in-plant training and outsourcing to either public or private, third parties. Existing theory on firms’ training strategies is premised on the ability of firms to solve a fundamental commitment problem, which retards cooperation between firms and other actors. Only with a strong civil society – employers’ associations and labor unions –or free, transparent and efficient market mechanisms is cooperation possible. Contemporary Russia presents a puzzle to this work. On the one hand, firms increasingly make costly co-investments with state-run schools and outsource training to private third-parties. On the other hand, civil society and judicial institutions are weak in Russia, making it difficult for firms to punish counterparties, at the same time that its markets have failed to fully make the transition to free and transparent capitalism. This paper argues that absent strong civil society and free, transparent markets, firms can overcome commitment problems and work with third-parties so long as their regional governments have strong state capacity and are politically accountable. The former assures firms that central, regional authorities can monitor school officials and private-third parties to ensure agreements are honored, while the latter creates incentives for regional authorities to do so. These theories are tested on original survey data covering 690 firms in 12 Russian regions
L21|Political Connections and Non-Traditional Investment: Evidence from Public-Private Partnerships in Vocational Education|How do political connections shape the propensity of firms to make investments in weakly institutionalized settings? Traditionally, absent ways to hold the state accountable, firms should withhold investment for fear of predation. An emerging body of work on the political economy of investment has highlighted the competitive advantages that direct political connections with officials can bring to firms in institutionally weak environments with low accountability. These advantages, particularly privileged protection of property rights, can decrease uncertainty and promote investment even absent traditional accountability mechanisms. This paper applies these insights to a particularly risky form of investment for firms: public-private partnerships (PPP) with the state to develop skill. Skill development investments are riskier than average, since they require firms to reveal trade secrets about their production, engage in long-term interactions, and can be poached by free-riding rival firms. This paper argues that these risks canbe overcome by a strong state partner (i.e. PPP), albeit this creates new risks in weakly institutionalized environments if the lower-level officials responsible for implementing agreements cannot be held accountable for agreements and can shirk. This paper argues that political connections provide the means for states to create credible commitment, as they give firms access to power that can enable them to monitor lower-level officials, call attention to misbehavior, and thus punish deviations from PPP agreements. It outlines the ways in which various types of political connections state ownership, direct officeholding, employing former officials, via formal consultative organs , and acquaintanceship can enable firms to hold lower-level officials accountable and engender credible commitment. These arguments are then tested using data from an original survey of 690 firms in 12 Russian regions.
L21|Asymmetric Payoffs and Spatial Competition|Abstract We investigate the location choice of two firms whose objectives are the weighted average of their own profit and social welfare, in which they simultaneously decide their locations before setting their prices. The purpose of this paper is to examine whether the asymmetric locations are influenced by the asymmetry of the firms’ objectives or by the asymmetry of firms’ marginal costs. We show that, when both firms have the same marginal cost, the equilibrium locations are always symmetric even in the case of the asymmetric objectives. On the other hand, the cost differences lead the asymmetric locations in equilibrium. That is, the asymmetric locations are a result of the cost asymmetry, but not the asymmetry of the firms’ objectives. We also demonstrate that the pursuit of profit by the cost-inefficient firm may increase consumer surplus.
L21|New Outsourcing, Demand Uncertainty and Labor Usage|Abstract We examine the decisions by small and medium-sized Australian firms to undertake new outsourcing. We hypothesize that new outsourcing may be related to demand uncertainty. We test this hypothesis at the firm level, making use of unique longitudinal data on Australian manufacturing. We find an asymmetric relationship between new outsourcing and demand uncertainty. For the larger firms in our sample, positive demand shocks are related to more new outsourcing. For all firms, negative demand shocks are related to less new outsourcing. New outsourcing appears to be related to demand uncertainty and to the firm’s overall approach to labor utilization.
L21|Drivers of high-quality entrepreneurship: what changes did the crisis bring about?|Abstract This paper examines antecedents of high-quality entrepreneurship in European countries before and after the financial crisis that burst in 2008. In a context of ambitious entrepreneurship, we consider three quality aspects of early-stage entrepreneurship referring to innovativeness, export orientation, and high-growth intentions of entrepreneurs. Using microlevel data retrieved from Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) annual surveys, we investigate whether the role of gender, education, opportunity perception, and motives of early-stage entrepreneurs changes between crisis and noncrisis periods. Our results show that the perception of business opportunities has a particularly pronounced effect on high-quality entrepreneurship in adverse economic conditions. We also find that the beneficial effects of educational attainment on growth intentions strengthen in times of crisis. Finally, the gender effect on entrepreneurs’ high-growth intentions and export orientation appears to be stronger in the crisis period, implying that ambitious female entrepreneurship suffers more in the midst of crisis.
L21|Determinants of Intra-Firm Trade|By exploiting a unique sample of foreign affliates in Sub-Saharan Africa, we study previously examined and unexamined firm-level determinants of intra-firm trade. We document that foreign affliates engaging in intra-firm trade are relatively few and that the majority of these also engage in trade at arm's length, which accounts for an important fraction of their total trade. The identified firm-level determinants of intra-firm trade are consistent with property rights and intangible assets theories of the multinational firm, with international production hierarchies theories, as well as with theories of different FDI types and of multinational activity under credit constraints.
L21|Knowledge Transfer and Intra-Firm Trade|Using a unique sample of foreign affliates in Sub-Saharan Africa, we study the relationship of the extensive and intensive margins of their intra-firm trade with knowledge transfer to them from their parent companies. We find that the engagement of foreign affliates in intra-firm trade and their share of intra-firm trade are positively associated with the probability of these receiving crucial parental assistance in the use of patents, trademarks, and brand names, technology and know-how, access to foreign supplier network, and access to global markets. Foreign afiliates which engage in intra-firm trade and those with a higher share of this type of trade also receive more important overall parental assistance. The positive associations between intra-firm trade and knowledge transfer in the form of patents, trademarks and brand names are weaker in countries with relatively strong legal rights than in countries with relatively weak legal rights. Our findings point to the interplay between property rights and intangible assets theories of the multinational firm by suggesting that the joint role of knowledge ows in production and of multinational firm boundaries as facilitators of transfers of tangibles and intangibles is crucial.
L21|Provider Incentives and Healthcare Costs: Evidence from Long-Term Care Hospitals|We study the design of provider incentives in the post-acute care setting – a high-stakes but under-studied segment of the healthcare system. We focus on long-term care hospitals (LTCHs) and the large (approximately $13,000) jump in Medicare payments they receive when a patient's stay reaches a threshold number of days. The descriptive evidence indicates that discharges increase substantially after the threshold, and that the marginal patient discharged after the threshold is in relatively better health. Despite the large financial incentives and behavioral response in a high mortality population, we are unable to detect any compelling evidence of an impact on patient mortality. To assess provider behavior under counterfactual payment schedules, we estimate a simple dynamic discrete choice model of LTCH discharge decisions. When we conservatively limit ourselves to alternative contracts that hold the LTCH harmless, we find that an alternative contract can generate Medicare savings of about $2,100 per admission, or about 5% of total payments. More aggressive payment reforms can generate substantially greater savings, but the accompanying reduction in LTCH profits has potential out-of-sample consequences. Our results highlight how improved financial incentives may be able to reduce healthcare spending, without negative consequences for industry profits or patient health.
L21|Is Pollution Value-Maximizing? The DuPont Case|DuPont, one of the most respectable U.S. companies, caused environmental damage that ended up costing the company around a billion dollars. By using internal company documents disclosed in trials we rule out the possibilities that this bad outcome was due to ignorance, an unexpected realization, or a problem of bad governance. The documents rather suggest that the harmful pollution was a rational decision: under reasonable probabilities of detection, polluting was ex-ante optimal from the company's perspective, albeit a very harmful decision from a societal perspective. We then examine why different mechanisms of control - legal liability, regulation, and reputation - all failed to deter socially harmful behavior. One common reason for the failures of deterrence mechanisms is that the company controls most of the information and its release. We then sketch potential ways to mitigate this problem.
L21|The impact of state development institutions on the innovative behavior of firms: Qualitative effects|Basing on a series of in-depth interviews with top executives of Russian innovation companies, the paper analyzes qualitative effects generated by the support from the state development institutions. Non-financial impacts, in particular, changes in firms’ innovation behavior, turned out to be quite significant. At the same time, tightening of formal control of the development institutions increases the risks and costs faced by the supported companies. We have identified two models of firms’ innovation behavior associated with different demand for public support instruments. These models are conditioned not so much to firms’ characteristics, but rather by the values of top managers and their views on appropriate forms of state intervention in innovation processes.
L21|The endogeneous choice of delegation in a duopoly with outsourcing to the rival|In a market in which a vertically integrated producer (VIP) also supplies an essential input to a retail rival, we explore the role of managerial delegation when it shapes downstream firms' incentives and determine the endogenous choice of delegation under both Cournot and Bertrand. The equilibrium choice of acting as a managerial firm, which is a standard result in literature of strategic delegation, is shown to be robust to the presence of a VIP in both the quantity competition and the price competition framework, regardless of the degree of product differentiation. The paper, however, highlights the different motives pushing the integrated firm and the independent retailer towards delegation, which also revert the standard result that delegation causes a prisoner's dilemma-type equilibrium under Cournot and a more profitable outcome under Bertrand. This result sheds new light on the role and implications of the managerial delegation in the real-world market structures.
L21|Hiring a manager or not? When asymmetric equilibria arise under outsourcing to a rival|This paper reconsiders the issue of the endogenous choice of delegation in a market in which a vertically integrated producer (VIP) sells an input to a downstream competitor. The choice of whether to hire a manager or not is made at a preplay stage of a game developed by assuming that, within managerial firms, owners provide their managers with incentives affecting both the VIP's decision regarding the input price and retail competition. Our findings rule out that both the symmetric choices of being managerial or entrepreneurial can be implemented in equilibrium when firms compete A la Cournot, which contrasts with previous literature. The paper brings into focus the role of product differentiation in delivering asymmetric equilibria as solutions of the endogenous delegation game.
L21|How to compete? Cournot vs. Bertrand in a vertical structure with an integrated input supplier|We study whether a quantity or a price contract is chosen at equilibrium by one integrated firm and its retail competitor in a differentiated duopoly. Using a similar vertical structure, Arya et al. (2008) showed that Bertrand competition is more profitable than Cournot competition, which contrasts with conventional wisdom. In this paper, we first demonstrate that such a result is robust to the endogenous determination of the type of contract. Second, by introducing managerial incentives in the model, we find that delegation to managers entails conflicting choices of the strategic variable by the two firms as long as products are sufficiently differentiated, causing non-existence of equilibrium in pure strategies. Significantly high product substitutability reconciles firms' objectives under delegation, leading unique or multiple equilibria with symmetric types of contracts to arise.
L21|Strengthening the Management of Ubiquitous Internet by Refining ISO/IEC 27001 Implementation Using a Generic Responsibility Model|The recent emergence of decentralized networks and ubiquitous Internet has highlighted the need for a better management of the companies’ IT architecture and for an improvement of the users of the network’s responsibility. Many standards have recently emerged to face these requirements. By analyzing them, we observe that they all include reference to the user responsibility but also that no common understanding of it exists. These statements have oriented our research toward the elaboration of an innovative, simple and pragmatic responsibility model that includes a user commitment dimension. ISO/IEC 27001:2005 is one of that new standard that aims at providing a framework for improving the information system management and the security of IT architecture. Although this standard is recognized over the globe, many surveys and cases studies provide interesting feedback about its implementation problems. In this paper, we introduce our responsibility model, we depict the responsibility aspects encompassed in ISO 27001 and we propose some improvement perspectives to face these problems and strengthen its implementation.
L21|Eco-Firms and the Sequential Adoption of Environmental Corporate Social Responsibility in the Managerial Delegation|This article investigates the strategic environmental corporate social responsibility (ECSR) of polluting firms in the presence of eco-firms. When the firms decide to adopt ECSR sequentially within the framework of the managerial incentive design and then face simultaneous price competition, we show that firms will adopt ECSR and purchase abatement goods to mitigate competition if the products are more substitutable, but the late adopter chooses lower ECSR and thus earns higher profit. It can partially explain the current expansive adoption of ECSR as an industry-wide wave.
L21|Impact of Organizational Culture on the Pakistani Hotels Workforce's Job Satisfaction: Qualitative Report|The influence of organizational culture on the level of job satisfaction depends on the ability to cope up with the stress and working environment. This investigation tackle the purpose of Denison’s prototypical for searching the organizational culture and Spector JGS assessment to inspect workforce job gratification in the course of 5 points Likert Scale. The investigation studied 220 hotel employees from middle range 3 star hotels in Pakistan. For interpretation, researchers chiefly used MS Excel for classifying, coding, and fractionizing raw facts into processed meaningful themes. Current investigation demonstrates that employee’s job satisfaction chiefly dependent on organizational culture. The study undertakes in the direction of achieving organizational goals by initiating fortify strategies towards building the strength to obtain the objective. Moreover if organizations built a strong environment of learning as a part of their culture than it boosts the commitment level of employees. Further, it also helps employees to unfolding their career achievements. On the other hand, it is observed that females are occupied with higher level of job satisfaction while males have lower. Although, high level of job satisfaction exists but its more evident by this research that premiums, bonuses, and other types of incentives aid employees to lead from low level of job satisfaction to reach on their higher apex level of job satisfaction.
L21|Profitable and desirable corporate environmentalism in a delegation contract under incentive subsidy on abatement technologies|This study investigates corporate environmentalism in a managerial delegation contract and shows that a well-designed subsidy scheme can enhance business profitability and thus, an environmental policy could lead to both social and private benefits. This analysis allows us to better understand the Porter’s concept of environmental policy and firm’s profitability.
L21|“De (corporate responsibility) gustibus est misurandum”: heterogeneity and consensus around CR indicators|We investigate with an ad hoc survey respondents’ tastes about the different corporate responsibility (CR) items typically used by CR rating agencies. The hypotheses of equal average value weights given to different CR items and equal variance (which we consider as a proxy of the inverse of consensus on the importance of an indicator) are strongly rejected by our data both in our overall suvey sample and in more homogeneous subsamples based on gender, age, education and religious beliefs. We as well frequently reject the hypothesis that value weights for the same CR item are the same across different subpopulations in gender subsamples since women attribute significantly higher weights than men to many CR items when we do not correct for young respondents’ oversampling.
L21|To Grow or Not to Grow? That is the Question: Lessons for Social Ecological Transformation from Small-Medium Enterprises|While research on alternatives to growth at the level of the economy as a whole is accumulating, few studies have related the criticism of growth to the business level. This paper starts to address this gap by investigating mechanisms of growth for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), presenting a case study that applies Q methodology and interviews with owner-managers of both growing and non-growing SMEs in Austria. Some mechanisms stimulating growth are identified across SMEs including contributing to innovativeness and motivation of employees. Others are only of relevance for some SMEs: competition, financial stability and a desire for market power. The owner-managers of non-growing SMEs hold values and pursue goals that free them from mechanisms of growth or prevent them from being triggered. Moreover, they exhibit a strong identification with their SME, operate in niche markets and strive for financial independence. This illustrates that a growth imperative is neither inevitable nor are growth mechanisms always operative, but depend upon structures and institutions.
L21|On the Evolution of Continuous Types Under Replicator and Gradient Dynamics: Two Examples|Abstract This paper illustrates techniques for assessing the dynamic stability of games where a continuum of types might be present by re-analyzing two models under incomplete information, the Lohman et al. (Unpublished manuscript, 2001) public goods game and the Kopel et al. (J Econ Dyn Control 48:394–409, 2014) Cournot duopoly game. The evolution of continuous types follows either replicator dynamics Oechssler and Riedel (Econ Theory 17:141–162, 2001; J Econ Theory 107:223–252 2002) or gradient dynamics Friedman and Ostrov (J Math Econ 46:691–707, 2010; J Econ Theory 148:743–777, 2013). The techniques rely on a system of partial differential equations. Numerical solutions obtained through replicator and gradient dynamics highlight the differences and the similarities that arise under both approaches. In the public goods game, the dynamic system affects the stationary distribution of types while in the Cournot duopoly model, the types evolve to a single mass point regardless of the dynamics used. Lastly, these techniques allow us to endogenize the distribution of player types.
L21|Strategic risk in supply chain contract design|Abstract Supply chains facing asymmetric information can either operate in a cooperative mode with information and benefit sharing or can choose a non-cooperative form of interaction and align their incentives via screening contracts. In the cooperative mode, supply chain efficiency can be achieved, but high levels of trust and trustworthiness are required. In the non-cooperative mode, the contract mechanism guarantees a second best supply chain performance, but only if all parties choose their equilibrium strategies without trembles. Experimental evidence, however, shows that both operating modes often fail due to strategic risk. Cooperation is disrupted by deceptive signals and the lack of trust, whereas non-cooperative strategies suffer from persistent out-of-equilibrium behavior. We present two means to reduce strategic risk. First, a punishment mechanism leads to a better matching of trust and trustworthiness and supports the cooperative operating mode. Second, an enforcement of self-selection supports the non-cooperative equilibrium by increasing the attractiveness of screening contracts. We find that supply chain performance can benefit from reduced strategic risk in either operating mode.
L21|Socioemotional wealth’s implications in the calculus of the minimum rate of return required by family businesses’ owners|Abstract This paper demonstrates that the minimum rate of return (k e ) required by family business shareholders is inversely related to the emotional endowment presented in these firms. After reviewing the socioemotional wealth (SEW) literature, we find empirical support to justify that different SEW dimensions influence k e . Findings from a population of 207 family firms show that the identification of family members with the firm and the renewal of family bonds with the firm through dynastic succession have consistently negative impacts on k e , while family control and influence have significantly positive impacts on k e .
L21|Cooperation in a differentiated duopoly when information is dispersed: A beauty contest game with endogenous concern for coordination|The paper provides a micro-founded differentiated duopoly illustration of a beauty contest, in which the relative weight put on the competition motive of the payoffs is not exogenous but may be manipulated by the players. The conflict between the competition and the fundamental motives, already present in an oligopolistic setting under perfect information, is exacerbated when information is imperfect and dispersed. A conflict arises also in this case between the competition and the coordination motive, ending up in the undervalueing of public information. We show, in the context of a delegation game, how firm owners ease these conflicts by opting for some cooperation, thus moderating the competitive toughness displayed by their managers. By doing so, they also enhance the managers’ concern for coordination and consequently heighten the weight put on public relative to private information.
L21|To Grow or Not to Grow? That is the Question: Lessons for Social Ecological Transformation from Small-Medium Enterprises|While research on alternatives to growth at the level of the economy as a whole is accumulating, few studies have related the criticism of growth to the business level. This paper starts to address this gap by investigating mechanisms of growth for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), presenting a case study that applies Q methodology and interviews with owner-managers of both growing and non-growing SMEs in Austria. Some mechanisms stimulating growth are identified across SMEs including contributing to innovativeness and motivation of employees. Others are only of relevance for some SMEs: competition, financial stability and a desire for market power. The owner-managers of non-growing SMEs hold values and pursue goals that free them from mechanisms of growth or prevent them from being triggered. Moreover, they exhibit a strong identification with their SME, operate in niche markets and strive for financial independence. This illustrates that a growth imperative is neither inevitable nor are growth mechanisms always operative, but depend upon structures and institutions.
L21|Strategic corporate social responsibility|We examine the strategic use of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in imperfectly competitive markets. The level of CSR determines the weight a firm puts on consumer surplus in its objective function before it decides upon supply. First, we consider symmetric Cournot competition and show that the endogenous level of CSR is positive for any given number of firms. However, positive CSR levels imply smaller equilibrium profits. Second, we find that an incumbent monopolist can use CSR as an entry deterrent. Both results indicate that CSR may increase market concentration. Third, we consider heterogeneous firms and show that asymmetric costs imply asymmetric CSR levels.
L21|The ordonomic approach to business ethics|'Ordonomics' is a research program that has been developed at the Chair of Economic Ethics at Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg. It holds that business actors (persons and organizations) can employ morality as a 'factor of production', and that business ethics can be based on a specific rational-choice analysis that is fully in line with the established tradition of economic thinking. With regard to practice, the main point is that ordonomics offers a guiding concept for creating win-win solutions that help business firms to do well by doing good. With regard to theory, ordonomics offers a conceptual framework for business ethics that makes ethics and economics coherent and mutually compatible with each other.
L21|The Euro from a business perspective|The euro area has several problems. Nevertheless, there is not only strong political support for it, but also most companies back the euro or at least do not complain. It is worthwhile to analyse which companies do profit from the euro and why most others do not oppose it. Exporting companies in the northern countries of the euro zone profit from the euro and the policies to save the common currency even if their countries and people suffer. Other companies, especially in the southern member countries, suffer themselves but fear a break-up of the euro area even more than its continuance. For small companies it is not worthwhile to lobby for other policies, while the companies worst affected already ceased to exist. All companies have to come to terms with the euro but should also prepare for the possible end of the euro zone. Companies in other European countries reconsider whether they really want their countries to join the euro area.
L21|Why Firms Should Care for All Consumers|We compare the strategic potential of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Customer Orientation (CO) as commitments to larger quantities in Cournot competition, modeled as a multi-stage game. First, in addition to profits, firms can choose to care for the surplus of either all consumers (CSR) or their own customers only (CO). Second, they decide upon the weight of this additional objective. We find that firms prefer to care for all consumers, choosing positive levels of CSR.
L21|Strategic microscheduling of movies|We investigate how competition in product niches affects the timing of product release for experience goods using data on motion pictures in the United States. Additionally, we attempt to estimate the ultimate gain of this timing. We identify product niches that movies occupy along three different product dimensions: common actor, director, and genre. We estimate the drivers for a motion picture´s weekly sales based on the variation in the level of competition in these particular niches over the movie’s run in cinema. We start by showing that release dates of motion pictures are more likely to be rescheduled when there is more competition during the initially proposed release week. Next, we find that competition from movies by the same director or within the same movie genre decreases motion picture’s box office revenue most. Finally, we compare a movie’s actual sales to estimated sales at the originally planned release date. Rescheduled movies generate about $5.4 million more revenue as they would have at their originally proposed release date.
L21|U.S. Savings Banks' Demutualization and Depositor Welfare|Originally, U.S. savings banks were owned by their depositors. In recent decades, many savings banks have “demutualized”, by converting from customer to investor ownership. We examine the implications of such events for depositor welfare. We introduce a random coefficients logit model of bank account choice and estimate depositors' tastes for bank characteristics (including banks'ownership type). We then measure the effect on depositor welfare of a simulated demutualization of all customer-owned savings banks. We find that depositors' welfare would increase on average.In particular, if demutualized savings banks offered a deposit rate in line with existing demutualized banks, each depositor would gain $1.14 annually, for a total of $22 million for each state and year.
L21|U.S. Savings Banks' Demutualization and Depositor Welfare|"Originally, U.S. savings banks were owned by their depositors. In recent decades, many savings banks have ""demutualized"", by converting from customer to investor ownership. We examine the implications of such events for depositor welfare. We introduce a random coecients logit model of bank account choice and estimate depositors' tastes for bank characteristics (including banks' ownership type). We then measure the effect on depositor welfare of a simulated demutualization of all customer-owned savings banks. We find that depositors' welfare would increase on average. In particular, if demutualize savings banks oered a deposit rate in line with existing demutualized banks, each depositor would gain $1.14 annually, for a total of $22 million for each state and year."
L21|Bank business models: popularity and performance|We allocate banks to distinct business models by experimenting with various combinations of balance sheet characteristics as inputs in cluster analysis. Using a panel of 178 banks for the period 2005-15, we identify a retail-funded and a wholesale-funded commercial banking model that are robust to the choice of inputs. In comparison, a model emphasising trading activities and a universal banking model are less robustly identified. Both commercial banking models exhibit lower cost-to-income ratios and more stable return-on-equity than the trading model. In a reversal of a pre-crisis trend, the crisis aftermath witnessed mainly switches away from wholesale-funded and into retail-funded banking. Over the entire sample period, banks that switched into the retail-funded model saw their return-on-equity improve by 2.5 percentage points on average relative to non-switchers. By contrast, the relative performance of banks switching into the wholesale-funded model deteriorated by 5 percentage points on average.
L21|Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility|We examine the strategic use of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in imperfectly competitive markets. The level of CSR determines the weight a firm puts on consumer surplus in its objective function before it decides upon supply. First, we consider symmetric Cournot competition and show that the endogenous level of CSR is positive for any given number of firms. However, positive CSR levels imply smaller equilibrium profits. Second, we find that an incumbent monopolist can use CSR as an entry deterrent. Both results indicate that CSR may increase market concentration. Third, we consider heterogeneous firms and show that asymmetric costs imply asymmetric CSR levels.
L21|Competition in public service provision: The role of not-for-profit providers|With public services such as health and education, it is not straightforward for consumers to assess the quality of provision. Many such services are provided by monopoly not-for-profit providers and there is concern that for-profit providers may increase profit at the expense of quality. This paper explores the implications of entry by for-profit providers when there is unobserved quality. The model generates three key policy-relevant insights. First, by developing a novel approach to competition between different organizational forms, it frames the relevant trade-offs precisely. Second, it shows the value of keeping an incumbent not-for-profit as an active provider. Third, it characterizes the optimal payment (or voucher value) to an entrant for each consumer who switches in a way that can be applied empirically.
L21|Las microempresas y la reducción de la pobreza en Jalisco, México|Las PYMES y las microempresas se consideran un motor para el desarrollo económico nacional partiendo del desarrollo económico local en los diferentes sectores, debido a la cantidad de microempresas existentes y a la representatividad sobre el total de empresas en un país. El estudio parte de la necesidad de una mejora en la calidad de vida de las personas y de una redistribución más equitativa de los recursos, donde las microempresas pueden ser un factor decisivo para la disminución de la pobreza considerando la capacidad que las microempresas tienen en los diferentes elementos que la integran. Los resultados sugieren que las microempresas generan un beneficio para la comunidad en la que se encuentran y pueden ser un factor decisivo para la reducción de la pobreza.
L21|Companies Should Maximize Shareholder Welfare Not Market Value|What is the appropriate objective function for a firm? We analyze this question for the case where shareholders are prosocial and externalities are not perfectly separable from production decisions. We argue that maximization of shareholder welfare is not the same as maximization of market value. We propose that company and asset managers should pursue policies consistent with the preferences of their investors. Voting by shareholders on corporate policy is one way to achieve this.
L21|Is Pollution Value-Maximizing? The DuPont Case|DuPont, one of the most respectable U.S. companies, caused environmental damage that ended up costing the company around a billion dollars. By using internal company documents disclosed in trials we rule out the possibilities that this bad outcome was due to ignorance, an unexpected realization, or a problem of bad governance. The documents rather suggest that the polluting was a rational decision: under reasonable probabilities of detection, polluting was ex-ante optimal from the company’s perspective, even if the cost of preventing pollution was lower than the cost of the health damages produced. We then examine why different mechanisms of control – legal liability, regulation, and reputation – all failed to deter a behavior that was inefficient from a social point of view. One common reason for the failures of deterrence mechanisms is that the company controls most of the information and its release. We then sketch potential ways to mitigate this problem.
L21|A Scientific Approach to Entrepreneurial Decision-Making: Evidence from a Randomized Control Trial|A classical approach to collecting and elaborating information to make entrepreneurial decisions combines search heuristics such as trial and error, effectuation, and confirmatory search. This paper develops a framework for exploring the implications of a more scientific approach to entrepreneurial decision making. The panel sample of our randomized control trial includes 116 Italian startups and 16 data points over a period of about one year. Both the treatment and control groups receive 10 sessions of general training on how to obtain feedback from the market and gauge the feasibility of their idea. We teach the treated startups to develop frameworks for predicting the performance of their idea and to conduct rigorous tests of their hypotheses very much like scientists do in their research. We let the firms in the control group, instead, follow their intuitions about how to assess their idea, which has typically produced fairly standard search heuristics. We find that entrepreneurs who behave like scientists perform better, pivot to a greater extent to a different idea, and do not drop out less than the control group in the early stages of the startup. These results are consistent with the main prediction of our theory: a scientific approach improves precision â€“ it reduces the odds of pursuing projects with false positive returns, and raises the odds of pursuing projects with false negative returns.
L21|Market Power and the Laffer Curve|We study commodity taxation and characterize the Laffer curve, a trade‐off between tax rates and revenue, in noncompetitive markets. Pricing in these markets leads to incomplete tax pass‐through and agents re optimize their purchase and pricing decisions in response to any tax change. We use detailed data from Pennsylvania, a state that monopolizes retail sales of alcoholic beverages, to estimate a model of demand for horizontally differentiated products that ties consumers' demographic characteristics to heterogeneous preferences for spirits. We find that under the state's current tax policy, spirits are overpriced. Distillers respond to decreases in the tax rate by increasing wholesale prices, which limits the state's revenue gain to only 13% of the incremental tax revenue predicted under the common assumption of perfect competition. The strategic response of noncompetitive firms to changes in taxation therefore flattens the Laffer curve significantly.
L21|Are Books Luxury Goods in Russia or not?|In the times of Soviet Union books were a luxury good. This paper examines whether books are still a luxury good in Russia. For this purpose data from one of the Russian book retail chains is used to empirically estimate a general book demand and separate demand models for genres. We focus on estimating income elasticity. For this reason we construct a covariate on the basis of monthly wages of working individuals that reveals consumer income. Moreover, this paper is one of the few which addresses in detail the influence of books content quality on book demand. The main result is that books on average are not luxury goods anymore in Russia. However two genres: foreign prose and poetry are exceptions and can be called luxury goods. We also conclude that quality control covariates (book rating and number of people who rated the book) are important determinants of book demand as they influence significantly the general book demand and the demand models for different genres as well.
L21|Top Decision-Making Bodies in Large Companies: Gender Quota Shows Initial Impact on Supervisory Boards ; Executive Board Remains a Male Bastion|The gender quota for supervisory boards that has been mandatory since January 2016 has shown an initial impact. According to DIW Berlin’s Women Executives Barometer, at the end of 2016, there were more women on the supervisory boards of the 106 companies subject to the statutory quota than one year before. Their proportion increased by a solid four percentage points to more than 27 percent. And in the other groups of companies studied, the number of female supervisory board members also rose. However, the calculations based on the top 200 companies also showed that in companies in which the supervisory board already consisted of one-third women, the proportion hardly increased or did not increase at all. The gap between supervisory and executive boards has also widened because growth in the latter has flattened. Women represent only 6,5 percent of the executives at companies subject to the quota — even fewer than in the DAX 30 (11 percent) and the average of the 200 highest performing companies in Germany (eight percent). In companies with government-owned shares, the momentum has decreased significantly — they run the risk of losing their function as role models. To forestall a tightening of the law, companies should ensure more balanced gender representation on all executive levels.
L21|Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen: Geschlechterquote zeigt erste Wirkung in Aufsichtsräten – Vorstände bleiben Männerdomänen|The gender quota for supervisory boards that has been mandatory since January 2016 has shown an initial impact. According to DIW Berlin’s Women Executive Barometer, at the end of 2016 there were more women on the supervisory boards of the 106 companies subject to the statutory quota than one year before. Their proportion increased by a solid four percentage points to more than 27 percent. And in the other groups of companies studied, the number of female supervisory board members also rose. However, the calculations based on the top 200 companies also showed that in companies in which the supervisory board already consisted of one-third women, the proportion hardly increased or did not increase at all. The gap between supervisory and executive boards has also widened because growth in the latter has flattened. Women represent only six percent of the executives at companies subject to the quota – even fewer than in the DAX 30 (11 percent) and the average of the 200 highest performing companies in Germany (eight percent). In companies with government-owned shares, the momentum has decreased significantly – they run the risk of losing their function as role models. To forestall a tightening of the law, companies should ensure more balanced gender representation on all executive levels. Die seit Januar 2016 verbindliche Geschlechterquote für Aufsichtsräte in Deutschland zeigt eine erste Wirkung: Dem Managerinnen- Barometer des DIW Berlin zufolge waren in den unter die Quotenregelung fallenden 106 Unternehmen Ende 2016 deutlich mehr Frauen in den Kontrollgremien vertreten als ein Jahr zuvor. Ihr Anteil stieg um gut vier Prozentpunkte auf mehr als 27 Prozent. Auch in den anderen Unternehmensgruppen legte der Anteil der Aufsichtsrätinnen zu. Die Berechnungen auf Basis der Top-200-Unternehmen zeigen zudem, dass in Unternehmen, in denen der Aufsichtsrat bereits zu einem Drittel mit Frauen besetzt ist, der Anteil anschließend kaum bis gar nicht mehr steigt. Die Schere zwischen den Aufsichtsräten und Vorständen öffnet sich indes weiter, denn in letzteren ist die Dynamik nach wie vor sehr schwach: In den unter die Quote fallenden Unternehmen sind im Durchschnitt nur 6,5 Prozent Frauen in den Vorstandsetagen vertreten – noch weniger als in den DAX-30 (gut elf Prozent) und den 200 umsatzstärksten Unternehmen (acht Prozent). In den Unternehmen mit Bundesbeteiligung hat sich die Dynamik deutlich abgeschwächt – sie drohen ihre Vorbildfunktion einzubüßen. Um möglichen Gesetzesverschärfungen zuvorzukommen, sollten Unternehmen auf allen Führungsebenen für ein ausgeglicheneres Geschlechterverhältnis sorgen.
L21|Business models of the banks in the euro area|The paper identifies the business models followed by banks in the euro area utilising a proprietary dataset collected in the context of the supervisory reporting of the Single Supervisory Mechanism. The concept of a ‘business model’ has been neglected by economic theory and is defined here with respect to the set of activities performed by banks. We adopt a clustering methodology to provide evidence for the existence of distinct business models. Clustering is combined with dimensionality reduction optimally, given the nature of our dataset which features a large number of dimensions for each bank (‘fat’ data). The method produces a level and a contrast factor which are intuitive in the economic sense. Four business models are identified alongside a set of ‘outlier’ banks that follow unique business models. The risk and performance indicators of each cluster are examined and evidence is provided that they follow distinct statistical distributions. JEL Classification: C63, G21, L21, L25
L21|Do acquisitions by electric utility companies create value? Evidence from deregulated markets|In the early 1990s, the United Kingdom (the UK) initiated widespread reforms in the electricity industry through a series of market liberalization policies. Several other countries have subsequently followed the lead and restructured their electricity industry. A major outcome of the deregulation effort is the spate of takeovers, both domestic and global, by electric utility companies. With the entry of new players and increasing competition, the business environment of the electricity industry has changed dramatically. This study analyzes the economic impact of mergers and acquisitions (M&As) in the electric utility industry after deregulation. We have examined acquisitions that took place between 1998 and 2013 in the United States, Canada, the UK, Germany, and France. Although previous studies showed no evidence of a positive effect on acquiring firms through M&As, we find that acquisitions by electric utility companies increased the acquiring firms’ share value and improved their operating performance, primarily through efficiency gains after the deregulation. These results are consistent with the empirical evidence and implications presented by Andrade et al. (2001) that M&A created value for the shareholders of the acquiring and target combined firms.
L21|Internal Liquidity Management and Local Credit Provision|This paper studies the patterns of internal liquidity management and their effect on bank lending, using a novel branch-level dataset of Brazilian banks. Our results suggest that internal liquidity management increases during times of financial stress. Privately owned banks are most affected by a liquidity shock, and increase the level of internal funding to maintain their branch lending, while their government-owned competitors react strategically. Private and government banks increase the funding of branches in concentrated and riskier areas. This funding translates into more lending, as the sensitivity of lending to internal funding remains high after the liquidity shock. Altogether, this paper provides branch-level evidence of the way that banks ration internal liquidity, both in normal times and in times of stress, and the effect this has on bank lending.
L21|Fintech Lending: Financial Inclusion, Risk Pricing, and Alternative Information|Fintech has been playing an increasing role in shaping financial and banking landscapes. Banks have been concerned about the uneven playing field because fintech lenders are not subject to the same rigorous oversight. There have also been concerns about the use of alternative data sources by fintech lenders and the impact on financial inclusion. In this paper, we explore the advantages/disadvantages of loans made by a large fintech lender and similar loans that were originated through traditional banking channels. Specifically, we use account-level data from the Lending Club and Y-14M bank stress test data. We find that Lending Club’s consumer lending activities have penetrated areas that could benefit from additional credit supply, such as areas that lose bank branches and those in highly concentrated banking markets. We also find a high correlation with interest rate spreads, Lending Club rating grades, and loan performance. However, the rating grades have a decreasing correlation with FICO scores and debt to income ratios, indicating that alternative data is being used and performing well so far. Lending Club borrowers are, on average, more risky than traditional borrowers given the same FICO scores. The use of alternative information sources has allowed some borrowers who would be classified as subprime by traditional criteria to be slotted into “better” loan grades and therefore get lower priced credit. Also, for the same risk of default, consumers pay smaller spreads on loans from the Lending Club than from traditional lending channels.
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to the balance of payments, banking sector, wage arrears, and industrial development
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to the federal budget, foreign trade, Russian industrial sector, retail lending sector, and industrial development
L21|Hawks and Doves in Segmented Markets: Profit Maximization with Varying Competitive Aggressiveness|We consider a duopoly, each firm supplying a captive and a contested segment. Starting from two extreme formulations of the profit maximization objective, we introduce a parameterized class of managerial objective functions, involving price-quantity pairs as strategic variables but corresponding to different managerial attitudes. By specifying the parameters of competitive aggressiveness, we recover classical competition regimes. The model is extended to analyze the strategic choice of managerial aggressiveness, and to examine the implications of changes in the intensity of competition. In order to endogenize the competitive aggressiveness parameters, a more primitive price-quantity model introduces the possibility of consumer price discounting.
L21|The Doing Business Project: How It Started: Correspondence|No abstract is available for this item.
L21|Do Firms Price and Advertise to Maximize Profits? Evidence from U.S. Food Industries| Based on a model that incorporates brand entry deterrence through advertising and pricing strategies, this paper investigates whether firms’ advertising and pricing policies deviate from their short-run profit maximization strategies and how advertising and pricing entry deterrence strategies vary with market conditions. We estimate the advertising and pricing response of incumbents to entrants in four food industries: beer, carbonated soft drinks, ready-to-eat cereal and yogurt, and find that incumbents deviate significantly from profit maximization advertising and pricing policies. There is a U-shaped relationship between the potential market share of an entrant and incumbents’ pricing but an inverse U-shape with respect to advertising level. This means that incumbents are more likely to price higher and advertise less to deter entry when potential entrants are more competitive in terms of potential market share. Empirically, we show this to be the case in the four food industries studied.
L21|Big Data's Potential to Improve Food Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability and Food Safety| Big data is emerging as an important information technology to guide decisions within agri-food supply chains. Big data can be used potentially to differentiate and identify final products based on underlying farm production attributes demanded by consumers in the supply chain. This paper considers the challenges faced by the supply chain in responding to consumer demands and adoption of big data technologies in agricultural production through closer evaluation of two examples—one of which considers the use of a sustainability metric and the other considers the potential to increase food safety. We conclude with some comments about likely future issues and implications of the potential widespread adoption of big data.
L21|Risk Management In The Electronic Business|Risk should not be understood as a destructive phenomenon, but bear in mind that managers who know how to use it can lead to real opportunities. Manager must first recognize the existence of risk, namely to identify and then use specific methods to avoid or reduce the risk. The purpose of this paper is to enter the world, at all simple, of risk management, relatively easy concept to understand but not so easy to put into practice. Of course, the approach relates primarily at the risks inherent of the business in digital environments, but they not represent only a particular case of the risks they are exposed, in general, the companies. In the paper we put in evidence the significance in general business, risks in e-business, then we added a description of the types of security risks, an exemplification of these and a series of test scenarios, and finally to make a analysis of operational solutions of risk management
L21|Diagnosing Cluster Competitiveness Using Firm-Level Data in the Profit–Growth Nexus Framework|Competitiveness is defined at the level of firms, clusters, regions, and nations. Although researchers have extensively explored the concept of competitiveness in each of these respective categories, an understanding of the relationship between levels of competitiveness is lacking. The simple aggregation of indicators to approximate broader categories of competitiveness is challenged as a robust solution. This paper proposes an alternative solution to aggregating firm-level competitiveness, based on the profit–growth nexus. Using data collected from SMEs in two ICT clusters, the size–profit–growth relationships were tested. Based on 83 Hungarian and 71 Australian responses, positive relationships were found in both samples, demonstrating high cluster-level competitiveness. It is argued that this outcome better represents cluster-level competitiveness based on firm-level data, than other – linear and additive – aggregation methods. However, a comparative examination of the data across the clusters showed significant differences between the results of the two samples, ascertaining limitations for the generalisability of the results.
L21|Private Firms’ Adaptation to Climate Change within the Context of Developing Countries: A Pitch|This short paper applies the pitch template developed by Faff (2015b), for a proposed strategy research topic that investigates private power and electricity firm’s adaptation to climate change within the context of a developing country. I begin by giving a brief background to writing the pitch. I then give a brief commentary on my pitch, followed by a few key personal reflections on the pitch exercise itself.
L21|Identyfikacje pojęcia sprawiedliwości społecznej / Identifications of the Notion of Social Justice|In the 1840’s due to Luigi Taparelli and Antonio Rosmini emerged the term of “social justice”. From this time, its meaning has developed in many ways. The paper brings up some applications of the notion. In the literature of the subject one can find numerous identities of “social justice”. The article focuses on the identity of this term with justice framed as: legal, distributive, commutative, penal, and restorative. Some of these concepts assumes and requires existence of some kind of social persons. By briefly analysing those notions the author tries to show the specificity of particular types of meanings assigned to the social justice.
L21|Reputation and Feedback Systems in Online Platform Markets|Online marketplaces have become ubiquitous, as sites such as eBay, Taobao, Uber, and Airbnb are frequented by billions of users. The success of these marketplaces is attributed to not only the ease in which buyers can find sellers, but also the trust that these marketplaces help facilitate through reputation and feedback systems. I begin by briefly describing the basic ideas surrounding the role of reputation in facilitating trust and trade, and offer an overview of how feedback and reputation systems work in online marketplaces. I then describe the literature that explores the effects of reputation and feedback systems on online marketplaces and highlight some of the problems of bias in feedback and reputation systems as they appear today. I discuss ways to address these problems to improve the practical design of online marketplaces and suggest some directions for future research.
L21|Firms, Nonprofits, And Cooperatives: A Theory Of Organizational Choice|We formalize the difference between profit-maximizing firms, nonprofits, and cooperatives and identify optimal organizational choice in a model of quality provision. Firms provide lowest and nonprofits highest levels of quality. Efficiency, however, depends on the competitive environment, the decision making process among owners and technology. Firms are optimal when decision making costs are high. Else, firms are increasingly dominated by either nonprofits or cooperatives. Increased competition improves relative efficiency of firms and decreases relative efficiency of nonprofits.
L21|Horizontal Mergers With Capital Adjustment: Workers Cooperatives And The Merger Paradox|We study the incentives towards horizontal merger among firms when the amount of capital is the strategic variable. We focus on workers' cooperatives, but our conclusions apply also to employment-constrained profit maximizers. Within a simple oligopoly model, we prove that the horizontal merger, for any merger size, is: (i) privately efficient for insiders as well as for outsiders; (ii) socially efficient if market size is large enough, even in the case of merger to monopoly.
L21|Empirical Evidence on the Relationship between Mobile Termination Rates and Firms' Profits| The theoretical literature on mobile termination rates (MTRs) is inconclusive on how the level of MTRs affects overall consumer charges and firms' profits. We show that when firms offer bundles with fixed included usage – a tariff structure that has become more common in recent years – an identical change in all MTRs does not affect firms' retail prices or profits. We use a panel dataset from saturated European markets to estimate the effect of MTRs on mobile operators' profits. As predicted by the theoretical model, we cannot reject the fact that firms' profits are unaffected by an identical change in all MTRs.
L21|Small, young, and exporters: New evidence on the determinants of firm growth|Abstract This work investigates how the export status of the firm influences the patterns of employment growth at different age classes. We address this research question resorting to a novel set of data that links together the universe of Italian firms and detailed data on export transactions. We find that the positive relationship between export status and growth declines with firm age. Further, we also find that, even when accounting for the role of age, the negative size-growth relationship does not disappear, contrary to some recent evidence. These results suggest a positive signaling role of the export status that is stronger for young exporters or born globals. Exploiting the product-country level dimension of the customs data, we also provide, for the first time, evidence on differences in exchange rates pass-through between young and experienced exporters. In particular, we find that early exporters appear to be better equipped than established firms to face exchange rates variations as their exports decrease less following a currency appreciation.
L21|Determinants of information and communication technologies adoption by Tunisian firms|This paper examines the determinant factors of a firm?s adoption of information and communication technologies (ICT) in the context of a developing country. The study is based on the theoretical framework related to the epidemic and rank models of innovation adoption. In this work, we use a survey of 145?Tunisian firms that was conducted over the period 2010-2011. Our results show that epidemic and rank effects do not always act together on the diffusion process of ICT. In particular, we find that absorptive capacity is more decisive for the adoption of the technologies which are not influenced by information spillovers (Intranet, LAN and EDI). Firm?s size, strategic fit and multi-unit firm also play an important role in the ICT adoption. However, there is no relationship between the intensity of organizational change and ICT diffusion in the Tunisian firms. JEL Codes: L21, O31, O33
L21|Global Firms|"Research in international trade has changed dramatically over the last twenty years, as attention has shifted from countries and industries towards the firms actually engaged in international trade. The now-standard heterogeneous firm model posits measure-zero firms that compete under monopolistic competition and decide whether to export to foreign markets. However, much of international trade is dominated by a few ""global firms,"" which participate in the international economy along multiple margins and account for substantial shares of aggregate trade. We develop a new theoretical framework that allows firms to have large market shares and decide simultaneously on the set of production locations, export markets, input sources, products to export, and inputs to import. Using US firm and trade transactions data, we provide strong evidence in support of this framework's main predictions of interdependencies and complementarities between these margins of firm international participation. Global firms participate more intensively along each margin, magnifying the impact of underlying differences in firm characteristics and increasing their shares of aggregate trade."
L21|Product Switching and the Business Cycle|"This paper explores the role of product adding and dropping within manufacturing firms over the business cycle. While a substantial body of work has explored the importance of the extensive margins of firm entry and exit in employment and output flows, only recently has research begun to examine the adjustment across products within firms and its importance for firm and aggregate output and employment flows. Using a novel, annual firm-product data set covering all Japanese manufacturing firms with more than four employees from 1992 to 2006, we provide the first evidence on annual changes in product adding and dropping by continuing firms over the business cycle. We find very high rates of product adding and dropping by continuing firms between the last year of the recession and the first year of the subsequent expansion and offer an explanation and supporting evidence based on a ""trapped factors"" model of firm behavior."
L21|Choice and Competition in Public Service Provision|In spite of a range of policy initiatives in sectors such as education, health care and legal services, whether choice and competition is valuable remains contested territory. This paper studies the impact of choice and competition on different dimensions of quality, examining the role of not-for-profit providers. We explore two main factors which determine whether an alternative provider enters the market: cost efficiency and the preferences of an incumbent not-for-profit provider (paternalism). The framework developed can incorporate standard concerns about the downside of choice and competition when consumer choice is defective (an internality) or choice imposes costs on those who do not switch (an externality). The paper considers optimal funding levels for incumbents and entrants showing when the 'voucher' provided for consumers to move to the incumbent should be more or less generous than the funding for consumers who remain with the incumbent. Finally, the model also offers an insight into why initiatives are frequently opposed by incumbent providers even if the latter have not-for-profit objectives.
L21|Alternative Objectives in an Oligopoly Model : An Aggregative Game Approach| A rapidly growing literature analyzes models in which firms maximize objectives other than profit and enjoy market power. Examples include the labor-managed firm, mixed oligopoly, and delegation models. These models typically retain the aggregative structure of the conventional Cournot model of imperfect competition. We exploit this fact and apply the framework recently developed by Cornes and Hartley (2005, 2011) to analyze the properties of the equilibrium in such games. We show that existing treatments often make more restrictive assumptions than necessary to generate their results. Specifically, we identify conditions sufficient to ensure the existence of a unique equilibrium, and we explore the comparative static properties of these conditions.
L21|Nicht alle Firmen wollen Flüchtlinge einstellen|Das ifo Institut hat zusammen mit dem Personaldienstleister Randstad im 4. Quartal 2015 Personalleiter von 1 163 Unternehmen nach ihrer Absicht gefragt, in diesem oder im kommenden Jahr Flüchtlinge einzustellen. 34% der Personalleiter können sich demnach vorstellen, 2016 oder ab 2017 Flüchtlinge zu beschäftigen. Für die Beurteilung des Umfrageergebnisses sind aber die generellen Einstellungsabsichten relevant. Deshalb wurden hier Daten des IAB-Betriebspanels 2015 herangezogen, in dessen Rahmen fast 16 000 Betriebe in Deutschland danach gefragt wurden, ob sie im 1. Halbjahr 2015 Einstellungen vorgenommen haben.
L21|Managerbefragung|Im Mittelpunkt der Managerbefragung im April stand das Thema Integration von Flüchtlingen in deutschen Betrieben. Das Haupthindernis sind fehlende Sprachkenntnisse.
L21|Impact Factors For The Development Of Young Entrepreneurs In Romania|A distinctive feature of developed economies is the vital role of entrepreneurship as a central pillar of economic growth. In the context of growing number of new businesses, this article aims to highlight the key factors that affect the entrepreneurship in Romania. The authors reviewed several scientific articles and business reports and also primary data collected via direct interaction with young entrepreneurs and students that aspire to become entrepreneurs in Romania. Issues like access to financing, taxes and other administrative barriers and also entrepreneurial skills and education are discussed. Moreover, entrepreneurs’ opinions on measures to improve the entrepreneurial education are listed.
L21|Mergers and Acquisitions in Latin America: Industrial Productivity and Corporate Governance| This article examines the impact of industrial productivity in the country of origin on transnationals M&As, directed from OECD countries toward Latin America in the period 1996–2010. It also analyzes the relationship between external mechanisms of corporate governance and transnational M&As. Employing a gravitational model at the industry level, we find that industry productivity in the country of origin promotes transnational M&A activity, although capital productivity affects it negatively. We also find evidence that higher standards of corporate governance in both origin and destination countries increase the likelihood of transnational M&As taking place.
L21|Payment innovations in Poland: the role of payment services in the strategies of commercial banksà|This paper examines the significance of innovations in the area of payment services for strategies implemented by commercial banks in Poland. We propose a definition of payment innovations and present the evolution of their introduction in the Polish market, indicating the impact of legal regulations and the critical character of the new FinTech phenomenon. The analysis that we conducted was based on the results of a survey which obtained responses from 24 commercial banks representing almost the entire Polish retail banking sector based on the number of personal accounts maintained. The study helped to determine the main elements of the strategies implemented by banks in Poland. It also revealed the methods for competing in the area of payment services utilized by the banks, with innovative services as one of the leading elements. The results of the study indicated that there was a significant differentiation of applied strategies depending on a bank’s size. In the case of larger banks, the main motivation for introducing payment innovations was characteristic of an offensive strategy, and for smaller banks — more often a defensive one. We also proposed a theoretical model for using the specific nature of payment innovations to build customer relationships and to apply cross-selling.
L21|The impact of the global downturn on the economic situation of the SME sector in Poland|Small and medium-sized enterprises play a leading role in modern economies — they create more than 50% of GDP, employ over 70% of people and are a major source of entrepreneurship (more than 99% of entities belongs to the SME sector). The changes in the socio-economic system, initiated in Poland at the turn of 1989 and 1990, became the foundation for the development of entrepreneurship. Nowadays, companies from the SME sector have dominated the market over time and play a key role in the Polish economy. Small and medium-sized companies dominate in the domestic economy as they account for almost 99.9% of all enterprises. Their role in creating GDP is increasing — over the last 25 years, the share of SMEs’ production in GDP almost doubled. The impact of the SME sector on the national economy can be also described through its participation in the creation of jobs. The SME sector is a major employer, employing more than 7.8 mln workers. Therefore, it is important to examine the condition of small and medium-sized enterprises. The purpose of this paper is to analyze the impact of the economic downturn on the financial condition of Polish non-financial SME companies. The survey covered such issues as: the number of active enterprises, number of persons employed and employees, revenues and production, profitability indicators, salaries and labour productivity. The analyses were performed over the period 2003–2013. Data were obtained from Central Statistical Office of Poland.
L21|Choice and Competition in Public Service Provision|"In spite of a range of policy initiatives in sectors such as education, health care and legal services, whether choice and competition is valuable remains contested territory. This paper studies the impact of choice and competition on different dimensions of quality, examining the role of not-for-profit providers. We explore two main factors which determine whether an alternative provider enters the market: cost efficiency and the preferences of an incumbent not-for-profit provider (paternalism). The framework developed can incorporate standard concerns about the downside of choice and competition when consumer choice is defective (an internality) or choice imposes costs on those who do not switch (an externality). The paper considers optimal funding levels for incumbents and entrants showing when the ""voucher"" provided for consumers to move to the incumbent should be more or less generous than the funding for consumers who remain with the incumbent. Finally, the model also offers an insight into why initiatives are frequently opposed by incumbent providers even if the latter have not-for-profit objectives."
L21|Contracting with Word-of-Mouth Management|We propose a model for word of mouth (WoM) management where a firm has two tools at hand: referral rewards and offering a free contract. Current customers’ incentives to engage in WoM can affect the contracting problem of a rm in the presence of positive externalities of users. Formally, we consider a classic Maskin-Riley contracting problem for the receiver of WoM where the firm can pay the sender’s referral rewards and a sender experiences positive externalities if the receiver adopts. A free contract can incentivize WoM because the higher adoption probability increases the expected externalities that the sender receives. We characterize the optimal incentive scheme and show when the two tools serve as substitutes and complements to each other depending on whether the market is niche and whether the product is social. We show that offering a free contract is optimal only if the fraction of premium users in the population is small, which is consistent with the observation that companies that successfully offer freemium contracts oftentimes have a high percentage of free users.
L21|Contracting with Word-of-Mouth Management|We incorporate word of mouth (WoM) in a classic Maskin-Riley contracting problem, allowing for referral rewards to senders of WoM. Current customers’ incentives to engage in WoM can affect the contracting problem of a firm in the presence of positive externalities of users. We fully characterize the optimal contract scheme and provide other comparative statics. In particular, we show that offering a free contract is optimal only if the fraction of premium users in the population is small. The reason is that by offering a free product, the firm can incentivize senders to talk by increasing expected externalities that they receive and this can (partly) substitute for paying referral rewards only if there are few premium customers. This result is consistent with the observation that companies that successfully offer freemium contracts oftentimes have a high percentage of free users.
L21|When Making Bad Decisions Becomes Habit: Modelling The Duration Of Making Systematically Bad Decisions|Most part of the models in economics and finance assume that, in general, deciders make good decisions, and bad decisions occur only as exception. This paper analyses some conditions in which bad decisions are made systematically and proposes a model for the estimation of the duration of making systematically bad decisions. Even if individuals are making systematically bad decisions, they can remain in power in many organizations for a long period. Based on Monte Carlo simulations, this paper proves that, in some circumstances, the duration of making systematic bad decisions can be very long.
L21|Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen: mehr Schubkraft für eine ausgewogene Repräsentation von Frauen und Männern nötig|Germany’s large corporations still have a long way to go before achieving balanced representation of men and women on their boards. At the end of 2015, the share of women on the executive boards of the top 200 companies in Germany was a good six percent, an increase of less than one percentage point over 2014. The share of women on the supervisory boards of these top 200 companies was almost 20 percent although growth there has slowed. The DAX 30 performed slightly better in terms of women’s representation: the proportion of women on the executive boards of these companies was just under ten percent at the close of 2015 and the equivalent figure for supervisory boards was almost 27 percent. (In both cases, this represented an increase of more than two percentage points). Of the over 100 companies obliged to comply with a statutory 30-percent share of women for all new supervisory board appointments from January 2016, almost 28 percent had already met this quota by the end of 2015. Just under one-third of the companies had achieved a share of at least 20 percent but still less than 30 percent of female supervisory board members and were therefore well on their way to fulfilling the quota. Almost half of all DAX 30 companies met the quota. However, it is highly unlikely that the lion’s share of the remaining companies will follow these trailblazers voluntarily in the near future since 22 percent of the top 200 and 24 percent of TecDAX companies, as well as over one-third of SDAX companies, currently either have no female supervisory board members at all or at most one in ten. Moreover, the share of women on executive boards is extremely low in all the companies analyzed in the present study. Germany’s companies still have a long and difficult path ahead of them in order to achieve increased representation of women on their corporate boards. This makes it all the more imperative to adopt a coordinated approach to improve the career prospects of women by means of stringent framework conditions, also encompassing fiscal and family policy. Eine ausgewogene Repräsentation von Männern und Frauen in den Spitzengremien großer Unternehmen in Deutschland bleibt in weiter Ferne. In den Vorständen der 200 umsatzstärksten Unternehmen lag der Frauenanteil Ende vergangenen Jahres bei gut sechs Prozent – ein Anstieg von weniger als einem Prozentpunkt gegenüber dem Vorjahr. Die Aufsichtsräte waren zu fast 20 Prozent mit Frauen besetzt, allerdings hat sich die Dynamik abgeschwächt. Etwas besser war die Situation in den 30 größten börsennotierten Unternehmen: Im DAX-30 lag der Frauenanteil Ende 2015 in Vorständen bei knapp zehn Prozent (plus gut zwei Prozentpunkte) und in Aufsichtsräten bei fast 27 Prozent (plus gut zwei Prozentpunkte). Von den gut 100 Unternehmen, die ab 2016 bei Neubesetzungen ihres Aufsichtsrats Frauen bis zu einem Anteil von mindestens 30 Prozent berücksichtigen müssen, hatten fast 28 Prozent diese Quote Ende des Jahres 2015 bereits erfüllt. Knapp ein Drittel der Unternehmen waren mit einem Anteil von 20 bis unter 30 Prozent Aufsichtsrätinnen auf dem Weg dorthin. In der DAX-30-Gruppe erreichte nahezu die Hälfte der Unternehmen die Zielgröße. Dass die Masse der anderen Unternehmen den Vorreitern in absehbarer Zeit auf freiwilliger Basis folgt, ist unwahrscheinlich: Denn in 22 Prozent der Top-200- und 24 Prozent der TecDAX- sowie über einem Drittel der SDAX-Unternehmen ist derzeit entweder gar kein Aufsichtsratsmitglied oder höchstens jedes zehnte eine Frau. Der Anteil von Frauen in Vorständen ist zudem in allen untersuchten Unternehmensgruppen extrem gering. Der Weg zu mehr Frauen in Spitzengremien bleibt also lang und mühsam. Umso dringender ist eine Politik aus einem Guss, die durch stringente Rahmenbedingungen, auch in der Steuer- und Familienpolitik, die Karrierechancen von Frauen verbessert.
L21|Weg zu mehr Frauenanteilen in Spitzengremien bleibt lang und mühsam: Acht Fragen an Elke Holst|No abstract is available for this item.
L21|Cash Flow Sensitivity of Cash: A Cross Country Analysis|Using a large panel of 5086 firms from 7 European countries, namely Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Netherland, Sweden and UK over the period of 1981 to 2010, we made attempt to see the effect of financial constraints on international corporate policies based on their liquidity demand. Controlling for firm size, investment opportunities and alternative sources and competing uses of funds, a firm’s decision to change its cash holdings is found to be positively and significantly related with internal cash flows. Our results further reveal that constrained firms like to save relatively more cash out of their cash inflows, whereas the unconstrained firms do not maintain any such significant cash hoarding behavior. The observed relationships prevail for the whole sample, within each countries and remain consistent across different estimation procedures and alternative financial constraint criteria. Our results thus point to the fact that average firms in our sample face constrained access to external finance due to financially imperfect and incomplete markets
L21|In-house versus External Basic Research and First-to-market Innovations|This paper explores to what extent conducting internal basic research, as opposed to external basic research (i.e. outsourcing and collaboration with universities) encourages firms to bring new products into the market ahead of competitors, and contributes to innovation performance. The analysis is based on a sample of Spanish manufacturing firms over the period 2006-2012. Our findings suggest that conducting in-house basic research affects firm’s propensity to introduce product novelties. Furthermore, performing this activity continuously affects the probability of being product-pioneer in low and medium-low tech sectors. Collaboration with universities also helps in introducing new products ahead of competitors, but contracting scientific research from universities does not lead to a pioneer strategy
L21|What explains Chinese private entrepreneurs' charitable behaviors?—A story of dynamic reciprocal relationship between firms and the government|This paper studies Chinese private entrepreneurs' charitable behaviors by exploring the dynamic reciprocal relationship between private firms and local governments. By using three waves of a nationwide survey of private firms in 2002, 2004 and 2006 from China, we provide robust evidence that Chinese private entrepreneurs with access to preferential loans from state-owned banks when their businesses first started are more likely to participate in donation and anti-poverty programs organized by the government, and the effects of such loans are more pronounced for small firms and firms in regulated industries. Furthermore, we find that this reciprocal relationship between local governments and private entrepreneurs is a personal relationship rather than an institutional relationship, which declines in importance in areas with better legal institutions and in regions with change of local leadership. Finally, there is evidence that Chinese private entrepreneurs' charitable behaviors are also motivated by political returns and other individual characteristics.
L21|The masquerade ball of the CEOs and the mask of excessive risk|Two well-known explanations for excessive risk taking by CEOs are limited liability, which protects them from the downward risks of their project choices, and convex compensation schemes that encourage risk taking. This paper provides a career-concerns-based motive for why a CEO might choose an excessively risky project even in the absence of them. A CEO of unknown managerial ability could be fired if she is found to be below average. To limit this layoff risk, she tries to conceal her true type by choosing excessively risky projects. Excessive risk taking makes the firm unable to determine if a poor outcome resulted from incompetency or negative risk realization.
L21|Pre-emptive mergers and downstream cost asymmetry|With sufficient downstream cost asymmetry a horizontal merger will be chosen over a vertical merger. This results because the technology transfer is large and the incentive to vertically merge shrinks as the horizontal merger eliminates a cost asymmetry induced “bottleneck.”
L21|Nonlinear association between ownership concentration and leverage: The role of family control|The 2008–2009 global financial crisis and the European debt crisis have raised further questions on leverage decision making. In this regard, this study examines the association between concentration of controlling rights and leverage in the presence of families. This study also assesses the role played by families in moderating the nonlinear reversed U-shaped association between concentration of controlling rights and debt ratio. Publicly listed companies in Taiwan, which is a nation characterized by weak protection for minority shareholders, are studied for the period of 1999 to 2014. The effect of the nonlinear inverted U shape is confirmed, and the weakened effect of the existence of family control is presented. The results remain unchanged in several alternative tests, including addressing the endogeneity issue of ownership–decision studies. Overall, this study highlights the ownership–debt relationship in a nation with weak protection of minority shareholders.
L21|Finance methodology of Free Cash Flow|Free Cash Flow (FCF) was adopted in the late 1980s as a financial tool to evaluate the firm and its individual projects. We question the procedure of calculating the FCF where a significant portion of Current Liabilities is offset against Current Assets, thereby creating the hybrid asset Net Working Capital (NWC). Borrowed from accounting methodology, that procedure distorts the FCF size, composition, volatility, and estimated value. Our empirical analysis shows that the nature and extent of those distortions can misinform the firm's stockholders, lenders and borrowers, and investors at large. We propose a revised FCF that would avoid those distortions.
L21|Sovereign Wealth Funds' Internationalization Strategies: The Use of Investment Vehicles|In this paper, we examine the strategies used by sovereign wealth fund (SWF) investments in their cross-border investments. We investigate how SWFs internationalize their activities, specifically whether the use of investment vehicles as signal of passive investment approach to access foreign markets is influenced by SWF- and deal-specific characteristics and the presence of bilateral trade agreements between the SWFs and the target country. Our probit and multinomial logit estimates show that fund opacity, fund politicization, strategic industry targets, and majority ownership choices lead to a more likely use of vehicles, while bilateral trade agreements negatively affect such investment strategy. We also find that fund opacity increases the likelihood to use SWF-controlled vehicles, while fund politicization, strategic industry targets, and majority ownership choices increase the likelihood to use a corporate vehicle. Bilateral trade agreements reduce the use of corporate vehicles. Our results also indicate that politicized foreign SWFs are more likely to invest through vehicles located in third countries. On the other hand, when strategic industries are targeted, investment vehicles are likely to be located in the target country. Our results control for SWFs' strategic goals, SWF experience (reliance on external managers or advisors, fund size), type of funding sources, crisis period, deal-specific effects, and legal and institutional differences across countries and over time.
L21|Greed or good deeds: An examination of the relation between corporate social responsibility and the financial performance of U.S. commercial banks around the financial crisis|We examine the relation between banks’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) and financial performance in a context of the recent financial crisis. We find that banks, in general, appear to be rewarded for being socially responsible as financial performance is positively and significantly related to CSR scores. We find that the biggest banks pursue socially responsible activities to a significantly greater extent than smaller banks. Further, the largest banks see a steep increase in CSR strengths and a steep drop in CSR concerns after 2009.
L21|Corporate governance following mass privatization|Using vouchers to privatize state-owned firms was an innovative but controversial aspect of transition. In the Czech Republic, voucher privatization created a large group of minority shareholders who coexisted with large shareholder–managers who controlled firms. Critics allege that the structure of shareholdings and regulatory failures allowed pervasive theft of corporate assets, much of it financed by irresponsible bank lending, and led to a financial crisis and an economic downturn. I argue that neither anecdotal evidence of managerial malfeasance nor the theories of tunneling and looting provide strong evidence for this view of corporate governance in the Czech Republic. A lack of small shareholder protection seems to have imposed small costs on the economy, and it may have facilitated rather than hampered the restructuring of firms.
L21|Socially responsible firms|In the corporate finance tradition, starting with Berle and Means (1932), corporations should generally be run to maximize shareholder value. The agency view of corporate social responsibility (CSR) considers CSR an agency problem and a waste of corporate resources. Given our identification strategy by means of an instrumental variable approach, we find that well-governed firms that suffer less from agency concerns (less cash abundance, positive pay-for-performance, small control wedge, strong minority protection) engage more in CSR. We also find that a positive relation exists between CSR and value and that CSR attenuates the negative relation between managerial entrenchment and value.
L21|The role of interpartner dissimilarities in Industry-University alliances: Insights from a comparative case study|Based on a comparative study of two alliances, this paper provides an in-depth examination of the role of interpartner dissimilarities in Industry-University (IU) alliances. We make a conceptual distinction between routine-based dissimilarities (differences in partners’ behavior) and orientation-based dissimilarities (differences in partners’ goals and expectations), illuminating their joint implications for collaborative processes and outcomes over time. Our findings reveal that interpartner dissimilarities might not be problematic at the start-up or honeymoon stage in IU alliances. In the post-formation alliance stages, however, they are likely to complicate the collaboration. Orientation-based dissimilarities might frustrate partners’ attempts to solve routine-based dissimilarities by impeding successful joint sensemaking. We conclude that different combinations of the two types of dissimilarities are likely to trigger particular coordination and cooperation patterns in IU alliances, eliciting different outcomes on both technological and relational levels.
L21|In-house versus external basic research and first-to-market innovations|This paper explores to what extent conducting internal basic research, as opposed to external basic research (i.e. outsourcing and collaboration with universities) encourages firms to bring new products into the market ahead of competitors, and contributes to innovation performance. The analysis is based on a sample of Spanish manufacturing firms over the period 2006–2012. Our findings suggest that conducting in-house basic research affects firm's propensity to introduce product novelties. Furthermore, performing this activity continuously affects the probability of being product-pioneer in low and medium–low tech sectors. Collaboration with universities also helps in introducing new products ahead of competitors, but contracting scientific research from universities does not lead to a pioneer strategy. Results also reveal the absence of complementarities.
L21|A comparative analysis of cost change for low-cost, full-service, and other carriers in the US airline industry|This study compares cost and productivity changes of full-service carriers (FSCs), low-cost carriers (LCCs) and ‘other’ carriers classified as regional or charter firms. Findings show cost reductions of 10 percent for FSCs and 22 percent for regionals/charters, and cost increases of 8.5 percent for LCCs from 1993 to 2014. Nontrivial productivity gains due to increases in load factor and stage length explain the findings for FSCs. Unexplained technical change accounts for the cost increases for LCCs, while productivity gains due to increases in load factor and stage length and unexplained technical change contribute to cost declines for ‘other’ carriers. These findings are interpreted as indicating (1) the LCC cost advantage over FSCs has eroded somewhat over this period, and (2) sources of cost changes over this period differ by air carrier classification.
L21|Strategic managerial delegation and industrial policy competition in vertically-related markets|In a successive duopoly in which all firms are private except the home upstream SOE, we show that if the SOE is less efficient than its foreign rival, the home managerial delegation policy will force the SOE to price below marginal cost; otherwise, it will resort to marginal cost pricing to force out its rival. Both upstream firms will not be pure profit maximizers and will compete in profit and sales. The home government will subsidize its downstream firm if the market is large or the foreign rival's output is small. The foreign government will always subsidize its downstream firm.
L21|Bet big on doubles, bet smaller on triples. Exploring scope economies in multi-service passenger transport companies|In this paper, using a sample of Italian bus and coach operators, we investigate the presence and the magnitude of scale and scope economies in the provision of passenger transport services. The estimates of a Composite Cost Function econometric model highlight the presence of global scope and scale economies only for multi-service operators (providing urban, intercity and for-hire bus and coach transport services) with output levels lower than the ones characterising the ‘average’ firm. This indicates that relatively small, specialized companies would benefit from cost reductions by evolving into multi-service firms providing urban, intercity and coach renting services. For operators of a bigger size, scope economies can be still exploited by linking urban and intercity services or by linking intercity services and coach renting, whereas the couple urban service-coach renting is associated with strong diseconomies of scope. Our results can help policymakers (that must define the boundaries of the service area to be tendered) and firms (that, as a result of the ongoing liberalization process, have increased opportunities to invest in regulated and non-regulated passenger transport activities) to make informed decisions.
L21|Preschool Education in Brazil: Does Public Supply Crowd Out Private Enrollment?|Expanding access to preschool education is a particularly important policy issue in developing countries, where enrollment rates are generally much lower, and where private institutions constitute a much larger share of the formal preschool sector, than in developed countries. This paper examines if an expansion in the supply of public preschool crowds-out private enrollment using rich data for municipalities in Brazil from 2000 to 2006, where federal transfers to local governments change discontinuously with given population thresholds. Results from a regression-discontinuity design reveal that larger federal transfers lead to a significant expansion of local public preschool services, but show no evidence of crowding-out of private enrollment, nor of negative impacts on the quality of private providers. This finding is consistent with a theory in which households differ in willingness-to-pay for preschool services, and private suppliers optimally adjust prices in response to an expansion of lower-quality, free-of-charge public supply. In the context of the model, the absence of crowding-out effects of more public preschool providers can be rationalized by the existence of relatively large differences in willingness-to-pay for preschool services across different demand segments. Our theoretical and empirical findings therefore suggest that in developing country settings characterized by relatively high income inequality, an expansion in public preschool supply will likely significantly increase enrollment among the poorest segments of society, and need not have adverse effects on the quantity or quality of local private supply.
L21|The financial aspects of the Corporate Responsibility Index in Egypt: A quantitative approach to institutional economics|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to examine the financial aspects of high vs low-ranked firms in the Corporate Responsibility Index in Egypt, and to construct a Design/methodology/approach - – This study empirically examines a comprehensive list of financial ratios for 24 firms listed in EGX30 for four fiscal years, 2007-2010. The authors calculate 90 financial ratios to provide better insights and evaluation of the firms’ financial performance. The ordinary least square regression method and discriminant analysis are utilized to explain differences between the low- and high-ranked firms regarding their corporate social governance index. Findings - – The results show that corporate governance and corporate social responsibility (CSR) are positively related to the firms’ financial performance in terms of sales turnover and customer loyalty. This suggests that in the long run, the market mechanism should be able to provide additional resources to those companies that are better at maximizing a widely defined bottom line of their social governance. The results also show that highly ranked firms are characterized financially by: strong bargaining power with suppliers; financing growth in fixed assets using debt mainly. Originality/value - – The study contributes to the literature in terms of providing practical insights on the financial strategies that help support effective CG and CSR in Egypt. In addition, this study offers a unique quantitative attempt to measure and examine the benefits of incorporation of socioeconomics into business practices.
L21|Determinants of Outsourcing in the Automobile Sector in India|This study involves the determination of outsourcing based on the market structure technology imports and technical efficiency for the automotive sector in India. An important characteristic of this study is that it divides the automotive sector into two sub-sectors (1) the automobile ancillaries sectors, which provides the parts and are the upstream firms and (2) the automobile assemblers who assemble the automobile and sell them to the consumers. Our analysis confirms the fact that when the data is segregated in the two sectors, factors like technical efficiency of firms have opposite effect on the outsourcing tendencies.
L21|Merger&Acquisitions (M&As) e alliances delle imprese crocieristiche: un’analisi delle determinanti strategiche|Il presente contributo si propone di studiare le determinanti strategiche che stanno alla base delle operazioni di Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As) e delle alleanze interaziendali, quali modalità di implementazione della crescita delle imprese. Viene proposto, in particolare, un modello teorico interpretativo dei driver di crescita esterna basato su due dimensioni: (1) il livello di rischiosità e di complessità del business; (2) la centralità delle risorse e delle competenze che vengono acquisite dall’impresa che realizza la strategia. Il modello teorico è stato poi applicato al settore crocieristico, mediante un’analisi qualitativa basata su tre case-study, ovvero sulle imprese leader Carnival Cruise, Royal Caribbean e Star Cruise-Norvegian Cruise Line. Il settore crocieristico è un campo privilegiato per studiare le determinanti alla base delle decisioni attuative della strategie, poiché è stato contraddistinto negli ultimi anni da ondate di fusioni e acquisizioni, nonché da numerose partnership strategiche attivate dalle cruise company con attori del sistema del valore crocieristico. I risultati hanno mostrato come le imprese crocieristiche abbiano nel tempo modificato le proprie modalità di implementazione delle strategie, essendo cambiate le motivazioni di natura strategica.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|Experts, governments and businesses were thrown into confusion by rapid and major changes to economic backdrops in December 2015 and January 2016. The backdrops are hopelessly guessed crude prices and stock-market quotations: alternatively, it may either refer to a market rush boosted by a confluence of circumstances, or to fundamental factors.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with volatility issues related to the world economy, Russian economy, exchange rates and commodity prices.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with volatility issues related to the banking sector of Russia, regional developments, regional budget deficits, import substitution issues in manufacturing industry and agricultural substitution.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown. .
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to balance of payments, regional budgets socio-economic development, banking sector and industrial development,
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to balance of payments, regional budgets socio-economic development, banking sector and industrial development,
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to economic recovery, macroeconomic forecast for 2016-2018, interest rates, risks and M2, inflation factors, bad debts
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to social standard of living, banking system, export of agricultural products, industrial adaptability to crisis, import substitution
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to the federal budget, Russian industry, banking sector and bank deposits, labor migration in Russia
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|Experts, governments and businesses were thrown into confusion by rapid and major changes to economic backdrops in December 2015 and January 2016. The backdrops are hopelessly guessed crude prices and stock-market quotations: alternatively, it may either refer to a market rush boosted by a confluence of circumstances, or to fundamental factors.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with volatility issues related to the world economy, Russian economy, exchange rates and commodity prices.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with volatility issues related to the banking sector of Russia, regional developments, regional budget deficits, import substitution issues in manufacturing industry and agricultural substitution.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown.
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown. .
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to balance of payments, regional budgets socio-economic development, banking sector and industrial development,
L21|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to balance of payments, regional budgets socio-economic development, banking sector and industrial development,
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to economic recovery, macroeconomic forecast for 2016-2018, interest rates, risks and M2, inflation factors, bad debts
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to social standard of living, banking system, export of agricultural products, industrial adaptability to crisis, import substitution
L21|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to the federal budget, Russian industry, banking sector and bank deposits, labor migration in Russia
L21|Industrial production dynamics in particular sectors of Russian industry| Russia’s real economy continued throughout 2015 to accommodate itself to new terms of trade and a new geopolitical context, both of which rendered the dynamics of domestic market’s key indicators less stable and less foreseeable. To make sure that sectoral dynamics are interpreted correctly, analysis of time series in the short term should be attended with seasonal and calendar adjustments. In order to be certain that the available dynamics of industrial production indicates that a period of downturn (or growth) is over, recovery (or slowdown) processes are afoot, monthly series should be decomposed into calendar, seasonal, irregular and trend components.[1] It is the changes of the trend component that should be analyzed in order to provide a substantial interpretation of sectoral trends.
