L22|The Institutional Economics of Collective Waste Recovery Systems: an Empirical Investigation|The main purpose of the study is to develop the model for transaction costs measurement in the Collective Waste Recovery Systems. The methodology of New Institutional Economics is used in the research. The impact of the study is related both to the enlargement of the limits of the theory about the interaction between transaction costs and social costs and to the identification of institutional failures of the EU concept for the circular economy. A new model for social costs measurement is developed.
L22|Intra-firm and Arm's Length Trade during the Global Financial Crisis: Evidence from Korean Manufacturing Firms|In this paper, we investigate and compare the different patterns of intra-firm trade and arm's length trade during the global financial crisis. Intra-firm trade refers to the cross-border flow of goods between related parties, and arm¡¯s length trade refers to the cross-border flow of goods between unrelated parties. Using firm-level data from the Korean manufacturing sector from 2006 to 2009, we employ two approaches that complement each other, accounting decomposition and fixed effects regression analyses. Our accounting decomposition result reveals that aggregate-level intra-firm trade is more responsive to shocks during the global financial crisis compared to arm¡¯s length trade, particularly in durable goods industries. The decline in intra-firm trade during the crisis is largely driven by extensive margins while the changes in arm¡¯s length and total trade are largely driven by intensive margins. The fixed effects panel regression results show that firms¡¯ involvement in the global value chain is the most significant determinant for the decline in a firm¡¯s trade growth during the crisis, where the negative effect is stronger for arm¡¯s length trade than for intra-firm trade, and is more pronounced in durable goods industries than in non-durable goods industries.
L22|Superstars in two-sided markets: exclusives or not?|This article studies incentives for a premium provider (Superstar) to offer exclusive contracts to competing platforms mediating the interactions between consumers and firms. When platform competition is intense, more consumers subscribe to the platform hosting the Superstar exclusively. This mechanism is self-reinforcing as firms follow consumer decisions and (some) join exclusively the platform with the Superstar. Exclusivity always benefits firms and may benefit consumers. Moreover, when the Superstar is integrated with a platform, non-exclusivity becomes more likely than if the Superstar was independent. This analysis provides several implications for managers and policy makers operating in digital and traditional markets.
L22|Why Isn't Uber Worker-Managed? A Model of Digital Platform Cooperatives|Thanks to algorithmic management, the digital platform sector does not require sophisticated governance structures and labour intensity tends to be higher than in traditional sectors. So, why aren’t usually digital labour platforms worker cooperatives? We develop a simple model to study the comparative viability of a worker-managed (WM) via-app labour platform firm vis-à-vis a capital-managed (CM) counterpart. Firms compete over workers by choosing the optimal size and (CM firms only) the pay policy. Given the size of the market, we show that WM platforms maximize per-capita incomes over a middle range interval of firm size. At the equilibrium size, viability of WM firms may be impeded by the costs of the external capital, no matter how low, which enable CM firms to pay a wage premium. The worker payoff in CM firms is higher in the presence of higher unit revenues and network effects (which improve the ability to pay of WM firms, thereby stimulating pay competition between platforms) and lower when WM platforms need to charge new members a fee to overcome free-riding problems faced by those who fund the initial investment. The model also shows that the conditions for worker buyouts are weaker than those required for WM platform creation from scratch, and that group incentive mechanisms allow WM platforms to better pursue quality improvements than CM firms, when digital techniques make the cost of effort relatively low.
L22|El precio spot de la electricidad y la inclusión de energía renovable no convencional: evidencia para Colombia|No abstract is available for this item.
L22|Organizational Capital, Corporate Leadership, and Firm Dynamics|We argue that economists have studied the role of management from three perspectives: contingency theory (CT), an organization-centric empirical approach (OC), and a leader-centric empirical approach (LC). To reconcile these three perspectives, we augment a standard dynamic firm model with organizational capital, an intangible, slow-moving, productive asset that can only be produced with the direct input of the firm's leadership and that is subject to an agency problem. We characterize the steady state of an economy with imperfect governance, and show that it rationalizes key findings of CT, OC, and LC, as well as generating a number of new predictions on performance, management practices, CEO behavior, CEO compensation, and governance.
L22|On the Economics of Science Parks|Science parks play a growing in knowledge-based economies by accommodating high-tech firms and providing an environment that fosters location-dependent knowledge spillovers and promote R&D investments by firms. Yet, not much is known about the economic conditions under which such entities may form in equilibrium without government interventions. This paper develops a spatial equilibrium model with a competitive final sector and a monopolistic competitive intermediate sector, which allows us to determine necessary and sufficient conditions for a science park to emerge as an equilibrium outcome. We show that strong localized knowledge spillovers, high startup costs, skilled labor abundance, or low commuting costs make intermediate firms more likely to cluster and a science park more likely to form. We also show that the productivity of the final sector is highest when intermediate firms cluster. As the decay penalty, firms' startup and workers' commuting costs become lower, science parks will eventually be fragmented.
L22|The Industrial Revolution in Services|The rise in national industry concentration in the US between 1977 and 2013 is driven by a new industrial revolution in three broad non-traded sectors: services, retail, and wholesale. Sectors where national concentration is rising have increased their share of employment, and the expansion is entirely driven by the number of local markets served by firms. Firm employment per market has either increased slightly at the MSA level, or decreased substantially at the county or establishment levels. In industries with increasing concentration, the expansion into more markets is more pronounced for the top 10% firms, but is present for the bottom 90% as well. These trends have not been accompanied by economy-wide concentration. Top U.S. firms are increasingly specialized in sectors with rising industry concentration, but their aggregate employment share has remained roughly stable. We argue that these facts are consistent with the availability of a new set of fixed-cost technologies that enable adopters to produce at lower marginal costs in all markets. We present a simple model of firm size and market entry to describe the menu of new technologies and trace its implications.
L22|A Structural Model for the Coevolution of Networks and Behavior|This paper introduces a structural model for the coevolution of networks and behavior. The microfoundation of our model is a network game where agents adjust actions and network links in a stochastic best-response dynamics with a utility function allowing for both strategic externalities and unobserved heterogeneity. We show the network game admits a potential function and the coevolution process converges to a unique stationary distribution characterized by a Gibbs measure. To bypass the evaluation of the intractable normalizing constant in the Gibbs measure, we adopt the Double Metropolis-Hastings algorithm to sample from the posterior distribution of the structural parameters. To illustrate the empirical relevance of our structural model, we apply it to study R&D investment and collaboration decisions in the chemicals and pharmaceutical industry and find a positive knowledge spillover effect. Finally, our structural model provides a tractable framework for a long-run key player analysis.
L22|Entry decisions and asymmetric competition between non-profit and for-profit homes in the long-term care market|The demand for long-term care (LTC) services is growing strongly, mostly due to population aging. Historically, the German LTC market was dominated by non-profit nursing homes, but the recent entry wave was tilted towards for-profit competitors. Using a rich administrative dataset on all LTC facilities in Germany, we examine strategic interaction between these two ownership types in a static entry model. The estimates of competitive effects imply that non-profit and for-profit homes are substitutes, but competition is much stronger within-type, suggesting that they provide differentiated products. For-profit homes in particular act as if they operate in a different market segment, but over time their entry behavior has converged to that of the more established non-profits. Counterfactual simulations of proposed changes in government policy suggest that even small changes favoring either type could have a large impact on the fraction of markets that remain unserved or only served by a single type.
L22|Business Culture: The Role of Personal and Impersonal Business Relationships on Market Efficiency|In this paper, we study the effects of business culture on market efficiency. We exogenously vary the type of business culture between business-is-business cultures, which consist on impersonal relationships where financial matters are paramount, and business-is-family cultures, which comprise of cohesive personal relationships where financial matters and personal attachments are intertwined. We use a laboratory experiment to assess the effect of business cultures in environments with different degrees of contract enforceability and competition. Our main results indicate that business-is-family cultures are more effective when contracts are unverifiable because they help market participants overcome problems of trust. On the other hand, we find that business-is-business cultures are more effective in competitive settings because they facilitate the severance of ties with unproductive partners.
L22|Immigrants and Workplace Training: Evidence from Canadian Linked Employer Employee Data|Job training is one of the most important aspects of skill formation and human capital accumulation. In this study we use longitudinal Canadian linked employer-employee data to examine whether white/visible minority immigrants and Canadian-borns experience different opportunities in two well-defined measures of firm-sponsored training: on-the-job training and classroom training. While we find no differences in on-the-job training between different groups, our results suggest that visible minority immigrants are significantly less likely to receive classroom training, and receive fewer and shorter classroom training courses, an experience that is not shared by white immigrants. For male visible minority immigrants, these gaps are entirely driven by their differential sorting into workplaces with less training opportunities. For their female counterparts however, they are mainly driven by differences that emerge within workplaces. We find no evidence that years spent in Canada or education level can appreciably reduce these gaps. Accounting for potential differences in career paths and hierarchical level also fails to explain these differences. We find however that these gaps are only experienced by visible minority immigrants who work in the for-profit sector, with those in the non-profit sector experiencing positive or no gaps in training. Finally, we show that other poor labor market outcomes of visible minority immigrants, including their wages and promotion opportunities, stem in part from these training gaps.
L22|Digital transformation in the automotive supply chain: China, Germany, Italy and Japan in a comparative perspective|A wide literature on digital transformation in manufacturing and services has explored its impact on long term changes in labour demand and skills and on productivity and growth. A new perspective on the ongoing digital transformation has been prompted by Oecd to highlight specific metrics needed to assess its impact on the economy and society and to support innovation policies. Drawing on these contributions, this paper aims to shed light on the impact of digital transformation on the reorganization and relocation of the various segments of the automotive supply chain. In particular, it will focus on the effects generated by different paces of adoption of digital technologies in this supply chain, with regard to both the various segments and the various sizes of companies, in different countries. The causes of this heterogeneity will be discussed and the implications for the full impact of the ongoing transformation will be considered in relation to industrial and innovation policy in Europe. The paper addresses the issue by reviewing empirical evidence on the automotive supply chain, which includes the most advanced manufacturing and service companies that are now adopting digital technologies. Evidence from case studies in the automotive industry in China, Germany, Italy and Japan will help in identifying the main challenges of digital transformation for European countries, which will involve a strongly interrelated supply chain both within and outside Europe.
L22|Digital upgrade in the automotive supply chain in Mexico: issues and challenges|The ongoing digital transformation poses diverse challenges to the automotive sector. While the process of digitalisation will lead to technical and organisational changes across and within the global value chains, the ongoing changes in the trade agreements spurred by the Trump administration may change the location advantages of previous plants and their specialisations. In addition, investment in the electric car may offer first-mover advantages in markets, while requiring the re-organisation of the value chains. Mexico, ranked in 2018 as the seventh producer at world level, is an important case study for several reasons: among these, its cost advantages, its former privileged access to the US market, that attracted many OEMs from Europe, Asia, the US, and its role in the prospective regionalization of world trade. By using interviews to automotive suppliers, experts and business associations of the automotive industry, the paper aims at providing a first outline on issues to be addressed in an analysis looking at how these changes are affecting opportunities for the OEMs in their value chains based in the Mexican automotive system.
L22|Taxes, Incorporation, and Productivity|U.S. businesses can choose to be C-corporations or pass-through entities in the forms of S-corporations, partnerships (notably LLCs), and sole proprietorships. C-corporate status conveys benefits from perpetual legal identity, limited liability, potential for public trading of shares, and ability to retain earnings. However, legal changes have enhanced pass-through alternatives, for example, through the invention of the S-corporation in 1958 and the improved legal status of LLCs at the end of the 1980s. C-corporate form is subject to a time varying tax wedge, which offsets the productivity benefits. In a theoretical framework, firms’ productivities associated with C-corporate and pass-through status are distributed as bivariate log-normal. The tax wedge then determines the fraction of firms that opt for C-corporate status, the level of economy-wide output (productivity), the share of total output generated by C-corporations, and the sensitivity of this share to the tax wedge. This framework underlies the empirical analysis of C-corporate shares of business economic activity. Long-difference regressions for 1968-2013 show that a higher tax wedge reduces the C-corporate share of net capital stocks, equity (book value), gross assets, and positive net income, as well as the corporate share of gross investment. The C-corporate shares also exhibit downward trends, likely reflecting underlying legal changes. We infer from the quantitative findings that the downward movement in the tax wedge since 1968 has expanded economy-wide productivity by about 4%.
L22|On the Economics of Science Parks|Science parks play a growing in knowledge-based economies by accommodating high-tech firms and providing an environment that fosters location-dependent knowledge spillovers and promote R&D investments by firms. Yet, not much is known about the economic conditions under which such entities may form in equilibrium without government interventions. This paper develops a spatial equilibrium model with a competitive final sector and a monopolistic competitive intermediate sector, which allows us to determine necessary and sufficient conditions for a science park to emerge as an equilibrium outcome. We show that strong localized knowledge spillovers, high startup costs, skilled labor abundance, or low commuting costs make intermediate firms more likely to cluster and a science park more likely to form. We also show that the productivity of the final sector is highest when intermediate firms cluster. As the decay penalty, firms' startup and workers' commuting costs become lower, science parks will eventually be fragmented
L22|Do Public Firms Respond to Industry Opportunities More Than Private Firms? The Impact of Initial Firm Quality|We track firms at birth and compare the growth pattern of IPO firms and their birth-matched counterparts. Firms that are larger at birth with faster initial growth are more likely to attain a larger size later in life and go public. Firms in the top percentile of predicted propensity to go public grow 29 times larger fifteen years later than matched firms if they actually become public, and 14 times larger if they stay private, showing a large selection effect. We show that public firms, and especially those public firms backed by venture capital, respond more to demand shocks post-IPO.
L22|Flexible Production and Entry: Institutional, Technological, and Organizational Determinants|Academics, the media, and policymakers have all raised concerns about the implications of human workers being replaced by machines or software. Few have discussed the implications of the reverse: firms’ ability to replace capital with workers. We show that this flexibility can help new firms overcome uncertainty and increase entrepreneurial entry. We develop a simple real options model where permissive labor regulations allow firms to take advantage of capital-labor substitutability by replacing ‘rigid’ capital with ‘flexible’ labor. The model highlights institutional, technological, and organizational preconditions to using this flexibility. Using a large and comprehensive dataset on entry by standalone firms and group affiliates, we provide evidence in support of the model.
L22|Why is Productivity Correlated with Competition?|The correlation between productivity and competition is an oft–observed but ill–understood result. Some suggest that there is a treatment effect of competition on measured productivity, e.g. through a reduction of managerial slack. Others argue that greater competition makes unproductive establishments exit by reallocating demand to their productive rivals, raising observed average productivity via selection. I study the ready-mix concrete industry and offer three perspectives on this ambivalence. First, using a standard decomposition approach, I find no evidence of greater reallocation of demand to productive plants in more competitive markets. Second, I model the establishment exit decision and construct a semi-parametric selection correction to quantify the empirical significance of treatment and selection. Finally, I use a grouped IV quantile regression to test the distributional predictions of the selection hypothesis. I find no evidence for greater selection or reallocation in more competitive markets; instead, all three results suggest that measured productivity responds directly to competition. Potential channels include specialization and managerial inputs.
L22|Evidence for the Effect of Monitoring Costs on Foreign Direct Investment|A proposed reason for the significant inverse relationship between distance (both physical and cultural) and foreign direct investment is the increased costs for a parent firm to monitor an affiliate when there is greater distance between them. We provide the first direct test of this hypothesis using O*NET data on occupational skills to construct industry-level measures of the importance of monitoring-related skills. We then exploit this cross-industry variation to examine whether physical and cultural distances have a greater impact on cross-border M&A in industries where monitoring-related skills are more important. Using data on worldwide cross-border M&A activity from 1985 through 2014, we find significant evidence for the effect of monitoring costs on cross-border M&A activity. We also show that the relatively low importance of monitoring-related costs in manufacturing industries compared to those in other sectors is an important factor in explaining why cross-border M&A in manufacturing is so large despite its relatively small share of the modern economy.
L22|The Industrial Revolution in Services|The rise in national industry concentration in the US between 1977 and 2013 is driven by a new industrial revolution in three broad non-traded sectors: services, retail, and wholesale. Sectors where national concentration is rising have increased their share of employment, and the expansion is entirely driven by the number of local markets served by firms. Firm employment per market has either increased slightly at the MSA level, or decreased substantially at the county or establishment levels. In industries with increasing concentration, the expansion into more markets is more pronounced for the top 10\% firms, but is present for the bottom 90\% as well. These trends have not been accompanied by economy-wide concentration. Top U.S. firms are increasingly specialized in sectors with rising industry concentration, but their aggregate employment share has remained roughly stable. We argue that these facts are consistent with the availability of a new set of fixed-cost technologies that enable adopters to produce at lower marginal costs in all markets. We present a simple model of firm size and market entry to describe the menu of new technologies and trace its implications.
L22|Shedding Light on the Dark: The Impact of Legal Enforcement on Darknet Transactions| Darknet markets have been increasingly used for the transaction of illegal products and services in the last decade. In particular, it is estimated that drugs make up two-thirds of darknet market transactions. The growth of illicit transactions on darknet markets have led enforcement agencies to invest greater proportion of time and efforts to monitor and crack down on criminal activities on the darknet websites. Despite the successes in convicting perpetrators, it is unknown whether these policing efforts are truly effective in deterring future darknet transactions, given that the identities of the transacting parties are very well protected by the markets’ features. To this end, this study attempts to empirically evaluate the susceptibility of darknet markets breaking down upon police arrests of dealers and buyers. Using drug review data from a few major darknet markets, we discovered a deterrence impact – the transactions in the targeted country would decrease on the market where arrests occurred. More interestingly, we find that disclosure of the arrests will influence the transactions of vendors not only from the same country but also those from other countries that did not experience any arrest incidents. As the darkweb techniques have led to a considerable proliferation of online drug trading, we believe that study findings that reveal the nature of these illicit markets will have key policy and theoretical implications to law makers, enforcement agencies, and academicians.
L22|Understanding the Sharing Economy|The sharing economy appears to have been growing rapidly. This paper contributes to the debate about its definition and measurement through an analysis of interviews conducted with UK platforms identifying themselves as part of the sharing economy. We conclude there are common features that enable a sufficiently clear definitional boundary, namely peer-to-peer digital matching and greater utilisation of under-used assets or skills. We find that the larger sharing economy platforms reduce costs and entry barriers for smaller platforms, contributing to a rich ecosystem. This implies a useful definition should include business-to-business peer-matching transactions, as well as business-to-consumer transactions. In addition to their economic impacts â€“ transactions that would not otherwise occur, lower consumer prices and additional choice, the scope to earn additional income in a flexible manner, and the greater use of assets with spare capacity â€“ all the interviewees expressed overt non-financial motivations, such as positive environmental impact, contributing to the community, and building trust. We argue this common intrinsic motivation means measurement of the sharing economy for some purposes should also include those platforms which enable free rather than monetary exchanges.
L22|The emergence of the joint-stock companies in the Dutch Republic and their democratic elements in business|In the present essay we analyse the emergence of joint-stock companies during the 16th and 17th centuries in business (the Dutch partenrederij), and the VOC East India Companies). We suggest that in the Dutch Republic (DR) characterised by relative weak central authority, market solutions were found to solve organisation problems and these solutions, the first joint-stock companies, are efficient but also democratic in their structure. The DR demonstrate that democratic elements emerge in parallel in the economy (sometimes even preceding) and in the political field, which can be mutually reinforcing.
L22|The Internal Spatial Organization of Firms: Evidence from Denmark|While multi-establishment firms are an important part of the economy, little is known about their spatial organization. In this article, we study how the location and the occupational composition of establishments within firms has changed during the last 36 years. Using Danish administrative employer-employee data, we present a series of stylized facts regarding the spatial internal organization of firms. We show that the average number of establishments at the firm level increased by 36% during this period. Moreover, the average distance of the establishments and workers to their headquarters has increased by more than 200%. These changes are mainly driven by increases in the average distance of production workers and business service workers, and a higher use of the latter. Finally, we show that the ratio of managers to production and clerical workers within firms has increased, in particular in establishments located in the largest urban municipalities. After presenting the facts, we briefly discuss some of the mechanisms that could be behind these changes.
L22|Limited liability companies (1998–2018): justice versus common law|Legal framework of a limited liability company emerged in 1892 in Germany (Gesellschaft mit beschrankter Haftung,GmbH). It did not have any prototypes or models and was artificially created by German Ministry of Justice and approved as a law. Introduction of this legal framework owed largely to strengthening of shareholding legislation, which took place in 1884 as a follow up of a period when shareholding companies popped up using money collected from households in exchange of promise of high interest and accompanied by numerous fraud and abusive practices, taking advantage of liberalism of German shareholding legislation of that time. Small and medium size entrepreneurs needed the opportunity to set up corporations with a low number of participants, relatively small assets and way of secession more complicated than in a shareholding company.
L22|Interdépendance complexe et hybridation des modèles institutionnels nationaux : le cas des relations énergétique UE-Russie|Ce cahier de recherche vise à appliquer les problématisations des nouvelles approches de l’interdépendance (New Interdependence Approches – NIA selon l’acronyme anglais) aux enjeux relatifs à la régulation internationale de l’énergie et ce à partir d’un cas d’étude : la relation gazière entre l’UE et la Russie. Les interdépendances entre l’UE et ses fournisseurs extérieurs en matière de gaz naturel, au premier rang desquels figure la Russie, posent la question de la confrontation de préférences contradictoires des acteurs impliqués dans l’échange. L’interdépendance conflictuelle recèle un « effet transformatif » sur les régulations, les systèmes institutionnels et les politiques énergétiques de la Russie et de l’UE. Les deux modèles institutionnels font l’objet de changements incrémentaux porteurs de conséquences importantes. Dans l’interdépendance, la politique énergétique russe et les stratégies des acteurs russes se transforment pour faire place à un certain degré de concurrence. A l’inverse, il semble que de manière croissante celle de l’UE intègre des préoccupations d’ordre stratégique et d’économie politique qui ne se justifient pas par les seules considérations de création d’un marché unique et concurrentiel.
L22|The Relationship between Leadership Style and Employee Outcomes: The Mediating Role of Organizational Commitment|Objective - The objective of this study is to examine the relationship between transformational leadership styles and job performance and the mediating role of organizational commitment in the relationship between transformational leadership style and job performance in State-Owned Banks in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Methodology/Technique - The data used to evaluate the model was gathered from the State-Owned Banks in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. 200 permanent employees of those State-Owned Banks participated in the survey. The Structural Equation Modelling (SEM), using LISREL software was employed to examine the relationship among the constructs in this study, which are transformational leadership style, organizational commitment, and job performance. Finding - The findings of this study conclude that transformational leadership style significantly affects job performance and organizational commitment, whereas organizational commitment significantly influences job performance. Briefly, organizational commitment mediates the relationship between transformational leadership styles and job performance in State-Owned Banks in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Novelty - Most of the previous studies were carried out in western countries, raising doubts about generalizations in research results in developing countries such as Indonesia. Therefore, the novelty of this research is carried out in the context of developing countries, especially in State-Owned Banks in West Kalimantan, Indonesia.
L22|The Blue Maritime Cluster Crisis: Financial Instability and Supply Chain Management Effects|The present paper investigates the offshore crisis 2015-2017 and its impact on one of the most complete maritime clusters, more precise the Blue Maritime Cluster, located at Møre og Romsdal at the North Western Coast of Norway. As this cluster is heavily involved in offshore petroleum operations, it experienced an almost devastating blow during the crisis. The cluster lost almost one third of its employees as its value added contracted by 39 percent. The crises is basically seen as result of the falling oil prices and, thus, lower activity and squeezed profit margins, particularly in marginal oil and gas fields. The paper does not dispute this. However, it also investigates the crisis in the light of financial instability and chain reactions down the maritime supply chain. By collecting data from the Blue Maritime Cluster and the Norwegian central company register one is able, both to trace the fall in activity due to the crisis and measures of financial strength. The study approaches the data by using structural time series analysis in order to map cycles as deviations from polynomial trends. The conclusions are that financial instability was dominant within the Blue Maritime Cluster during its boom before the crisis. Debt ratios, and thereby gearing or leverage was high. Thus, the companies could not meet their obligations when the crisis hit, due to low solidity and loss of financial stability. The paper also finds that narrow focused supply chain management, made the cluster fall deep in to the abyss when ship owning companies and shipyards were hit. Companies with a more diversified portfolio were able to meet the hard years better than others.
L22|Access to finance constraints in adopting latest technologies for business production in small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)|The small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) play crucial role in supporting the economies of developing countries. However, with globalization and open market trends, SMEs need to compete with new entrants to maintain their market share and growth. The degree of technology adaptation and level of process sophistication help the SMEs to achieve their targeted level of growth through improvement of business effectiveness and efficiency. Access to finance is a critical success factor in such endeavor and supports the SMEs to alleviate growth constraints. This paper presents research data on the degree that access to finance impacts the abilities of SMEs to grow through improvement of process sophistication for enhanced business production. The raw data was gathered from over 400 firms independently using one unified assessment tool over a period of five years. This data is then analyzed using inferential statistics through one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) to evaluate and compare the average scores associated with the research variables. Furthermore, the post hoc analysis is applied to assess the extent and direction of variation in the scores and moderated across different years. The results showed that the adopted level of process sophistication is positively correlated with the availability of technology with limited role played by access to finance. These relationships are discussed and analyzed in the context of local market growth, sophistication, financial capabilities, and financial facilities. The research aims to assist SME stakeholders and governing bodies in recognizing the impact of changes on macroeconomic scale from SMEs growth and sustainability perspectives.
L22|Market Size, Product Differentiation and Bidding for New Varieties|We analyse a firm's investment decision in a regional economy composed of two countries. The firm already manufactures a horizontally differentiated good in the region and we determine the firm's equilibrium location choice for the new good and the welfare consequences of fiscal competition between the two countries. The outcome is the result of interactions among market-size, product-differentiation, and import-substitution effects. The first two effects represent the fundamental trade-off facing the firm. The third effect provides each country with an economic incentive to compete for the FDI. Past papers have addressed the market-size and import-substitution effects but, as far as we know, the product-differentiation effect is new to the literature.
L22|Technology Adoption under Asymmetric Market Structure|This paper examines the impact of vertical integration on the timing of adoption of a cost-reducing technology. Combining the technology adoption and vertical relations literatures in a simple duopoly model, I compare the technology adoption patterns under different vertical structures. In particular, the study of the asymmetric case, where one firm is integrated while the other one is separated, allows me to make three main contributions. First, I show that the effect of vertical integration on technology adoption by one firm is influenced significantly by the vertical structure of the other firm. Second, I consider the two main types of technology adoption games under an asymmetric set-up and broaden the understanding of the underlying mechanisms for the solving of such games. Finally, I develop an industrial policy aimed at encouraging firms to adopt the technology at the socially optimal timing.\
L22|Vertical Integration in the presence of a Cost-Reducing Technology|This paper examines vertical integration incentives in the presence of a cost-reducing technology. Combining the technology adoption and vertical merger literatures in a simple duopoly model, I show that asymmetric integration can occur even in a purely symmetric set-up, without synergies or foreclosure incentives. This paper makes three further contributions. First, in this model, integration is profitable whenever it allows the firm to adopt the technology faster and to become a profitable technology leader for a longer period of time. Second, comparing preemption and precommitment game, I show that the asymmetric equilibrium may exist under both types of game. Third, vertical integration generally reduces consumers' surplus, but often competition authorities should not forbid such vertical mergers if they seek to maximize social welfare.
L22|The strange case of appropriate C-sections:DRG-tariff regulation, hospital ownership, and market concentration|The aim of this paper is to discuss how different types of hospitals respond to large financial incentives for vaginal deliveries and to financial disincentives for C-sections. We focus on a public health care system based on the quasiâ€“market model. We theoretically and empirically evaluate a government policy equalizing the tariff for C-section and vaginal deliveries at a level such that hospitals face monetary disincentives for C-section and monetary incentives for vaginal deliveries. We first theoretically show that hospital ownership matters insofar different types of hospitals are characterized by different ethical preferences; but ownership interacts with market concentration. We then consider the case-study of Lombardy in Italy. We exploit spatial variation in the presence of for-profit, not-for-profit and public hospitals and in the market concentration at the local level to evaluate the relationship between ownership and the probability of C-section. Our empirical results strongly suggest that competitive pressures from alternative providers tend to homogenize behaviors. However, in local monopolies, we do observe less C-section from private for-profit hospitals than from public and private non-profit hospitals especially when they are medically appropriate.
L22|Competition Between Public and Private Maternity Care Providers in France: Evidence on Market Segmentation|The French market for hospital care is shared by public and private providers. In addition to covering a number of mandates usually not undertaken by the private sector such as training, research, and disease prevention, public hospitals are required to provide basic care across the French territory. To investigate the existence of market segmentation between public and private care providers, we focus on maternity care and first examine to what extent public and private maternity units substitute each other on an extensive margin, to then analyze how competition plays out on an intensive margin. Consistent with the public mandate, our findings indicate that, after a private unit closure, public maternity units are less likely to exit a low-populated area than a high-populated area. In addition, we find evidence of an asymmetric intensive margin substitution between private and public maternity units. Maternity users tend to substitute private units (non for-profit and for-profit) for public units more often than the reverse.
L22|Vertical financial interest and corporate influence|The established literature on partial vertical ownership has derived distinct pro- and anti-competitive effects, depending on whether the upstream or the downstream firm holds the shares (forward or backward). We show that forward ownership can have the same effects as backward ownership (and vice versa) when it entails both profit and control rights. Moreover, we demonstrate novel anti-competitive effects of partial ownership that arise when the upstream tariffs are non-linear. This contrasts well-established findings that are based on linear tariffs and adds to the current debate on how to treat partial shareholdings in merger control.
L22|Micro Enterprises Performances Potential Index (MEPPI): A Study with the Reference to Rural Areas of the Cuddalore District, Tamilnadu|Micro enterprises are recognized as the prime source of livelihood for the poor population in the rural areas around the globe. The impact of micro enterprises on the rural economy is determined by the performance of these micro enterprises, their success rate and the potential for the sustainability in the market which depends upon the various factors like financial capability, profitability, resource availability, demand in the market, skill up gradation of the micro entrepreneurs and the competitiveness. In addition to this the factors such as labour, the performance potential of the micro enterprises, capital availability with low cost technology, raw materials availability, better infrastructure, political stability and the supportive economics policies like subsidies and export import guidance and many others join together to determine the performance and sustainability of the micro enterprises. A successful entrepreneur needs to be known and ready to adopt the necessary changes and differentiations in the product suitable to the market change which warrants the entrepreneurs knowledge about the dynamics of the market conditions regarding the trend in the demand, demand forecasting, performance evaluation of the enterprises at the particular period and its production and market potential for the future. The available literature about the performance of micro enterprises reveals that lake of timely assessment about the concurrent performance of the micro enterprise and their performance potential for the future leads to the failure of the products and the microenterprises (Olawale (2014), Wan Nurulasiah binti Wan Mustapa, Abdullah Al Mamun , Mohamed Dahlan Ibrahim, Mbugua Stephen Kamunge , Agnes Njeru , Ondabu Ibrahim Tirimba, (2018) and Bushu 2019) which calls for an in-depth attempt to discover the resource and market potential for the best performance of the micro enterprises at the gross root level. This paper is attempted to fill this gap in research.
L22|Supply chain innovations and partial ownership|We show that competing downstream firms may rather invest in their inefficient inhouse production than help improve the technology of the efficient supplier, even if this is costless. Even worse, a downstream firm can have strong incentives to decrease the efficiency of the supplier in order to improve its outside options. We demonstrate that non-controlling partial backward ownership can align the incentives of the supplier and its customers with respect to supply chain innovations.
L22|Import competition and vertical integration: Evidence from India|Recent theoretical contributions provide conflicting predictions about the effects of product market competition on firms' organizational choices. This paper uses a rich firm-product-level panel data set of Indian manufacturing firms to analyze the relationship between import competition and vertical integration. Exploiting exogenous variation from changes in India's trade policy, we find that foreign competition, induced by falling output tariffs, increases backward vertical integration by domestic firms. The effects are concentrated in rather homogenous product categories, among firms that mainly operate on the domestic market, and in relatively large firms. Our results are robust towards different sub-samples and hold with or without conditioning on various firm- and product-level characteristics including input tariffs and firm-year fixed effects. We also provide evidence that vertical integration is associated with higher physical productivity, lower marginal costs and rising markups.
L22|Social aspirations in European banks: peer-influenced risk behaviour| We test a sample of 3,586 banks from 33 European countries to determine whether performances above or below a social aspiration level (median performance of peer banks) influence banks’ aggregate risk levels. Our results are consistent with the behavioural theory of the firm and prospect theory in that we find that bank performance below a bank’s social aspiration level is followed by increased aggregate risk, i.e. risk-taking behaviour in the subsequent year. Although under-performing banks tend to be risk-takers, large banks and banks with high aggregate risk levels tend to limit the increase in their aggregate risk levels.
L22|Common holdings and strategic manager compensation: The case of an asymmetric triopoly|We study an asymmetric triopoly in a heterogeneous product market where quantity decisions are delegated to managers. The two biggest firms are commonly owned by shareholders such as index funds while the smallest firm is owned by independent shareholders. Under such a common holding owner structure, the owners have an incentive to coordinate when designing their manager compensation schemes. This coordination leads to a reallocation of production and induces a redistribution of pro profits. The trade volume in the market is reduced so that shareholder coordination is detrimental to consumer surplus as well as welfare.
L22|Cross Holdings and Strategic Manager Compensation. The Case of an Asymmetric Triopoly|We study an asymmetric triopoly in a heterogeneous product market where quantity decisions are delegated to managers. The two biggest firms are commonly owned by shareholders such as index funds while the smallest firm is owned by independent shareholders. Under such a cross-holding owner structure, the owners have an incentive to coordinate when designing their manager compensation schemes. This type of coordination leads to compensation contracts which make the managers less aggressive such that the firms involved in the coordination reduce their output while the outside firm increases its output. The reallocation of production induces a redistribution of profits: the outside firm and the most efficient firm owned by the index funds gain from the coordination while the less efficient firm owned by the index funds might suffer from a loss of profit if cost differences are large. The trade volume in the market is reduced so that shareholder coordination is detrimental to consumer surplus as well as welfare.
L22|Trust-based work time and the productivity effects of mobile information technologies in the workplace|We investigate whether the returns to mobile information and communication technology (ICT) in the workplace are contingent on granting employees autonomy over the structure of their workday through trust-based work time arrangements (TBW). Our regression analysis is based on a production function framework and exploits fine-grained firm survey data on ICT use and organisational practices for 1,045 service firms in Germany. We find empirical support for the argument that the returns to mobile ICT are higher when TBW allows for discretion over when, where and how to perform work-related tasks. The finding holds when we account for more limited forms of workplace flexibility, suggesting that the high degree of formal employee autonomy under TBW drives the complementarity between mobile ICT and organisational practices.
L22|Unbundling, regulation and pricing: Evidence from electricity distribution|Unbundling of vertically integrated utilities has become an integral element in the regulation of network industries and has been implemented in many jurisdictions. The idea of separating the network, as the natural monopoly, from downstream retailing, which may be exposed to competition, is still subject to contentious debate. This is because there is much empirical evidence that unbundling eliminates economies of vertical integration while empirical evidence on price reducing effects is still lacking. In this paper we study the effect of legal unbundling on grid charges in the German electricity distribution industry. Using panel data on German distribution system operators (DSOs) we exploit the variation in the timing of the implementation of legal unbundling and the fact that not all DSOs had to implement unbundling measures. We are also able to identify heterogeneous effects of legal unbundling for different types of price regulation, because we observe a switch in the price regulation regime from rate-of-return regulation to incentive regulation during our observation period. Our findings suggest that legal unbundling of the network stage significantly decreases grid charges in the range of 5% to 9%, depending on the type of price regulation in place.
L22|Demand, Supply and Markup Fluctuations|The cyclical behavior of markups is at the center of macroeconomic debate on the origins of business-cycle fluctuations and policy effectiveness. In theory, markups may fluctuate endogenously with the business cycle due to sluggish price adjustment or to deeper motives affecting the price-elasticity of demand faced by individual producers. In this article we make use of a large firm- and product-level panel of Portuguese manufacturing firms in the 2004-2010 period. The biggest empirical challenge is to separate supply (TFP) from demand shocks. Our dataset allows to do so, by containing information on product-level prices at a yearly frequency. Furthermore, markups are mismeasured when calculated with the labor share. We use the share of intermediate inputs instead. Our main results suggest that markups are pro-cyclical with TFP shocks and generally counter-cyclical with demand shocks. We also show how markups become procyclical if the markup is obtained using the labour share instead of intermediate inputs. Adjustment costs create a wedge between the labour share and the actual markup which explain the observed correlations. JEL codes: C23, E32, L16, L22
L22|Indian companies’ technological investments in the EU with a special focus on Central and Eastern Europe|India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world whose global share in “outward foreign direct investment” (OFDI) among the developing countries increased from a low level to second only to China. It has not only been a spectacular rise in Indian overseas investment activity, but the nature and the structure of Indian OFDI have also changed in the last decades. In the following paper we will examine the reasons and driving forces behind this spectacular rise, concentrating mostly on those host country characteristics that are the pull factors in attracting Indian investments. We follow the most recent literature on global value-chain specialization as much of Indian outward foreign investment is following a technology-seeking strategy currently. We choose Central and Eastern Europe as our case study because the region combines attributions of both advanced and developing countries in attracting Indian investment.
L22|Time Is on My Side: Relational Contracts and Aggregate Welfare|This paper develops a simple general equilibrium model which establishes a link between the patience of economic agents and the well-being of nations. We show that firms in long-term oriented countries can mitigate hold-up inefficiencies by engaging with their suppliers in relational contracting – informal agreements sustained by the value of future relationships. Our model predicts that countries with a higher level of patience will exhibit greater economic well-being and higher total factor productivity. We provide empirical evidence in line with the predictions of our theory.
L22|The Hardships of Long Distance Relationships: Time Zone Proximity and Knowledge Transmission within Multinational Firms|Using a unique dataset on worldwide multinational corporations with precise location of headquarters and affiliates, I present evidence of a trade-off between distance to the headquarters and the knowledge intensity of the foreign subsidiary's economic activity, emerging from dynamics related to the proximity-concentration hypothesis. This trade-off is strongly diminished the higher the overlap in working hours between the headquarters and its foreign subsidiary. In order to rule out biases arising from confounding factors, I implement a regression discontinuity framework to show that the economic activity of a foreign subsidiary located just across the time zone line that increases the overlap in working hours with its headquarters is, on average, about one percent higher in the knowledge intensity scale. I find no evidence of the knowledge intensity and distance trade-off weakening when a non-stop flight exists between the headquarters and the foreign subsidiary. The findings suggest that lower barriers to real-time communication within the multinational corporation play an important role in the location strategies of multinational corporations.
L22|Trade in tasks and the organization of firms|In this paper, we incorporate trade in tasks into Marin and Verdier (2012) to examine how offshoring affects the way firms organize. We show that offshoring of production tasks and of managerial tasks can lead to more decentralized management and to larger executive wages in open economies. We study the predictions of the model with original firm level data and find that offshoring firms are 18% more decentralized than non-offshoring firms. We also find that offshoring of managers increases the level of decentralized management in open industries, but reduces the level of decentralized management in sufficiently closed industries.
L22|Is trade credit a substitute for relationship lending credit?|Despite its importance to the funding of small enterprises (SMEs), the question of how trade credit is used has not been fully answered. Recently, Uchida et al. (2013) showed that trade creditors can act as relationship lenders. To advance this result, we study the use of trade credit as a substitute for relationship lending credit when firms cannot otherwise obtain such credit. Using a sample of SMEs from the Survey of Italian Manufacturing Firms, we show that when opaque firms seeking relationship credit encounter transactional banks, they retain a greater portion of trade credit in their loans. These firms thus substitute trade credit for their missing relationship credit, because trade creditors are better evaluators of firms than are transactional lenders. The results depend on the size and age of the firm, the nature of the bank, and the size of the firm’s banking pool.
L22|Understanding Discrimination against Same-Sex Couples in the United States: Evidence from an Email Correspondence Audit|As of 2017, no federal law protected Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) individuals from housing discrimination. However, 22 U.S. states and over 200 municipalities have passed laws prohibiting housing discrimination based on sexual orientation. In this paper, I present the results of a randomized pair-email correspondence audit of 6,490 property owners in 94 U.S. cities. I provide a nationally-representative estimate of the level of discrimination same-sex couples experience when inquiring about rental housing. I find that same-sex male couples, especially Black same-sex male couples, are less likely to receive a response to inquiries about rental units. Same-sex female couples receive preferential treatment compared to heterosexual couples. I then examine how state and local anti-discrimination laws covary with rates of housing discrimination against same-sex couples. Compare to localities without any housing protections, I find that response rates covary positively with statelevel protections but negatively with local-level protections. I conclude by testing several hypotheses about the causes of this discrimination. This preliminary evidence suggests that property owners are willfully discriminating against same-sex male couples.
L22|Contagious exporting and foreign ownership: Evidence from firms in Shanghai using a Bayesian spatial bivariate probit model|Whether a firm is able to attract foreign capital and whether it may participate at the export market depends on whether the fixed costs associated with doing so are at least covered by the incremental operating profits. This paper provides evidence that success for some firms in attracting foreign investors and in exporting appears to reduce the associated fixed costs with exporting or foreign ownership in other firms. Using data on 8,959 firms located in Shanghai, we find that contagion and spillovers in exporting and in foreign ownership decisions within an area of 10 miles in the city of Shanghai amplify fixed-cost reductions for both exporting as well as foreign ownership of neighboring firms. Contagion among exporters and among foreign-owned firms, respectively, amplify shocks to the profitability of these activities to a large extent. These findings are established through the estimation of a spatial bivariate probit model.
L22|Other-regarding preferences in organizational hierarchies|Abstract In this paper, we provide new theoretical insights about the role of collusion in organizational hierarchies by combining the standard principal–supervisor–agent framework with a theory of social preferences. Extending Tirole’s (J Law Econ Organ 2(2):181–214, 1986) model of hierarchy with the inclusion of Fehr and Schmidt (Q J Econ 114(3):817–868, 1999) type of other-regarding preferences, the links between inequity aversion, collusive behavior and changes in optimal contracts are studied. It turns out that other-regarding preferences do change the collusive behavior among parties depending on the nature of both agent’s and supervisor’s other-regarding preferences. The most prominent impact is on the optimal effort levels. When the agent is inequity averse, the principal can exploit this fact to make agent exert higher effort level than she would otherwise. In order to satisfy the participation constraint of the supervisor, the effort level induced for the agent becomes lower when the supervisor is status seeker, and it is higher when the supervisor is inequity averse.
L22|Endogenous interlocking directorates|The present paper analyzes the choice to place an executive in the board of the rival company, within a duopoly where firms with hidden marginal costs of production compete in the product market. Interlocking directorates may emerge as an equilibrium outcome whenever firms gain by exchanging information about their private costs. We show that a unilateral interlocking arises when firms have different degrees of efficiency and the direction of this interlock is affected by the degree of substitutability in the product market. Bilateral interlocking occurs only between similar firms, that is when equally inefficient firms sell substitute products or when equally efficient firms sell complement products. The equilibrium outcome is always welfare increasing for consumers.
L22|Complementary Monopolies with Asymmetric Information|We investigate how asymmetric information on final demand affects strategic interaction between a downstream monopolist and a set of up-stream monopolists, who independently produce complementary inputs. We study an intrinsic private common agency game in which each supplier i independently proposes a pricing schedule contract to the assembler, specifying the supplier's payment as a function of the assembler's purchase of input i. We provide a necessary and sufficient equilibrium condition. A lot of equilibria satisfy this condition but there is a unique Pareto-undominated Nash equilibrium from the suppliers' point of view. In this equilibrium there are unavoidable efficiency losses due to excessively low sales of the good. However, suppliers may be able to limit these distortions by implicitly coordinating on an equilibrium with a rigid (positive) output in bad demand circumstances.
L22|Blockchain: The birth of decentralized governance|By allowing networks to split, decentralized blockchain platforms protect members against hold up, but hinder coordination, given that adaptation decisions are ultimately decentralized. The current solutions to improve coordination, based on “premining” cryptocoins, taxing members and incentivizing developers, are insufficient. For blockchain to fulfill its promise and outcompete centralized firms, it needs to develop new forms of “soft” decentralized governance (anarchic, aristocratic, democratic, and autocratic) that allow networks to avoid bad equilibria.
L22|The Relation of Information Technologies and the Total Factor Productivity in Uruguayan Firms|The aim of this article is to determine if the development of information and communication technologies (ICT) had any impact on the productivity of Uruguayan firms. For that, the work exploits the advantages of the data panels to make a dynamic estimation of the total factors productivity (TFP). I used micro-data unbalanced panel for the period 2007-2014 in which 6,492 companies were surveyed. Short-term production functions were estimated for all firms y sectors, distinguishing fixed capital from technological capital and controlling for labour qualification. Results suggest that there are decreasing returns to scale. Technological capital is a factor that contributes to the gross product of Uruguayan firms. Although the period analyzed is characterized by a continuous GDP growth, Total Factor Productivity (TFP) was negative for all sectors. This TFP estimated is not constant for firms but is persistence, consistent with an AR(1) process. There is a positive correlation between ICT utilization and TFP and the performance is heterogeneous between sectors, according to the share of productive factors.
L22|Bank competition and stability in the United Kingdom|This paper examines the effects of competition on bank stability in the United Kingdom between 1994 and 2013. We construct several measures of competition and test the relationship between competition and bank stability. We find that, on average, competition lowers stability, but that its effect varies across banks depending on the underlying financial health of the institution. Competition encourages relatively less sound banks (closer to insolvency) to reduce costs, lower portfolio risk and increase capital ratios, strengthening their stability, while it lowers the incentives of relatively more sound banks (farther from insolvency) to build capital ratios, weakening their stability. These findings imply trade-offs at the bank-level that may need to be weighed when evaluating policies with consequences for competition.
L22|Controlling working crowds: The impact of digitalization on worker autonomy and monitoring across hierarchical levels|No abstract is available for this item.
L22|A Human Is Not a Resource|"The language of ""human resource management"" treats people as a means to an end. Three core tenets of human resource literature are that it is desirable to have (1) labour ""flexibility"" and ""mobility"" in a peripheral workforce, (2) individual (not social) responsibility for employment searching, and (3) a manager’s right to manage, without collective accountability. This article explores the cutting edge evidence, which show human resource theory harms productivity and human development. It explores the effects of ""HR"" in the UK, EU and international regulation on atypical work, full employment, and union voice. Where human resource beliefs have pervaded the most, the outcomes are the worst: lower productivity, higher unemployment, more inequality, less growth. To advance prosperity, economic risks must be distributed to the organisations best placed to bear them, people must have security to plan for the future, and people must have real votes at work through collective bargaining and corporate governance. Many people who themselves work in ""HR"" strongly disagree with the essential elements of their discipline. They support equality, security and democracy at work. Just as international law once affirmed that ""labour is not a commodity"", for social justice in the 21st century there must be a conviction that a human is not a resource. ""HR"" must change in name and substance, to advance human development and human rights."
L22|The Law-Technology Cycle & the Future of Work|Features of the 'fourth industrial revolution', such as platforms, AI and machine learning, pose challenges for the application of regulatory rules, in the area of labour law as elsewhere. However, today's digital technologies have their origins in earlier phases of industrialisation, and do not, in themselves, mark a step change in the evolution of capitalism, which was, and is, characterised by successive waves of creative destruction. The law does not simply respond to technological change; it also facilitates and mediates it. Digitalisation, by permitting the appropriation of collective knowledge, has the capacity to undermine existing forms of regulation, while creating the space for new ones. It may erode the position of some professions while enabling others, complementary to new technologies, to emerge. It is unlikely to bring about the redundancy of forms of labour law regulation centred on the employment relationship. We appear to reaching a point in the law-technology cycle where push-back against regulatory arbitrage can be expected.
L22|Preferential Trade Agreements and Global Sourcing|We study how a preferential trade agreement (PTA) affects international sourcing decisions, aggregate productivity and welfare under incomplete contracting and endogenous matching. Contract incompleteness implies underinvestment. That inefficiency is mitigated by a PTA, because the agreement allows the parties in a vertical chain to internalize a larger return from the investment. This raises aggregate productivity. On the other hand, the agreement yields sourcing diversion. More efficient suppliers tilt the tradeoff toward the (potentially) beneficial relationship-strengthening effect; a high external tariff tips it toward harmful sourcing diversion. A PTA also affects the structure of vertical chains in the economy. As tariff preferences attract too many matches to the bloc, the average productivity of the industry tends to fall. When the agreement incorporates “deep integration” provisions, it boosts trade flows, but not necessarily welfare. Rather, “deep integration” improves upon “shallow integration” if and only if the original investment inefficiencies are serious enough. On the whole, we offer a new framework to study the benefits and costs from preferential liberalization in the context of global sourcing.
L22|The International Organization of Production in the Regulatory Void|In recent decades, NGOs and consumers have heavily criticized a large number of leading firms and their suppliers in a diverse set of industries for exploiting cross-country differences in regulation to cut costs at the expense of workers and the environment. In line with a wide range of examples, our explorative empirical analysis links these features of globalization to the international organization of production: a high cost advantage of ‘unethical’ production in an industry favors international outsourcing (as opposed to vertical integration) and most strongly so for sourcing from low-regulation countries. We rationalize this pattern by introducing a cost-saving ‘unethical’ technology, consumer boycotts, and advocacy NGOs into a standard property-rights model of the international organization of production. Contracts are incomplete, limiting a firm’s control over both investment and (un)ethical technology choices of integrated as well as independent suppliers. We identify and analyze a novel unethical outsourcing incentive, which - in line with the empirical findings - links outsourcing to unethical production. We also contribute to the modeling of NGO-firm interactions by providing a microfounded model of investment and pricing under incomplete contracts and monopolistic competition when the production technology is a credence attribute of the final good.
L22|The Hardships of Long Distance Relationships: Time Zone Proximity and Knowledge Transmission within Multinational Firms|Using a unique dataset on worldwide multinational corporations with precise location of headquarters and affiliates, I present evidence of a trade-off between distance to the headquarters and the knowledge intensity of the foreign subsidiary’s economic activity, emerging from dynamics related to the proximity-concentration hypothesis. This trade-off is strongly diminished the higher the overlap in working hours between the headquarters and its foreign subsidiary. In order to rule out biases arising from confounding factors, I implement a regression discontinuity framework to show that the economic activity of a foreign subsidiary located just across the time zone line that increases the overlap in working hours with its headquarters is, on average, about one percent higher in the knowledge intensity scale. I find no evidence of the knowledge intensity and distance trade-off weakening when a non-stop flight exists between the headquarters and the foreign subsidiary. The findings suggest that lower barriers to real-time communication within the multinational corporation play an important role in the location strategies of multinational corporations.
L22|Productivity and Firm Boundaries|"This paper develops and applies a test of the property rights theory of the firm in the context of global input sourcing. We use the model by Pol Antràs and Elhanan Helpman, “Global Sourcing,"" Journal of Political Economy, 112:3 (2004), 552-80, to derive a new prediction regarding how the productivity of a firm affects its choice between vertical integration and outsourcing and how this effect depends on the relative input intensity of the production process. The prediction we derive hinges on less restrictive assumptions than industry-level predictions available in existing literature and survives in more realistic versions of the model featuring multiple suppliers and partial vertical integration. We present robust firm-level evidence from Spain showing that, in line with our prediction, the effect of productivity works more strongly in favor of vertical integration, and against outsourcing, in more headquarter-intensive industries."
L22|Preferential Trade Agreements and Global Sourcing|"We study how a preferential trade agreement (PTA) affects international sourcing decisions, aggregate productivity and welfare under incomplete contracting and endogenous matching. Contract incompleteness implies underinvestment. That inefficiency is mitigated by a PTA, because the agreement allows the parties in a vertical chain to internalize a larger return from the investment. This raises aggregate productivity. On the other hand, the agreement yields sourcing diversion. More efficient suppliers tilt the tradeoff toward the (potentially) beneficial relationship-strengthening effect; a high external tariff tips it toward harmful sourcing diversion. A PTA also affects the structure of vertical chains in the economy. As tariff preferences attract too many matches to the bloc, the average productivity of the industry tends to fall. When the agreement incorporates ""deep integration"" provisions, it boosts trade flows, but not necessarily welfare. Rather, ""deep integration"" improves upon ""shallow integration"" if and only if the original investment inefficiencies are serious enough. On the whole, we offer a new framework to study the benefits and costs from preferential liberalization in the context of global sourcing."
L22|Procurement Centralization in the EU: the Case of Italy|This paper analyzes the process of centralization of public procurement in Europe, with an emphasis on the Italian case. It illustrates the main normative and regulatory reforms that took place between 2000 and 2016 at both EU and Italian levels. It then empirically evaluates the potential distortions induced by the most recent wave of centralization reforms. Using procurement data on all Italian public contracts awarded between 2015 and 2017, it finds that administrations expecting to lose their ability to contract independently game the centralization requirements in three ways. In the short run, they anticipate their purchases to avoid delegating to a central body. In the longer run, they both manipulate contract values, breaking down purchases into smaller lots of amounts below the thresholds driving centralization requirements, and, when given the option, aggregate into the smallest types of centralized purchasing bodies. These three distortions partially offset the potential benefits of the centralization reforms.
L22|Communication Costs and the Internal Organization of Multi-Plant Businesses: Evidence from the Impact of the French High-Speed Rail|We document the impact of travel time between affiliates and headquarters of geographically dispersed corporate groups on the management of such business organizations. Theory suggests that the easier circulation of managers might facilitate the transmission of information between production plants and headquarters, thus fostering growth and functional specialization (on production activities) at remote affiliates and decreasing operational costs at the group level. We test these predictions on the population of French corporate groups, using the expansion of the High Speed Rail network as an arguably exogenous shock on internal travel times. Results are most pronounced in the service industries, where information to be transmitted is arguably softer (Petersen and Rajan, 2002): we estimate that HSR induced the creation of one production job for the average affiliate in these industries (against 0.2 job in retail, trade or manufacturing industries), and the shift of around one managerial job from affiliate to HQ. These results are robust to alternative identification strategies addressing the problem of the endogenous placement of the HSR infrastructure (use of high-dimensional fixed effects controlling for local and affiliate-level shocks as in Giroud, 2013 and evidence from un-realized lines as in Donaldson, 2014). At the group level, descriptive regressions suggest that the impact on the operational profit margin is around 0.5 percentage points in most industries.
L22|On the Effect of Parallel Trade on Manufacturers’ and Retailers’ Profits in the Pharmaceutical Sector|Differences in regulated pharmaceutical prices within the European Economic Area create arbitrage opportunities that pharmacy retailers can use through parallel imports. For prescription drugs under patent, such provision decisions affect the sharing of profits among an innovating pharmaceutical company, retailers, and parallel traders. We develop a structural model of demand and supply in which retailers can choose the set of goods to sell to consumers, thus foreclosing the consumers’ access to some less-profitable drugs, which allows retailers to bargain and obtain lower wholesale prices with the manufacturer and parallel trader. With detailed transaction data, we identify a demand model with unobserved choice sets using supply-side conditions for optimal assortment decisions of pharmacies. Estimating our model, we find that retailer incentives play a significant role in fostering parallel trade penetration. Our counterfactual simulations show that parallel imports of drugs allows retailers to gain profits at the expense of the manufacturer, whereas parallel traders also gain but earn more modest profits. Finally, a policy preventing pharmacies from foreclosing the manufacturer’s product is demonstrated to partially shift profits from pharmacists to both the parallel trader and the manufacturer, and a reduction in the regulated retail price favors the manufacturer even more.
L22|Network formation with local complements and global substitutes: the case of R&D networks|In this paper we introduce a stochastic network formation model where agents choose both actions and links. Neighbors in the network benefit from each other’s action levels through local complementarities and there exists a global interaction effect reflecting a strategic substitutability in actions. The tractability of the model allows us to provide a complete equilibrium characterization in the form of a Gibbs measure, and we show that the structural features of equilibrium networks are consistent with empirically observed networks. We then use our equilibrium characterization to show that the model can be conveniently estimated even for large networks. The policy relevance is demonstrated with examples of firm exit, mergers and acquisitions and subsidies in the context of R&D collaboration networks.
L22|Overcoming sustainability barriers through Formalized Network Contracts (FNCs): the experience of Italian SMEs|The role of formal business networking in SMEs is receiving more attention from scholars and practitioners. However, several aspects remain unclear, including if and how, corporate sustainability approaches are implemented and aligned within such networks, mostly created for competitiveness and resource efficiency purpose. With the aim of filling this gap in the literature over Small Business Social Responsibility, an empirical investigation is proposed by analyzing 389 Formalized Network Contracts and their original legal document, following Bocken et al. (2014) business model archetypes and NBS (2012) studies on sustainable innovation and, normative-making perspectives. Findings include the addition of a new general aims for such FNC that is the creation and enablement of clusters, following the perspective of Creation of Shared Value. In addition, we demonstrate that FNC is a suitable tool for micro, SMEs, and individual entrepreneurs to meet sustainability issues introducing eco-innovations, eco-efficiency and shared value herein their products/services, business models and organizational changes as roughly half of these contracts include a reference to sustainability issues.
L22|Upping the Ante: The Equilibrium Effects of Unconditional Grants to Private Schools|We test for financial constraints as a market failure in education in a low-income country by experimentally allocating unconditional cash grants to either one (L) or to all (H) private schools in a village. Enrollment increases in both treatments, accompanied by infrastructure investments. However, test scores and fees only increase in H along with higher teacher wages. This differential impact follows from a canonical oligopoly model with capacity constraints and endogenous quality: greater financial saturation crowds-in quality investments. Higher social surplus in H, but greater private returns in L underscores the importance of leveraging market structure in designing educational subsidies.
L22|The Impact of Contract Enforcement Costs on Outsourcing and Aggregate Productivity|Legal institutions affect economic outcomes, but how much? This paper documents how costly supplier contract enforcement shapes firm boundaries, and quantifies the impact of this transaction cost on aggregate productivity and welfare. I embed a contracting game between a buyer and a supplier in a general-equilibrium macro-model. Contract enforcement costs lead suppliers to underproduce. Thus, firms will perform more of the production process in-house instead of outsourcing it. On a macroeconomic scale, in countries with slow and costly courts, firms should buy relatively less inputs from sectors whose products are more specific to the buyer-seller relationship. I first present reduced-form evidence for this hypothesis using cross-country regressions. I use microdata on case law from the United States to construct a new measure of relationship-specificity by sector-pairs. This allows me to control for productivity differences across countries and sectors and to causally identify the effect of contracting frictions on industry structure. I then proceed to structurally estimate the key parameters of my macro-model. Using a set of counterfactual experiments, I investigate the role of contracting frictions in shaping productivity and income per capita across countries. Setting enforcement costs to US levels (alternative: zero) would increase real income by an average of 3.6 percent (7 percent) across all countries, and by an average of 10 percent (13.3 percent) across low-income countries. Hence, transaction costs and firm boundaries are important on a macroeconomic scale.
L22|Les réformes structurelles : philosophie sociale et choix politique|Les réformes structurelles engagées en France ont une grande cohérence. Elles visent à développer un nouveau modèle économique et un nouveau modèle social basés sur le développement de l’entrepreneuriat et une individualisation des parcours professionnels censés favoriser l’innovation et la croissance en rupture radicale avec ce qui est parfois désigné comme l’ancien monde. L’analyse et l’expérience rappellent à une certaine réalité de l’entreprise et de la finance et conduisent à formuler un diagnostic moins optimiste faisant craindre une montée du dualisme au sein de la société allant à l’encontre du but recherché.
L22|Export Modes and Adjustments to Exchange Rate Movements|This work investigates the diâ†µerential adjustments of the direct and intermediated export chan- nels in the aftermath of an exchange rate movement. We do this with the help of a relatively parsimonious model that, while replicating the main findings from the literature on export in- termediaries, also puts forth new testable predictions. Exporting through intermediaries entails lower fixed costs, but as a consequence of double marginalization, it also entails lower variable profits. If firms apply heterogeneous pricing-to-market, the joint outcome at the very micro level is a lower exchange rate pass-through for goods traded via intermediaries, whereas at a more aggregate level, there is an adjustment in the number of varieties reaching the foreign destination over the two export channels that varies with the level of country fixed costs. These conjectures are tested employing the Italian cross-border transaction level data; taken together they shed light on the determinants of the impact of intermediaries on aggregate trade flows.
L22|Innovation in Global Value Chains|Developing countries are faced with significant challenges related to building and deepening their innovation capabilities. In this chapter, we focus on innovation in global value chains and on the role that such chains play in building and deepening capability. We also focus on the trajectories along which firms, once inserted into global value chains and located in developing countries, acquire or lose innovation capability. To do so, we bring together the global value chains and innovation systems approaches. Our key arguments are that global value chains interact with innovation systems in multiple ways and that these interactions have important implications for the speed, depth, and overall quality of capability building in developing-country firms. We outline five innovation capability trajectories and show how capability building at the firm level interrelates with the various ways in which global value chains and innovation systems co-evolve.
L22|Blockchain: The birth of Decentralized Governance|By allowing networks to split, decentralized blockchain platforms protect members against hold up, but hinder coordination, given that adaptation decisions are ultimately decentralized. The current solutions to improve coordination, based on “premining” cryptocoins, taxing members and incentivizing developers, are insufficient. For blockchain to fulfill its promise and outcompete centralized firms, it needs to develop new forms of “soft” decentralized governance (anarchic, aristocratic, democratic, and autocratic) that allow networks to avoid bad equilibria.
L22|Evidence of Decreasing Internet Entropy: The Lack of Redundancy in DNS Resolution by Major Websites and Services|This paper analyzes the extent to which the Internet’s global domain name resolution (DNS) system has preserved its distributed resilience given the rise of cloud-based hosting and infrastructure. We explore trends in the concentration of the DNS space since at least 2011. In addition, we examine changes in domains’ tendency to “diversify” their pool of nameservers – how frequently domains employ DNS management services from multiple providers rather than just one provider – a comparatively costless and therefore puzzlingly rare decision that could supply redundancy and resilience in the event of an attack or service outage affecting one provider.
L22|The Welfare Effects of Peer Entry in the Accommodation Market: The Case of Airbnb|We study the effects of enabling peer supply through Airbnb in the accommodation industry. We present a model of competition between flexible and dedicated sellers - peer hosts and hotels - who provide differentiated products. We estimate this model using data from major US cities and quantify the welfare effects of Airbnb on travelers, hosts, and hotels. The welfare gains are concentrated in locations (New York) and times (New Years Eve) when hotels are capacity constrained. This occurs because peer hosts are responsive to market conditions, expand supply as hotels fill up, and keep hotel prices down as a result.
L22|Organizational Decision Making Under Uncertainty Shocks|In line with the fallacy of riskification of uncertainty by which decision makers believe that the effects of unpredictable phenomena can be captured accurately by probability distributions, organizational scholars commonly treat the organizational inefficiency in dealing with uncertainty shocks—exogenous hazards whose welfare effects spread across industries and markets, such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks, and financial crises—as a problem of risk management. This is problematic because the consequences of uncertainty shocks outstrip the predictability capacity for the average manager and entail a greater complexity of internal and external factors. Moreover, their uniqueness makes translating experience into learning far more difficult. We seek to address this inadequate approach with a theoretical framework that captures the multidimensional complexity of organizations preparing for, coping with, and recovering from exogenous uncertain disruption. We bring together the literatures on cognitive psychology that suggest that biases and heuristics drive behavior under uncertainty, a Neo-Carnegie perspective that indicates that organizational structure and strategy regulate these behavioral factors, and institutional theory that points to stakeholder and institutional dynamics affecting economic incentives to invest in prevention and business continuity. Taken together, this article offers the foundation for a behaviorally plausible, decision-centered perspective on organizational decision-making under uncertainty.
L22|I Don't Know|Experts with reputational concerns, even good ones, are averse to admitting what they don’t know. This diminishes our trust in experts and, in turn, the role of science in society. We model the strategic communication of uncertainty, allowing for the salient reality that some questions are ill-posed or unanswerable. Combined with a new use of Markov sequential equilibrium, our model sheds new light on old results about the challenge of getting experts to admit uncertainty – even when it is possible to check predictive success. Moreover, we identify a novel solution: checking features of the problem itself that only good experts will infer – in particular, whether the problem is answerable – allows for equilibria where uninformed experts do say “I Don’t Know.”
L22|The Effects of Downstream Competition on Upstream Innovation and Licensing|We study how competition between two downstream firms affects an upstream innovator's innovation strategy, which includes selecting how much innovation to produce and whether to license this innovation to one (targeted licensing) or both (market-wide licensing) downstream competitors. Our model points to a U-shaped relationship between downstream competition and upstream innovation: at low levels of competition, market-wide licensing is optimal and competition reduces innovation, while at high levels of competition targeted licensing is optimal and competition increases innovation. Empirical analysis using a large panel of US data provides clear support for these predictions linking competition, innovation and licensing.
L22|Organizing Global Supply Chains: Input Cost Shares and Vertical Integration|"We study whether and how the technological importance of an input - measured by its cost share - is related to the decision of whether to ""make"" or ""buy"" that input. Using detailed French international trade data and an instrumental variable approach based on self-constructed IO tables, we show that French multinationals vertically integrate those inputs that have high cost shares. A stylized incomplete contracting model with both ex ante and ex post inefficiencies explains why: technologically more important inputs are ""made"" when transaction cost economics type forces (TCE; favoring integration) overpower property rights type forces (PRT; favoring outsourcing). Additional results related to the contracting environment and headquarters intensity consistent with our theoretical framework show that both TCE and PRT type forces are needed to fully explain the empirical patterns in the data."
L22|Effects of interaction between supply chain integration and high-performance human resources practices on performance|This study proposes a model and hypotheses to understand the nature of the relationships of supply chain integration and high-performance human resources practices with operational performance in the horticultural marketing sector. The importance lies in the assumption that supply chain is all about people working across independent firms, and therefore, essential. Using empirical data from the horticultural marketing sector, the moderating effects of high-performance human resources practices on the relationship between three supply chain integration dimensions of integration (internal, supplier and customer) and five operational performance measures (cost, quality, delivery reliability, service, and flexibility) are examined. An ordered probit analysis is used to test the proposed hypotheses. The results confirm the moderating effects in most of the cases as human resources practices have a moderating effect if the relationship is established between internal or customer integration and delivery.
L22|Marketing geográfico: aplicación del juego smartmax para la conceptualización de un destino turístico|En el sector retail y en el turístico la fusión del marketing geográfico resulta fundamental. Este trabajo estudia las dificultades de concepción del destino turístico, proponiendo el conocido juego de nodos y conectores imantados, SmartMax, como un nuevo procedimiento de definición y de gestión. Las atracciones y los servicios turísticos, por una parte, y los flujos conectores, por otra, son las piezas fundamentales para comprender el concepto de destino que cada turista monta según su criterio personal, es el paradigma de la co-creacion experiencial. El modelo es probado empíricamente para definir el caso de Gijón (España), mediante análisis cuantitativos multivariables, demostrando su capacidad para adaptarse a las distintas tipologías de destino.
L22|Efficiency of agrarian governance in Bulgaria|Empirical studies on efficiency of the governance system in agriculture are very rare. That is a consequence of both theoretical and practical challenges. The criteria and approach for assessing social efficiency are still debated while appropriate statistical, accountancy, etc. data for evaluation diverse mechanisms and modes of governance are not readily available. This is a first attempt for a comprehensive empirical study on the efficiency of the system of agrarian governance in Bulgaria. Since there is a social “contract” about sustainable agrarian development in EU and Bulgaria, the impact to sustainability is taken as a criterion for assessing the social efficiency of the governance system. The interdisciplinary New Institutional Economics framework is incorporated, and the impact of institutional environment and diverse market, private, collective, public and hybrid modes of governance on agrarian sustainability at the current stage of development in Bulgaria assessed. First, the methodological framework of the study is outlined. After that impact of major components of institutional environment of agrarian sustainability evaluated. Following, dominating governing modes in Bulgarian farms of different juridical type, size, specialisation, ecological and geographical location are identified, and their impacts on agrarian sustainability assessed. In conclusion implications for further research, public policy improvement, and private managerial strategy formation are presented.
L22|Inequality, Inc|To engage with inequality, I explore how corporate governance theory is based on inherently contingent ideas of the legal and organizational structuring of the modern public corporation in a corporate ‘architecture’, and how these contingent ideas affect the distribution of privileges, protections and proceeds to different types of actors. I argue that the currently dominant corporate governance theory ignores a specific corporate architecture that provided internal and external legitimacy to the modern public corporation by embedding a set of trade-offs between constituent groups and cementing those trade- offs into a broader institutional setting. Ignoring this architecture leads to the redirection of the privileges and protections embodied in the modern corporation to the exclusive benefit of an implicit coalition of market value-oriented shareholders and managers, while the risks to all other actors, interests and timeframes are relegated to the status of ‘externalities’. I explore how a focus on contingent conceptions of the modern corporation and of corporate governance provides an organizational-level explanation for growing inequality with which existing sectoral and state-centric approaches and means for engagement can be complemented.
L22|Social responsibility in a bilateral monopoly with R&D|This note examines social responsibility in a linear bilateral monopoly by incorporating a cost-reducing R&D investment and investigates an endogenous timing game. We find that in the presence of R&D, the retailer always adopts social responsibility irrespective of the timing of the game, but the manufacturer adopts only with its leadership in a sequential game where it can take the first-mover advantage. We also show that two sequential choices will be subgame perfect equilibria, but the commitment to the social responsibility by manufacturer is a payoff dominance outcome.
L22|A note on the social responsibility in a bilateral monopoly|In a linear bilateral monopoly with the up-stream manufacturer and the down-stream retailer “consumers’ friendly” socially concerned (i.e. caring about a share of consumer surplus), Brand and Grothe (2015, in this Journal) shows that, although (as expected) both firms’ owners do not have an incentive to deviate from pure profit maximization when they choose their level of corporate social responsibility (CSR) simultaneously (or the retailer commits itself on social concern before the manufacturerer does), if the manufacturer commits itself on social concern before the retailer does, then both profits are enhanced. This paper shows that Brand and Grothe’s result may be strongly modified if there are decreasing returns to the input: only the retailer firm’s owners are incentived to adopt CSR and, at the equilibrium, this leads to a Pareto-superior outcome. This offers straightforward policy and empirical implications, arguing that the presence of CSR-type firms – which leads to higher profits and Pareto-superior outcomes, confirming the neoclassical economics point of view with respect to the adoption of CSR behaviors by firms’ owners – depends crucially on the technology.
L22|Monopoly Capital and Innovation: An Exploratory Assessment of R&D Effectiveness|This research note performs some limited empirical assessments of the Baran and Sweezy (1966) contention that most research and development (R&D) efforts in the US are “wasted” at the macroeconomic level in that as R&D succeeds by absorbing a little of the excess economic surplus generated by a capitalist system, it still fails to generate a lot of innovation of a transformative nature. At an aggregate level, greater R&D efforts are correlated with higher worker productivity and standards of living, which is to be expected according to mainstream economic theory and literature. Yet, R&D efforts regarding job creation, new firm creation, and net business investment show either mixed results or even negative connections. There is some preliminary empirical support in this paper for many aspects of the Baran and Sweezy point of view on R&D, and these findings also hint that R&D is used in a monopoly capital system to further monopolization. The findings of this note also may help to explain how productivity gains and innovation over the last few decades may not be benefitting the typical worker or the creation of small businesses as well.
L22|Online Reputation Mechanisms and the Decreasing Value of Chain Affliation|This paper investigates the value of branding and how it is changing in response to a large increase in consumer information provided by online reputation mechanisms. As an application of umbrella branding, theory suggests much of the value to firms of chain affiliation results from asymmetric information between buyers and sellers. As more information becomes available, consumers should rely less on brand names as quality signals and the ability for firms to extend reputations across heterogenous outlets should decrease. To examine this empirically, this paper combines a large, 15 year panel of hotel revenues with millions of online reviews from multiple platforms and performs a machine learning analysis of review text to recover latent, time-varying dimensions of firm quality. I find that branded, or chain-affiliated, hotels earn substantially higher revenues than equivalent independent hotels, but that this premium has declined by over 50% from 2000 to 2015. I find that this can be largely attributed to an increase in online reputation mechanisms, and that this affect is largest for low quality and small market firms. Numerous measures of the information content of online reviews show that as information has increased, independent hotel revenue grows substantially more than chain hotel revenue. Finally, the correlation between firm revenue and brand-wide reputation is decreasing and the correlation with individual hotel reputation is replacing it.
L22|A stochastic frontier analysis approach for estimating market power in the major U.S. meat export markets|The present study estimates the degree of market power in the major U.S. beef and pork export destinations. The recently developed stochastic frontier (SF) estimator is used. Estimations of market and time specific Lerner indices are provided. Balanced panel data between 1980-2011 were employed. The average Lerner index is 39% for the U.S. beef exports and is the highest in the markets of ASEAN, Hong Kong/China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. For the U.S. pork exports, the average Lerner index is 16% and is the highest in the markets of Mexico and Taiwan.
L22|The Role of Universities in the Knowledge Triangle Model on the Example of EIT Activities|Background. For universities, it is essential to develop in the direction of market expectations. It is necessary to enter into cooperation with entrepreneurs which allows technology transfer to create innovations. The knowledge triangle model is a concept that involves creating relationships between universities, research institutions and enterprises. This idea is very important for European policy and is implemented by the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT). However, it is worth checking whether it is actually being implemented. Research Aims. To check if the approach of the knowledge triangle is used in practice by entities set up under the EIT. Another research aim is an exploration of the current directions in which the university's cooperation with other bodies is heading, and if this has an impact on raising the level of innovation in Europe. Methodology. A look at the model of cooperation between universities and the environment and search for an appropriate framework of benefit from this kind of collaboration on scientific literature review. Moreover, the desk research regarding the EIT Food - one of the European initiatives in the food sector. Key findings. The analyses carried out allow us to state that the concept of the knowledge triangle is not just a theoretical idea. The concept has its application in practice. It was also identified that universities are the main engine of all undertaken activities in the field of education, research and innovation.
L22|Bid Rigging And Entry Deterrence In Public Procurement: Evidence From An Investigation Into Collusion And Corruption In Quebec|We study the impact of an investigation into collusion and corruption to learn about the organization of cartels in public procurement auctions. Our focus is on MontrealÂ’s asphalt industry, where there have been allegations of bid rigging, market segmentation, complementary bidding and bribes to bureaucrats, and where, in 2009, a police investigation was launched. We collect procurement data and use a difference-in-difference approach to compare outcomes before and after the investigation in Montreal and in Quebec City, where there have been no allegations of collusion or corruption. We find that entry and participation increased, and that the price of procurement decreased. We then decompose the price decrease to quantify the importance of two aspects of cartel organization, coordination and entry deterrence, for collusive pricing. We find that the latter explains only a small part of the decrease.
L22|Does uncertainty affect real activity? Evidence from state-level| We use variation in the effect of US-wide or global uncertainty on state-level uncertainty to identify the impact of this shock on real activity. We nd that increases in uncertainty do have an adverse impact on real income, employment and unemployment. Thus, uncertainty shocks can be a source of economic fluctuations.
L22|How to Sell Jobs| Profit-maximizing firms should fill job positions at the lowest possible cost. Because employees may have preferences over the attributes of their jobs, we can view this problem as one of finding the optimal way to sell job attributes to potential employees. In this paper, we characterize the optimal mechanism by which a firm can sell jobs with desirable attributes. This mechanism is implemented by offering employees a long-term employment contract in which firms create a number of low-quality job positions and offer them to young employees, while only a subset of these employees are promoted to a desirable job. In contrast to the traditional compensating differentials framework, job desirability and wages are positively related in the optimal contract. Our analysis provides a novel framework for thinking about a number of phenomena, such as the span of control, inequality within and between generations, and the effect of competition on employment and wages.
L22|Competitive Environment and Financial Stability in the Peruvian Microfinance System|This paper examines the relationship between competition and financial stability for Peruvian microfinance institutions, during the 2002-2016 period. Using the Panzar and Rosse H-statistic as well as the Boone indicator for the evaluation of competition, and the Roy Z-score as a proxy for financial stability, we find a non-linear relationship (inverted U-shaped) between competition and financial stability, which validates the Martínez-Miera and Repullo approach. Furthermore, we find that competition in the Peruvian microfinance system might increase even when market concentration increases; and, according to the H-statistic, the market structure that best fits this system is monopolistic competition.
L22|A Proposed Data Set for Analyzing the Labor Market Trajectories of East Germans Around Reunification|"Data from German social security notifications and internal procedures of the Federal Employment Agency are an important source for analyzing labor market trajectories. However, for East Germans these data are only fully available from 1992 onwards. As a consequence of German reunification, by 1992 significant fractions of East Germans had already lost their jobs, had changed their occupations and industries, and had moved to West Germany. We partially close the gap in the data by linking the \""Integrated Employment Biographies\"" - that start in 1992 for East Germany - with the GDR\'s \""Data Fund of Societal Work Power\"" from 1989. The new data set permits the analysis of phenomena such as unemployment, job mobility, and regional mobility. It can also be used to refine the existing knowledge of the individual-level labor market consequences of German reunification. Our long-term goal is to make the new data set available to the research community via the Research Data Center of the Federal Employment Agency."
L22|Who Holds the Reins? – Banks in the Crossfire of Global Platforms|Abstract Banking and financial services have traditionally been a heavily regulated industry where technology alone has not been a sufficient factor to transform the operating architectures of the industry. The pervasive view in the financial industry has been that digitalization and its integrational development will take place on the platforms of the banks. Due to the inherent secondary nature of financial services, however, it is more likely that the customer interface of financial services will increasingly migrate towards primary service platforms. As a result, the commoditization of payment processing services is expected to increase. Additionally, the visibility into customer data will become more opaque and the value capturing capabilities of the financial industry will be radically redefined. Furthermore, a strategic impact can also be anticipated on several public institutions, such as financial supervisory authorities, the tax administration and other public registry holders.
L22|Who Holds the Reins? – Banks in the Crossfire of Global Platforms|Abstract Banking and financial services have traditionally been a heavily regulated industry where technology alone has not been a sufficient factor to transform the operating architectures of the industry. The pervasive view in the financial industry has been that digitalization and its integrational development will take place on the platforms of the banks. Due to the inherent secondary nature of financial services, however, it is more likely that the customer interface of financial services will increasingly migrate towards primary service platforms. As a result, the commoditization of payment processing services is expected to increase. Additionally, the visibility into customer data will become more opaque and the value capturing capabilities of the financial industry will be radically redefined. Furthermore, a strategic impact can also be anticipated on several public institutions, such as financial supervisory authorities, the tax administration and other public registry holders.
L22|Access to the trade: monopoly and mobility in European craft guilds, 17th and 18th centuries|One of the standard objections against citizenship systems and trade organizations in the premodern world has been their exclusiveness. Privileged access to certain professions and industries is seen as a disincentive for technological progress. Guilds, especially, have been portrayed as providing unfair advantages to established masters and their descendants, over immigrants and other outsiders. In this paper the results of detailed local investigations of the composition of citizenries and guild apprentices and masters is brought together, to find out to what extent this picture is historically correct. This data offers an indirect measurement of the accessibility of citizenship and guilds that allows insight into the mechanisms of exclusion and their impact. The paper finds that guild masterships were in most towns open to large numbers of immigrants and non-family, as were training markets for apprentices. Therefore, we argue, our understanding of urban and guild ‘monopolies’, and the measure of protection and reward they supplied to established citizens, is in need of serious revision.
L22|Guilds and mutual protection in England|Guilds made an important contribution to the provision of mutual welfare to their members in the Netherlands and some other parts of Europe, giving their members entitlements to support and assistance during periods of unemployment, sickness or disability. This paper explores the role guilds played in mutual insurance in early modern England. A study of the rules and practices of a range of guilds from London and provincial towns indicates that craft guilds in England had no visible involvement in providing mutual insurance during the sixteenth to the eighteenth centuries. They did, however, provide substantial volumes of charity, much of which was directed to members of the guild who fell into poverty. Mutual insurance emerged on a large scale in England with the Friendly Societies. However, there is no evidence that these Societies had any direct or indirect connection to craft guilds, except in seeking to project a form of conceptual kinship with a medieval fraternal past.
L22|Les réformes structurelles : philosophie sociale et choix politique|Les réformes structurelles engagées en France ont une grande cohérence. Elles visent à développer un nouveau modèle économique et un nouveau modèle social basés sur le développement de l’entrepreneuriat et une individualisation des parcours professionnels censés favoriser l’innovation et la croissance en rupture radicale avec ce qui est parfois désigné comme l’ancien monde. L’analyse et l’expérience rappellent à une certaine réalité de l’entreprise et de la finance et conduisent à formuler un diagnostic moins optimiste faisant craindre une montée du dualisme au sein de la société allant à l’encontre du but recherché.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L22|Markups Dispersion and Firm Entry: Evidence from Ethiopia|This paper examines if and to what extent micro-level distortions affect structural transformation in a developing country by creating entry barriers. We show that while average price-cost margin trigger firm entry, a large dispersion of markups deters new firms from entering the market, thereby disrupting the process of new enterprise creation. We exploit information from the Ethiopian annual census of manufacturing establishments to estimate markups and then dispersion at sector and location-sector wide levels. Results show that higher markups dispersion significantly reduces entry rate into a market even in presence of expected positive average markups. Extension of our framework shows that market distortions caused by markup dispersion are related to a statistically significant drop in aggregate TFP and employment growth. Policies fostering competition on the other hand can reduce entry barriers created by market distortions.
L22|Exporters’ product vectors across markets|The paper provides an original empirical approach to investigate multi-product firms’ export patterns across destinations by considering the whole mix of products exported by a firm, formally defined as a product-vector. The proposed methodology allows to take into account a firm’s choice of both exporting and non-exporting a product to a destination and to consider different forms of product complementarity that can generate product combinations. The empirical analysis uses a panel of transactions level data for the universe of Italian and French firms and complements the existing evidence along a few dimensions. First, we show that there is a high level of sparsity: selection of products at destination is indeed very severe. Second, we document that firms export several different combinations of product vectors across markets. Relatedly a high level of diversity is detected also when considering the intensive margin, pointing to a substantial departure from a stable global product hierarchy. Finally, we provide evidence that at the same time there exists a stable component in firms’ product vectors across destinations composed by products which are not necessarily the most important in terms of sales, suggesting rich form of complementarities across goods. Products belonging to this stable component are less likely to be discarded as a consequence of an exogenous shock such as the dismantling of the MFA quotas after accession of China to the WTO.
L22|Bank value and geographic diversification: regional vs global|This paper analyzes the impact of geographic diversification on bank value by employing a data set comprising the largest banks across the world, originating from both developed and emerging countries. The findings suggest that the value impact of international diversification depends on a bank's home country: higher levels of diversification are associated with changes in valuations only for banks originating from emerging countries. In addition, the locus of destination of the diversification efforts matters for the direction of effects: while higher levels of intra-regional diversification lead to value enhancement, higher levels of inter-regional diversification seem to induce a negative (but statistically less robust) effect on the valuation of emerging country banks.
L22|Les « upgradings stratégiques » des firmes subordonnées dans les CGV : le cas des éleveurs investissant dans des unités de méthanisation|?This article considers the analysis of upgrading strategies, focusing at the level of subordinate firms themselves, with a more classical study at the GVC level. This approach develops the concept of ?strategic upgrading,? studies the institutional environment of subordinate firms, and draws on concepts from industrial economics, such as differentiation, diversification, and specialization, in order to understand these firms? strategies. It thus reexamines the category of inter-chain upgrading, i.e., the improvement of the position of actors of a GVC by integrating a new GVC. We confront this proposal with a territorialized case study on the development of biogas production by farmers in the Ardennes. We observe that these farmers are part of the emerging GVC of biomass energy based on their experience as ?captive? actors in the agro-industrial GVC. In particular, they have sized their biogas production units to be autonomous regarding agro-industry. This new activity also has feedback effects on their positioning in the agro-industrial GVC. ? ?JEL classification: ? ?L22, L23, Q13, Q16, Q42.?
L22|Complementary Monopolies with Asymmetric Information|We investigate how asymmetric information on final demand affects strategic interaction between a downstream monopolist and a set of up-stream monopolists, who independently produce complementary inputs. We study an intrinsic private common agency game in which each supplier i independently proposes a pricing schedule contract to the assembler, specifying the supplier's payment as a function of the assembler's purchase of input i. We provide a necessary and sufficient equilibrium condition. A lot of equilibria satisfy this condition but there is a unique Pareto-undominated Nash equilibrium from the suppliers' point of view. In this equilibrium there are unavoidable efficiency losses due to excessively low sales of the good. However, suppliers may be able to limit these distortions by implicitly coordinating on an equilibrium with a rigid (positive) output in bad demand circumstances.
L22|The characteristics of family firms: exploiting information on ownership, kinship, and governance using total population data|Abstract Family firms are often considered characteristically different from non-family firms. However, our understanding of family firms suffers from an inability to identify them in total population data; information is rarely available regarding owners, their kinship, and their involvement in firm governance. We present a method for identifying domiciled family firms using register data; this method offers greater accuracy than previous methods. We apply this method to Swedish data concerning firm ownership, governance, and kinship from 2004 to 2010. We find that the family firm is a significant organizational form, contributing over one third of all employment and gross domestic product (GDP). Family firms are common in most industries and range in size. Furthermore, we find that, compared to private non-family firms, family firms have fewer total assets, employment, and sales and carry higher solidity, although family firms are more profitable. These differences diminish with firm size. We conclude that the term “family firm” includes a large variety of firms, and we call for increased attention to their heterogeneity.
L22|Threatening to buy: Private equity buyouts and antitrust policy|Private equity firms (PE firms) have become common owners of established firms in concentrated markets. We show that the threat of a PE acquisition can trigger incumbent mergers in an otherwise merger-stable industry. This can help antitrust authorities maximize consumer surplus because previously privately unprofitable – but consumer surplus-enhancing – mergers now take place. We thus predict that merger waves among incumbents should follow the development of a local PE industry.
L22|Innovative Business Models In The Strategic Adaptation Of Multinationals To Emerging Economy Environment|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the frequently neglected role of business model innovation (BMI) as a key instrument of strategic adaptation of Western multinational enterprises to emerging economy enviroment. Despite an abundance of studies on BMI, prior works have paid little attention to how specific characteristics of emerging economy environment force MNEs to change their business models. In order to fill this gap the author developed the analytical framework allowing to trace potential directions of this changing impact, and suggested a typological classification of respective innovative business models responding to concrete challenges posed by emerging economies to MNEs. The paper identifies the main directions of influence exerted by emerging economy environment on various building blocks of MNEs’ business models, thus enabling related innovative activities. These growing BMI activities entail very serious implications for MNEs’ strategy and organization, and innovation governance mechanisms, which are increasingly required to enhance their abilities to support multiple business models adapted to specific environment in all major host countries
L22|Strategic Entry and Potential Competition: Evidence from Compressed Gas Fuel Retail|We study the effect of competition on preemption incentives. An unexpected change in regulation in the Italian retail market for compressed natural gas fuel allows us to identify the potential entrants and creates exogenous variation in their number. We document that markets with a larger pool of potential competitors experience faster entry. We provide evidence suggesting that this occurs because a larger number of potential entrants raises firms' incentives to preempt.
L22|Determinants of Demand for Technology in Relationships with Complementary Assets among Japanese Firms|There has been growing interest in open innovation, where firms create value by combining internal and external ideas. Technology insourcing, however, has not been satisfactorily investigated in the empirical literature compared to technology outsourcing. In this paper, we examine the determinants of external technology sourcing by the type of counterpart in the new product development (NPD) process. We use a novel dataset at the product level, compiled by the Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry in 2011. We distinguish whether the technology partner is also a business partner, such as a supplier or customer. Our findings show that when the technology partner is not a business partner, patents play an important role in moderating the transaction costs in a partnership. On the other hand, when the technology partner is also a business partner, we find cospecialisation of technology and its complementary assets with the partner firm.
L22|Static or dynamic efficiency: Horizontal merger effects in the wireless telecommunications industry|This paper studies five mergers in the European wireless telecommunication industry and analyzes their impact on prices and capital expenditures of both merging carriers and their rivals. We find substantial heterogeneity in the relationship between increases in concentration and carriers’ prices. The specifics of each merger case clearly matter. Moreover, we find a positive correlation between the price and the investment effects; when the prices after merger increase (decrease), the investments increase (decrease) too. Thus, we document a trade-off between static and dynamic efficiencies of mergers.
L22|Market Economies Potentialities and Cultural Clusters. A Global and Longitudinal Study|This paper explores longitudinally and globally the relationships between cultural clusters and the determinants that drive market potentiality. The research shows differences in variances in all 7 determinants using a longitudinal one way Anova method and an Estimated Size Effect. Conclusions show three revealing issues: 1.There is significance in all Market Potentiality Index determinants with the exception of “Market Intensity and Market Receptivity”. 2. The clusters do not show significant differences according to the MPI determinants with the regular exception of Latin American cluster. 3. The results obtained after the estimated effect size analysis show that Commercial Infrastructure and Country Risk are the most important factors which influence on the variability of the clusters.
L22|Corporate Income Tax, Legal Form of Organization, and Employment|A dynamic stochastic occupational choice model with heterogeneous agents is developed to evaluate the impact of a corporate income tax reduction on employment. In this framework, the key margin is the endogenous entrepreneurial choice of legal form of organization. A reduction in the corporate income tax burden encourages adoption of the C corporation legal form, which reduces capital constraints on firms. Improved capital reallocation increases overall productive efficiency in the economy and therefore expands the labor market. Relative to the benchmark economy, a corporate income tax cut can reduce the non-employment rate by up to 7 percent.
L22|Transformation of corporate scope in U.S. banks: patterns and performance implications|Using a novel database containing the time-series details of the organizational structure of individual bank holding companies, this paper presents the first population-wide study of the transformation in business scope of U.S. banks. Expanding scope has a negative impact on performance on average. However, we find that firms whose expansion keeps them closer to the prevailing “modal bank” are better off compared with those pursuing generic diversification. Moreover, we find that early expanders into particular activities benefit more, whereas late adopters, rather than benefitting by “fitting the norm,” lose out.
L22|Business Model of Islamic Microfinance Institution: Indonesia Case|"""Objective – Islamic Microfinance Institutions (IMFIs) grown very rapidly in the last 10 years in Indonesia. On 2015, the number of IMFIs’ reached more than 5,000. As a business and social entity, IMFIs has various business models, the way in providing services and manages the business to achieve its goals. This study aims to determine the business models of IMFIs. Methodology/Technique – This study uses qualitative approach by case study technique of Robert K. Yin. Subjects of this study are IMFIs in Indonesia that selected purposively with managers as a key informant. Findings – The result is the business model of IMFI is determined by eight elements, namely: organizational orientation, business and social functions, the source of capital and allocation, investors and customers, financing usage, types of contract, allocation technique, and membership. Novelty – The elements that determine IMFI, will form a business model of IMFI which determine how IMFI runs its business activities to achieve organization objective."""
L22|Sustainable Business of Islamic Bank Through on the Islamic Corporate Governance and Islamic Financial Performance|"""Objective – The objective of the study is to analyze the application of Islamic Corporate Governance (ICG) on Sustainable Business, focusing on Islamic Financial Performance as a mediating variable in Islamic Banks in Indonesia. Methodology/Technique – The population and sample in the study consists of 9 Islamic Banks. The study uses partial least square (PLS), and the data is collected from public reports for the period between 2010 and 2015. The variables of the study are: Islamic Corporate Governance as an independent variable, Sustainable Business as the dependent variable and Financial Performance as a mediating variable. Findings – The study shows that Islamic Corporate Governance (ICG) has a positive significant effect on Islamic Financial Performance, Islamic Corporate Governance (ICG) has no effect on Sustainable Business, and Islamic Financial Performance has a positive effect on Sustainable Business. The findings also show that Islamic Financial Performance can have an indirect impact to mediating the effect of Islamic Corporate Governance on Sustainable Business Islamic Bank. Novelty – Using Murabahah ratio to measure Islamic Financial Performance."""
L22|Analysis Performance Management System|"""Objective – Aggressive competition and globalization are characterized by the emergence of many new companies and technological advances. Many companies began to rearrange the strategy of competition in anticipation of free trade with a review of the objectives of strategic companies based on the needs of the international market, a comparison with companies that have the best performance in the world, as well as evaluating intense the internal competency of the company own. The key to winning this competition is through innovation. The goal of this paper is to analyze the factors that influence in the performance management system. Methodology/Technique – Method in this research are performed by distributing questionnaires and respondents were given the opportunity to provide input to the company which then will researchers to convey to family companies that made the object of research. Findings – Results show that there is correlation between the company's strategy, cross-functionality, market intelligence, employee motivation and company performance. There is correlation company’s strategy and company performance, cross-functionally and company performance, market intelligence and company performance, the motivation of employees and company performance Novelty – The study tries to test performance management of company. """
L22|Evaluating Willingness to Pay as a Measure of the Impact of Dyslexia in Adults|While much is known about dyslexia in school-age children and adolescents, less is known about its effects on quality of life in adults. Using data from the Connecticut Longitudinal Study, we provide the first estimates of the monetary value of improving reading, speaking, and cognitive skills to dyslexic and nondyslexic adults. Using a stated-preference survey, we find that dyslexic and nondyslexic individuals value improvements in their skills in reading speed, reading aloud, pronunciation, memory, and information retrieval at about the same rate. Because dyslexics have lower self-reported levels on these skills, their total willingness to pay to achieve a high level of skill is substantially greater than for nondyslexics. However, dyslexic individuals' willingness to pay (averaging $3000 for an improvement in all skills simultaneously) is small compared with the difference in earnings between dyslexic and nondyslexic adults. We estimate that dyslexic individuals earn 15% less per year (about $8000) than nondyslexic individuals. Although improvements in reading, speaking, and cognitive skills in adulthood are unlikely to eliminate the earnings difference that reflects differences in educational attainment and other factors, stated-preference estimates of the value of cognitive skills may substantially underestimate the value derived from effects on lifetime earnings and health.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L22|Multiproduct retailing and buyer power: The effects of product delisting on consumer shopping behavior|This paper empirically examines the effects of product delisting on consumer shopping behavior in a context of grocery retailing by large multiproduct supermarket chains. A product is said to be delisted when a supermarket stops supplying it while it continuous being sold by competing stores. We develop a model of demand in which consumers can purchase multiple products in the same period. Consumers have heterogeneous shopping patterns: some find it optimal to concentrate purchases at a single store while others prefer sourcing several separate supermarkets. We account for this heterogeneity by introducing shopping costs, which are transaction costs of dealing with suppliers. Using scanner data on grocery purchases by French households in 2005, we estimate the parameters of the model and retrieve the distribution of shopping costs. We find a total shopping cost per store sourced of 1.79 € on average. When we simulate the delisting of a product by one supermarket, we find that customers'probability of sourcing that store decreases while the probability of sourcing competing stores increases. The reduction in demand is considerably larger when consumers have strong preferences for the delisted brand. This suggests that retailers may be hurting themselves, and not only manufacturers, when they delist a product. However, when customers have strong preferences for the store such effects are lower, suggesting that inducing store loyalty in customers appears to have an effect on vertical negotiations and, in particular, it enables powerful retailers to impose vertical restraints on manufacturers.
L22|Multiproduct retailing and buyer power: The effects of product delisting on consumer shopping behavior|This paper empirically examines the effects of product delisting on consumer shopping behavior in a context of grocery retailing by large multiproduct supermarket chains. A product is said to be delisted when a supermarket stops supplying it while it continuous being sold by competing stores. We develop a model of demand in which consumers can purchase multiple products in the same period. Consumers have heterogeneous shopping patterns: some find it optimal to concentrate purchases at a single store while others prefer sourcing several separate supermarkets. We account for this heterogeneity by introducing shopping costs, which are transaction costs of dealing with suppliers. Using scanner data on grocery purchases by French households in 2005, we estimate the parameters of the model and retrieve the distribution of shopping costs. We find a total shopping cost per store sourced of 1.79 e on average. When we simulate the delisting of a product by one supermarket, we find that customers' probability of sourcing that store decreases while the probability of sourcing competing stores increases. The reduction in demand is considerably larger when consumers have strong feelings of loyalty for the delisted brand. This suggests that retailers may be hurting themselves, and not only manufacturers, when they delist a product. However, when customers are loyal to the store, such effects are lower, suggesting that inducing store loyalty in customers (through strong private labels and loyalty programs, for example) appears to have an effect on vertical negotiations and, in particular, it enables powerful retailers to impose vertical restraints on manufacturers.
L22|When Hotelling meets Vickrey. Service timing and spatial asymmetry in the airline industry|This paper analyzes rivalry between transport facilities in a model that includes two sources of horizontal differentiation: geographical location and departure time. We explore how both sources influence facility fees and the price of the service offered by downstream carriers. Travelers’ costs include a fare, a transportation cost to the facility and a schedule delay cost. The interactions in the facility-carrier model are represented as a sequential three-stage game in fees, times and fares. Duopolistic competition leads to an identical departure time across carriers when their operating costs do not vary with the time of day, but generally leads to distinct service times when this cost is time-dependent. We also find that higher per-passenger commercial revenue at one facility induces a lower fee charged by both facilities to their carrier and a lower fare charged by both carriers at their departure facility, while a lower marginal operating cost for one carrier implies a higher fee at its departure facility, a lower fee at the rival carrier’s facility and a lower fare at both facilities. Finally, we show that the socially optimal schedule differentiation decreases in the distance between facilities and in the unit transportation cost incurred by travelers, and increases in the unit schedule delay cost incurred by travelers as well as in the marginal time cost faced by carriers.
L22|Entrepreneurial Experimentation: A key function in Entrepreneurial Systems of Innovation|There is a need for a conceptual approach that, with reference to explicit micro-level mechanisms and processes of industrial dynamics, articulates the role and function of entrepreneurial experimentation in innovation systems. This paper develops the concept of ‘entrepreneurial systems of innovation’ to address this gap in the literature. We argue that entrepreneurial experimentation comprises both ‘technical’ and ‘market’ experimentation, and that entrepreneurship must be conceptualized in terms of its function in innovation systems rather than as an outcome. At the systems level, the central function of entrepreneurial experimentation is to foster creation, selection and scaling-up of innovations. Spinoffs and acquisitions are proposed as examples of micro-mechanisms that give rise to system-wide entrepreneurial experimentation. Interaction between established organizations and new innovative entrants, through spinoffs and acquisitions, is an important characteristic of vibrant entrepreneurial systems of innovation.
L22|Firm Capabilities, Technological Dynamism and Innovation Internationalisation – a Behavioural Approach|We develop a behavioural framework of bounded rational decision-making under uncertainty by which we analyse the effect of technological dynamism in the firm’s environment on its decisions to internationalise innovation. Arguing that the firm’s technological performance lev-el affects its risk-preferences, a key-prediction is that firms with low technological compe-tences will internationalise innovation when faced by technological uncertainty while firms with high competences will withdraw from international innovation. A fully rational absorptive-capacity framework would predict the opposite relationship because it ignores the role of dif-ferential risk-preferences. We test our framework using data from the German Community Innovation Survey (CIS).
L22|Structural Decisions of Multinationals in Regions with Weak Courts|We investigate the impact of court conditions on multinational decisions on entry, subsidiary size and entry mode across subnational regions in Russia. We apply the literature on heterogeneous firms and the institution-based view of investor behavior, which predict that higher institutional costs raise the size and productivity cut-off of start-up subsidiaries. Our empirical results based on microestablishment data of foreign-owned firms in Russia show that a weaker judicial framework and stronger political power of the local governor significantly de-stimulate entry. The majority of multinationals enter Russia, which is viewed as a high-risk country, through large and very large subsidiaries wholly owned by the foreign parents. Variation of the business strategies of multinationals between regions is largely explained by regional court conditions, as foreign investors adapt their strategic decisions to compensate court deficiencies by increasing the size of the subsidiary and acquiring local institutional knowledge through partnership with resident firms. We also find that structural adjustments to court risks are typical for horizontal investments, which only serve the host market
L22|Corporate Governance System and Regional Heterogeneity: Evidence from East and West Russia|Using a unique firm-level dataset obtained from a large-scale questionnaire survey conducted in late 2015, we examined the generality and heterogeneity of corporate governance systems between the eastern and western regions of Russia. The survey results strongly suggest that various characteristics of corporate governance systems observed in industrial firms and listed companies are, in fact, common and long-term trends that are seen across all Russian business sectors. At the same time, however, we also found pronounced regional heterogeneity between the eastern and western regions, with companies in the east being more reluctant than those in the west to introduce a governance system to monitor and supervise top management. Regression analysis shows that this finding is robust, even after a series of firm-level attributes are simultaneously controlled for.
L22|The Indirect Effects of FDI on Trade: A Network Perspective|The relationship between international trade and foreign direct investment (FDI) is one of the main features of globalization. In this paper we investigate the effects of FDI on trade from a network perspective, since FDI takes not only direct but also indirect channels from origin to destination countries because of firms' incentive to reduce tax burden, to minimize coordination costs, and to break barriers to market entry. We use a unique data set of international corporate control as a measure of stock FDI to construct a corporate control network (CCN) where the nodes are the countries and the edges are the corporate control relationships. Based on the CCN, the network measures, i.e., the shortest path length and the communicability, are computed to capture the indirect channel of FDI. Empirically we find that corporate control has a positive effect on trade both directly and indirectly. The result is robust with different specifications and estimation strategies. Hence, our paper provides strong empirical evidence of the indirect effects of FDI on trade. Moreover, we identify a number of interplaying factors such as regional trade agreements and the region of Asia. We also find that the indirect effects are more pronounced for manufacturing sectors than for primary sectors such as oil extraction and agriculture.
L22|The 'Smile Curve': where Value is Added along Supply Chains|In this paper we analyze where value is added along supply chains on a sample of more than 2 million of firms in the European Union. We detect a non-linear U-shaped relationship between the value added generated by firms and their position on a productive sequence, for which tasks at the top and at the bottom show higher value added. Our findings are in line with previous hypotheses on the existence of a so-called 'smile curve', resumed by both business and economic studies and discussed at length in international fora. Our results are robust to different empirical strategies for flexible functional forms. As far as we know, ours is the first firm-level successful attempt to test for value generation along supply chains. Further, we find empirical support for a phenomenon of domestic retention of value added by MNEs, which may prefer keeping at home the tasks at higher potential to safeguard present and future competitive advantages. By country, intermediate stages of production are at higher value when performed by foreign as liates, whereas domestic producers retain higher value at the very top and at the very bottom of the supply chain, organized either as independent suppliers or as domestic affiliates. Although an economic theory is still missing for explaining how and why value generation is non-linear along a typical technological sequence, here we argue that a microfoundation with firm-level data is useful for understanding the growth potential of countries' specialization patterns along different segments of supply chains.
L22|The Organization of Global Supply Networks|In this contribution, we introduce a network approach for the organization of global production across national borders, beyond the sequential industry-level metrics proposed in the previous literature. First, we show and argue that several characteristics of global production processes would be lost in the analysis when assuming that they could be proxied as linear sequences. Hence, we propose an index that assesses the relevance of any input for the target output, including its role as an input of inputs. Thereafter, we exploit an own-built firm-level dataset of about 20,489 U.S. parent companies integrating more than 154,000 affiliates worldwide. Results show that the technological relevance of an input in a directed supply network is also a good predictor for: i) the probability that an input industry is actually integrated within a firm boundary; ii) the number of affiliates that are controlled by the parent company and active in that input industry.
L22|Platform play among incumbent firms: the wrong focus?|No abstract is available for this item.
L22|Determinants and impacts of intangible investment: Evidence from Chinese private manufacturing firms|Determinants of investment in intangibles by firms and the effects of intangible investment on firm productivity have been documented for developed economies. Evidence on these issues in emerging economies, however, is scarce. Using data from China Enterprise Survey 2012 conducted by the World Bank, this study examines the determinants and impacts of intangible investment by private manufacturing firms in China, thus shedding light on recent development of intangibles in one of the largest emerging economies in the world. It is found that more human capital, larger firm size and better institutional quality generally increase the propensity and the amount of intangible investment, and yet fiercer market competition decreases both the propensity and the amount to invest in intangibles. We also provide evidence that the three components of intangibles including research and development (R&D) investment, software investment and organization investment as well as ICT investment are positively correlated with firm productivity. Furthermore there is complementarity between software investment and organization investment. Implications for policies to enhance investment in intangibles are identified from the empirical results.
L22|Incentives for Research Agents and Performance-vested Equity-based Compensation|This study examines an agency problem between a firm and its research employees in a continuous-time dynamic setting. As a solution to the problem, the study presents an optimal contract and discusses its implementation. In the implementation, a primary component of the agent's compensation is a risky security, and the principal lets the agent choose the consumption and effort levels subject to a sequence of minimum holding requirements. This implementation theoretically justifies the widespread use of performance-vested equity-based compensation by firms that rely on R&D.
L22|The Indirect Effects of FDI on Trade: A Network Perspective|The relationship between international trade and foreign direct investment (FDI) is one of the main features of globalization. In this paper we investigate the effects of FDI on trade from a network perspective, since FDI takes not only direct but also indirect channels from origin to destination countries because of firms' incentive to reduce tax burden, to minimize coordination costs, and to break barriers to market entry. We use a unique data set of international corporate control as a measure of stock FDI to construct a corporate control network (CCN) where the nodes are the countries and the edges are the corporate control relation ships. Based on the CCN, the network measures, i.e., the shortest path length and the communicability, are computed to capture the indirect channel of FDI. Empirically we find that corporate control has a positive effect on trade both directly and indirectly. The result is robust with different specifications and estimation strategies. Hence, our paper provides strong empirical evidence of the indirect effects of FDI on trade. Moreover, we identify a number of interplaying factors such as regional trade agreements and the region of Asia. We also find that the indirect effects are more pronounced for manufacturing sectors than for primary sectors such as oil extraction and agriculture.
L22|Efficiency versus transaction costs in multidimensional auctions: the case of Brazilian oil and gas lease auctions|In Brazil, a scoring auction decides which firm has the right to explore oil and gas in a region. One of its dimensions is the amount of local content that firms are willing to implement. However, local content programs are subject to significant uncertainty and complexity so mal-adaptation costs are relevant. We characterize players’ bidding behavior when they have information on local content implementation and when they do not. We test those predictions using historical bids. Our tests suggest that the mechanism would be more efficient if the definition of local content programs was left out of the auction.
L22|Merger Effects with Product Complementarity: Evidence from Colombia’s Telecommunications|Mergers of firms producing complementary products have ambiguous effects on consumer welfare. Consumers benefit if the firm, motivated by the internalized profits created by the complementarity, lowers prices. Consumers are hurt if the firm uses bundles to exert price discrimination, making standalone products more expensive. To assess which effect dominates, I use an administrative dataset, which records prices, market shares, and plan attributes of the universe of Colombia’s telecom carriers. I estimate a random coefficients discrete choice model of demand for bundled and standalone telecom products, in which the degree of substitutability or complementarity among products is an essential parameter of interest. I find that major telecom products display a mix of substitutability and complementarity, but in general hardwired and mobile services are complements. Counterfactual experiments using the estimated model indicate positive net effects of mergers with complements: despite a small increase in the price of standalone goods, consumer surplus increased by around 11 million dollars per quarter after the Claro merger. On the other hand I find evidence that mergers between ISPs and mobile carriers reduce the likelihood of poorer households adopting faster broadband.
L22|Banks in Colombia: how homogeneous are they?|In complex systems, homogeneity (i.e. lack of diversity) has been documented as a source of fragility. Likewise, financial sector’s homogeneity has been documented as a contributing factor for systemic risk. We assess homogeneity in the Colombian case by measuring how similar banks are regarding the structure of their overall financial statements, and their lending, investment, and funding portfolios. Distances among banks and an agglomerative clustering method yield the hierarchical structure of the banking system, which exhibits how banks are related to each other based on their financial structure. The Colombian banking sector displays homogeneous features, especially among the largest banks. Results enable to study to what extent the banking sector is homogeneous, and to identify banking firms that have a (n) (un) common financial structure. Yet, as we neither examine Colombian banking system complexity nor banks’ soundness nor higher dimensions of diversity, conclusive inferences about systemic risk and financial stability are pending.
L22|Intangible Assets and the Organization of Global Supply Chains|This paper introduces the concept of intangible assets in sequential supply chains and the importance of their appropriability in the organizational decision of firms. We focus on the quality of intellectual property rights (IPR) institutions, which on top of the hold-up problem between a supplier and the final producer entails an additional risk of imitation as technology may leak to competing producers in the market. The level of IPR enforcement in the location of a supplier can therefore play a crucial role in determining the decision of a final good producer whether to outsource or integrate a particular stage of production. The analysis is performed with Antràs and Chor (2013) in the background, where the position of the input along the supply chain, i.e. its upstreamness, and the degree of sequential complementarity of stage-specific inputs influence the organizational strategy of firms through the incentive structure of supplier investments. Our findings show that introducing intangible assets in sequential supply chain may have the opposite effect of contractibility on outsourcing decision, where only tangible property rights are considered. We argue therefore that the risk of imitation is a relevant feature that needs to be accounted for in the incomplete contract literature. Our theoretical predictions are validated on Slovenian firm-level data.
L22|Export intermediaries and adjustments to exchange rate movements|Building on a heterogeneous-firm model à la Melitz (2003), we propose a theory of intermediaries in international trade which rationalizes the available evidence on both aggregate and firm-level exports as well as their responsiveness to exchange rate movements. We introduce double marginalization for goods traded indirectly, i.e. through intermediaries, and local distribution costs for all exporting firms, either intermediaries or direct exporters. This leads to heterogeneous markups, pricing-to-market and to a lower degree of exchange rate pass-through for goods exported by intermediaries. This result, validated on Italian firm-level trade data, is consistent with productivity sorting in the export mode and with the propensity of high productivity firms to absorb more exchange rate movements in their markups. We also explore how direct and intermediary export ows to a given destination react to exchange rate movements along the extensive margin of adjustment. Consistently with our theory, we find evidence of a larger variation in the overall number of varieties traded along the intermediary channel.
L22|Information Transmission through Influence Activities|This paper studies the information transmission aspect of influence activities within an organization where privately informed division managers strategically communicate divisional information to headquarters to influence its capital allocation decisions. Although costly, influence activities can play a role in transmitting valuable information to headquarters. We define influence activities to be informative if they improve headquarters's inference and detrimental if they hamper it. We find that influence activities are more likely to be informative in organizations that are less averse to risk taking, that rely more on higher-power incentives, and that encourage competition in the form of contest. We also find that competition over scarce resources increases the overall level of influence activities.
L22|Macro and Micro Dynamics of Productivity: From Devilish Details to Insights|"Researchers use a variety of methods to estimate total factor productivity (TFP) at the firm level and, while these may seem broadly equivalent, how the resulting measures relate to the TFP concept in theoretical models depends on the assumptions about the environment in which firms operate. Interpreting these measures and drawing insights based upon their characteristics thus must take into account these conceptual differences. Absent data on prices and quantities, most methods yield ``revenue productivity"" measures. We focus on two broad classes of revenue productivity measures in our examination of the relationship between measured and conceptual TFP (TFPQ). The first measure has been increasingly used as a measure of idiosyncratic distortions and to assess the degree of misallocation. The second measure is, under standard assumptions, a function of fundamentals (e.g., TFPQ). Using plant-level U.S. manufacturing data, we find these alternative measures are (i) highly correlated; (ii) exhibit similar dispersion; and (iii) have similar relationships with growth and survival. These findings raise questions about interpreting the first measure as a measure of idiosyncratic distortions. We also explore the sensitivity of estimates of the contribution of reallocation to aggregate productivity growth to these alternative approaches. We use recently developed structural decompositions of aggregate productivity growth that depend critically on estimates of output versus revenue elasticities. We find alternative approaches all yield a significant contribution of reallocation to productivity growth (although the quantitative contribution varies across approaches)."
L22|Do Multinationals Transfer Culture? Evidence on Female Employment in China|We study the global diffusion of culture through multinationals, focusing on gender norms. Using data on manufacturing firms in China over 2004-2007, we find that foreign affiliates from countries with a more gender-equal culture tend to employ proportionally more women and appoint female managers. They also generate cultural spillovers, increasing domestic firms’ female labor shares in the same industry or city. Based on a multi-sector model with firm heterogeneity in productivity, gender biases, and learning, we perform counterfactual exercises. Hypothetically eliminating firms’ gender biases raises China’s aggregate total factor productivity by 5%, of which spillovers from multinationals account for 19%.
L22|Vertical licensing, input pricing, and entry|We explore the incentives of a vertically integrated incumbent to license the production technology of its core input to an external firm, transforming the licensee into its input supplier. We find that the incumbent opts for licensing even when licensing also transforms the licensee into one of its direct competitors in the final products market. In fact, the licensee’s entry into the final products market, although it increases the competition and the cost that the licensor faces, reinforces the licensing incentives. Furthermore, the licensee’s entry augments the positive welfare implications of vertical licensing.
L22|Income inequality and oligarchs in Russian regions: A note|We trace the rise of the so called oligarchs in post-Soviet Russia and examine their relationship to income distribution in Russia. When Russia moved to a market economy in the 1990s a new business elite evolved. Russia's distinctive path towards market economy, among other factors, gave rise to the oligarchs who now control large parts of the economy and have a strong standing within politics and society. Using a unique regional data set on the locations of oligarchs’ businesses across the Russian regions, we test Acemoglu's (2008) proposition that oligarchic societies experience extreme income inequality. Our results show significantly higher levels of income inequality in regions with a higher presence of oligarchs.
L22|Advertising Competition in the Free-to-Air TV Broadcasting Industry|This paper empirically investigates the advertising competition in the French broadcast television industry within a two-sided market framework. We use a unique dataset on the French broadcast television market including audience, prices, and quantities of advertising of twenty-one TV channels from March 2008 to December 2013. We specify a structural model of oligopoly competition and identify the shape and magnitude of the feedback loop between TV viewers and advertisers. We also implement a simple procedure to identify the conduct of firms on the market. We find that the nature of competition in the French TV advertising market is of the Cournot type. Further, we provide empirical evidence that the price-cost margin is not a good indicator of the market power of firms operating on two-sided markets. Finally, we provide a competition analysis. The counterfactual simulation suggests that the merger of advertising sales houses would not have significantly affected the equilibrium outcomes in this industry because of the strong network externalities between TV viewers and advertisers. These results provide a critical evaluation of the 2010 decision of the French competition authority to authorize the acquisition of two broadcast TV channels by a large media group under behavioral remedies.
L22|Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility|We examine the strategic use of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in imperfectly competitive markets. The level of CSR determines the weight a firm puts on consumer surplus in its objective function before it decides upon supply. First, we consider symmetric Cournot competition and show that the endogenous level of CSR is positive for any given number of firms. However, positive CSR levels imply smaller equilibrium profits. Second, we find that an incumbent monopolist can use CSR as an entry deterrent. Both results indicate that CSR may increase market concentration. Third, we consider heterogeneous firms and show that asymmetric costs imply asymmetric CSR levels.
L22|Incentives through inventory control in supply chains|The paper shows that taking inventory control out of the hands of competitive or exclusive retailers and assigning it to a manufacturer increases the value of a supply chain especially for goods whose demand is highly volatile. This is because doing so solves incentive distortions that arise when retailers have to allocate inventory across sales periods, and thus allows for better intertemporal price discrimination. Assigning inventory control to a manufacturer is also shown to have effects on total inventory and social welfare.
L22|Vertical Integration and Relational Contracts: Evidence from the Costa Rica Coffee Chain|This paper compares integrated firms, long-term relationships and markets, and how they adapt to shocks in the Costa Rican coffee chain. The industry is characterised by significant uncertainty. Supply failures responses to unanticipated increases in reference prices reveal that integration and relationships reduce opportunism. Trade volumes responses to weather-induced increases in supply reveal that relationships provide demand assurance, although less than integration does. This benefit of integration is offset by costs when trading outside of the integrated chain. The evidence supports models in which firms boundaries alter temptations to renege on relational contracts and, consequently, the allocation of resources.
L22|Firm and Market Response to Saving Constraints: Evidence from the Kenyan Dairy Industry|Failures in saving markets can spill over into other markets: When producers are saving constrained, trustworthy buyers can offer infrequent delayed payments—a saving tool—and purchase at a lower price, thus departing from standard trade credit logic. This paper develops a model of this interlinkage and tests it in the context of the Kenyan dairy industry. Multiple data sources, experiments, and a calibration exercise support the microfoundations and predictions of the model concerning: i) producers’ demand for infrequent payments; ii) heterogeneity across buyers in the ability to supply low frequency payments; iii) a segmented market equilibrium where buyers compete by providing either liquidity or saving services to producers; iv) low supply response to price increases. We provide additional evidence from other settings, including labor markets, and discuss policy implications concerning contract enforcement, financial access, and market structure.
L22|The Hardships of Long Distance Relationships: Knowledge Transmission and the Ease of Communication within Multinational Firms|Using a unique dataset on worldwide multinational corporations with precise location of headquarters and affiliates, I present evidence suggesting that when firms expand internationally, they tend to locate foreign subsidiaries geographically closer to the headquarters the more knowledge intensive the affiliates’ economic activities are. This tradeoff, however, weakens when controlling for the ease of communication between the headquarters and its foreign subsidiary, such as being in the same time zone. All the evidence points that the intra-firm transmission of knowledge plays an important role in the mechanisms of the proximity-concentration hypothesis.
L22|Challenges and Pitfalls in Cartel Policy and Fining|We analyze significant challenges and pitfalls faced by antitrust authorities in the implementation of competition policies particularly against naked cartels and propose measures principled in economic theory to circumvent these issues. We review leniency programs in different jurisdictions, the private versus public control of cartels, as well as the determination of cartel fines and other punishment instruments. Regarding cartel fines, we first discuss the sometimes-conflicting objectives of restitution and deterrence, then the economic-based versus legal- and proportional-based punishment. Moreover, we assess the proper modeling of cartel dynamics including the probability of detection and conviction, the relevant cartel duration, and the estimation of but-for prices and cartel overcharges.
L22|Managing skill premium through firm structure|Previous research has consistently demonstrated a positive relation between firm size and skill premium. We decompose this result by type of skilled worker using data from Chilean firms and find that returns in skill premium to size are an order of magnitude larger for owners and managers compared to other types of skilled workers. We interpret this to imply that firm structure is important for understanding the relationship between skill premium and firm size. We propose an original model of firm hierarchy which rationalizes our empirical finding. In our model, more productive firms maximize profits by choosing to employ more levels of management. These managers require a higher average skill level and command a higher average skill premium. Additionally, our model predicts that skill premium is increasing in the ratio of workers to managers, a fact we also observe in the Chilean data.
L22|Backward ownership, uniform pricing and entry deterrence|Entry deterrence can occur when downstream incumbents hold non-controlling ownership shares of a supplier which is commited to charge uniform prices to all downstream firms. The ownership shares imply a rebate on the input price for the incumbents through the profit participation. Such backward ownership induces the supplier to accommodate entry by charging a low uniform price to all downstream firms in case of entry. However, just the entry-accommodating behavior reduces entry profits and thereby can lead to market foreclosure. Based on this theory, the article reviews a merger case in the financial services industry and draws conclusions for regulation and competition policy.
L22|One-stop shopping behavior, buyer power, and upstream merger incentives|We analyze how consumer preferences for one-stop shopping affect the (Nash) bargaining relationships between a retailer and its suppliers. One-stop shopping preferences create 'demand complementarities' among otherwise independent products which lead to two opposing effects on upstream merger incentives: first a standard double mark-up problem and second a bargaining effect. The former creates merger incentives while the later induces suppliers to bargain separately. When buyer power becomes large enough, then suppliers stay separated which raises final good prices. We also show that our result can be obtained when wholesale prices are determined in a non-cooperative game, under two-part tariffs and when products are substitutable.
L22|Do Company Builders Create Jobs? Examining the Rise of Incubation Finance in Germany|Over the past decade, new types of business incubation have been developed. One particularly prominent example is company builders, which use their own resources to build up companies, establishing numerous companies in a series. In doing so, this investor type facilitates internal and external business ideas. It offers a new organizational solution that combines both the innovative capacity of founders and the financial re-sources of a large company with the desire for long-term employment and corporate affiliation. This article examines the economic impact of company builders in Germany compared with other venture capital (VC) investor types on the basis of employment trends in the portfolio companies from 2011 to 2015. It is shown that company builders promote more dynamic employment growth than do other types of investors. This finding suggests that this type of investor is particularly well positioned to take advantage of the institutional deficiency in the German VC market. The results are also discussed in the context of the growth of the Berlin-based VC and start-up ecosystem.
L22|Die Bedeutung der eigentümer- und familiengeführten Unternehmen in Deutschland|Die vorliegende Studie untersucht, wie sich der Anteilswert der eigentümer- und familiengeführten Unternehmen an der Gesamtzahl aller Unternehmen seit dem Jahr 1998 verändert hat. Hierzu wurden rund 16.500 repräsentativ ausgewählte deutsche Unternehmen auf ihre Eigentums- und Leitungsstrukturen hin untersucht und die Ergebnisse auf die Gesamtheit aller deutschen Unternehmen hochgerechnet. Es zeigt sich, dass der Anteil der eigentümer- und familiengeführten Unternehmen von 94,8 % (1998) auf 93,6 % (aktuelles Berichtsjahr 2014) zurückgegangen ist. Des Weiteren wurde untersucht, welche Bedeutung reinen Hilfseinheiten innerhalb komplexer Unternehmen aktuell zukommt. Rund 33.300 Unternehmen (1,0 % bezogen auf alle deutschen Unternehmen) sind als reine Hilfseinheiten anzusehen und müssten entsprechend der Vorgaben der EU an die Unternehmensstatistik konsolidiert werden.
L22|Strategien kleiner und mittlerer Betriebe in angespannten Arbeitsmarktlagen: Eine Untersuchung am Beispiel der niedersächsischen Ernährungswirtschaft|"Im vorliegenden Bericht werden die Ergebnisse des Teilprojektes ""Lokale Strategien für die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung"" des europäischen Forschungsprojekts TRUSTEE (""Towards RUral Synergies and Trade-offs between Economic development and Ecosystem services') beschrieben. Vor dem Hintergrund der erwarteten Fachkräfteknappheit wurde am Beispiel der niedersächsischen Ernährungswirtschaft zwischen 2014 und 2016 untersucht, (1) wie sich lokale Arbeitsmärkte auf Strategien und Entwicklung der überwiegend kleinen und mittleren Betriebe des Sektors auswirken, (2) in wie fern die Betriebe Unabhängigkeit vom lokalen Arbeitsmarkt erlangen können und (3) wie die Unternehmen ihrerseits die lokalen Arbeitsmärkte beeinflussen. Die Untersuchung fand in drei Schritten statt. Im Sommer 2015 wurde eine standardisierte Befragung der Ernährungswirtschaft in Niedersachsen mit 200 antwortenden Betrieben durchgeführt, die den Hauptteil der Studie bildet. Zweitens wurden im Herbst 2015 bzw. Winter 2015/16 Workshops zum Thema Fachkräftebedarf ('Fachkräfteworkshops') in einer ländlichen und in einer eher urbanen Region Niedersachsens organisiert, dokumentiert und im Nachgang ausgewertet. Um einen tieferen Einblick in das Zusammenspiel verschiedener regionaler Organisationen zu erhalten, wurden drittens im Frühsommer 2016 Interviews mit Beteiligten regionaler Weiterbildungslandschaften in ausgewählten niedersächsischen Regionen geführt. [...]"
L22|Centralized versus decentralized inventory control in supply chains and the bullwhip effect|This paper constructs a model of a supply chain to examine how demand volatility is passed upstream through the chain. In particular, we seek to determine how likely it is that the chain experiences a bullwhip effect, where the variance of the upstream firm's production exceeds the variance of the downstream firm's sales. We show that the bullwhip effect is more likely to occur and is greater in size in supply chains in which inventory control is centralized rather than decentralized, that is, exercised by the downstream firm.
L22|Centralized versus Decentralized Inventory Control in Supply Chains and the Bullwhip Effect|This paper constructs a model of a supply chain to examine how demand volatility is passed upstream through the chain. In particular, we seek to determine how likely it is that the chain experiences a bullwhip effect, where the variance of the upstream firms’ production exceeds the variance of the upstream firm’s sales. We show that the bullwhip effect is more likely to occur and is greater in size in supply chains in which inventory control is centralized rather than decentralized, that is, exercised by the downstream firm.
L22|Internal conflict, market uniformity, and transparency in price competition between teams|The way profits are divided within successful teams imposes different degrees of internal conflict. We experimentally examine how the level of internal conflict, and whether such conflict is transparent to other teams, affects teams' ability to compete vis-à-vis each other, and, consequently, market outcomes. Participants took part in a repeated Bertrand duopoly game between three-player teams which had either the same or different levels of internal conflict (uniform vs. mixed). Profit division was either private-pay (high conflict; each member received her own asking price) or equal-pay (low conflict; profits were divided equally). We find that internal conflict leads to (tacit) coordination on high prices in uniform private-pay duopolies, but places private-pay teams at a competitive disadvantage in mixed duopolies. Competition is softened by transparency in uniform markets, but intensified in mixed markets. We propose an explanation of the results and discuss implications for managers and policy makers. (D43, L22, C92)
L22|Productivity and distribution effects of codetermination in an efficient bargaining|Codetermination can be regarded as an extreme regulatory intervention of the legislator in the labor market which might affect the efficiency of production and the bargaining power of labor. Based on a model that covers both efficient bargaining and employment bargaining a simple equation is derived that is suited to empirical testing. The empirical test is based on German data and includes years before and after the extension of German codetermination law in 1976. The estimates determine the productivity of labor and relative bargaining power of capital and labor. It turns out that codetermination does not affect productivity, but leads to a significant increase in workers' bargaining power and the distribution of rents.
L22|The organizational design of high-tech startups and product innovation|"""We investigate whether appointing a middle management level affects startups' innovation performance. Additional hierarchical levels are often suspected to restrict innovative activities. However, founders' capacities for information processing and resource allocation are usually strongly limited while, at the same time, R&D decisions are among the most consequential choices of startups. We argue that middle management is positively related to introducing product innovations because it improves the success rates from recombining existing knowledge as well as managing R&D personnel. In addition, we suggest that the effectiveness of these mechanisms depends on the riskiness of a startup's business opportunity. Based on a sample of German high-tech startups, we find support for our conjectures."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
L22|Vertical Foreign Direct Investment: Make, Sell and (Not) Buy|According to conventional wisdom, multinational firms undertake vertical FDI in order to take advantage of cross-border factor cost differences and source the inputs from abroad at better terms. Recent empirical findings though document that this is not always the case. We provide theoretical support to the latter by demonstrating that when there is transfer of intangible assets between a multinational’s vertically related production plants, its parent firm can engage in vertical FDI in order to improve its cross-threat and its input sourcing terms domestically and not abroad as well as in order to exploit its intangible assets in another country. We also investigate the effects of trade liberalization and the welfare consequences of vertical FDI.
L22|Not for the Profit, but for the Training? Gender Differences in Training in the For-Profit and Non-Profit Sectors|We use Canadian linked employer-employee data to examine gender differences in probability, duration, and intensity of firm-sponsored training. We find that women in the for-profit sector are less likely to receive classroom training, and receive shorter classroom training courses. However, we find the reverse in the non-profit sector, with women being more likely to receive both classroom and on-the-job training, and also receiving longer classroom training courses. Our results suggest that women's worse training opportunities in the for-profit sector mainly operate within workplaces. We find no evidence that gender gaps in training in the for-profit sector are driven by lower probabilities of accepting training offers, child or family commitments, weaker labour market attachment, or worker self-selection. We also find that gender differences in expected changes in wages and training opportunities between the two sectors can explain a large portion of women's higher probability of employment in the non-profit sector. Finally, decomposition results suggest that gender differences in training explain some of the gender wage gap in the for-profit sector, which is twice as large than in the non-profit sector.
L22|Mutual Gains? Is There a Role for Employee Engagement in the Modern Workplace?|I examine the history of employee engagement and how it has been characterised by thinkers in sociology, psychology, management and economics. I suggest that, while employers may choose to invest in employee engagement, there are alternative management strategies that may be profit-maximising. I identify four elements of employee engagement – job ‘flow’, autonomous working, involvement in decision-making at workplace or firm level, and financial participation – and present empirical evidence on their incidence and employee perceptions of engagement, drawing primarily from evidence in Britain. I consider the evidence regarding the existence of mutual gains and present new evidence on the issue. I find a non-linear relationship between human resource management (HRM) intensity and various employee job attitudes. I also find the intensity of HRM use and employee engagement are independently associated with improvements in workplace performance. I consider the implications of the findings for policy and employment practice in the future.
L22|Teamwork as a Self-Disciplining Device|We show that team formation can serve as an implicit commitment device to overcome problems of self-control. In a situation where individuals have present-biased preferences, any effort that is costly today but rewarded at some later point in time is too low from the perspective of an individual’s long-run self. If agents interact repeatedly and can monitor each other, a relational contract involving teamwork can help to improve an agent’s performance. The mutual promise to work harder is credible because the team breaks up after an agent has not kept this promise – which leads to individual (under-) production in the future and reduces an agent’s future utility. This holds even though the standard free-rider problem is present and teamwork renders no technological benefits. Moreover, we show that even if teamwork does render technological benefits, the performance of a team of present-biased agents can actually be better than the performance of a team of time-consistent agents.
L22|Relational Contracts with Private Information on the Future Value of the Relationship: The Upside of Implicit Downsizing Costs|We analyze a relational contracting problem, in which the principal has private information about the future value of the relationship. In order to reduce bonus payments, the principal is tempted to claim that the value of the future relationship is lower than it actually is. To induce truth-telling, the optimal relational contract may introduce distortions after a bad report. For some levels of the discount factor, output is reduced by more than would be sequentially optimal. This distortion is attenuated over time even if prospects remain bad. Our model thus provides an alternative explanation for indirect short-run costs of downsizing.
L22|Inside or outside control of banks? Evidence from the composition of supervisory boards|Abstract This paper examines the composition of supervisory boards of 41 large German banks in 1999–2010. We find that the supervisory board structure reflects both outside control by major shareholders and inside control by other stakeholders. The largest group among non-employee board members is made up of bank managers. The high proportion of former executives and German board representation indicates significant inside control. The chairpersons of banks controlled by banks are less likely to be former executives of the same bank than are the chairpersons of banks controlled by non-banks. Over time, representation of industrial and insurance companies on banks’ supervisory boards has decreased and the representation of banks and foreign shareholders has increased.
L22|Privatization of state holding corporations|Abstract Many countries have privatized part of their state holding corporations in recent years. However, the literature on this issue has analyzed mainly the privatization of uniproduct public firms. We consider a state holding corporation with two plants that may produce complement or substitute goods. Assuming that private firms are more efficient than the state holding corporation we find the following: If the marginal cost of the state corporation is low, it is not privatized either if goods are substitutes or if they are complements. However, if the marginal cost of the state corporation is high the two plants of the state holding corporation are sold to a single private investor if goods are complements, and to different investors if goods are substitutes. If goods are close substitutes and the marginal cost of the state corporation takes an intermediate value only one plant is privatized. We extend the model to consider that firms are equally efficient, that they face quadratic cost functions and that there are n uniplant private firms producing each good. We find two differences with the previous result: The government never privatizes just one plant of the state corporation, and when goods are complements the two plants of the state corporation are sold to different investors if n is high.
L22|Exclusivity and exclusion on platform Markets|Abstract We examine conditions under which an exclusive license granted by the upstream producer of a component that some consumers regard as essential to one of two potential suppliers of a downstream platform market can make the unlicensed supplier unprofitable, although both firms would be profitable if both were licensed. If downstream varieties are close substitutes, an exclusive license need not be exclusionary. If downstream varieties are highly differentiated, an exclusive license is exclusionary, but it is not in the interest of the upstream firm to grant an exclusive license. For intermediate levels of product differentiation, an exclusive license is exclusionary and maximizes the upstream firm’s payoff.
L22|Compliance Programs, Signaling and Firms' Internal Coordination|Fines imposed on firms for corporate infringements such as cartels reduce these infringement's profitability. When a manager knows when a violation is unprofitable he can prevent violations committed by an uninformed employee by investing in compliance programs (CPs). Investments can be interpreted as signals. The paper shows that there exists a separating equilibrium where high investments in CPs induce the employee to obey the law. However, if CPs are too expensive the signal is not credible. The manager can also show personal commitment to compliance ('tone-at-the-top'). Coordination on an efficient outcome will then be achievable if commitment is costly. Imposing high, individual sanctions on the manager disturbs a firm's internal coordination because he is unable to credibly signal that an infringement does not pay off for the firm. However, imposing sanctions on the employee unambiguously deters violation.
L22|Shopping hours and entry - An empirical analysis of Aldi's opening hours|Aldi, the biggest discounter in Germany, started to systematically extend shopping hours of its stores in 2016. We interpret the decision to extend opening hours of a specific Aldi store as entry into a new market. By using a novel data set containing the opening hours of nearly all German grocery retailers, we find that consumer and firm learning infl uence that decision. The presence of a nearby Aldi already opened longer increases the probability that a given Aldi extends its opening hours. However, if a nearby competitors store is short opened, the probability that Aldi extends opening hours decreases.
L22|The Impact of Incentive Pay on Corporate Crime|This paper presents a moral hazard model analyzing the agent's incentive to commit corporate crime. The principal can only observe profits which the agent can increase by committing crime or exerting effort. It is shown how different incentive contracts, i.e., thresholdlinear, capped bonus and linear contracts, can be adjusted in order to promote agent's law abiding behavior. Any adjustment implies a loss in internal efficiency which decreases in individual sanctions imposed on the agent.
L22|Profiles of 50 major appliance manufacturers worldwide|This report ranks 50 appliance manufacturers selected according to their volume of sales. From the point of view of the ownership, 35 of these companies are public listed while 15 are private owned. The total turnover of the analyzed companies is worth around USD 680 billion, including USD 188 billion of the major appliances considered in this report: refrigerators and freezers, washers and driers, dishwashers, hoods, cooking appliances, microwave ovens, air conditioners, vacuum cleaners. Company profiles are available for each of the 50 appliance manufacturers, with information on company background, historical and recent facts, basic data (including total turnover of the last two years, white appliances turnover and white appliances share on total production, number of employees and turnover per employee, as well as number of household appliances sold, when available), sales breakdown by business, by product and by geographical area, production sites and brands. In the ranking we can find: holding companies where major appliances represent just a minor portion of the total turnover (e.g. Toshiba, Samsung, Hitachi, Liebherr, etc.); specialized companies, with an incidence of major appliances on the total turnover in excess of 80% (Whirlpool, Electrolux, BSH, ArÃ§elik); companies with two or more relevant business units, where major appliances represent 30%-60% (Haier, LG, Nortek, Franke, Middleby Corp). The analysis includes global players and regional leaders (Amica, CNA Group, Gorenje, Dacor, Arcelik, Vestel, Smeg, and others). Some companies have developed an international presence in specific segments (Middleby Corp in the bakery segment, Gree, Daikin and Chunlan for air conditioners). Considering the country of the headquarters, 15 companies are Chinese, 7 Japanese, 6 Americans, 5 Italians, 11 of other European countries (including Turkey), 3 from South Korea 2 from India and 1 from Mexico.
L22|The European market for office furniture|"This is the twenty-nine edition of the report The European market for office furniture and it analyses production, consumption, prices, distribution channels and international trade of office furniture in the European continent. A forecast on office furniture consumption in 2017 and 2018 is provided. The report analyses sales data and market shares of top European office furniture manufacturers. Ranking of company sales are broken down by country, by segment (seating, desking systems, executive office furniture, filing systems/storage, wall-to-wall units, meeting rooms and communal areas). The report also analyses the office furniture competitive system: prices, distribution channels and short company profiles. Office furniture industry production is broken down by product type (seating: Executive office chairs, Operative office chairs, Visitor chairs, Folding/Stackable chairs and others; operative desking systems: adjustable and not adjustable, free standing and panel based; executive office furniture; filing systems/storage; wall-to-wall units; furniture for meeting rooms and communal areas). Trends of office furniture prices by country and data on employment and turnover per employee are also provided. The report also provides a focus on office swivel chairs in Europe: a detailed analysis on office seating quantities and brand positioning. The number and the performance of swivel chairs sold in 2015 and 2016 and brand positioning by average ""net price"", is given for seven major countries (Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Poland and Sweden). Values include both products manufactured in Europe and products imported from Extra European countries. The analysis of office furniture distribution channels by country covers: direct sales, office specialists, non-specialists and other. A breakdown of office furniture sales by distribution channel is available for the top companies. A breakdown of European office furniture exports and imports is provided by country and by product type (office furniture and office seating). Addresses of about 210 office furniture companies mentioned in the report are also included. The European considered countries of the study have been expanded from 16 to 30: Northern Europe: Denmark (DK), Finland (FI), Norway (NO) and Sweden (SE); Western Europe: Belgium (BE), France (FR), Ireland (IE), Netherlands (NL) and the United Kingdom (UK). Unless otherwise specified, figures for Belgium include those for Luxembourg; Central Europe (DACH): Germany (DE), Austria (AT) and Switzerland (CH); Southern Europe: Greece (GR), Italy (IT), Portugal (PT) and Spain (ES); Central-Eastern Europe: Poland (PL), Czech Republic (CZ), Slovakia (SK), Hungary (HU) and Romania (RO), Slovenia (SL), Croatia (HR), Bulgaria (BG), Cyprus (CY), Malta (MT), Estonia (EE), Latvia (LV), Lithuania (LT)."
L22|The European market for kitchen furniture, part I|EXECUTIVE SUMMARY. The 28th edition of CSIL Report The European market for kitchen furniture, Part I offers an accurate comprehensive picture of the kitchen furniture industry in 17 EU countries, providing data and 2012-2017 trends (both in value and in volume) in kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports, at European level as a whole and for each country considered, for the total sector and by price range (six price groups). Marketing policies, the main macroeconomic variables necessary to analyse the performance of the sector for the last six years, an analysis of the supply structure and the competitive system, and an overview of the distribution system are also provided. The value and weight of the built-in appliances on kitchen furniture supply is considered, too. A retrospective assessment on the past 30 years of the kitchen furniture industry (1986-2017) and main company facts on the long run is given. COUNTRIES COVERED. European Union 15 Countries (before the May 2004 enlargement) plus Norway and Switzerland. The countries were divided into four areas according their geographical proximity and similarity in market characteristics: Northern Europe: Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden; Western Europe: Belgium and Luxembourg, France, Ireland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom; Central Europe: Austria, Germany and Switzerland; Southern Europe: Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain. INTERNATIONAL TRADE. Kitchen furniture imports and exports in the 17 Western European countries considered, broken down by country and by geographical area of destination/origin. The time frame considered is 2012-2017. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS. A financial analysis is based on a sample of around 100 selected European kitchen furniture manufacturers, and includes profitability ratios (EBITDA, EBIT, ROI, ROE), structure ratios, employment data and per employees ratios. SUPPLY STRUCTURE. An analysis of the types of product manufactured by the European kitchen furniture companies and information on key players operating in each segment. Kitchen furniture production is broken down according to: cabinet door material (solid wood, veneer, laminated, decorative papers, thermoplastic foils, lacquered, melamine, aluminium, glass); cabinet door style (classic, rustic, modern, design, hi-tech); cabinet door colour (white, bright colours, neutral colours, wood looking) and lacquered type (high gloss, opaque); worktop material (solid surface materials, engineered and natural stone, laminated, wood, tiles and ceramics, steel and aluminium, wood, glass); type of lay-out (price range, shape, size). DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS. Overview of the main distribution channels active on the European kitchen furniture market at European level as a whole and for each country considered. The analysis of the distribution system covers the following channels: Kitchen specialists; Furniture retailers; Large furniture chains; Contract; Building trade; DIY stores; Direct sales; E-commerce. COMPETITIVE SYSTEM. Analysis of the leading local and foreign players present in each price range and in each European country considered. Detailed tables show sales data and market shares for the leading kitchen furniture companies and short profiles of the major players in the kitchen furniture industry are also available. At the end of this chapter there is a focus on European kitchen furniture exports and market shares outside EU17 countries, by area of destination (Central-Eastern Europe and Russia, Middle East and Africa, Asia and Pacific, North America and Central-South America). Addresses of about 230 European kitchen furniture companies are also provided.
L22|Sofa Market and Recliners in Europe. Report for 18 countries|The study “Sofa market & Recliners in Europe.-Report for 18 countries” analyses the upholstered furniture market in 18 Western European countries providing data on production, consumption, import and export of upholstered furniture and an analysis of both the competitive system and the supply structure. Company information and activity performances for the European top manufacturers in the sofa segment are also provided. The report also provides short term forecasts of upholstered production and consumption. For the first time the report includes a focus on the European recliners/motion sofa supply structure. This Report is the result of : - over 200 direct interviews to leading upholstery companies and key testimonials conducted both on an online survey and a vis à vis basis. - processing of macroeconomic and sector statistics from 2011 to 2016 - analysis of sector documentation from CSIL's databases which were created in 1980 and have been updated annually. The report is structured as follows: An executive summary provides a complete and rich presentation of the European upholstered furniture sector, deepening both trends and structure of the market and the competitive system with an independent assessment of the sector performance and prospects for the coming years; Chapter I: Basic data. Production, consumption and trade, provides an overview of the European upholstered furniture industry and market through updated statistics and through tables, graphs and maps for Europe as a whole and for each country. The data are provided both in value and in volume; Chapter II: The European sofa competitive system provides rankings of the major European sofa manufacturers, company shares on total upholstery production, breakdown of companies turnover by product specialization, plant localization employees, major European sofa exporters. The chapter also provides companies detailed profile of 15 among the top European players; Chapter III: The European sofa supply offers an analysis of the typology of products manufactured by the European upholstered furniture manufacturers and tables and information on actors operating in each segment: price ranges (economic, medium, upper), covering material (leather, fabric, other material including artificial leather), destination (residential/contract); Chapter IV: The recliners sofa industry in Europe focuses on the motion/recliner upholstered furniture industry in Europe, by estimating the European production of this segment by country and investigating the main characteristics of the supply, type of mechanisms (manual – power) , number of seats (sofas – chairs), covering materials, prices. Tables with the main European players share on the motion supply and short profiles on the main extra-European manufacturers in the segment are provided. Furthermore a list of recliner mechanisms suppliers is presented; Chapter V: Analysis by country, Fort each country the report provides an upholstered furniture country report including: country ranking on a world and European basis, the segment basic data 2011 - 2016. Data for production and consumption in value and volumes, imports and exports by country and geographical area. The chapter offers an analysis of the typology of products manufactured by the European upholstered furniture manufacturers and tables and information on actors operating in each segment: price ranges (economic, medium, upper), covering material (leather, fabric, other material including artificial leather), destination (residential/contract). For all countries (excluding Greece and Ireland) the report provides a supply structure analysis (price ranges, covering material, residential/contract) and motion/stationery and a ranking by upholstered furniture turnover of major local sofa manufacturers . For all countries (excluding Greece, Ireland and Portugal) the report provides a brief introduction to the country home furniture distribution system, with details about major furniture retailers involved in the sofa business; Annex: Directories of mentioned manufacturing companies finally provides full contact information on each company mentioned in this Report. Countries covered: Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom.
L22|The European market for lighting fixtures. Part I|The report provides a breakdown of lighting fixtures market in 17 Western European countries by segment (Consumer and Professional lighting fixtures market), by products and applications and by light source (LED, OLED and traditional sources). Countries covered: Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom. Sales data and market shares for over 100 European and International players operating in this area and country data updated to 2017. Activity trend, international trade, product trends: 2012-2017. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2019. Data on consumer residential lighting are broken down by style (traditional, modern, design), while data on architectural commercial lighting are broken down by kind of product (downlights recessed lighting, tubes systems tracks, linear lighting strips, high bays, floor and table lamps, chandeliers for commercial spaces, projectors spotlights, wall washers, LED panels) and application (hospitality, office, retail, art and museums, entertainment, schools and infrastructures). Industrial lighting consists of lighting for industrial sites, healthcare lighting, weather resistant and explosion-proof lighting, emergency lighting, marine lighting. Outdoor lighting includes residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, lighting for streets and major roads, area campus lighting, lighting for tunnels and galleries, Christmas and special events lighting. A financial analysis is based on a sample of over 500 European companies active in the lighting sector, and includes profitability ratios (EBITDA, EBIT, ROI, ROE), structure ratios, employment data and per employees ratios. The analysis of lighting fixtures distribution channels in Europe covers: direct sales and contract, specialist lighting stores, furniture stores and chains, department stores, wholesalers, DIY stores, e-commerce. A breakdown of lighting fixtures sales by distribution channel is available for most of the main companies. Short profiles of key influencers for the Contract market, such as architectural offices, free-lance designers, lighting designers, are also provided. A breakdown of lighting fixtures exports and imports for each European Country considered is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin, also considering the performance of the main European companies on extra EU17 markets (Central Eastern Europe, Russia and other CIS Countries, Middle East, Asia and Pacific, North America, Central-South America, Africa). Lighting fixtures sales by product (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by European country of destination are provided for the major local and International companies operating in this market. Market shares and short profiles are also included. Addresses of about 350 European lighting fixtures manufacturers are also provided. Among the considered products: indoor lighting, outdoor lighting, decorative lighting, consumer lighting, residential lighting, architectural lighting, commercial lighting, industrial lighting, technical lighting, professional lighting, traditional lighting, modern lighting, design lighting, floor lamps, table lamps, wall and ceiling lamps, chandeliers, suspensions, downlights, recessed lighting, tubes, systems, tracks, LED panels, linear lighting, strip lighting, projectors, spotlights, hospitality lighting, office lighting, retail lighting, art and museums lighting, entertainment lighting, schools and infrastructures lighting, lighting for industrial sites, healthcare lighting, emergency lighting, weather resistant and explosion-proof lighting, marine lighting, residential outdoor lighting, urban landscape lighting, streets and major roads lighting, area campus lighting, tunnels and galleries lighting, Christmas lighting, incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge, metal halide, LED, OLED.
L22|The European market for emergency lighting|This is the second edition of CSIL Report on the European market for emergency lighting. The information provided in this report is based on desk and field analysis, with information collected on approximately 30 sector companies through 30 direct interviews. The geographical perimeter of the study covers 30 European Countries including the 28 States of the European Union, plus Norway and Switzerland. The countries were divided into eight clusters according to their geographical proximity and similarity in market characteristics. Nordic countries: Denmark (DK), Finland (FI), Norway (NO), and Sweden (SE); United Kingdom (UK) and Ireland (IE); Netherlands (NL); Germany (DE), Austria (AT) and Switzerland (CH); France (FR) and Belgium (BE); Italy (IT); Spain (ES), Portugal (PT) and Greece (GR); Central-Eastern Europe: Bulgaria (BG), Croatia (HR), Cyprus (CY), Czech Republic (CZ), Estonia (EE), Hungary (HU), Latvia (LV), Lithuania (LT), Malta (MA), Poland (PO), Romania (RO), Slovakia (SK), Slovenia (SI). Estimated data on European production and consumption of emergency lighting are provided by country and by geographical area. Activity trend is given as comparison with 2012 (previous edition of this Report). Financial data are showed in terms of turnover growth rate and EBITDA margin for selected companies. Estimated sales figures and market share for specific countries are given, as well main technological findings. Short profiles of the major European and international companies are also provided.
L22|The European market for lighting controls and IoT|"This Report aims to provide figures and trends for the European market for lighting controls, analysing the sector performance, the competitive system, market drivers and major market players. The study has been produced on the basis of around 20 direct interviews and overall documentation relating to the lighting industry available both online and offline + CSIL's database of roughly 1,000 worldwide manufacturers operating in the lighting industry. Product segmentation included: residential, commercial, industrial and outdoor lighting controls applications. Subcategories of the mentioned segments have also been investigated (offices, hotels, private homes, shops, industrial plants, hospitals, urban landscape and streetsâ€¦). The following technologies have been investigated: user interfaces (including sliders, dimmers, touch panels, remote controls, timers and standard control panels), sensors (including presence, occupancy, movement and light sensors) and control modules (including relay panels, group controllers, scene controllers and DMX controllers). Fixture mounted (including all devices mounted on the fixtures or luminaries), wall mounted (including ceiling mounted) and integrated building automation system (BAS) are some of the product sectors examined in this research. Further analysis on protocols used (DALI, DMX, etc.) is also included. Geographical coverage: in-deep analysis for 16 West European countries (around 85% of the market value), overview on Central-East Europe, Russia, Middle East and North Africa (15%). Lighting control systems are used for working places, aesthetic, and security illumination for interior, exterior and landscape lighting, and theatre stage lighting productions. They are often part of sustainable architecture and lighting design for integrated green building energy conservation programs. A major advantage of a lighting control system over conventional individual switching is the ability to control any light, group of lights, or all lights in a building from a single user interface device. Any light or device can be controlled from any location. This ability to control multiple light sources from a user device allows complex ""light scenes"" to be created. A room may have multiple scenes available, each one created for different activities in the room. A lighting scene can create dramatic changes in atmosphere, for a residence or the stage, by a simple button press. In landscape design, in addition to landscape lighting, fountain pumps, water spa heating, swimming pool covers, motorized gates, and outdoor fireplace ignition; it can be remotely or automatically controlled. Other benefits include reduced energy consumption and power costs through more efficient usage, longer bulb life from dimming, and reduced carbon emission. Newer, wireless lighting control systems provide additional benefits including reduced installation costs and increased flexibility in where switches and sensors can be placed."
L22|The upholstered furniture market in the United States|The report Upholstered Furniture market in the United States provides data and trends in upholstered furniture production and consumption, upholstery imports and exports, and an analysis of both the competitive system and the supply structure. The time frame considered is 2007-2016. Upholstered furniture consumption forecast for the closing of the 2017 and 2018 are provided. The U.S upholstery productionis broken down covering materials: fabric, leather, other (faux leather, microfiber, vinyl). Data are provided both in values and in units. The market for upholstered furniture is analysed by considering major demand determinants(labour market, consumer confidence, household income, furniture expenditure, housing completed and price trends of new home sales). The U.S upholstery consumption is divided by: Covering materials: leather, fabric, other materials Type of product: stationary and motion upholstery Price ranges: low, middle, upper middle and high The U.S competitive system for upholstered furniture is analysed considering data and trends on employment, manufacturing plants localization at country level. Leading U.S manufacturers are set forth by upholstery turnover, production capacity, number of employees and product specialization. Top manufacturers both US-based and international operating on the U.S. market are identified by upholstery sales and market shares on total upholstery consumption. Leading 30 company's profiles are included with product portfolio, total and upholstery sales, brands, number and localization of manufacturing plants, number of employees and export share. A focus on entry and distribution strategies on the U.S upholstery market for non-US based manufacturers is provided by identifying companies for upholstery sales to the U.S. The analysis of distribution channels covers: traditional furniture stores, manufacturer branded furniture stores, online sales, lifestyle furniture stores, warehouse membership clubs, discount department stores and department stores. A breakdown of furniture sales value by distribution channel is included for 2016. A focus on e-commerce sales includes the value of upholstery online sales, the digital strategies of leading manufacturers and a selection of furniture retailers selling online. More than 140 retailer's profiles are provided with product mix, geographical area covered, furniture and furnishings turnover, number of stores and key vendors offered.
L22|The European market for bathroom furniture, furnishings and wellness|The 8th edition of CSIL Report The European market for bathroom furniture, furnishings and wellness offers an accurate comprehensive picture of the bathroom furniture and furnishings industry in Europe, providing data and trends (both in value and in volume) on bathroom furniture and furnishings consumption, at European level as a whole and for each country considered, for the total sector and by product. Main macroeconomic variables necessary to analyze the performance of the sector for the last 6 years and forecasts 2017-2018, analysis of the competitive system, financial analysis on a sample of over 60 selected European companies which have bathroom furniture as main business area, overview of the distribution system and estimates of average factory prices for each product considered, are also provided. This report takes into consideration nine bathroom macro-sectors and their main products: bathroom furniture; bathroom furnishings and accessories (including soap dish, towel rails, toilet brushes, tumbler holders, toilet paper holder, shower curtains, etc.); WC seats; shower screens and enclosures; whirlpool bathtubs; multifunctional shower booths (including equipped hydro massage columns and mini spa); bathroom taps, faucets, shower arms; acrylic sinks and bathtubs; ceramic sanitary ware (sinks, bidets, urinals, bathtubs, shower trays). The countries covered were divided into five areas according their geographical proximity and similarity in market characteristics. These areas are: Northern Europe: Denmark (DK), Finland (FI), Norway (NO) and Sweden (SE); Western Europe: Belgium (BE), France (FR), Ireland (IE), the Netherlands (NL) and the United Kingdom (UK); Central Europe (DACH): Germany (DE), Austria (AT) and Switzerland (CH); Southern Europe: Greece (GR), Italy (IT), Portugal (PT) and Spain (ES); Central Eastern Europe (CEE): Poland (PL), Other CEE countries (Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia). Via detailed tables are shown sales data and market shares of the top European and international bathroom furniture and furnishings companies for each bathroom macro-sector and in each European country considered, together with short company profiles. A focus on European bathroom furniture and furnishings sales outside Europe for selected European companies is also provided by geographical area of destination (Russia, North and Latin America, Asia and Pacific, Middle East and Africa). An address list of around 250 European and international bathroom furniture and furnishings companies is included.
L22|The lighting fixtures market in the United States|The twelve edition of The Lighting Fixtures market in the United States offers a comprehensive picture of the lighting fixtures industry in the US, providing data and trends 2012-2017 and forecast up to 2021. From one hand, the report analyzes the main trends affecting the market over the last five years, considering the production, the consumption, the imports and the exports of lighting fixtures in the country. On the other hand, it offers an analysis of the market structure and the competitive system, an overview of the distribution system and the main players operating in the market. International Trade. Lighting fixtures exports and imports are considered, broken down by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The time frame considered is 2012-2017. Market Structure. The lighting fixtures market is divided into four main segments: residential-consumer, architectural-commercial, industrial, outdoor. Within them, the market is further broken down by types of product, by light sources, and by the place of production. A financial analysis, on a sample of a selected number of companies operating in the market, includes profitability ratios and financial indicators. Distribution Channels. The analysis of the distribution system is organized by the following channels: Contract/Builders, Lighting Specialists, Lifestyle stores, DIY stores, E-commerce. A selection of architectural offices and lighting designers, electrical and lighting wholesalers, and furniture stores is also included. Competitive System. Finally, the report offers an analysis of the leading local and foreign players present in the market and in each segment considered; through sales data, market shares and short profiles. An address list of more than 130 US lighting fixtures manufacturer is included. Among the considered products: indoor and outdoor lighting, decorative residential lighting, commercial lighting, industrial lighting, technical lighting, traditional-transitional-contemporary lighting, floor-table-wall-ceiling lamps, suspensions, downlights recessed, tracks systems, projectors spotlights, hospitality, retail, office lighting, entertainment lighting, lighting for museums, lighting for industrial plants, explosion-proof lighting, marine lighting, healthcare lighting, emergency lighting, residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, Christmas lighting, street lighting, sporting facilities and galleries, incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge, LED, lighting controls and IoT applications.
L22|The lighting fixtures market in China|The 10th edition of The Lighting Fixtures market in China offers an accurate and in-deep analysis of the lighting fixtures industry in China, providing data and trends 2011-2016. From one hand, the report analyses the main trends affecting the market over the last five years, considering the production, the consumption, the imports and the exports of lighting fixtures in the country. On the other hand, it offers an analysis of the supply structure and the competitive system, an overview of the distribution system and the main players operating in the market. International Trade: Lighting fixtures exports and imports are considered, broken down by country and by geographical area of destination/origin (total lighting, only lighting fixtures, only lighting components). The time frame considered is 2011-2016. Supply Structure: The lighting fixtures market is divided in four main segments: residential-consumer; commercial; industrial; outdoor. Within them, the market is further broken down by types of product and application, by light sources (incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge, LEDs, OLED, fiber optics), and by the place of production. A financial analysis, on a sample of selected number of companies operating in the market, includes profitability ratios and their turnover per employee is also included. Data on consumer/residential lighting are broken down by style (traditional, modern, design) and by product type (floor, table, wall and ceiling lamps, embedded lighting, chandeliers and suspensions), while data on commercial lighting are broken down by kind of product (downlights/recessed, tubes/tracks/systems, floor and table lighting for commercial spaces, wall washers, LED panels, linear lighting and strips, chandeliers and suspensions for commercial spaces, projectors/spotlights) and application (hospitality, office, retail, art and museums, entertainment, schools, airports and other big infrastructures). Industrial lighting consists of lighting for industrial sites, healthcare lighting, weather resistant and explosion-proof lighting, emergency lighting, marine lighting. Outdoor lighting includes residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, lighting for streets and major roads, area/campus lighting, lighting for tunnels and galleries, Christmas and special events lighting. Distribution Channels: The analysis of the distribution system is organized by the following channels: Contract/Builders; Lighting Specialists; Wholesalers; Lifestyle stores (Furniture stores/chains and department Stores); DIY stores; E-commerce. A selection of leading e-commerce players, architectural offices and lighting designers operating in China is also included. Competitive System: Finally, the report offers an analysis of the leading local and foreign players present on the Chinese market and in each segment considered; through sales data, market shares and short profiles. An address list of more than 300 local and foreign lighting fixtures manufacturer active in China is included.
L22|The kitchen furniture market in the United States|The Report The kitchen furniture market in the United States, now in its fifth edition, offers an in-deep analysis for the kitchen furniture sector, and an overview about the bathroom furniture market, with data on market size and its segmentation, activity trend and forecasts, international trade, distribution system and reference prices. Short profiles of the leading US kitchen furniture manufacturers and distributors are also included as well as their market shares. The report covers both kitchen furniture and built-in appliances sold through this channel. The analysis of the US kitchen furniture imports and exports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination/origin, for the period 2011-2016. The kitchen furniture production in the United States is broken down by style, cabinet door material, worktop material for a sample of companies. The analysis of kitchen furniture distribution in the US market covers the following channels: Dealers/Kitchen specialists, Builders, Home improvement, Distributors, Buying groups, Architects, Design centers. Reference prices of kitchens sold through these channels are also mentioned. An overview of the construction and real estate market, as well as figures on population and disposable income in the United States are also included. The main magazines, fairs and associations in the field of kitchen furniture in the United States are quoted. The chapter on the competitive system analyses the main companies active in the US kitchen furniture market, providing short company profiles, data on kitchen furniture sales and market shares. Sales from Europe and China to North America are also included for a sample of companies. A chapter is dedicated to major appliances with data on consumption and international trade by category (cooking appliances, hoods, microwave ovens, dishwashers, refrigerators and freezers), as well as data on reference prices. A focus on the Bathroom furniture sector is also given, including market quantification, product trends, price analysis and competition. A specific description of the shower screens segment with profiles of the major manufacturers is also offered. A list of the mentioned companies is included.
L22|The kitchen furniture market in Japan and South Korea|JAPAN SECTION: This Market Research Report provides an analysis of the kitchen furniture market in Japan providing trends in kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports, reference prices, marketing policies and distribution. Short profiles of major players are given as well their market shares. Data on kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports are given for the years 2008-2016, in Million USD and Billion YEN. The analysis of the Japanese kitchen furniture imports and exports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The kitchen furniture production in volume is split between system kitchens and sectional kitchens. The kitchen furniture consumption in Japan is broken down by size and structure of the kitchen room, worktop material, cabinet door material and colour. The distribution of kitchen furniture in the Japanese market is described, mentioning the different distribution channels: department stores, lifestyle concept stores, home centers, furniture chains, appliances retailers, e-commerce. Short profiles are included for the main distributors of furniture and household appliances present in the Japanese market. Reference prices of kitchens and built-in appliances are listed. The main magazines, associations and fairs in the field of kitchen furniture in Japan are mentioned. The competitive system analyses the main players present in the Japanese kitchen furniture market, providing short company profiles, their estimated turnover and market shares. Addresses of the mentioned companies are also enclosed. SOUTH KOREA SECTION: This Market Research Report offers an overview of the kitchen furniture industry in South Korea providing trends in kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports, reference prices, marketing policies and distribution. Short profiles of major players are given as well their market shares. Data on kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports are given for the period 2008-2016, in Million USD and Billion KRW. The analysis of the Korean kitchen furniture imports and exports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The kitchen furniture supply in Korea is broken down by cabinet door material, kitchen size and worktop material. The competitive system analyses the main players present in the Korean kitchen furniture market, providing short company profiles, turnover data and market shares. Demand determinants examined in the first chapter of the report are: economic indicators, population indicators and data on the construction activity. Addresses of the mentioned companies are also enclosed.
L22|The office furniture market in China|CSIL Market Research The office furniture market in China provides office furniture market size, historical trends of office furniture production and consumption, imports and exports. The report is enriched by an in-depth analysis of the competitive system in terms of company dimension, manufacturing locations and product breakdown. Figures on sales and estimates on market shares of the leading office furniture manufacturers operating in China are also available (total office furniture production and segments: seating, operative desks, executive furniture, storage, wall to wall units). Short profiles of the top office furniture manufacturers are also available. Office furniture production is reported by segment (office seating, operative desks, executive furniture, office storage, wall to wall units). The analysis of supply includes also product sub-segments (i.e. chairs by type, office desks by type) and materials used. The figures are given for a medium term span (2010-2016) giving an indication of the market trend. Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area of origin/destination. A focus on the domestic market includes average prices declared by companies during the survey, sales by region and by main customers (public sector, foreign multinationals, big and middle private companies, small private companies, independent white collars, banking/insurance). Data on the distribution system are also provided, with sales broken down by distribution channels and kind of customers. Analysis of price levels is included, with a particular focus on office swivel chairs where brand positioning is given on the bases of the number of units manufactured by single company and average price. An analysis of the market potential focuses on construction sector, Chinese richest cities, luxury retail location, trends in the hospitality sector and the commercial lighting fixtures segment. Over 100 addresses of key operators are included. The study has been carried out involving direct interviews with more than 120 sector firms and distributors operating on the Chinese market.
L22|The lighting fixtures market in Japan and South Korea|JAPAN SECTION. The Report The lighting fixtures market in Japan is at its sixth edition. It provides historical statistical data 2011-2016 of Production, International trade and Market size of the lighting fixtures industry in Japan. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2020 are also provided. Lighting Demand of the Japanese market is broken down by segment (consumer and residential lighting, architectural and commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). A focus on LED lighting is provided throughout historical data and forecasts up to 2020. A breakdown of Japanese lighting fixtures exports and imports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the Japanese lighting fixtures market (by segment, by product and application), with data on sales and market shares and short company profiles. A breakdown of the distribution channels of lighting fixtures in Japan is given, together with short profiles and sales of a sample of lighting fixture distributors. Covered channels are: direct sales and contract; lighting fixtures specialists; furniture stores and chains, department stores, DIY; Wholesalers; E-commerce sales; appliances and electronics stores. A list of selected architectural companies in Japan involved in the lighting business and Lighting designers is given. A relevant financial analysis is included for around 30 Japanese manufacturers of lighting fixtures and related activities. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, population indicators, building construction indicators) are also provided. Addresses of the mentioned lighting companies in Japan are also enclosed. SOUTH KOREA SECTION. The Report The lighting fixtures market in South Korea is at its third edition. It provides historical statistical data 2011-2016 of Production, International trade and Market size of the lighting fixtures industry in South Korea. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2020 are also provided. Lighting Demand of the South Korean market is broken down by segment (consumer and residential lighting, architectural and commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). A breakdown of South Korean lighting fixtures exports and imports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the South Korean lighting fixtures market, with data on sales and market shares and short company profiles. A relevant financial analysis is included for around 40 South Korean manufacturers of lighting fixtures and related activities. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, population indicators) are also provided. Addresses of the mentioned lighting companies in South Korea are also enclosed.
L22|The lighting fixtures market in Australia and New Zealand|AUSTRALIA SECTION. The report The lighting fixtures market in Australia is at its third edition. It provides data and trend (2011-2016) on production, international trade and market size of the lighting fixtures industry in Australia, broken down by consumer residential and technical professional lighting. The analysis also provides a breakdown of the Australian lighting fixtures exports and imports by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The lighting demand of the Australian market is broken down by segment (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). A focus on LED lighting is provided throughout historical data and forecasts up to 2021. An overview of the geographic distribution of the industry is presented. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the Australian lighting fixtures market (by segment), with data on sales, market shares, and short company profiles. A breakdown of the distribution channels of lighting fixtures in Australia is given, together with short profiles of a sample of lighting fixture distributors. Covered channels are: direct sales and contract; lighting fixtures specialists; furniture stores and chains, department stores, DIY; Wholesalers; E-commerce sales. A list of selected architectural companies involved in the Australian lighting business and Lighting designers is given. The main fairs, events, and organizations related to the lighting industry are presented. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, population indicators, building construction indicators) are also provided, together with macroeconomic forecasts up to 2021. NEW ZEALAND SECTION. The report The lighting fixtures market in New Zealand is at its third edition. It provides historical data for the period 2011-2016 of production, international trade and market size of the lighting fixtures industry in New Zealand. The study offers a breakdown of New Zealand lighting fixtures exports and imports by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The lighting demand is broken down by segment (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the local lighting fixtures market, with data on sales, market shares and short company profiles. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, population indicators) are also provided, together with macroeconomic forecasts up to 2021.
L22|Top 300 architectural companies and lighting designers|The aim of this Report is to profile, through targeted short descriptions, around 200 top Architectural Offices and about 100 Lighting Designers, both primarily specialised in the lighting category and that have not lighting as their primarily focus, but that engage frequently in designing luminaires. Where relevant, projects samples and co-operational activities have been highlighted. Mentioned companies are focused both on turnkey projects and small projects in the segments of hospitality (four and five stars hotels), luxury retail, office space, art and museums, high-end residential, entertainment. Data are usually introduced in half a page, as follows: Company name, Headquarter, Website, Main branches, Lighting partners, Recent projects, Projects in progress, Category, Size, Short history. Geographical areas covered: Europe, America, Asia and Pacific.
L22|Top 200 furniture manufacturers worldwide|The Top 200 furniture manufacturers worldwide report provides an overview of the furniture competitive system, selecting and listing 200 furniture top companies by their revenues, products and geographical coverage. Data on global furniture consumption, trade and production are included for time frame 2011-2016. Comparisons between industry trends and top furniture manufacturers are provided. Top 200 manufacturers are broken down and analysed according to headquarters location, activity and furniture product specialization (office, kitchen, home and upholstered furniture) as well as financial performance (turnover and employment). Profiles are structured with the following information: Companies directory (headquarters address, telephone number, website, email address, year of establishment), Business activity (product portfolio, furniture product specialization), Financial performance (total revenues and number of employees), Manufacturing activity (facilities location, plant expansion and cost rationalization strategies), Sales breakdown by product and by geographical area, Distribution activity: brands, retailing and branding strategies for the domestic and international markets. Companies selected have headquarters in the following countries: Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malaysia, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, United Kingdom, USA.
L22|A duopoly of transportation network companies and traditional radio-taxi dispatch service agencies|Transportation network companies commonly enter the market for taxi ride intermediation and alter the market outcome. Compared to cooperatively organized radio-taxi dispatch service agencies, transportation network companies run larger fleets and serve more customers with lower fares, when the fixed costs of the dispatch office are relatively small. The same holds for private dispatch firms, when the fixed costs of a taxicab are not too small. These results are shown in a two-stage duopoly of fare and fleet size competition with fare- and waiting-time-dependent demand.
L22|Does Vertical Integration Enhance Non-Price Efficiency? Evidence from the Movie Theater Industry|This paper examines how integration between distribution and exhibition in the movie theater industry affects non-price efficiency. We find evidence that integrated theaters may be more efficient than independent ones at picking movies to screen and allocating seats across them. To explain our finding, we provide a model showing that the efficiency increases with a theater chain size, while the effect of vertical integration itself is ambiguous. Comparing efficiency across chains suggests that the effect of vertical integration per se is insignificant, and observed efficiency gains can be attributed to the large size of integrated theater chains
L22|Sequential Supply Decision and Market Efficiency: Theory and Evidence|In a homogeneous goods market, due to the lack of the preemption effect, each firmï¿½s demand is likely to be proportional to its share of total output. Firms are inclined to supply more to increase their market shares, but should also consider the potential cost from excess supply. Thus, firms should make strategic decisions on how much to supply. We study this topic by considering an oligopoly market in which firms make decisions sequentially under a fixed price. We first provide a theoretical model and find the conditions under which either an efficient supply or oversupply occurs. Our model proposes two practical ways to evaluate the efficiency of a market, specifically regarding excess supply, that do not require information about market demand. Using these, we evaluate the efficiency of the Korean movie theater industry. Our empirical findings indicate oversupply of seating capacity in that industry.
L22|Competition and Retailer Product Choice: Evidence from the Movie Theater Market|In this paper, we empirically study the effect of entry on an incumbent theater's decision on seat allocation across movies as well as movie variety. We find that when confronting a new competitor an independent theater always reallocates seats from a handful of the most popular movies to the less popular ones. A chain theater also does so in the case of entry of a rival chain's theater. When the new theater belongs to the same chain, it decreases the number of seats allocated to the most popular movies even more. In contrast, if the new theater is independently owned, a chain theater reallocates in the other direction. Given the observation that theaters' screening schedules overlap less in less popular movies, our findings suggest that whereas an independent theater always differentiates itself from a new competitor, a chain theater's response to entry depends on the ownership of the new competitor. Although the overall impact of entry on an incumbent theater's movie variety is not significant, movie differentiation by theaters leads to an increase in movie variety in the local market, promoting the positive agglomeration effect
L22|Economic importance of the Belgian ports: Flemish maritime ports, Liège port complex and the port of Brussels - Report 2015|This paper is an annual publication issued by the Microeconomic Analysis service of the National Bank of Belgium. The Flemish maritime ports (Antwerp, Ghent, Ostend, Zeebrugge), the Autonomous Port of Liège and the port of Brussels play a major role in their respective regional economies and in the Belgian economy, not only in terms of industrial activity but also as intermodal centers facilitating the commodity flow. This update paper1 provides an extensive overview of the economic importance and development of the Flemish maritime ports, the Liège port complex and the port of Brussels for the period 2010 - 2015, with an emphasis on 2015. Focusing on the three major variables of value added, employment and investment, the report also provides some information based on the social balance sheet and an overview of the financial situation in these ports as a whole. These observations are linked to a more general context, along with a few cargo statistics. Annual accounts data from the Central Balance Sheet Office were used for the calculation of direct effects, the study of financial ratios and the analysis of the social balance sheet. The indirect effects of the activities concerned were estimated in terms of value added and employment, on the basis of data from the National Accounts Institute. As a result of the underlying calculation method the changes of indirect employment and indirect value added can differ from one another. The developments concerning economic activity in the six ports in 2014 - 2015 are summarized in the table on the next page. In 2015 the growth of maritime traffic in the Flemish maritime ports was due to developments in the port of Antwerp and the port of Ghent. Direct value added increased in all Flemish maritime ports in 2015. However, direct employment is continuing to decline. Investment was down everywhere except in the port of Zeebrugge. Cargo traffic in the Liège port complex declined in 2015, whereas it slightly slowed down in the port of Brussels. At the same time, direct value added in Liège shrank while it rose sharply in the port of Brussels. By contrast, direct employment was down in both ports. This report provides a comprehensive account of these issues, giving details for each economic sector, although the comments are confined to the main changes that occurred in 2015.
L22|Why do manufacturing firms produce services? Evidence for the servitization paradox in Belgium|The increasing role of services in GDP results from the growing share of service industries, but also from the fact that firms produce services along with goods. This paper investigates the determinants of service provision by manufacturing firms. First, it develops a model of differentiated products with, on the demand side, complementarities between the firm’s goods and services, and, on the supply side, rivalry in the allocation of expertise between the production of goods and the provision of services. Second, it provides an econometric assessment of the determinants of servitization for manufacturing firms, using a fractional Probit model with heterogeneity, controlling for endogeneity with respect to unobserved firm characteristics. Both the theoretical model and empirical estimates point to a non-linear relationship between servitization and firm productivity. The relationship is further shaped by the sector environment as well as intrinsic characteristics of the goods and services supplied.
