L24|The effect of government contracting with faith-based health care providers in Malawi|We study the impact of contracting-out of maternal health care by the government of Malawi to providers from the Christian Health Association of Malawi (CHAM) in the form of Service Level Agreements (SLAs). Under a SLA, a CHAM facility provides agreed maternal and newborn services free-of-charge to patients, and is reimbursed on a fixed price per service. We merge data on health facilities in Malawi with pregnancy histories from the 2010 Malawi Demographic and Health Survey, and exploit the staggered implementation of SLAs across facilities. Using difference-in-differences, we estimate the differential effects on pregnancy- related health care utilisation to mothers residing near and far from facilities with a SLA over time. Our findings show that SLAs reduced home births and increased skilled deliveries at CHAM hospitals. We observe greater provision of prenatal care services at CHAM health centres but no overall increase in the number of prenatal care visits. We find evidence of a reduction in certain components of prenatal care.
L24|Moral Hazard and the Property Rights Approach to the Theory of the Firm|In the Grossman-Hart-Moore property rights theory, there are no frictions ex post (i.e., after non-contractible investments have been sunk). In contrast, in transaction cost economics ex-post frictions play a central role. In this note, we bring the property rights theory closer to transaction cost economics by allowing for ex-post moral hazard. As a consequence, central conclusions of the Grossman-Hart-Moore theory may be overturned. In particular, even though only party A has to make an investment decision, B-ownership can yield higher investment incentives. Moreover, ownership matters even when investments are fully relationship-specific (i.e., when they have no impact on the parties' disagreement payoffs).
L24|Incomplete Contracts, Limited Liability, and the Optimality of Joint Ownership|The property rights approach to the theory of the firm is the most prominent application of the incomplete contracting paradigm. A central conclusion of the standard model says that joint ownership is suboptimal. In this note, we analyze a modified version of the standard model that is tailored to the organization of R&D activities, where one of the parties is wealth-constrained and protected by limited liability. It turns out that joint ownership can be optimal, since it avoids wasteful rent-seeking activities when limited liability rents are necessary to induce high effort. Our results are in line with the fact that R&D activities are often conducted in research joint ventures.
L24|Bargaining Failure and Freedom to Operate: Re-evaluating the Effect of Patents on Cumulative Innovation|We investigate the causal effect of patent rights on cumulative innovation, using large-scale data that approximate the patent universe in its technological and economic variety. We introduce a novel instrumental variable for patent invalidation that exploits personnel scarcity in post-grant opposition at the European Patent Ofï¬ ce. We ï¬ nd that patent invalidation leads to a highly signiï¬ cant and sizeable increase of follow-on inventions. The effect is driven by cases where the removal of the individual exclusion right creates substantial freedom to operate for third parties. Importantly, our results suggest that bargaining failure between original and follow-on innovators is not limited to environments commonly associated with high transaction costs.
L24|International knowledge flows between industry inventors and universities: The role of multinational companies|We investigate the determinants of industry researchers’ interactions with universities in different localities, distinguishing between local and international universities. We analyze the extent to which local and international interactions are enabled by different types of individual personal networks (education, career based), and by their access to different business networks through their employer companies (local vs. domestic or international multinational company networks). We control for selection bias and numerous other individual and firm-level factors identified in the literature as important determinants of interaction with universities. Our findings suggest that industry researchers’ personal networks play a greater role in promoting interactions with local universities (i.e. in the same region, and other regions in the same country) while researcher employment in a multinational is especially important for establishing interaction with universities abroad.
L24|Decentralising the Patent System|This paper proposes a substantive re-think of the modern patent system. The patent system has come under intensive criticism in the past, and many scholars have proposed ways to improve it. Ideas for improvement include, e.g., prior-art bounties, contracting out examination and dynamic fee setting. However, many of these ideas have gone unheeded due to the cost of administering them and the rigidity of the patent system. We explore how distributed ledger technologies enable these major changes.
L24|What's the Big Idea? Multi-Function Products, Firm Scope and Firm Boundaries|Products often bundle together many functions e.g., smartphones. The firm develops the big idea (which functions to bundle) and then chooses one supplier per function. We develop a model featuring holdup in which the firm's bargaining power declines in the number of suppliers. Greater scope as measured by the number of suppliers exacerbates holdup, but this is partially offset by the appropriate choice of vertical integration or outsourcing. Our main result flows from the empirical observation that the number of functions varies across products within an industry (firm heterogeneity). We introduce the notion of an 'ideas-oriented' industry in which more productive firms have higher marginal returns to introducing a new function. We show that more productive firms will (1) have more suppliers and (2) be more likely to integrate those suppliers. We take this to the data using a neural network to predict whether or not each of 29 million PATSTAT patent applications involves new/improved functions. We merge these patents with Capital IQ data on 55,000 companies and their supplier networks. We show that in industries where patents are skewed towards new or improved functions, more productive firms have more suppliers and are more likely to integrate these suppliers.
L24|International outsourcing and trade union (de-)centralisation|We study the effects of centralised versus decentralised wage setting in a unionsed duopoly where firms can outsource parts of input production to foreign subcontractors. We show that decentralised (as opposed to centralised) wage setting allows trade unions to capture a larger share of the rents generated by international outsourcing. Consequently, the equilibrium degree of outsourcing is lower under decentralised wage setting, which benefits unions if they are sufficiently employment oriented. We identify situations in which both firms and unions prefer decentralised over centralised wage setting. Thus, international outsourcing opportunities is a potential driver of trade union decentralisation.
L24|Micro-Evidence on Corporate Relationships in Global Value Chains: The Role of Trade, FDI and Strategic Partnerships|Global value chains (GVCs) have sharpened the interdependencies between trade and foreign direct investment (FDI). Using a novel micro-level dataset covering about 27 000 corporate relationships of 147 multinational enterprises (MNEs) in 13 sectors, new evidence is provided on how firms organise their production globally by combining trade with investment, and on a range of non-equity, contract-based partnerships. The analysis leads to five stylised facts. First, MNE activities are a combination of trade, FDI and strategic partnerships. All firms rely on a mix of these different types of corporate relationships. Second, the configuration of trade, investment and strategic partnerships varies across sectors, firms and markets. The results highlight considerable firm-level heterogeneity within the same industry and across the different modes of entry. Third, investment performs various functions in GVCs. In addition to traditional forms of FDI such as “market-seeking” or “input-seeking”, investment “in capabilities” or “conglomerate” FDI also account for a relevant share of equity-based relationships. Fourth, support business functions emerge as key building blocks in GVCs, which suggests that policy reforms in transversal services sectors that support all GVCs should merit special attention. Fifth, GVCs display a clear geographical organisation. While domestic corporate relationships may lead to higher volumes of activities, in terms of the number of relationships MNEs have more partners abroad. Moreover, the large majority of GVC interactions take place within OECD countries. Overall, the complex and heterogeneous interlinkages observed in modern firm strategies highlight the importance of ensuring a level playing field for both trade and investment.
L24|The emergence of the joint-stock companies in the Dutch Republic and their democratic elements in business|In the present essay we analyse the emergence of joint-stock companies during the 16th and 17th centuries in business (the Dutch partenrederij), and the VOC East India Companies). We suggest that in the Dutch Republic (DR) characterised by relative weak central authority, market solutions were found to solve organisation problems and these solutions, the first joint-stock companies, are efficient but also democratic in their structure. The DR demonstrate that democratic elements emerge in parallel in the economy (sometimes even preceding) and in the political field, which can be mutually reinforcing.
L24|Innovation spillover, licensing, and ex-post privatization in international duopoly|This paper studies the impact of innovation spillover and licensing on optimal ex-post privatization policies by involving an exogenous R&D activity in a partial-equilibrium international duopoly setting. By assuming a domestic public firm is relatively inefficient compared to its foreign private rival, we characterize and discuss optimal privatization policies under both foreign private and domestic public innovation. The theoretical results suggest that foreign private (domestic public) innovation, including both spillover and licensing, reduces (increases) the optimal degree of ex-post privatization. In addition, innovation spillover and licensing have the same impact direction on privatization policies. The numerical evidence supports these theoretical findings.
L24|Incomplete Contracts, Limited Liability, and the Optimality of Joint Ownership|The property rights approach to the theory of the firm is the most prominent application of the incomplete contracting paradigm. A central conclusion of the standard model says that joint ownership is suboptimal. In this note, we analyze a modified version of the standard model that is tailored to the organization of R&D activities, where one of the parties is wealth-constrained and protected by limited liability. It turns out that joint ownership can be optimal, since it avoids wasteful rent-seeking activities when limited liability rents are necessary to induce high effort. Our results are in line with the fact that R&D activities are often conducted in research joint ventures.
L24|Patents, Data Exclusivity, and the Development of New Drugs|Pharmaceutical firms typically enjoy market exclusivity for new drugs from concurrent protection of the underlying invention (through patents) and the clinical trials data submitted for market approval (through data exclusivity). Patent invalidation during drug development renders data exclusivity the sole source of protection and shifts the period of market exclusivity at the project level. In instrumental variables regressions we quantify the effect of a one-year reduction in expected market exclusivity on the likelihood of drug commercialization. The effect is largely driven by patent invalidations early in the drug development process and by the responses of large originators. We hereby provide first estimates of the responsiveness of R&D investments to market exclusivity expectations.
L24|Teaming up with Large R&D Investors: Good or Bad for Knowledge Production and Diffusion?|The participation of top R&D players to publicly funded research collaborations is a common yet unexplored phenomenon.If,on the one hand,including top R&D firms creates opportunities for knowledge spillovers and increases the chance for a project to be funded, on the other hand, the uneven nature of such partnerships and the asymmetry in knowledge appropriation capabilities could hinder the overall performance of such collaborations. In this paper, we study the role of top R&D investors in the performance of publicly funded R&D consortia (in terms of number of patents and publications). Using a unique data set that matches informationon R&D collaborative projects and proposals with data on international top R&D firms, we find that indeed teaming up with leading R&D firms increases the probability to obtain funds. However,the participation of such R&D leaders hinders the innovative performance of the funded projects, both in terms of patents and publications. In light of this evidence, the benefits of mobilizing top R&D players should be carefully leveraged in the evaluation and design of innovation policies aimed at R&D collaboration and technology diffusion.
L24|Price Commitments in Standard Setting under Asymmetric Information|Many observers have voiced concerns that standards create essentiality and thus monopoly power for the holders of standard essential patents (SEPs). To address these concerns, Lerner and Tirole (2015) advocate structured price commitments, whereby SEP holders commit to the maximum royalty they would charge were their technology included in the standard. We consider a setting in which a technology implementer holds private information about demand. In this setting, price commitments increase efficiency not only by curbing SEP holders' market power, but also by alleviating distortions in the design of the royalty scheme. In the absence of price commitments, the SEP holder distorts the implementer's output downward in the low-demand state to reduce the high-demand type's information rent. Price commitments reduce this distortion.
L24|Price Commitments in Standard Setting under Asymmetric Information|Many observers have voiced concerns that standards create essentiality and thus monopoly power for the holders of standard essential patents (SEPs). To address these concerns, Lerner and Tirole (2015) advocate structured price commitments, whereby SEP holders commit to the maximum royalty they would charge were their technology included in the standard. We consider a setting in which a technology implementer holds private information about demand. In this setting, price commitments increase efficiency not only by curbing SEP holders' market power, but also by alleviating distortions in the design of the royalty scheme. In the absence of price commitments, the SEP holder distorts the implementer's output downward in the low-demand state to reduce the high-demand type's information rent. Price commitments reduce this distortion.
L24|Capabilities and firm growth: the role of formal collaboration agreements|The paper presents an empirical analysis of the effect of formal network agreements on growth of firm in Italy in the years 2011-2013. The theoretical background is given by evolutionary theories that assign a key role in determining the ability of firms to capture business opportunities to internal capabilities and to external knowledge and capabilities. We suggest that firms establishing formal relationships with other firms can extend the â€œset of things that they are able to doâ€ â€“the set of capabilitiesâ€“ so that they are able to capture opportunities and grow. The study is based on a novel database of Italian firms that matches networked firms in year 2012 with firms that did not sign a formal network agreement but possess similar structural characteristics. In order to deal with possible self-selection phenomenon, we use difference-in-differences regression models to assess the effect on growth of belonging to a formal network agreement. Moreover, to study the effect of characteristics of network we employ two stage Hackman regression models. Results show that networked firms have a higher growth rate and that the size of the network plays a role. Results are in line with the evolutionary interpretation and suggest that formal network agreement can function as long-range antennas for firms that are more constrained from the geographical point of view. These agreements allow to acquire capabilities and knowledge of the market that allow firms to expand their economic activity.
L24|Optimal Contracts for Renewable Electricity|Companies are increasingly choosing to procure their power from renewable energy sources, with their own set of potential challenges. In this paper we focus on contracts to procure electricity from renewable sources that are inherently unreliable (such as wind and solar). We determine the contracts that minimize the cost of procuring a given amount of renewable energy from two risk-averse generators. We contrast outcomes arising when investments are set in centralised and decentralised settings, with the absence of reliability addressed by either issuing orders in excess of what is needed or by investing in improved reliability. Our results suggest that future contracts may be geared towards a greater reliance on order inflation and lower investments in reliability as the cost of renewable energy keeps falling. The implications of these results for grid congestion and electricity spot market prices should be of interest to regulators and transmission system operators.
L24|Raising Capital from Heterogeneous Investors|A rm raises capital from multiple investors to fund a project. The project succeeds only if the capital raised exceeds a stochastic threshold, and the rm offers payments contingent on success. We study the rm's optimal unique-implementation scheme, namely the scheme that guarantees the rm the maximum payoff. This scheme pays investors differential net returns (per unit of capital) depending on the size of their investments. We show that if the distribution of the investment threshold is log-concave, larger investors receive higher net returns than smaller investors. Moreover, higher dispersion in investor size increases the rm's payoff. Our analysis highlights strategic risk as an important potential driver of inequality.
L24|Public Contracting for Private Innovation: Government Expertise, Decision Rights, and Performance Outcomes|We examine how the U.S. Federal Government governs R&D contracts with private-sector firms. The government chooses between two contractual forms: grants and cooperative agreements. The latter provides the government substantially greater discretion over, and monitoring of, project progress. Using novel data on R&D contracts and on the geo-location and technical expertise of each government scientist over a 12-year period, we test implications from the organizational economics and contracting literatures. We find that cooperative agreements are more likely to be used for early-stage projects and those for which local government scientific personnel have relevant technical expertise; in turn, cooperative agreements yield greater innovative output as measured by patents, controlling for endogeneity of contract form. The results are consistent with multi-task agency and transaction-cost approaches that emphasize decision rights and monitoring.
L24|The Effects of Downstream Competition on Upstream Innovation and Licensing|We study how competition between two downstream firms affects an upstream innovator's innovation strategy, which includes selecting how much innovation to produce and whether to license this innovation to one (targeted licensing) or both (market-wide licensing) downstream competitors. Our model points to a U-shaped relationship between downstream competition and upstream innovation: at low levels of competition, market-wide licensing is optimal and competition reduces innovation, while at high levels of competition targeted licensing is optimal and competition increases innovation. Empirical analysis using a large panel of US data provides clear support for these predictions linking competition, innovation and licensing.
L24|Learning by Viewing? Social Learning, Regulatory Disclosure, and Firm Productivity in Shale Gas|In many industries firms can learn about new technologies from other adopters; mandatory disclosure regulations represent an understudied channel for this type of social learning. We study an environmentally-focused law in the shale gas industry to examine firms’ claims that disclosure requirements expose valuable trade secrets. Our research design takes advantage of a unique regulatory history that allows us to see complete information on chemical inputs prior to disclosure, along with the timing of information availability for thousands of wells after disclosure takes effect. We find that firms’ chemical choices following disclosure converge in a manner consistent with inter-firm imitation and that this leads to more productive wells for firms that carefully choose whom to copy — but also a decline in innovation among the most productive firms, whose innovations are those most often copied by other firms. Our results suggest there is a long-run welfare trade-off between the potential benefits of information diffusion and transparency, and the potential costs of reduced innovation.
L24|Patent licensing in a Cournot oligopoly: General results|This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of patent licensing in a Cournot oligopoly with general demand and looks at both cases: outside and incumbent innovators. The licensing policies considered are upfront fees, unit royalties and combinations of fees and royalties (FR policies). It is shown that (i) royalties unambiguously ensure full diffusion of the innovation while diffusion is limited under upfront fees, (ii) the Cournot price is higher under royalties compared to upfront fees and the price could even exceed the post-innovation monopoly price, (iii) for generic values of magnitudes of the innovation, when the industry size is relatively large, royalties are superior to upfront fees for the innovator and (iv) for any m, there is always a non empty subset of m-drastic innovations such that for relatively large industry sizes, upfront fee policy results in higher consumer surplus as well as welfare compared to both royalty and FR policies.
L24|The Fisher Body Case and Organizational Economics|In 1919, General Motors acquired a non-controlling equity interest in the Fisher Body Company and signed a ten-year contract stipulating the terms under which Fisher would be the exclusive supplier of car bodies to GM. In 1926, GM acquired the remaining equity in Fisher Body. In 1978, Benjamin Klein, Robert Crawford, and Armen Alchian used the GM acquisition of Fisher Body as an illustration of the asset-specificity or “holdup” theory of vertical integration. Their paper became widely influential, and the Fisher case quickly developed into an omnipresent meme in the economics of organization. In the year 2000, however, the meme suddenly exploded into a cause célèbre. No fewer than five papers appeared attacking both the theory and the history in the Klein et al. account – including a paper by Nobel Laureate Ronald Coase, who entered into an often-contentious debate with Klein. This paper tells the story of the Fisher Body acquisition and of the academic controversy it spawned. The controversy has lessons – including some surprising and ironic lessons – for the economic history of the American automobile industry, for the economics of organization, and for the conduct of inquiry in economics.
L24|What more can we learn from R&D alliances? : A review and research agenda|R&D cooperation has become a core aspect of the innovation strategy of R&D-performing organisations over the last three decades. Globalisation has increased the imperative to organise these cross-border, inter-firm agreements efficiently, and this has led to a cross-fertilisation of ideas from a variety of fields, including international business, management, geography and, more recently, psychology. The aim of this paper is to review and synthesise this literature to identify new directions for research. The breadth of the academic discussion has evolved towards a general consensus on governance choice decisions, motives for collaboration, partner selection decisions and performance implications. Despite having achieved some degree of clarity on these issues, the growing complexity and international nature of these alliances requires a multidisciplinary approach, both in relation to the theories to apply, as well as in the type of data needed.
L24|What induces firms to license foreign technologies? International survey evidence|The paper provides insights into drivers of foreign technology licensing from the licensee's perspective, using data across 114 nations. Technology licensing enables licensees to access proven technologies without development delays, although licensors might deny licenses for strategic reasons. Results show that firms with own R&D are more likely to license foreign technologies, as are larger firms and firms in the nations' main business cities. However, the macroeconomic and institutional environment matters as well: domestic interest rates, informal sector competition, and the literacy of a country's labor force all impact foreign technology licensing. Some implications for technology policy are discussed.
L24|Strategic alliances between banks and fintechs for digital innovation: Motives to collaborate and types of interaction|In times of digitalization, firms increasingly need to form alliances due to the higher complexity and greater dynamics of markets. Digital innovation poses challenges for established institutions (e.g., banks) in adapting to changing rules that are set by new competitors and higher customer expectations. However, young firms providing technical solutions for the financial services industry (fintechs) also face difficulties, such as meeting regulatory requirements. Due to the shortcomings of both banks and fintechs, firms in the financial services industry are increasingly forming alliances. We conducted interviews to examine the motivations of both banks and fintechs to join forces. The resulting motives are categorized as matching, complementary, and neutral. The alliances in our sample can be differentiated into financial investments and customer-service provider relationships, with the second category being most common. However, our findings reveal that the occurrence of particular motives is not linked to certain types of alliances. Building on these findings, we develop a motivation framework and derive practical implications.
L24|Financial constraints, institutions, and foreign ownership|We develop a model of cross-border acquisitions in which the foreign acquirer's ownership choice reflects a trade-off between easing the target's credit constraints and the costs of operating in an environment with weak institutions. Data on domestic and foreign acquisitions in emerging markets over the period 1990–2007 support the model predictions. The share of full foreign acquisitions is higher in sectors more reliant on external finance, in countries with lower financial development, and in countries with higher institutional quality. Sectoral external finance dependence accentuates the effect of country-level financial development and institutional quality. By contrast, the level of foreign ownership in partial acquisitions is insensitive to institutional factors and depends weakly on financial factors.
L24|Civic Capital and Service Outsourcing: Evidence from Italy|This paper studies whether civic capital (those persistent shared beliefs and values that help a group overcome the free rider problem in the pursuit of socially valuable activities) acts an effective restraint against opportunistic behavior in transactions by looking at the firm-level degree of service outsourcing in Italy. Our results show that firms tend to outsource more services in areas where civic capital is higher. We claim that the rise in the propensity to engage in transactions with outside service suppliers stems from the decrease in opportunism between the parties involved. We consider a dynamic specification which allows to disentangle state dependence of service out- sourcing from firm-level heterogeneity, and we use historical instruments to address the potential endogeneity of civic capital.
L24|Endogenous Technology Cycles in Dynamic R&D Networks|We study the coevolutionary dynamics of knowledge creation and diffusion with the formation of R&D collaboration networks. Differently to previous works, we do not treat knowledge as an abstract scalar variable, but rather represent it as a multidimensional portfolio of technologies. Over time the composition of this portfolio may change due innovations and knowledge spillovers between collaborating firms. The collaborations between firms, in turn, are dynamically adjusted based on the firms' expectations of learning a new technology from their collaboration partners. We show that the interplay between knowledge diffusion, network formation and competition across sectors can give rise to a cyclical pattern in the collaboration intensity, which can be described as a damped oscillation. This theoretical finding recapitulates the novel observation of oscillations in an empirical sample of a large R&D collaboration network over several decades. Finally, we apply our findings to describe how an effective R&D policy can balance subsidies for entrants as well as R&D collaborations between incumbent firms.
L24|Interaction between firm-level and host-country characteristics and multinationals' integration choices|This paper extends the traditional international make or buy dilemma with a twofold contribution. First it considers joint-ventures, breaking with the common dichotomy. Second, it introduces a second source of heterogeneity among multinational rms, besides productivity: internationalization experience, which provides the rms complementary assets than does the total factor productivity (TFP). While both TFP and experience foster international integration, TFP is found to be more determinant in countries with strong contractual institutions and (only) experience matters in less certain destinations. The predictions from our reduced-form model are supported by the empirical examination of 6,321 French foreign aliates in 87 countries.
L24|The economics of debt collection: enforcement of consumer credit contracts|In the U.S., third-party debt collection agencies employ more than 140,000 people and recover more than $50 billion each year, mostly from consumers. Informational, legal, and other factors suggest that original creditors should have an advantage in collecting debts owed to them. Then, why does the debt collection industry exist and why is it so large? Explanations based on economies of scale or specialization cannot address many of the observed stylized facts. The authors develop an application of common agency theory that better explains those facts. The model explains how reliance on an unconcentrated industry of third-party debt collection agencies can implement an equilibrium with more intense collections activity than creditors would implement by themselves. The authors derive empirical implications for the nature of the debt collection market and the structure of the debt collection industry. A welfare analysis shows that, under certain conditions, an equilibrium in which creditors rely on third-party debt collectors can generate more credit supply and aggregate borrower surplus than an equilibrium where lenders collect debts owed to them on their own. There are, however, situations where the opposite is true. The model also suggests a number of policy instruments that may improve the functioning of the collections market.
L24|Optimal Management of Evolving Hierarchies|We study the optimal management of evolving hierarchies, which abound in real-life phenomena. An initiator invests into ﬁnding a subordinate, who will bring revenues to the joint venture and who will invest herself into ﬁnding another subordinate, and so on. The higher the individual investment (which is private information), the higher the probability of ﬁnding a subordinate. A transfer scheme speciﬁes how revenues are reallocated, via upward transfers, as the hierarchy evolves. Each transfer scheme induces a game in which agents decide their investment choices. We consider two optimality notions for schemes: initiator-optimal and socially-optimal schemes. We show that the former are schemes imposing to each member a full transfer to two recipients (the predecessor and the initiator) with a constant ratio among the transfers. We show that the latter are schemes imposing full transfers to the immediate predecessors.
L24|Does an Early Primary Care Follow-up after Discharge Reduce Readmissions for Heart Failure Patients?|Better monitoring of patients in primary care setting is often considered to be a solution for reducing avoidable hospitalisations and readmissions. In this paper we test the hypothesis that the risk of readmission is associated with the timing and intensity of primary care follow-up, with a focus on consultations with a generalist (GP) after discharge by patients hospitalized for heart failure in France. We propose a discrete-time model which takes into account that primary care treatments have a lagged and cumulative effect on readmission risk measured on a weekly basis, using an instrumental variable strategy (IV). The results from IV regressions suggest that a consultation with a GP in the first weeks after discharge can reduce the readmission risk by almost 50%, and that patients with higher ambulatory care utilisation have smaller odds of readmission. Furthermore, geographical disparities in primary care affect directly primary care utilization and hence indirectly the readmission risk. These results suggest that interventions which strengthen communication between hospitals and generalists are elemental for reducing readmissions and improving system-wide cost efficiency. In order to encourage better care transition and to improve patient outcomes after discharge, financial incentives for hospitals should be aligned with the objective of avoiding repeated hospitalisations. However, the current hospital funding system in France, based on patient volumes, does not provide any incentive for investments to improve patient follow-up after discharge.
L24|Bargaining over Entry with a Compulsory License Deadline: Price Spillovers and Surplus Expansion|We analyze bargaining between a developing country (South) and a multinational firm over the local price of its patented product. We use an alternating offers bargaining game in which the South can resort to compulsory licensing (CL) if the two parties fail to reach agreement by a certain deadline. The presence of international price spillovers introduces two novel features into the standard bargaining problem: the surplus from entry prior to the CL deadline may be negative, and CL can yield higher surplus than entry. We establish conditions under which equilibrium may exhibit immediate entry, preemptive entry just prior to the CL deadline, or the occurrence of CL. The South necessarily gains from the threat of CL if the joint payoff under entry is higher relative to CL but can lose if it is lower.
L24|Intangible Assets and the Organization of Global Supply Chains|This paper introduces the concept of intangible assets in sequential supply chains and the importance of their appropriability in the organizational decision of firms. We focus on the quality of intellectual property rights (IPR) institutions, which on top of the hold-up problem between a supplier and the final producer entails an additional risk of imitation as technology may leak to competing producers in the market. The level of IPR enforcement in the location of a supplier can therefore play a crucial role in determining the decision of a final good producer whether to outsource or integrate a particular stage of production. The analysis is performed with Antràs and Chor (2013) in the background, where the position of the input along the supply chain, i.e. its upstreamness, and the degree of sequential complementarity of stage-specific inputs influence the organizational strategy of firms through the incentive structure of supplier investments. Our findings show that introducing intangible assets in sequential supply chain may have the opposite effect of contractibility on outsourcing decision, where only tangible property rights are considered. We argue therefore that the risk of imitation is a relevant feature that needs to be accounted for in the incomplete contract literature. Our theoretical predictions are validated on Slovenian firm-level data.
L24|Competition, Product Innovation and Licensing|This paper compares market profit and social welfare levels between differentiated Bertrand and Cournot duopoly. We start with a basic model in which a firm with a production technology can license its new technology to a potential rival who can use the technology to produce a differentiated product and compete with the incumbent firm. It is found that for any given technology level, Bertrand competition is necessarily more profitable but less socially desirable, due to its higher royalty rate. By contrast, if the licensee firm is an incumbent firm, the results hold if the technology level is high. Furthermore, if we assume the licensor firm can engage in product innovation and choose its optimal technology endogenously and the R&D efficiency is high (low), the welfare ranking is reversed (still holds).
L24|Technology Licensing between Rival Firms in Presence of Asymmetric Information|This paper investigates the possibility of licensing between rival firms in a Cournot duopoly market. Unlike Heywood, Li, and Ye (2014. “Per Unit vs. Ad Valorem Royalties under Asymmetric Information.” International Journal of Industrial Organization 37:38–46), the cost information of the licensee is private in the pre-licensing stage. If inspection of the licensee’s technology is not possible by the licensor i) technology is never transferred from the low-cost firm (licensor) to the high-cost firm (licensee) via fixed-fee and ii) in the case of royalty licensing technology will be transferred only if the cost difference between the firms is sufficiently high. Moreover, under fixed-fee and royalty licensing, the licensee will always allow the licensor to inspect its technology, if inspection is possible. If inspection is undertaken by the licensor, technology will be transferred i) if the cost difference is low via fixed fee and ii) always via royalty.
L24|The Demand and Supply of Favours in Dynamic Relationships|We characterise the optimal demand and supply of favours in a dynamic principal-agent model of joint production, in which heterogenous project opportunities arrive stochastically and are publicly observed upon arrival, utility from these projects is non-transferable and commitment to future production is limited. Our results characterise the optimal dynamic contract, and we establish that the principal's supply of favours (the production of projects that benefit the agent but not the principal) is backloaded, that the principal's demand for favours (the production of projects that benefit the principal but not the agent) is frontloaded, and that the production of projects is ordered by their comparative advantage, that is, by their associated efficiency in extracting (for demanded projects) and providing (for supplied projects) utility to the agent. Furthermore, we provide an exact construction of the optimal contract when project opportunities follow a Markov process.
L24|Vertical licensing, input pricing, and entry|We explore the incentives of a vertically integrated incumbent to license the production technology of its core input to an external firm, transforming the licensee into its input supplier. We find that the incumbent opts for licensing even when licensing also transforms the licensee into one of its direct competitors in the final products market. In fact, the licensee’s entry into the final products market, although it increases the competition and the cost that the licensor faces, reinforces the licensing incentives. Furthermore, the licensee’s entry augments the positive welfare implications of vertical licensing.
L24|Asymmetric Innovation Agreements under Environmental Regulation|In a domestic market, a duopoly produces a homogeneous final good, pollution, pollution abatement and R&D. One of the firms (foreign) has superior technology. The government regulates the duopoly by levying a pollution tax to maximize domestic welfare. We consider the potential implementation of three innovation agreements: cooperative research joint venture (RJV), non-cooperative RJV and licensing. In the cooperative (non-cooperative) RJV, the firms (do not) internalize R&D spillovers. We show that, for the domestic firm, the cooperative RJV dominates and licensing is the least desirable alternative. Although licensing is dominant for the foreign firm, it is not implementable. Both RJVs are implementable. While the non-cooperative RJV is more likely the greater the degrees of asymmetry (in terms of efficiency and R&D spillover rates) between the firms, the cooperative RJV is more likely the lower the degrees of asymmetry. Implementation of both types of RJVs improve the competitiveness of the domestic firm and welfare. A subsidy policy that induces the foreign firm to accept a feasible cooperative RJV when it strictly prefers a feasible non-cooperative RJV is always welfare improving.
L24|Asymmetric information and the property rights approach to the theory of the firm|In the Grossman–Hart–Mooreproperty rights approach to the theory of the firm, it is usually assumed that information is symmetric. Ownership matters for investment incentives, provided that investments are partly relationship-specific. We study the case of completely relationship-specific investments (i.e., the disagreement payoffs do not depend on the investments). It turns out that if there is asymmetric information, then ownership matters for investment incentives and for the expected total surplus. Specifically, giving ownership to party B can be optimal, even when only party A has to make an investment decision and even when the owner’s expected disagreement payoff is larger under A-ownership.
L24|Incomplete contracts, shared ownership, and investment incentives|Consider a partnership consisting of two symmetrically informed parties who may each own a share of an asset. It is ex post efficient that tomorrow the party with the larger valuation gets the asset. Yet, today the parties can make investments to enhance the asset's productivity. Contracts are incomplete, so today only the ownership structure can be specified, which may be renegotiated tomorrow. It turns out that shared ownership is often optimal. If the investments are embodied in the physical asset, it may be optimal that party B has a larger ownership share even when party A has a larger valuation and a better investment technology. When shared ownership is taken into account, joint ownership in the sense of bilateral veto power cannot be optimal, regardless of whether the investments are in human capital or in physical capital.
L24|Integration versus Outsourcing with Vertical Linkages|In the model by Grossman and Helpman (2002) no industry has both vertically integrated and specialized producers in equilibrium. I generalize their model by assuming that final goods producers (irrespective of whether they are vertically integrated with the upstream stage or specialized in the downstream stage only) need a basket of differentiated commodities, in addition to labor, as a fixed requirement for production. I then show the existence of an equilibrium populated simultaneously by vertically integrated and disintegrated firms.
L24|Servicification of Firms and Trade Policy Implications|In the OECD countries, the decline of manufacturing and its employment implications have long been matters of concern. Recently, policymakers in several countries have set out to achieve reindustrialization. The servicification of firms is related to these concerns and aspirations. However, servicification and particularly its role in trade policy have received limited attention. I review micro-level evidence and discuss implications. I find that imported, domestic and exported services are all important to contemporary firm competitiveness and participation in international value chains. Therefore, historic policymaking divides between trade in manufactures and services, between export and import interests, and among modes of supply are becoming less relevant. I conclude by suggesting potential steps forward.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L24|Firm heterogeneity and the integration trilemma: The utility of Joint ventures in integration versus outsourcing models|The traditional Grossman-Hart-Moore (GHM) property right theory of the ?rm does not consider shared ownership as an optimal solution because of the incentive loss it would be responsible for. This paper examines the rationale for speci?c cases of shared ownership: International Joint Ventures (JVs), with heterogeneous ?rms in various host-countries. Speci?cally, we built a theoretical model that extends the Antr`as & Helpman (2008) integration dilemma under partially incomplete contracts to international joint-ventures. These turn to be the optimal ownership structure in two different cases. Speci?cally, for medium-productive ?rms when the most productive would opt for full integration. More interestingly JVs turns to be the optimal ownership choice, even for most productive ?rms in countries with lower quality of contractual institutions. The model insists then on the interaction between ?rm-level and country-level parameters, with higher productivity giving increasing access to higher ownership share in countries with stronger contractual enforceability.
L24|Modern Public Enterprises: Organisational Innovation and Productivity|In advanced economies, state-owned enterprises play an important role in sectors of general interest such as energy and water supply. The conditions under which they operate have changed fundamentally since 1998, with new strategies required for firms to preserve market shares in the face of liberalisation and technological innovation. This paper investigates the productivity effect of three strategies in new public management: corporatisation, outsourcing, and partial privatisation. Firm-level productivity is estimated from production data using a control function approach. As most of the firms are typically multiproduct firms, we suggest a method for modelling differences in the product mix and to account for heterogeneous production environments. Using a newly constructed and unique dataset from the German Federal Statistical Office, we find that outsourcing and corporatisation positively impact productivity, while partial privatisation does not increase productivity.
L24|Towards EU Legislation on Human Rights Due Diligence: Case Study of the Garment and Textile Sector|This study assesses the legal feasibility of a EU instrument that would impose mandatory human rights due diligence (“HRDD”) requirements on companies in the garment and textile sector. The proposal serves as an example of a sector-specific approach to HRDD requirements, and could be modified to develop similar proposals in other sectors. The study also illustrates the differences between a sector-specific and a cross-sectoral approach by highlighting the implications of each in the following areas: legal bases, personal scope, and requirements and enforcement.
L24|Financing flexibility: The case of outsourcing|We investigate the relationship between the extent and timing of vertical flexibility and the financial choices of a firm. By vertical flexibility we mean partial/total and reversible outsourcing of a necessary input. A firm simultaneously selects the vertical setting and the financial sources of investment in flexibility, in particular debt and venture capital. A loan may come from a lender that requires the payment of a fixed coupon over time and an option to buy out the firm in certain circumstances. Debt leads to the same level of flexibility of an unlevered firm. Yet investment occurs earlier. The injection of venture capital reduces the quest for vertical flexibility and speeds up investment. Then, there arises a fresh substitutability between a financial (venture capital) and a real variable (vertical flexibility).
L24|Dynamics in research joint ventures and R&D collaborations|We investigate the short- and long-term effects of different types of R&D collaborations on firms, consumers, and the industry. To that end, we consider a differentiated-product market in which firms compete à la Bertrand and invest in process innovation in order to lower the production cost over time. Investments are stochastic and there can be cartelization or competition strategies among firms at the moment of making the decision on the amount to invest in R&D. Our results show that in equilibrium, the long-run welfare is larger under a research joint venture than under other environments. Discounted present value profits increase with the level of the spillover but there are asymmetries that depend on the firms’ asymmetry on marginal costs.
L24|Sharing the proceeds from a hierarchical venture|We consider the problem of distributing the proceeds generated from a joint venture in which the participating agents are hierarchically organized. We introduce and characterize a family of allocation rules where revenue ‘bubbles up’ in the hierarchy. The family is flexible enough to accommodate the no-transfer rule (where no revenue bubbles up) and the full-transfer rule (where all the revenues bubble up to the top of the hierarchy). Intermediate rules within the family are reminiscent of popular incentive mechanisms for social mobilization or multi-level marketing.
L24|Comment mesurer la performance des alliances stratégiques internationales ? Application aux industries agroalimentaires en Afrique de l’Ouest|The purpose of this exploratory study is threefold. It is first to conduct a critical literature review on international strategic alliances’ issues. Then, drawing on combined frameworks of Blanchot (2006), Reus and Ritchie (2004), and Cheriet (2009), we aim to propose an integrated model of performance measurement of these cooperative relationships with three logics: multi-dimensions of the construct,multi-perspectives of partners and integration of cooperative relationship dynamics. Finally, our word will also discuss the possibilities of its application to the specific context of agribusiness in West Africa countries. This first work intends to identify appropriate performance indicators through the examination of the main empirical research on the strategic alliances’ performance o in the context of emerging countries and to consider the possibilities of methodology replication to African context. ....French Abstract : L’objet de ce travail exploratoire est triple. Il s’agit d’abord de mener une analyse critique de la littérature portant sur les issues des alliances stratégiques internationales. Ensuite, en s’inspirant des travaux de Blanchot (2006), de Reus et Ritchie (2004) et de Cheriet (2009), de proposer un « tableau de bord » de la mesure de la performance de ces relations coopératives avec une triple logique : multidimensions du construit, multi-perspectives des partenaires et tenant compte de la dynamique de la relation. Enfin, il s’agira de discuter des perspectives de son application au contexte spécifique des industries agroalimentaires et du secteur de la distribution alimentaire en Afrique de l’Ouest. Ce travail d’étape est aussi destiné à identifier les indicateurs de performances pertinents à travers l’examen des résultats des principales recherches empiriques sur la performance des alliances stratégiques dans le contexte des pays émergents et de s’interroger sur les possibilités de réplication méthodologique au contexte africain.
L24|Commercialization Strategy and IPO Underpricing|This paper studies the interplay between two defining features of technology-based firms: licensing as a commercialization strategy and the reliance on equity financing. Within the context of an IPO, we argue that the technology commercialization strategy of a firm going public affects information asymmetries and, therefore, IPO underpricing. In particular, we theorize that underpricing will be higher when a firm’s technology commercialization strategy is more based on licenses. We also posit that the size of the patent portfolio will mitigate this effect. Our results from a sample of 130 IPOs in the U.S. semiconductor industry confirm these predictions.
L24|Measuring Innovation with Patents when Patenting is Strategic|I model a firm's decision to create an invention and, separately, her decision to protect that invention with intellectual property (IP). Because external forces, such as industry characteristics or policy regimes, can affect the innovation and protection decisions differently, the model predicts that innovation measures based on IP usage, such as patent counts, may not correlate with innovative effort. For example, the threat of competition generally has an inverse-U shaped relationship with observed patenting but has a normal-U relationship with innovative effort. In this case, the average quality of a firm's patent portfolio is a better proxy for innovation. I derive general conditions under which various patent statistics, such as quality-adjusted patenting or average patent quality, are useful proxies for how innovation responds to external influences.
L24|New Outsourcing, Demand Uncertainty and Labor Usage|Abstract We examine the decisions by small and medium-sized Australian firms to undertake new outsourcing. We hypothesize that new outsourcing may be related to demand uncertainty. We test this hypothesis at the firm level, making use of unique longitudinal data on Australian manufacturing. We find an asymmetric relationship between new outsourcing and demand uncertainty. For the larger firms in our sample, positive demand shocks are related to more new outsourcing. For all firms, negative demand shocks are related to less new outsourcing. New outsourcing appears to be related to demand uncertainty and to the firm’s overall approach to labor utilization.
L24|Versenytársak együttműködésének hatása a regionális gazdasági fejlődésre<BR>[Impacts of rivals cooperation on regional economic development]|A tanulmány bemutatja, hogy a versenytársak együttműködése (koopetitíció) miként határozza meg a regionális gazdasági növekedést. Koopetícióról akkor beszélünk, amikor rivális vállalatok egyszerre versenyeznek és kooperálnak egymással profitjuk maximalizálásáért, s ezáltal hálózatot alkotnak. A koopetitív hálózat a regionális gazdasági fejlődés egyik kulcseleme, ezért az írás hálózatelméleti és térökonometriai eljárások kombinálásával elemzi a gazdasági növekedést. Empirikus vizsgálatok szerint a koopetitív hálózatokban a bizalmi szint alacsony, mégis sikeresen működnek, mert létezik a hálózatban egy központi szereplő, akiben mindenki megbízik. Ez a szereplő hidat alkot, közvetít a versenytársak között, a hálózatban ő szervezi a koopetitív interakciót. A szerző a koopetitív hálózatok gazdasági hatásának mérésére általa kidolgozott modellt is vázolja. Ez a komplex modell szintetizálja az úgynevezett fogékony-fertőzött-modellt és a helyiaggregátum-modellt, így alkalmas a koopetitív hálózati hatások és externáliák regionális terjedésének szemléltésére.* Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: D62, F12, L14, L24, P13, R11.
L24|Knowledge Transfer and Intra-Firm Trade|Using a unique sample of foreign affliates in Sub-Saharan Africa, we study the relationship of the extensive and intensive margins of their intra-firm trade with knowledge transfer to them from their parent companies. We find that the engagement of foreign affliates in intra-firm trade and their share of intra-firm trade are positively associated with the probability of these receiving crucial parental assistance in the use of patents, trademarks, and brand names, technology and know-how, access to foreign supplier network, and access to global markets. Foreign afiliates which engage in intra-firm trade and those with a higher share of this type of trade also receive more important overall parental assistance. The positive associations between intra-firm trade and knowledge transfer in the form of patents, trademarks and brand names are weaker in countries with relatively strong legal rights than in countries with relatively weak legal rights. Our findings point to the interplay between property rights and intangible assets theories of the multinational firm by suggesting that the joint role of knowledge ows in production and of multinational firm boundaries as facilitators of transfers of tangibles and intangibles is crucial.
L24|Digital Labor Markets and Global Talent Flows|Digital labor markets are rapidly expanding and connecting companies and contractors on a global basis. We review the environment in which these markets take root, the micro- and macro-level studies of their operations, their ongoing evolution and recent trends, and perspectives for undertaking research with micro-data from these labor platforms. We undertake new empirical analyses of Upwork data regarding 1) the alignment of micro- and macro-level approaches to disproportionate ethnic-connected exchanges on digital platforms, 2) gravity model analyses of global outsourcing contract flows and their determinants for digital labor markets, and 3) quantification of own- and cross-country elasticities for contract work by wage rate. Digital labor markets are an exciting frontier for global talent flows and growing rapidly in importance.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L24|Disclosure Rules and Declared Essential Patents|Many standard setting organizations (SSOs) require participants to disclose patents that might be infringed by implementing a proposed standard, and commit to license their “essential” patents on terms that are at least fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (FRAND). Data from these SSO intellectual property disclosures have been used in academic studies to provide a window into the standard setting process, and in legal proceedings to assess the relative contribution of different parties to a standard. We develop a simple model of the disclosure process to illustrate the link between SSO rules and patent-holder incentives, and examine the model's core predictions using a novel dataset constructed from the disclosure archives of thirteen major SSOs. The central message of the paper is that subtle differences in the rules used by different SSOs can influence which patents are disclosed, the terms of licensing commitments, and ultimately long-run citation and litigation rates for the underlying patents.
L24|The structure and performance of U.S. research joint ventures: inferences and implications from the Advanced Technology Program| Research joint ventures (RJVs) are projects that combine the research resources of different firms. A sample of RJVs supported by the U.S. Advanced Technology Program shows that the projects yield revenues that are far less than costs. Related to this point, the RJVs are subject to commercialization delays, loss of intellectual property, and product market competition. Partner firms undertake joint research, but if they commercialize at all, they do so separately, to avoid splitting of revenues from new products. Ultimately, difficulties with the RJVs occur because frequently, firms are potential competitors.
L24|What is the Value of Re-use? Complementarities in Popular Music|"Digitization has drastically lowered the costs of replicating and distributing music, enabling piracy on the demand side, as well as supply side re-use and recontextualization. This paper examines cumulative creativity and re-use through the release of derivative works in the popular music industry. Combining novel data on ""digital sampling"" and cover songs with a new proprietary Spotify data-set tracking online music streaming, I study how the introduction of a derivative work impacts the market for the underlying good upon which it is based. With my data-set covering 11,682 artists and their daily streaming demand between 2015 and 2016, I utilize a matched-sample difference-in-differences estimator to find that, on average, re-use causes a 3% increase in demand for the treated artists. This effect is significantly mediated by prominence -- with the effect neutralized for highly prominent artists, while artists of low prominence have a larger 6% boost in listening. Novel re-uses of artists that have not been subject to extensive past re-use appear to have the largest effect, resulting in an average 15% increase in online streaming. These results highlight an advertising effect of re-use, suggest that derivative works have limited ex post competition with upstream works, and point toward the potential benefits of permissive intellectual property rights licensing."
L24|Trust and technology transfers|Research and development is largely done by multinationals (MNEs) that transfer technology to their foreign subsidiaries. Trust might be an important determinant of the governance of technology transfers because trust can reduce the dependence of the subsidiary on the headquarters. We empirically investigate how widely held perceptions of the trustworthiness of the host economy influence international technology transfers that subsidiaries receive from their business group or from other international providers. We use firm-level data on R&D imports from foreign subsidiaries operating in Spain for the period 2005–2012, and a Eurobarometer measure of trust between citizens of European countries. We find that subsidiaries that belong to MNEs from countries with higher trust in Spaniards have fewer technology transfers within the business group and more from international market channels than subsidiaries from countries with lower trust in Spaniards. Our results support predictions of transaction cost economics about how technology transfers are organized.
L24|Pre- and post-award outsourcing: Temporary partnership versus subcontracting in public procurement|This paper studies the impact of qualification rules for entry into public procurement auctions on firm bids and contract execution, contributing to the debate about which regulations foster the efficient participation of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Using rich and detailed microdata on all public work contracts awarded by the regional government of Valle d’Aosta from 2000 to 2008, we investigate the differences between pre-award outsourcing by temporary partnerships (TPs) and post-award outsourcing by firms in optional or mandatory subcontracting. We find that both outsourcing status and firm size affect bids and the probability of time and cost overruns. TPs bid lower prices than mandatory and large optional firms and perform well in contract execution, similar to small optional firms. Mandatory firms are more likely to exceed expected cost and are no better in timely delivery. The evidence holds when we disentangle horizontal and vertical subcontracting. Our results highlight the TPs’ advantage of freedom in choosing economic size and technical boundaries before entering the auction.
L24|Licensing contracts and the number of licenses under screening|This paper examines the licensing of an innovation—by a patent holder to one or more users—when the innovation’s value (high or low) is known, after the contract is signed, by each user. In this setup, we analyze the patent holder’s joint decision concerning the number of licenses and the type of contracts. Our first main finding is that, depending on how uncertain is the efficiency of users exploiting the innovation, both shut-down contracts and screening contracts can emerge in equilibrium. Second, shut-down contracts amount to fixed fees under exclusive licensing but are two-part contracts under non-exclusive licensing. Third, there is distorted production at the bottom of the innovation value’s distribution under exclusive licensing as well as distortion at both the bottom and the top of that distribution under non-exclusive licensing. Fourth, asymmetric information favors the latter (i.e., issuing multiple licenses) except when the patent holder uses a screening contract, since then the need to distort production at both the bottom and the top renders non-exclusive licensing less profitable. Our final result is that the number of licenses issued by the patent holder is more likely to maximize aggregate surplus under asymmetric information than under symmetric information.
L24|Patent Protection, Optimal Licensing, and Innovation with Endogenous Entry|How does patent policy affect innovation when patent licensing is crucial for firms? To address this question, the present paper incorporates voluntary patent licensing between an innovator and followers, which has been discussed in the literature of industrial organization, into a dynamic general equilibrium model. Unlike in existing studies, both the licensing fee and the number of licensees are endogenously determined by the innovator’s maximization and the free-entry condition. Using this model, we show that strong patent protection does not enhance innovation, economic growth, and welfare. Furthermore, the extended analysis provides a policy implication that the effect of patent policy depends on how difficult further innovation is without patent licensing of the current leading technology.
L24|Intellectual Property Rights and Foreign Technology Licensing in Developing Countries: An Empirical Investigation|The paper addresses the question of whether expanded and strengthened protection of intellectual property (IP) fosters technology transfer to developing countries. Cross-sectional analysis of a representative sample of firms operating in 42 developing economies indicates that going from no IP protection to maximum IP protection is associated with a 65% increase in the predicted probability of licensing foreign technology for the subpopulation of affiliated firms, whereas the predicted probability is not significantly different from zero for unaffiliated firms. We also find evidence that the environment in which a firm operates moderates the relationship of IP protection and firm-level technology licensing: while going from no IP protection to maximum IP protection is associated with a 47% increase in the predicted probability of licensing foreign technology for firms operating in upper-middle-income countries, there is at best no significant correlation for firms operating in lower-middle-income and lowincome countries.
L24|Maintaining competition in recurrent procurement contracts: A case study on the London bus market|Under recurrent procurement, the awarding of a contract to a firm may put it in an advantageous position in future tenders, which may reduce competition over time. The objective of this paper is to study the dynamics of competition for tendered contracts, focusing on factors that may generate incumbent advantage. Particular attention is given to learning economies, sunk costs of entry and switching costs for the procurer. The paper then applies these insights to analyse empirically the evolution of competition in the market for local bus services in London.
L24|Optimal Management of Supply Disruptions when Contracting with Unreliable, Risk-averse, Suppliers|This paper investigates the optimal management of supply disruptions by a manufacturer who uses order inflation and/or investments in process reliability when contracting two risk-averse suppliers. We consider that these investments can be subject to moral hazard. Technically we solve a newsvendor optimization problem using a random capacity model of disruption. In such a model, the order size does not affect the average production but impacts the probability of disruption. When investments are verifiable we show that the manufacturer is more inclined to invest in the suppliers’ reliability and then refrain from using order inflation when the suppliers’ production costs and the cost of disposing of unwanted inputs are large. When investments are not verifiable we show that the order sizes can be used strategically as incentive devises due to the suppliers’ sensitivity to payoff dispersion. We show that the manufacturer does not always increase his reliance on order inflation and face less reliable suppliers once we introduce moral hazard. In some instances he induces suppliers to undertake larger investments in reliability by increasing the order size. In other instances he is able to reduce his reliance on order inflation.
L24|Rentabilité et coût du capital dans le projet industriel algérien-Le cas de la Société Nationale des Véhicules Industriels (SNVI)|La restructuration des entreprises publiques en Algérie en vue de leur insertion dans un modèle d’économie de marché a nécessité depuis les années 1980 la mise en place d’un ensemble d’institutions et la transition d’un mode de régulation monopoliste vers un mode plus concurrentiel. Cependant, l’institution Etat est restée jusqu’à nos jours l’institution clé soutenant un régime d’accumulation dépendant des ressources en hydrocarbures. La politique budgétaire et financière de l’Etat a donc soutenu et financé la restructuration des entreprises publiques dans le cadre d’une nouvelle stratégie industrielle orientée vers la substitution d’importation et la diversification des exportations. La restructuration de la SNVI opérée depuis les années 1990 s’est inscrite dans une démarche globale de politique industrielle visant à assainir les entreprises publiques et refinancer les investissements productifs en vue de pouvoir soit privatiser, soit nouer des partenariats. Cette stratégie a nécessité le transfert de ressources budgétaires pour financer les investissements et assainir la dette et les découverts bancaires qui a constitué un coût du capital supporté par l’Etat. La politique de partenariat avec des investisseurs étrangers vise à poursuivre un processus de restructuration et de restauration de la compétitivité sur un marché ouvert à la concurrence mais sous régulation sous régulation de l’Etat.
L24|The Demand and Supply of Favours in Dynamic Relationships|We characterise the optimal demand and supply of favours in a dynamic principal-agent model of joint production, in which heterogenous project opportunities arrive stochastically and are publicly observed upon arrival, utility from these projects is non-transferable and commitment to future production is limited. Our results characterise the optimal dynamic contract, and we establish that the principal's supply of favours (the production of projects that benefit the agent but not the principal) is backloaded, that the principal's demand for favours (the production of projects that benefit the principal but not the agent) is frontloaded, and that the production of projects is ordered by their comparative advantage, that is, by their associated efficiency in extracting (for demanded projects) and providing (for supplied projects) utility to the agent. Furthermore, we provide an exact construction of the optimal contract when project opportunities follow a Markov process.
L24|Exploring the survival of patent licensing: some evidence from French foreign agreements|Abstract This paper aims to determine the factors that impact on the duration of technology licensing contracts. Using a transaction costs framework, we derive some propositions related to the influence of the contractual safeguards and of institutions on the failure rate of such agreements. We conduct an empirical investigation based on a new dataset of 250 contracts from the French National Institute of Intellectual Property. We show that the actual duration of licensing agreements (a) is positively associated to their profitability and to the level of technological competition, (b) is positively associated to the presence of a renegotiation clause, and (c) is independent of other contractual or institutional safeguards.
L24|The activities of university knowledge transfer offices: towards the third mission in Italy|Abstract Establishing deeper engagement with industry and society has recently become a key concern of universities. To pursue this goal, universities—as well as other public research organizations—have started to reorganize internal resources, to redefine their activities and policies, and to redesign their overall knowledge transfer (KT) business models. As a consequence, in several countries a wide heterogeneity exists in the types of KT models adopted and in the outcomes arising from KT activities. By performing a cluster analysis and a multinomial logit regression on an extensive dataset that almost covers the entire population of Italian universities, in this study we analyze (1) whether models of KT characterized by a broader engagement with society are gradually substituting models more focused on technology commercialization, and (2) which factors related to the availability of resources and universities’ strategic intention better explain existing differences. Insights from the study might help university managers to define the most appropriate actions to fully undertake the implementation of the university third mission.
L24|Are Collaborative Agreements in Innovation Activities Persistent at the Firm Level? Empirical Evidence for the Spanish Case|Abstract We provide evidence on the dynamics in firms’ cooperation behaviour in innovation activities. Our main objective is to analyse if collaborative agreements are persistent at the firm level; and, in such a case, to study what are the main drivers of this phenomenon. We also study to what extent such persistence is different from persistence in R&D, so that the former exists on top of the latter. Finally, we deal with the differentiated persistence pattern of collaboration agreements for different types of partners, as well as the possibility of finding persistence across them. We follow a dynamic approach in the analysis of cooperation persistence: We take into account the unobserved individual heterogeneity and address the initial conditions problem. We use a representative sample of Spanish firms for the period 2002–2010.
L24|1st Scientific Researches Congress Humanity and Social Sciences|In this study, the evaluation of the 1st International Scientific Researches Congress Humanity and Social Sciences held on 19-22 May 2016 in Madrid will be mentioned.
L24|New Frontiers in Empirical Research on Informal Contracting|In standard models of informal contracting, parties use discretionary payments to split the known value of their relationship, which results in stable efficient contracts over time. Relaxing simplifying assumptions, recent models shed light on how informal contracts evolve over time, the creation of relational rents, and their sensitivity to path dependence. This paper investigates how these nonstand-ard theories of informal contracts can be tested empirically. We first discuss predictions from a selection of representative models, and strategies necessary to test them. We then examine how existing evidence supports these predictions, and how available data may be used for further testing.
L24|Optimal Ownership Regime in the Presence of Investment Spillovers|In the context of the property rights theory of the firm, we study the role of investment spillovers in shaping the efficiency ranking of ownership regimes. In our model, spillovers arise from asset-embodied investment and footloose investment. Under the former, the benefits of investment can be appropriated only through asset control; under the latter, the benefits of investment can be appropriated independently of asset control. Our model predicts that asset-embodied investment favors the adoption of non-integration, while joint ownership may prevail in the presence of footloose investment.
L24|Green Supply Chain Management - Motivation, Methods and Expectations - in Hungarian Automotive Oems|The aim of the paper is to analyse the green supply chain management (GSCM) practices of Hungarian automotive OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) – three car manufacturers and a truck manufacturer. For the analysis I performed a questionnaire survey that included the topics of motivation and barriers of GSCM, the methods applied, cooperation in the supply chain and green performance. The results show the importance of GSCM in Hungarian automotive OEM operation, the most improved fields and the most popular methods. We will see what the strongest motivation factors for green practices are, and what improvements the companies experience in theirperformance.
L24|The diversity of agents and evolution of overlapping patents on electric vehicles|This article studies the inventive activity related to electric vehicles. Particularly, examining the relationship between the overlapping patents and a diverse population of agents: Companies, non-practicing entities, individual inventors and alliances. Based on information from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), period from 1976 to 2012, it is presented: 1) as from network analysis, the increasing complexity of inventive electric vehicles; 2) the characteristics and evolution of inventive activity and, 3) its relationship with the existence of overlapping patents. It is shown that the evolution of overlapping patents (from low to high complexity) is associated with greater complexity of technological knowledge as well as greater diversity of agents.
L24|Patent Disclosures and Standard-Setting|A key role of standard setting organizations (SSOs) is to aggregate information on relevant intellectual property (IP) claims before deciding on a standard. This article explores the firms’ strategies in response to IP disclosure requirements—in particular, the choice between specific and generic disclosures of IP—and the optimal response by SSOs, including the royalty rate setting. We show that firms with a stronger downstream presence are more likely to opt for a generic disclosure, as are those with lower quality patents. We empirically examine patent disclosures made to seven large SSOs, and find results consistent with theoretical predictions.
L24|The Dynamics Of Outsourcing: A Bibliometric Study|The study is focused on a new area of management – the outsourcing. It analysed the period 1999-2015 and a total of 437 publications. The scopes of the study are geographical, thematic, sectoral and lexical. The results highlight three periods: introduction of outsourcing in the scientific field; entry of outsourcing in priorities of the state policy; increasing interest of companies to outsourcing.
L24|Incentives for process innovations under discrete structural alternatives of competition policy|This study analyzes the incentives for process innovations under different conditions determined by the competition policy for intellectual property rights (IPR) and particular features of markets and technologies. Competition policy is defined by the presence or absence of compulsory licensing, markets are characterized by technological leadership or technological competition. The results of modelling show that the uncertainty engendered by technological competition may lower the intensity of innovative activities, if there are no mechanisms of coordination between participants. Voluntary licensing generally improves social welfare but does not guarantee an increase in innovative efforts. Compulsory licensing can impede innovations due to the opportunistic behaviour of market participants but certain measures of state policy can prevent this negative effect.
L24|Patent Pools, Competition, and Innovation—Evidence from 20 US Industries under the New Deal|Patent pools have become a prominent mechanism to reduce litigation risks and facilitate the commercialization of new technologies. This article takes advantage of a window of regulatory tolerance under the New Deal to investigate the effects of pools that would form in the absence of effective antitrust. Difference-in-differences regressions of patents and patent citations across 20 industries imply a 14% decline in patenting for each additional patent that is included in a pool. An analysis of the mechanism by which pools discourage innovation indicates that this decline is driven by technologies for which the creation of a pool weakened competition in R&D. (JEL K21, L24, L41, O31)
L24|Why Whine about Wining and Dining?|"Given potential abuse, conflicts of interest, and other issues, why do companies routinely pay for their managers to entertain the managers of other firms and allow their own managers to be so entertained? An answer that such practices facilitate interfirm cooperation is incomplete because it fails to address why companies cannot or do not induce such cooperation directly via their own incentive systems. This article addresses these issues. It shows, inter alia, that even when firms can induce cooperation via their own incentive systems, they will do better obtaining that cooperation via cross-firm entertaining and other favor granting. This remains true even if ""entertainment"" budgets are subject to corruption, including excessive use or potential embezzlement. Furthermore, the results are wholly independent of any favorable tax treatment such practices may receive. (JEL D82, D86, L14, L24, M52.)"
L24|Offshoring Sector In Poland|Companies across industries gain the competitive advantage by outsourcing and offshoring. Developing countries are becoming the attractive locations for the BPO/SSC enterprises. The article reviews the definition of outsourcing and offshoring and presents the findings for the fast-growing BPO/SSC area in Poland. The study is based on detailed analysis of the literature on outsourcing and offshoring. The article presents a preliminary analysis of offshoring sector in Poland. The following considerations are taken into account: the number of companies and employees in this sector, foreign direct investment. The growing number of companies and employments in this sector. Subsequent growth of the offshoring business service sector in Poland is visible.
L24|Wybrane zagadnienia współpracy badawczo-rozwojowej przedsiębiorstw w ujęciu ekonomii gałęziowej<BR>[Selected problems of interfirm R&D cooperation in the industrial organization literature]|The aim of this paper is to analyze selected problems of interfirm R&D cooperation discussed in the industrial organization literature. Analyzed interrelated problems are: (i) stability of interfirm R&D cooperation, (ii) organization of interfirm R&D cooperation, (iii) asymmetries between cooperating firms and (iv) the impact of interfirm R&D cooperation on industry cartelization. On the basis of the literature review it can be concluded that the necessary condition for reaching benefits from interfirm R&D cooperation is to (1) successfully solve the free-rider problem arising in the process of knowledge sharing between collaborating firms and further (2) maintain stable cooperation. Obstacles to stable R&D cooperation can be, however, too low or too high values of asymmetries occurring between cooperating firms. Effective stabilization of interfirm R&D cooperation can be achieved, among others, by licensing of know-how, intensification of knowledge sharing between cooperating firms and various organizational forms of R&D cooperation (research joint-ventures and R&D cartels). From the social welfare perspective it should be also noted that tightening up of an interfirm cooperation at the R&D stage can result in the cartelization of industry (cartel on the market of a final good can be formed).
L24|Strategiczne znaczenie kosztu stałego ustanowienia współpracy badawczo-rozwojowej przedsiębiorstw<BR>[Strategic meaning of the fixed set-up cost of R&D cooperation]|The aim of this paper is to present the concept of solution of the incentive conflict that exists within R&D cooperation between firms that share know-how. In the relevant literature formal and legally-based solutions to the above conflict are discussed, i.e. (i) know-how contracting and (ii) know-how licensing. In the following work the solution based on the idea of selecting the value of fixed set-up cost of cooperation is presented. The fixed set-up cost of cooperation can be treated as a strategic device that can be used by firms to stabilize R&D cooperation. On the basis of formal analysis it is found that optimal levels of know-how revealed by all cooperating firms rise with the value of fixed set-up cost of R&D cooperation borne by any of cooperating firms. This novel result seems salient to the management practice in the field of R&D cooperation.
L24|Organizacja współpracy badawczo-rozwojowej przedsiębiorstw<BR>[Organization of R&D cooperation of firms]|This paper focuses on the organization of R&D cooperation of firms. With respect to market relations between cooperating entities one can distinguish horizontal, vertical as well as institutional R&D cooperation of firms. With respect to organizational mode of cooperation one can distinguish R&D contracts, license agreements, non-controlling investments, joint R&D as well as research joint ventures (RJVs). All listed above forms of R&D cooperation were briefly characterized in this work. In further part of the paper the problem of organization of R&D cooperation of firms was elaborated in the light of managerial economics and new institutional economics. The institutional – managerial strand of literature perceives the organization of interfirm cooperation as a central issue. This strand of literature allows to perceive interfirm R&D cooperation as heterarchy, for which trust is a key mechanism of coordination. In this context the game-theoretic concept of trust (proposed first by Cabral, 2005) applicable to the analysis of firms’ relations and behavior within the network was presented.
L24|Pozioma współpraca badawczo-rozwojowa a kartelizacja gałęzi<BR>[Horizontal R&D cooperation and market cartelization]|The objective of this paper is to investigate the impact of horizontal R&D cooperation on cartel formation in the product market. We analyze the case in which the R&D expenditures that precede the production process are aimed at the reduction of the unit manufacturing costs, and could create positive externalities for the potential competitors. We compare how the different degrees of R&D cooperation effect on firms’ incentives to create a cartel in the product market. Like the previous literature (Kaiser, 2002; Kamien et al., 1992), we analyze a two-stage game with two firms as players. In the first stage, firms simultaneously decide on R&D expenditures and, in the second stage, they meet in the final product market. It is assumed that without successful cartel formation in the industry, firms compete in the product market in Stackelberg fashion. The analysis was made for two variants: 1) linear functions of total costs of production and 2) quadratic functions of total costs of production. For both variants, the numerical analysis revealed that a closer cooperation at the R&D stage strengthens the incentives to create a cartel in the product market. As a consequence it should be supposed that the horizontal R&D cooperation brings the relatively high risk of industry cartelization. This fact raises serious antitrust issues. Industry cartelization translates thus into unbeneficial economic outcomes for customers on the given product market.
L24|The Balanced Scorecard and Beyond – Applying Theories of Performance Measurement, Employment and Rewards in Management Accounting Education|This study applies the prevailing scholarly theories of strategic management, employment decisions, cost accounting and share reward schemes to a panel of questions raised by Colin Drury (2012) in the case study of the fictitious company Integrated Technology Services (UK) Ltd., ITS (UK). The paper provides model answers which can be used when working with the case study at institutions of higher education. The merit of the work lies in three areas. First, it provides an overview of theories accepted by the academia that can be utilized for further research. Second, it contrasts pro and contra arguments. Thus it shows the limitations of the very theories when applied to scenarios inspired by practical problems. Third, it develops an innovative Balanced Scorecard for ITS (UK). The scorecard can be used as an example when working with Drury’s case study. But it is also suitable for real life situations of business entities faced with oppressive overheads and deteriorating net margins, building on highly skilled workforce and trying to preserve its differentiated profile.
L24|Analysis of Contracts in Various Formats of Blockchain|One of the important features of Blockchain is that it allows the hosting and execution of contracts. Such a contract in the digital world is known as a Smart Contract. But the process and consequences of a contract vary radically from one format of Blockchain to another. One of the formats (and the most common at present) is the Unregulated Blockchain (like Bitcoin and Ethereum) with no government supervision whatsoever. Another format is the Controlled Blockchain which is managed and guaranteed by the Government. It is this difference that is vital in understanding the impacts and consequences of entering into and abiding by Smart Contracts. Firstly, the concept of cryptocurrencies (also referred to as cryptocoins in this paper) is explained. Then the concept of Regulated and Sovereign Backed Cryptocurrencies (RSBCs) is discussed. Later on, I explain how contracts vary between the two Blockchain formats. Finally, the paper concludes as to how smart contracts can be best executed and on which format of Blockchain.
L24|Transaction costs and the property rights approach to the theory of the firm|The standard property rights approach is focused on ex ante investment incentives, while there are no transaction costs that might restrain ex post negotiations. We explore the implications of such transaction costs. Prominent conclusions of the property rights theory may be overturned: A party may have stronger investment incentives when a non-investing party is the owner, and joint ownership can be the uniquely optimal ownership structure. Intuitively, an ownership structure that is unattractive in the standard model may now be desirable, because it implies large gains from trade, such that the parties are more inclined to incur the transaction costs.
L24|The negotiators who knew too much: Transaction costs and incomplete information|Two parties can at some future date 2 negotiate about whether or not to collaborate in order to generate a surplus. Yet, the negotiation stage will be reached only if at date 1 both parties pay their respective transaction costs. We show that the expected total surplus may be larger when at date 1 the parties do not yet know the size of the surplus that can be generated at date 2. Moreover, joint ownership can be optimal under incomplete information even when it would be suboptimal under complete information.
L24|Schoene, neue Arbeitswelt – ist der Arbeitsvertrag dafuer zu „altbacken“? (The employment contract – Too old fashioned for the brave new employment world?)|Der Beitrag wendet sich gegen die These, dass in Abkehr von dem Ausgangspunkt des zweiseitigen Vertrags „multipolare Arbeitsbeziehungen“ fuer eine juristische Betrachtungsweise gewaehlt werden sollen. Neue Organisationsformen der Arbeit duerfen nicht zu Nachteilen fuer den Arbeitnehmer fuehren. Die Arbeitsorganisation wird vom Arbeitgeber vorgegeben. Der Arbeitnehmer hat keinen Einfluss darauf. Die Organisationsform ist Ausdruck der strukturellen Ungleichgewichtslage zwischen Arbeitgeber und Arbeitnehmer. Aufgabe des Arbeitsrechts ist es, die Ungleichgewichtslage zu beseitigen und nicht sie als Ausgangspunkt zu nehmen und so zu akzeptieren. (This article criticizes the argument that in labour law analyses, the bipolar contract should be abandoned as a starting point in favour of multipolar employment relations.. Modern employment relations in multipolar organisations could be used to evade the given legal protection of the employee. Work organisation is the prerogative of the employer and employees have no influence over it.. It is the function of labour law to secure workers’ rights in this situation on the basis of the bipolar contract and not to weaken their position by accepting new organizational forms of work.)
L24|Arbeitsrecht in der vernetzten Arbeitswelt (Labour law in an interconnected digital working world)|Der vorliegende Beitrag untersucht aus arbeitsrechtlicher Perspektive das Phaenomen, dass in der vernetzten Arbeitswelt der Zugriff auf Arbeitskraft seltener im Rahmen des traditionellen Normalarbeitsverhaeltnisses erfolgt und stattdessen zunehmend externe Arbeitskraefte im Rahmen von Netzwerkorganisationen eingesetzt werden. Es wird die These entwickelt, dass es zu kurz greifen wuerde, diesen Wandel unter der fuer das Arbeitsrecht derzeit typischen bipolaren Perspektive zu analysieren, und dass arbeitsrechtliche Begrifflichkeiten und Grundstrukturen im Hinblick auf mehrpolige Rechtsbeziehungen und interorganisationale Fragestellungen weiterzuentwickeln sind. Konzeptionelle Defizite der Regulierung des drittbezogenen Personaleinsatzes werden herausgearbeitet. Ausgehend von den in den Grundrechten wurzelnden staatlichen Schutzpflichten und dem im Rechtsstaatsprinzip wurzelnden Kohaerenzgebot werden ein Leitbild fuer die vernetzte Arbeitswelt entworfen und Schlussfolgerungen fuer eine systematische Entwicklung des Rechts der externen Arbeitskraefte gezogen. (This paper adopts a labour law perspective to analyse the more frequent external deployment of labour than conventional employment in network organisations. We argue that it is insufficient to analyse this phenomenon from the bipolar perspective dominant in the traditional concept of labour law. Instead it is necessary to develop a concept and structure of (labour) law with regard to multipolar relations and inter-organisational problems. The paper analyses the conceptual deficits of the current regulation of triangular labour deployment strategies. It then develops guiding principles for the deployment of labour in an interconnected digital working world. It does so by focusing on the duty of States to protect human rights and the principle of coherent regulation. In the light of these principles, we draw practical conclusions for the regulation of the use of external labour.)
L24|Steigende Schutzdefizite im Arbeitsrecht? (Growing lack of protection in labour law?)|Der Einsatz von „Fremdbelegschaften“ hat wenig mit wachsender Vernetzung von Unternehmen zu tun. Die rechtliche Entkoppelung von arbeitsvertraglicher Beziehung und Arbeitsort wirft Probleme auf, die sich bei den einzelnen Gruppen der Fremdbelegschaften unterschiedlich stellen. Leiharbeitnehmer haben neben ihrer Vertragsbeziehung zum Verleiher zahlreiche arbeitsrechtliche Rechte und Pflichten zum Entleiher, die sich unter dem Leitbegriff eines partiellen Arbeitsverhaeltnisses zusammenfassen lassen. Ihre faktische Schlechterstellung gegenueber Stammbeschaeftigten haengt mit gesetzlich zugelassenen Billigtarifen und einer isolierten Arbeitssituation zusammen, die eine gemeinsame Interessenvertretung erschwert. Bei der zweiten Gruppe – den aufgrund Werk- oder Dienstvertrags in den Betrieb Kommenden – lassen sich die rechtlichen Probleme gleichfalls bewaeltigen, die die Nichtzugehoerigkeit zur „eigentlichen“ Belegschaft mit sich bringt. Ihre schlechtere Lage haengt damit zusammen, dass sie im besten Falle den Tarifen einer „Billig-Branche“ unterliegen, meist aber zu jenen 42 % der Beschaeftigten gehoeren, die nicht mehr durch Tarifvertraege geschuetzt sind. Bei den Soloselbstaendigen als der dritten Gruppe muss man unterscheiden. Wer sein Einkommen im Wesentlichen vom Einsatzbetrieb bezieht, wird als arbeitnehmeraehnliche Person qualifiziert und kann sich deshalb auf bestimmte arbeitsrechtliche Normen wie das Bundesurlaubsgesetz berufen, bleibt andererseits aber vom Kuendigungsschutzgesetz und von der Betriebsverfassung ausgeschlossen. Tarifvertraege sind moeglich, aber faktisch nicht durchsetzbar. Liegt wegen Fehlens eines beherrschenden Auftraggebers keine Arbeitnehmeraehnlichkeit vor, kann sich der Betroffene nur auf zivilrechtliche Schutznormen berufen, die zwar eine intensive Vertragsinhaltskontrolle, aber keinerlei Bestandsschutz gewaehren. Hinter dem Begriff der Crowdworker als vierter Gruppe verbergen sich sehr unterschiedliche Rechtsbeziehungen; soweit fuer auslaendische Plattformen gearbeitet wird, ist selbst der zivilrechtliche Schutz in Frage gestellt. Im Vergleich dazu sind die Probleme jener Beschaeftigten, deren Arbeit von einem anderen Konzernunternehmen als dem Vertragsarbeitgeber gesteuert wird, von relativ geringer Dimension. Ein einheitliches „Modell“ fuer den Umgang mit Fremdbelegschaften kann es nicht geben; die unbestreitbaren Schutzdefizite haben ihre Ursachen nicht in den Schwierigkeiten der „Ankoppelung“ an den Einsatzbetrieb, sondern in der Stellung der Betroffenen auf dem Arbeitsmarkt. (There is no necessary linkage between the use of a so-called external workforce and the increased interconnectedness of organisations. Within the external workforce, we have to distinguish four groups which are less protected than workers in a standard employment relationship. The coordination problems between an external and internal workforce are normally solved in a satisfactory way. Temporary agency workers have many legal links to the enterprise, which together can be considered to be a partial employment relationship. Workers sent to the plant by their employers on the basis of a contract of services keep their rights as employees in the relationship to their employer. In addition, there are also legal links to the company where the worker is deployed. The absence of a contract with the enterprise where the work is done is not the real cause of the weak position of these two kinds of workers. It is rather their position in the labour market and their difficulty in joining trade unions and their lack of access to the improved working conditions of collective agreements. Self-employed workers with no employees are often in a still worse condition, protected only by civil law. If they work more or less exclusively for one enterprise, some labour law rules apply comprising annual leave and the (theoretical) possibility to conclude collective agreements. However, they cannot invoke the rules against unfair dismissal and they are not integrated into the system of works councils. The situation of crowdworkers varies according to the task they have to fulfil. If they are self-employed persons without employees, they will often be protected only by civil law which guarantees an intensive control of contract clauses but does not protect against the termination of the relationship. To improve their position is a question for labour market policy too. The concept of creating a uniform model to cover external workforces is misleading because it neglects the real reasons for decreasing employment protection.)
L24|Entgrenzung von Organisation und Arbeit? Interorganisationale Fragmentierung als Herausforderung für Arbeitsrecht, Management und Mitbestimmung. Einleitung zum Schwerpunktheft|Die Artikel des Schwerpunktheftes setzen an verschiedenen inhaltlichen Dimensionen und Ebenen dieser Fragmentierung an: Auf der Arbeitsebene ist der Beitrag von Gabriele Fassauer und Silke Geithner angesiedelt, der die inner-organisatorische Bewaeltigung von Co-Konfiguration durch Auftragsmanager behandelt. Auf Basis der Taetigkeitstheorie beleuchten die Autorinnen die Co-Konfiguration zwischen Kunden und Produzenten, indem sie die Grenzarbeit von Auftragsmanagern im Zentrum interorganisationaler Leistungserstellung sichtbar machen, um den Anforderungen von Kunden, Zulieferern und den unternehmensinternen Arbeitsgruppen gerecht zu werden. Die Mitbestimmungspraxis von Betriebsraeten im Umgang mit quasi-externalisierter Arbeit ist Gegenstand von gleich zwei Aufsaetzen mit je unterschiedlicher Blickrichtung. Der Artikel von Markus Hertwig, Johannes Kirsch und Carsten Wirth zielt auf die Erkundung des Umgangs des Betriebsrats mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen in strukturationstheoretischer Perspektive. Fuer die Ernaehrungs- und Getraenkeindustrie zeigen sie verschiedene Praktiken auf, die in verschiedenen Typen des Umgangs von Betriebsraeten mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen verdichtet werden, die zwischen Kooperation und Konfrontation, zwischen Ablehnung und Akzeptanz angesiedelt sind. Karina Becker thematisiert aus einer sozialkritischen Perspektive den Gesundheits- und Arbeitsschutz fuer Werkvertragsbeschaeftigte in der Pflege. Dabei interessiert sie sich insbesondere fuer die rechtlichen Sekundaermachtpotenziale der Betriebsraete sowie deren etwaige Verschiebungen innerhalb des Feldes des Arbeits- und Gesundheitsschutzes. Auf diese Weise wird die Reichweite staatlicher Mindestschutzvorschriften im Betrieb bzw. im Haushalt als Verhandlungsgegenstand der Mitbestimmung thematisiert. Auf der Mesoebene zwischen Organisationen und (arbeits-)rechtlichem Rahmen setzen Isabell Hensel, Jochen Koch, Eva Kocher und Anna Schwarz mit einer interdisziplinaeren Einordnung online vermittelter Arbeitsauftraege und Werke an. Sie deuten neue Formen der Arbeitserbringung („Crowdworking“) in ihrer Vielgestaltigkeit, d.h. auch und gerade hinsichtlich von Potenzialen, die jenseits einer allfaelligen Prekarisierung angesiedelt sein koennen. Hierbei greifen sie zum einen auf die Organisations- und Managementtheorie zurueck, zum anderen benutzen sie das Arbeitsrecht, um das Spektrum von Crowdworking in einem Regelkreis aus Autonomie und Kontrolle, Flexibilitaet und Stabilitaet zu ordnen. Auf der Makroebene diskutiert Andreas Buecker die Regulierung der multipolaren Arbeitsbeziehungen und insbesondere des sog. drittbezogenen Personaleinsatzes, indem er bestehende Quellen des Arbeitsrechts (AEntG, MiloG, ArbSchG, BetrVG) auf Anwendbarkeit prueft, um regulative Luecken zu praezisieren. Zugleich thematisiert er die Rolle von Leitbildern im Diskurs der Rechtsfortbildung. Im Ergebnis argumentiert er fuer eine Fortentwicklung des Arbeitsrechts, um ueber den klassischen bipolaren Arbeitnehmerbegriff hinaus auch mehrpolige Rechtsbeziehungen erfassen zu koennen und die Betroffenen nicht schutzlos zu stellen. Hieran knuepfen zwei Debattenbeitraege an, um die derzeitige Konstruktion des Arbeitsrechts auf den Pruefstand zu stellen. Ebenso wie Buecker setzen sowohl Christiane Brors als auch Wolfgang Daeubler am grundsaetzlich bestehenden sozialen Schutzbedarf in mehrpoligen Arbeitsbeziehungen an, blicken aber gleichsam etwas optimistischer in die Zukunft. Brors haelt das zweipolige Arbeitsverhaeltnis nach wie vor fuer den richtigen Anker, um den Schutz abhaengig Beschaeftigter zu gewaehrleisten und zeigt auf, dass bestehende Ansaetze, insbesondere im Rahmen des Rechts der Leiharbeit, ausbaufaehig sind. AEhnlich sieht es Daeubler, der gleichermassen im Arbeitsrecht wie im Recht der Selbststaendigen ausbaufaehige Konstruktionen sieht. Deutlich wird dabei aber, dass gerade im letzteren Bereich der Gesetzgeber gefragt sein koennte, ueber den Typus der arbeitnehmeraehnlichen Person den Schutz von Selbststaendigen zu verbessern. Darueber hinaus macht Daeubler deutlich, dass gerade beim Crowdsourcing ein Problem in der Internationalitaet der Rechtsbeziehung liegen koennte.
L24|Onsite-Werkvertraege und Industrielle Beziehungen: Praktiken der Betriebsraete zwischen Ablehnung und Akzeptanz (Onsite-subcontracting and industrial relations: Practices of works councils between rejection and acceptance)|Mit Onsite-Werkvertraegen koennen vielfaeltige negative Konsequenzen fuer die Arbeitsbedingungen der Beschaeftigten und fuer die Interessenvertretung verknuepft sein. Deshalb fragen wir, wie Betriebsraete mit der Verbreitung von Onsite-Werkvertraegen in den Kernbereichen der Wertschoepfung umgehen und welche Praktiken der Interessenvertretung im Prozess des Outsourcings entwickelt werden. In diesem Beitrag zeigen wir auf Basis einer strukturationstheoretischen Analyse von insgesamt zwoelf Fallstudien aus dem Verarbeitenden Gewerbe und dem Einzelhandel, dass sich zwei grundlegende Handlungsmuster (Ablehnung oder Akzeptanz) herausbilden. Diese Handlungsmuster differenzieren sich weiter nach den grundlegenden Sicht , Handlungs und Legitimationsweisen der Betriebsraete in die vier Typen‚ ‚Ablehnung – Unsicherheit‘, ‚Ablehnung – Konfrontation‘, ‚Akzeptanz – Kooperation‘ und ‚Akzeptanz – Ausgestaltung‘ aus. Die Betriebsraete ueben dabei Einfluss aus, ohne jedoch alle negativen Konsequenzen aufheben zu koennen. Dies hat Folgen fuer das Erwerbssystem als Ganzes. (Onsite-subcontracting can produce multiple negative consequences for employment conditions and interest representation. Therefore, we ask how works councils position themselves towards onsite-subcontracting and how they intervene in the process of outsourcing. Based on a structurationist analysis of twelve case studies in the manufacturing sector and in retailing, we identify two major patterns of action (rejection and acceptance). The patterns of action can be differentiated into four types of works council behaviour: ‘rejection – uncertainty, ‘rejection – confrontation’, ‘acceptance – co-operation’ and ‘acceptance – arrangement’. Furthermore, works councils exert influence to a varying degree but they cannot offset all negative consequences. This has implications for the overall employment system.)
L24|Dynamics of a facilitator’s role: Insights from the Danish construction industry|A facilitator is used in many different business capacities. In the construction industry, the role of facilitator is usually carried out by a stakeholder, often the architect. Facilitation embodies different roles, competences and activities. The present research addresses how a facilitator may have and make use of different roles during different phases of a process. This paper is based on a theory-building approach that combines existing theory and cases. Three cases demonstrate other stakeholders’ involvement in the process and the impact of this involvement on the facilitator’s role. The research in the three cases applied is based on workshops, interviews and observations. The cases are viewed from role and network perspectives, offering both possibilities and limitations for innovations in different stages of construction projects. Construction process facilitators fill the role of assisting and enabling the process. To achieve project success, they align the activities of various stakeholders. They reach alignment by influencing the other stakeholders, based on competences and the role taken and made. This paper contributes to the understanding of the facilitator’s role, the changes in this role over time and this role’s importance in construction industry projects.
L24|Trade and Innovation: Matched Worker-Firm-Level Evidence|This paper examines the relationship between globalization and innovation. To do so, it draws from data that match the full population of workers and private-sector firms in Finland tracking them from 1995 to 2009. To correct for endogeneity the paper considers variation in trade exposure from China during its entry to the world market using a fixed effects model. While the literature on trade and innovation has emphasized the role of firms in driving onshore innovation, the main conclusion of this research is that globalization increases the share of innovators within firms.
L24|Litigation settlements, litigation stakes, and financial distress costs|Several theoretical studies provide predictions on the relation between settlement likelihood and litigation stakes. Although models with generalizable settings argue in favor of a negative relation, certain specialized settings predict the opposite. In contrast to the theoretical literature, there is limited empirical analysis of the relation with only one study reporting evidence of a positive association. In this study, we infer how the stock market forms expectations regarding the relation between settlement likelihood and litigation stakes by analyzing stock returns around settlement announcement dates. We find that the market was more surprised when higher stakes lawsuits were settled, suggesting that higher stakes lawsuits were not expected to settle. We thus provide empirical support in favor of general theoretical models on conflict resolution that predict a positive relation between litigation stakes and settlement likelihood. Our results also have implications for studies of financial distress costs. Although we find evidence of the existence of financial distress costs, our results contradict a conclusion drawn in prior researchâ€”that the primary benefit of litigation settlements is the unexpected relief from financial distress costs.
L24|BASMATI - A Brokerage Architecture on Federated Clouds for Mobile Applications|Although mobile devices became more powerful and sophisticated over the last decade, enabling rich-multimedia services, resource constraints still hinder today’s mobile applications from reaching their potential. To address this, this work aims at delivering an architecture that supports changing needs of mobile users through an end-to-end approach. The outcomes are sets of requirements, each representing a set of prioritized platform functionalities, and the BASMATI architecture that integrates the sets.
L24|Universities as partners in research joint ventures|Abstract Sustainable economic growth depends on a continual flow of innovations that depends in turn on a continual flow of knowledge. While empirical evidence suggests that universities can play a significant role in the creation and dissemination of that knowledge, little is known of the characteristics of research joint ventures involving universities. One of the few studies to investigate this issue is Link and Scott (Research Policy 34:385–393, 2005), which found a positive relationship between university participation in RJVs and the size of RJVs which they attributed to universities providing higher marginal value and lower appropriability problems to larger RJVs. Boardman and Bozeman (Economics of Innovation and New Technology 15:51–69, 2006), however, suggests that the explanation might be more complex and not necessarily associated with profit maximization. The purpose of this paper is to present a theoretical model based on a profit-maximizing approach of the decision to invite a university to participate in an RJV that can serve as a foundation for future empirical work, an exploration of the relative explanatory power of a profit-maximizing approach, and a framework for evaluating empirically the policy implications of the Link and Scott’s (Research Policy 34:385–393, 2005) findings.
L24|From outsourcing to productivity, passing through training: microeconometric evidence from Italy| This paper provides firm-level evidence on the short-run link between outsourcing and productivity using an original data-set of Italian manufacturing firms and estimating a recursive system of three equations. We find a positive correlation between productivity and outsourcing only if firms provide training for the workforce. This indirect impact is significant only in the case of production outsourcing and when training is provided off the job to top and middle managers. The rationale is that production outsourcing induces a re-organization of the production process requiring workers to learn and adapt through formal training activities.
L24|Screening for Patent Quality: Examination, Fees and the Courts|We develop an integrated framework to study how governments can improve the quality of patent screening. We focus on four key policy instruments: patent office examination, pre- and post-grant fees, and challenges in the courts. We show that there are important complementarities among these instruments, and identify conditions under which they can be used to achieve either partial or complete screening. We simulate the model to study the welfare effects of different policy reforms. We show that intensifying patent office examination, frontloading patent fees and capping litigation costs all generate welfare gains, while replacing examination with a pure registration system reduces welfare.
L24|Vertical organization of production and firm growth|This paper empirically explores if different vertical organizational forms (i.e. vertical integration versus disintegration) give rise to unlike growth “behaviors” within the same industry. An econometric analysis is conducted in a sample of around 500 Italian machine tool (MT) builders for the period 1998–2007. Ceteris paribus, vertically integrated firms result to be characterized by a less dispersed distribution of growth rates than their disintegrated counterparts. By means of analyzing how different organizational forms map into the distribution of output growth rates, this work provides insight into the firm dynamics in a mature industry in which both vertically integrated and disintegrated firms coexist.
L24|The Impact of Formal Networking on the Performance of SMEs|"Using a large sample of Italian small and medium enterprises (SMEs), we investigate the effect of membership in a formal business network (""contratto di rete"") on firms' economic performance. We find that network participation has a positive effect on value added and exports, but not on profitability. The advantages of networking are stronger in the case of: smaller SMEs, firms operating in traditional and in more turbulent markets, firms located in less developed areas and firms not already exploiting the weaker ties offered by industrial districts. Network characteristics, such as size, geographical dispersion and diversity, are also found to influence performance."
L24|The Optimal Scope of the Royalty Base in Patent Licensing|Legal scholars debate the merits of using the total value of the product, as opposed to the value of the component to which the technology contributes, as the base for a royalty in licensing contracts. In this paper we make use of the fact that these two royalty bases are equivalent to using ad valorem and per-unit royalties, respectively. We abstract from implementation and practicability considerations to analyze the welfare implications of the two rules. Ad valorem royalties tend to lead to lower prices, particularly in the context of successive monopolies. They benefit upstream innovators and do not necessarily hurt downstream producers. This benefit increases when there are multiple innovators contributing complementary technologies, as is typical of standard-setting organizations. Ad valorem royalties are even more desirable when enticing upstream investment is optimal. Our findings explain why most licensing contracts include royalties based on the value of the product.
L24|The effect of entry on R&D networks|We investigate the effect of potential entry on the formation and stability of R&D networks considering farsighted firms. The presence of a potential entrant often alters the incentives of incumbents to collaborate. Incumbent firms may form an otherwise undesirable collaboration to deter entry of a new firm. Moreover, an incumbent may refrain from establishing an otherwise desirable collaboration, expecting to form a more profitable link with the entrant. Finally, potential entry may lead an inefficient incumbent to exit the market. Welfare analysis shows market and social incentives to be often misaligned. We propose a subsidy scheme that encourages welfare‐improving entry.
L24|Alliances and the innovation performance of corporate and public research spin-off firms|Abstract We explore the innovation performance benefits of alliances for spin-off firms, in particular spin-offs either from other firms or from public research organizations. During the early years of the emerging combinatorial chemistry industry, the industry on which our empirical analysis focuses, spin-offs engaged in alliances with large and established partners, partners of similar type and size, and with public research organizations, often for different reasons. We seek to understand to what extent alliances of spin-offs with other firms (either large- or small- and medium-sized firms) affected their innovation performance and also how this performance may have been affected by their corporate or public research background. We find evidence that in general alliances of spin-offs with other firms, in particular alliances with large firms, increased their innovation performance. Corporate spin-offs that formed alliances with other firms outperformed public research spin-offs with such alliances. This suggests that, in terms of their innovation performance, corporate spin-offs that engaged in alliances with other firms seemed to have benefitted from their prior corporate background. Interestingly, it turns out that the negative impact of alliances on the innovation performance of public research spin-offs was largely affected by their alliances with small- and medium-sized firms.
L24|Contracting for technology transfer: patent licensing and know-how in Brazil| Using contract-level data, we study the relation between the inclusion of know-how in cross-border patent licensing agreements and the contractual terms used by firms to deal with moral hazard risks. We use official data on international technology contracts with patent licensing terms registered by affiliated and unaffiliated parties before the Department of Technology Transfer of the National Institute of Intellectual Property (INPI) in Brazil between 1996 and 2012. We find that contracts between unaffiliated parties involving know-how transfer show distinctive contractual and technology features compared to the rest: (i) they involve younger but lower quality technologies (compared to contracts without know-how); (ii) they are more prone to up front lump-sum payments than royalty or combined payments (royalty and fixed); and (iii) they are more likely to be accompanied by the licensing of other IPRs, in addition to patents, such as trademarks.
L24|Domestic Outsourcing in the United States: A Research Agenda to Assess Trends and Effects on Job Quality|The goal of this paper is to develop a comprehensive research agenda to analyze trends in domestic outsourcing in the United States—firms’ use of contractors and independent contractors—and its effects on job quality and inequality. In the process, we review definitions of outsourcing, the available scant empirical research, and limitations of existing data sources. We also summarize theories that attempt to explain why firms contract out for certain functions and assess their predictions about likely impacts on job quality. We then lay out in detail a major research initiative on domestic outsourcing, discussing the questions it should answer and providing a menu of research methodologies and potential data sources. Such a research investment will be a critical resource for policymakers and other stakeholders as they seek solutions to problems arising from the changing nature of work.
L24|Determinants of financial rewards from industry-university collaboration in South Korea| The external circumstances for universities have been changing rapidly. In order to be competitive, survive and flourish, universities have turned to external sources to generate revenues. The literature refers to this phenomenon as academic capitalism, defined as the involvement of colleges and their faculty in market-like behaviours, which has become a key feature of higher education finances in most countries. As a result, technology transfer, technological commercialisation, and patents via industry-university collaboration represent a source of financial rewards. This paper explores the determinants of financial rewards of universities sourced from academic engagement through industry-university collaboration in South Korea. We have found that technology transfer per employees working at technology licensing offices, participation of engineering faculty, patent approvals, and the number of firms with incubators within universities significantly contributes to university revenues. The following determinants of financial performance are unexpectedly not contributors to revenue: technological commercialisation using technology transfer, distinguished faculty and incentive rules for inventors. In the light of these findings, it appears that an entrepreneurial university program is likely to play a strong role in university finances in Korea.
L24|Determinants Of Financial Rewards From Industry–University Collaboration In South Korea|The external circumstances for universities have been changing rapidly. In order to be competitive, survive and flourish, universities have turned to external sources to generate revenues. The literature refers to this phenomenon as academic capitalism, defined as the involvement of colleges and their faculty in market-like behaviours, which has become a key feature of higher education finances in most countries. As a result, technology transfer, technological commercialisation, and patents via industry–university collaboration represent a source of financial rewards. This paper explores the determinants of financial rewards of universities sourced from academic engagement through industry–university collaboration in South Korea. We have found that technology transfer per employees working at technology licensing offices, participation of engineering faculty, patent approvals, and the number of firms with incubators within universities significantly contributes to university revenues. The following determinants of financial performance are unexpectedly not contributors to revenue: technological commercialisation using technology transfer, distinguished faculty and incentive rules for inventors. In the light of these findings, it appears that an entrepreneurial university program is likely to play a strong role in university finances in Korea.
L24|IT outsourcing and firm productivity: Eliminating bias from selective missingness in the dependent variable|Missing values are a major problem in all econometric applications based on survey data. A standard approach assumes data are missing-at-random and uses imputation methods, or even listwise deletion. This approach is justified if item non-response does not depend on the potentially missing variables' realization. However, assuming missing-at-random may introduce bias if non-response is, in fact, selective. Relevant applications range from financial or strategic firm-level data to individual-level data on income or privacy-sensitive behaviors. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to deal with selective item nonresponse in the model's dependent variable. Our approach is based on instrumental variables that affect selection only through potential outcomes. In addition, we allow for endogenous regressors. We establish identification of the structural parameter and propose a simple two-step estimation procedure for it. Our estimator is consistent and robust against biases that would prevail when assuming missingness at random. We implement the estimation procedure using firm-level survey data and a binary instrumental variable to estimate the effect of outsourcing on productivity.
L24|Copyright Infringement in the Market for Digital Images|Digital technologies for sharing creative goods create new opportunities for copyright infringement and challenge established enforcement methods. We establish several important facts about the nature of copyright infringement and efforts to settle past infringing use in the market for digital images. Infringement in this, and many other markets, is often uninformed: users may be unaware that their use infringes, and may lack information about the price of a license. The uninformed nature of infringement implies that price may not be the primary factor in the decision to settle past use; in contrast, non-price factors may significantly affect settlement outcomes.
L24|Patent Licensing, Technology Transfer, and Innovation|Traditional justifications for patents are based on direct or indirect contribution to product creation. Non-practicing entities (NPEs) might provide such innovation, either directly, through working the patent or transfer of technology to others who do, or indirectly, when others copy. Available evidence suggests, however, that ex post licensing demands from NPEs do not normally involve these activities. Some have argued that patents are valuable without technology transfer because the ability to exclude may drive commercialization that would not otherwise occur. We demonstrate that even if commercialization theories sometimes justify patent protection, they cannot justify most NPE lawsuits or licensing demands.
L24|The Surprisingly Swift Decline of US Manufacturing Employment|This paper links the sharp drop in US manufacturing employment after 2000 to a change in US trade policy that eliminated potential tariff increases on Chinese imports. Industries more exposed to the change experience greater employment loss, increased imports from China, and higher entry by US importers and foreign-owned Chinese exporters. At the plant level, shifts toward less labor-intensive production and exposure to the policy via input-output linkages also contribute to the decline in employment. Results are robust to other potential explanations of employment loss, and there is no similar reaction in the European Union, where policy did not change.
L24|The Allocation of Future Business: Dynamic Relational Contracts with Multiple Agents|We consider how a firm dynamically allocates business among several suppliers to motivate them in a relational contract. The firm chooses one supplier who exerts private effort. Output is non-contractible, and each supplier observes only his own relationship with the principal. In this setting, allocation decisions constrain the transfers that can be promised to suppliers in equilibrium. Consequently, optimal allocation decisions condition on payoff-irrelevant past performance to make strong incentives credible. We construct a dynamic allocation rule that attains first-best whenever any allocation rule does. This allocation rule performs strictly better than any rule that depends only on payoff-relevant information.
L24|Screening for Good Patent Pools through Price Caps on Individual Licenses|Patent pools reduce prices when selling complementary inputs to technologies, but can also effectively cartelize markets when involving substitutes. Independent licensing, by reintroducing competition, ensures that only good pools form when there are two patent holders involved. For larger pools, independent licensing needs to be complemented by other policy tools. We propose to constrain the royalties for the patents individually licensed outside the pool with price caps replicating the pool's sharing rule. This information-free screening device works with asymmetries, even when licensors try to stabilize pools by readjusting the sharing rule in a way that may not reflect contributions.
L24|Copersucar: A World Leader in Sugar and Ethanol| Copersucar is a Brazilian sugar and ethanol cooperative founded in 1959. Today, it’s the world’s largest originator and trader of cane sugar, and one of the largest ethanol trading organizations. Copersucar’s mission is to create value through logistic capacity, differentiated trading operations, and operational excellence. The case is designed to help participants conduct both internal and external analyses through engaging, first-hand materials detailing Copersucar’s growth, operations, finances, and cooperative structure. It is written primarily for professional, executive, and graduate students.
L24|Free Riding in Procurement Design|Low-powered contracts do not provide proper incentives to reduce cost; still empirical studies show that they are quite pervasive in public and private procurement. This paper argues that low-powered contracts arise due to a free-riding problem when the contractor enjoys economies of scale/scope working for different buyers. A buyer, offering a procurement contract to the contractor, does not fully internalize that higher-powered incentives provide cost reduction in the contractor's activities, benefiting other buyers. As a result, buyers offer lower-powered contracts than what would be designed by cooperative buyers. Strikingly, the higher the contractor's benefits from economies of scope/scale are, the lower the power of the procurement contracts will be. In addition, laws which force buyers to award fixed-price contracts can be welfare-enhancing.
L24|Estructura vertical de la industria manufacturera colombiana entre 1990 - 2013|Este documento analiza los cambios ocurridos en la estructura vertical de la industria colombiana entre 1990 y 2013. Primero, se reitera el cálculo del tamaño total de la industria propuesto por Carranza y Moreno (2013) y se encuentra que la cadena industrial representa 33.6% del PIB. Segundo, se realiza un análisis por sectores con la información de las matrices oferta - utilización de las Cuentas Nacionales del DANE y se observa que aquellos sectores que se desintegraron entre 1994 y 2005 son también los sectores que incrementaron sus compras de servicios y disminuyeron sus gastos en asalariados. Finalmente, con información de la Superintendencia de Sociedades, se encuentra que las firmas industriales de la muestra tercerizan con mayor intensidad los procesos intensivos en mano de obra, por medio de la contratación de temporales y de firmas de servicios. Además, las firmas industriales más desintegradas están relacionadas con mayor concentración regional de firmas proveedoras de servicios a las empresas, servicios de alquiler de maquinaria y equipo, intermediación financiera o comercializadoras al por menor.
L24|Ex-post Merger Evaluation in the U.K. Retail Market for Books|This paper evaluates the price effects of the merger of two major UK book retailers. We use a dataset containing monthly scanner data on a sample of 200 books in 50 local markets for four years around the merger. We compare the price changes after the merger in shops located in areas where both chains were present before the merger and in areas where only one chain was present. We also investigate the country-wide effect of the merger. We find that the merger did not result in any price increase either at the local or at the national level.
L24|Ex post Merger Evaluation in the U.K. Retail Market for Books|This paper empirically evaluates the price effects of the merger of two major book retail chains in the UK: Waterstone’s and Ottakar’s. We employ differences-in-differences techniques and use a rich dataset containing monthly scanner data information on a sample of 200 books sold in 60 stores in 50 different local markets for a period of four years around the merger. Since retail mergers may have either local or national effects (or both) according to the level at which retail chains set prices, we undertake an ex-post assessment of the impact of the merger at both levels. At the local level, we compare the changes in the average price charged before and after the merger in the shops located in overlap areas –i.e. areas where both chains were present before the merger– and in non-overlap areas –i.e. areas where only one chain was present before the merger. At the national level, we employ two distinct control groups to evaluate the merger, namely the competitors and the top-selling titles. We find that the merger did not result in an increase in prices either at the local or at the national level. We also perform heterogeneous treatment effects estimations in order to assess whether the effect of the merger differs along various dimensions of heterogeneity that are present in our data.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L24|The Effect of R&D Services Offshoring on Skilled Employment: Firm Evidence|The offshoring of high-tech services has greatly increased in recent years, with consequences for firms demand for skilled employment in firms. This paper specifically analyzes the relationship between R&D offshoring and the demand for R&D employment using firm-level data for Spanish manufacturing and services companies during the period 2004-2009. Estimating different specifications with panel data techniques, we find that this association is statistically positive. In particular, for services firms a 1 percentage point increase in R&D offshoring raises the demand for researchers by about 11%. This suggests the existence of complementarity among them as productive inputs.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L24|Profit Improving via Strategic Technology Sharing|This paper investigates whether a downstream monopolist has an incentive to freely share its technology to potential entrants. With a linear demand, it is more profitable for the downstream monopolist to share its obsolete technology with the potential entrants even with no returns. In this context, technology sharing is a Pareto improvement. Moreover, the profit of the downstream monopolist via technology sharing increases with the number of new entrants, but the nexus between social welfare and the number of new entrants is non-monotonic.
L24|Specific Investment and Supplier Vulnerability: Theory and Evidence|Apart from the familiar holdup problem, we investigate another implication of specific investment that has not been examined systematically in the literature. That is, the presence of specific investment can make a supplier vulnerable to large negative shocks to its customer’s business. In a theoretical model, we demonstrate that this vulnerability causes the supplier to under-invest. A higher degree of specificity induces the supplier to invest more, and it leads to a lower mean and higher volatility in the supplier’s profit. Using panel data on over 5000 U.S. firms from 1990 to 2010, our empirical analysis shows the prevalence of the supplier vulnerability problem associated with specific investment.
L24|Relational Knowledge Transfers|We study how relational contracts mitigate Becker's classic problem of providing general human capital when training contracts are incomplete. The firm's profit-maximizing agreement is a multiperiod apprenticeship in which the novice is trained gradually over time and eventually receives all knowledge. The firm adopts a 1/e rule, whereby at the beginning of the relationship the novice is trained, for free, just enough to produce a fraction 1/e of the efficient output. After that, the novice earns all additional knowledge with labor. This rule causes inefficiently lengthy relationships that grow longer the more patient the players. A minimum wage is welfare enhancing.
L24|New and Revised Results for 'Building Reputation for Contract Renewal: Implications for Performance Dynamics and Contract Duration'|"In this paper we present some new results for the dynamic agent model by Iossa and Rey (2014, ""Building Reputation for Contract Renewal: Implications for Performance Dynamics and Contract Duration,'' Journal of the European Economic Association, 12, 549−574) while also correcting some errors in that article. Iossa and Rey study the performance of an agent who repeatedly receives multi-period contracts and determine the optimal duration of such contracts in the context of an infinitely repeated multi-period agent model. We amend the characterization of the unique Markov perfect equilibrium for this model. In addition, we review the original welfare analysis of the model and either provide corrected proofs when possible or provide counterexamples. Our counterexamples overturn the main comparative statics results of the original analysis. We demonstrate that both the agent's optimal investment decision and the optimal contract duration depend non-monotonically on the information persistence and the agent's discount factor. In the final part of the analysis, we establish new results on the agent's optimal investment decision."
L24|The Inverse Cournot Effect in Royalty Negotiations with Complementary Patents|It has been commonly argued that the decision of a large number of inventors to license complementary patents necessary for the development of a product leads to excessively large royalties. This well-known Cournot-complements or royalty-stacking effect would hurt efficiency and downstream competition. In this paper we show that when we consider patent litigation and introduce heterogeneity in the portfolio of different firms these results change substantially due to what we denote the Inverse Cournot effect. We show that the lower the total royalty that a downstream producer pays, the lower the royalty that patent holders restricted by the threat of litigation of downstream producers will charge. This effect generates a moderation force in the royalty that unconstrained large patent holders will charge that may overturn some of the standard predictions in the literature. Interestingly, though, this effect can be less relevant when all patent portfolios are weak making royalty stacking more important.
L24|Estructura vertical de la industria manufacturera colombiana entre 1990 - 2013|Este documento analiza los cambios ocurridos en la estructura vertical de la industria colombiana entre 1990 y 2013. Primero, se reitera el cálculo del tamaño total de la industria propuesto por Carranza y Moreno (2013) y se encuentra que la cadena industrial representa 33.6% del PIB. Segundo, se realiza un análisis por sectores con la información de las matrices oferta - utilización de las Cuentas Nacionales del DANE y se observa que aquellos sectores que se desintegraron entre 1994 y 2005 son también los sectores que incrementaron sus compras de servicios y disminuyeron sus gastos en asalariados. Finalmente, con información de la Superintendencia de Sociedades, se encuentra que las firmas industriales de la muestra tercerizan con mayor intensidad los procesos intensivos en mano de obra, por medio de la contratación de temporales y de firmas de servicios. Además, las firmas industriales más desintegradas están relacionadas con mayor concentración regional de firmas proveedoras de servicios a las empresas, servicios de alquiler de maquinaria y equipo, intermediación financiera o comercializadoras al por menor.
L24|"Grantbacks, Territorial Restraints and the Type of Follow-On Innovation: The ""But for..."" Defence"|We analyse the effect of grantback clauses in licensing contracts. While competition authorities fear that grantback clauses might decrease the licensee?s ex post incentives to innovate, a standard defence is that grantback clauses are required for the patent-owner to agree to license its technology in the first place. We examine the validity of this ?but for? defence and the equilibrium effect of grantback clauses on the innovation incentives of the licensee for both non-severable and severable innovations. Under the 2004 EU Technology Transfer Guidelines , and the guidelines for some other jurisdictions, grantback clauses that apply to ?non - severable? (read ?infringing?) innovations are considered to be less controversial than clauses that apply to ?severable? innovations. We show, to the contrary, that grantback clauses do not increase the patent- holder?s incentives to license when non-severable innovations are at stake but they do when severable innovations are concerned ? suggesting that the ?but for? defence might be valid for severable innovations but not for non-severable ones. Moreover we show that, for severable innovations, grantback clauses can increase the range of parameters for which follow-on innovation by the licensee occurs.
L24|The Inverse Cournot Effect in Royalty Negotiations with Complementary Patents|It has been commonly argued that the decision of a large number of inventors to license complementary patents necessary for the development of a product leads to excessively large royalties. This well-known Cournot-complements or royaltystacking effect would hurt efficiency and downstream competition. In this paper we show that when we consider patent litigation and introduce heterogeneity in the portfolio of different firms these results change substantially due to what we denote the Inverse Cournot e ect. We show that the lower the total royalty that a downstream producer pays, the lower the royalty that patent holders restricted by the threat of litigation of downstream producers will charge. This effect generates a moderation force in the royalty that unconstrained large patent holders will charge that may overturn some of the standard predictions in the literature. Interestingly, though, this effect can be less relevant when all patent portfolios are weak making royalty stacking more important.
L24|Screening for Patent Quality : Examination, Fees, and the Courts|We develop an integrated framework to study how governments can improve the quality of patent screening. We focus on four key policy instruments: patent office examination, pre- and post-grant fees, and challenges in the courts. We show that there are important complementarities among these instruments, and identify conditions under which they can be used to achieve either partial or complete screening. We simulate the model to study the welfare effects of different policy reforms. We show that intensifying patent office examination, frontloading patent fees and capping litigation costs all generate welfare gains, while replacing examination with a pure registration system reduces welfare.
L24|Foreign employees as channel for technology transfer: Evidence from MNC's subsidiaries in Mexico|This paper studies the role of foreign employees as a channel for technology transfer in multinational companies (MNCs). We build a simple model of MNC choice between foreign and domestic management as a function of industry characteristics and of institutional quality. We find that foreign employees are a channel for technology transfer within high-tech MNCs. Further, the reliance of MNCs on foreign employees is U-shaped in terms of institutional quality. Our model implies that we should observe the same pattern between technology transfer and institutional quality. We use a unique dataset that links information on technology transfer and the presence of foreign employees in subsidiaries in Mexico with data on judicial efficiency across Mexican states. The evidence is consistent with the implications of the model and difficult to reconcile with alternative hypotheses.
L24|Investment spillovers and the allocation of property rights|In the context of the property rights theory of the firm, we study the role of investment spillovers in shaping the efficiency ranking of ownership regimes. In our model, spillovers arise from asset-embodied investment and footloose investment. Under the former, the benefits of investment can be appropriated only through asset control; under the latter, the benefits of investment can be appropriated independently of asset control. Our model predicts that asset-embodied investment favors the adoption of non-integration, while joint ownership may prevail in the presence of footloose investment.
L24|The entrepreneur's idea and outside finance: Theory and evidence about entrepreneurial roles|We study the problem faced by the entrepreneur seeking outside support to turn an entrepreneurial idea into a successful innovation—specifically a successful technological innovation resulting from research and development. The paper develops and tests the hypothesis that as an entrepreneur's innovative idea becomes more complex, the entrepreneur will find it more difficult to obtain outside finance and then outside support more generally for the commercialization of the idea. Consequently, the entrepreneur will be more likely to take on additional roles beyond providing the essential idea. The evidence supports the hypothesis that, other things being the same, an entrepreneur with a more complex idea will have greater difficulty obtaining outside finance and will be more likely to take on the additional roles of development, production, marketing and distribution that are necessary for successful innovation.
L24|Factoryless goods producers in Japan|Manufacturing firms in advanced countries are servitizing alongside the deepening of the global value chain. In this respect, “factoryless goods producers” (FGPs) are attracting attention from economics researchers. This study, using firm-level data, presents findings on Japanese FGPs. In this study, FGPs are defined as non-manufacturing firms that outsource manufacturing processes entirely to other firms. Although the large majority of FGPs are classified in ICT or wholesale industries, some FGPs belong to retail or services industries. FGPs are larger and have higher productivity and wages compared with non-FGPs, invest more intensively in intangible assets, including research and development, and have relatively larger headquarters functions.
L24|Cost versus control: Understanding ownership through outsourcing in hospitals|For-profit hospitals in California contract out services much more intensely than either private nonprofit or public hospitals. To explain why, we build a model in which the outsourcing decision is a trade-off between cost and control. Since nonprofit firms are more restricted in how they consume net revenues, they experience more rapidly diminishing value of a dollar saved, and they are less attracted to a low-cost but low-control outsourcing opportunity than a for-profit firm is. This difference is exaggerated in services where the benefits of controlling the details of production are particularly important but minimized when a fixed-cost shock raises the marginal value of a dollar of cost savings. We test these predictions in a panel of California hospitals, finding evidence for each and that the set of services that private non-profits are particularly interested in controlling (physician-intensive services) is very different from those than public hospitals are particularly interested in (labor-intensive services). These results suggest that a model of public or nonprofit make-or-buy decisions should be more than a simple relabeling of a model derived in the for-profit context.
L24|The role of interpartner dissimilarities in Industry-University alliances: Insights from a comparative case study|Based on a comparative study of two alliances, this paper provides an in-depth examination of the role of interpartner dissimilarities in Industry-University (IU) alliances. We make a conceptual distinction between routine-based dissimilarities (differences in partners’ behavior) and orientation-based dissimilarities (differences in partners’ goals and expectations), illuminating their joint implications for collaborative processes and outcomes over time. Our findings reveal that interpartner dissimilarities might not be problematic at the start-up or honeymoon stage in IU alliances. In the post-formation alliance stages, however, they are likely to complicate the collaboration. Orientation-based dissimilarities might frustrate partners’ attempts to solve routine-based dissimilarities by impeding successful joint sensemaking. We conclude that different combinations of the two types of dissimilarities are likely to trigger particular coordination and cooperation patterns in IU alliances, eliciting different outcomes on both technological and relational levels.
L24|The effects of university rules on spinoff creation: The case of academia in Italy|The economics literature provides rich evidence on the convergence between the institutional factors and individual-level characteristics influencing the involvement of academia in knowledge transfer activities and spinoff creation. However, little is known about the effects of internal university regulations on academic entrepreneurship. In the last ten years, spinoff activity from academia in Italy has been intensive and most academic institutions have policies related to the regulation of academic entrepreneurship practices, known as ‘Regolamento Spinoff’. This paper investigates the impact of the set of university rules governing the creation of spinoffs, on institutional capability to generate new ventures. Based on panel-data analysis using detailed university-level data on academic spinoffs, we identify three classes of institutionally-defined rules that can motivate faculty members to establish a spinoff company. These are: general rules and procedures; rules regulating monetary incentives; rules related to the entrepreneurial risk. We find that at least some rules pertaining to each of these three classes have some effect on spinoff creation. In particular, we find that monetary incentives play a significant role in promoting academic spinoff activity, and that overly-restrictive university rules regarding contract research have a negative effect on spinoff creation.
L24|CO2-reducing innovations and outsourcing: Evidence from photovoltaics and green construction in North-East Italy|The paper investigates whether innovations entailing a perceived reduction of CO2 emissions are related to outsourcing. Some research hypotheses are put forward and tested on a sample of firms in two key ‘green-industries’, sustainable buildings and photovoltaics, in a regional context (North–East Italy) for which detailed survey-based information could be collected. An effect on CO2 reducing innovations is found for the externalisation of tangible activities only, as opposed to intangibles, whose outsourcing even decreases them. The results are robust in econometric terms, and suggest some new environmental implications of the standard ‘make-or-buy’ decisions of firms.
L24|Tariffs, technology licensing and adoption|This paper develops a two-country Cournot duopoly model to investigate the implications of international technology licensing. It is shown that if the tariff imposed by the domestic country is high, it is optimal for the foreign firm to adopt an inferior technology for its production when it licenses its most advanced technology to the domestic firm. Such a licensing arrangement may improve welfare of the two countries.
L24|Strategic outsourcing with technology transfer under price competition|Consider a framework where two firms produce differentiated goods and compete in prices, and one of them possesses input production technology, superior to that of an existing independent input supplier. We show that the superior technology owning firm can sell its patent to and outsource inputs from the input supplier. This happens if the degree of product differentiation is small or the technological gap between the two input producing firms is small. While the outsourcing firm gains, both consumers' welfare and social welfare go down. Interestingly, sometimes the rival firm's profit increases. These results have implications for competition policy.
L24|Patent licensing under financial structure with limited liability|In a seminal paper, Kamien and Tauman (1986) show that fixedfee licensing is always superior to royalty licensing for the outsider licensor under Cournot competition. However, empirical studies demonstrate that royalty licensing is much more popular than fixed-fee licensing. We attempt to reconcile this controversy by taking into account the financial structure of firms with limited liability. We show that the optimal licensing contract under Cournot competition is royalty licensing if the mean-preserving variance of demand is large, while it is non-exclusive fixed-fee licensing otherwise. Moreover, this result is robust under mixed licensing contract and an oligopolistic market.
L24|"Grantbacks, Territorial Restraints, and the Type of Follow-On Innovation: The ""But for..."" Defense"|"We analyse the effect of grantback clauses in licensing contracts. While competition authorities fear that grantback clauses might decrease the licensee's ex post incentives to innovate, a standard defence is that grantback clauses are required for the patent-owner to agree to license its technology in the first place. We examine the validity of this ""but for"" defense and the equilibrium effect of grantback clauses on the innovation incentives of the licensee for both non-severable and severable innovations. Under the 2004 EU Technology Transfer Guidelines, and the guidelines for some other jurisdictions, grantback clauses that apply to ""non-severable"" (read ""infringing"") innovations are considered to be less controversial than clauses that apply to ""severable"" innovations.. We show, to the contrary, that grantback clauses do not increase the patent-holder's incentives to license when non-severable innovations are at stake but they do when severable innovations are concerned - suggesting that the ""but for"" defense might be valid for severable innovations but not for non-severable ones. Moreover we show that, for severable innovations, grantback clauses can increase the range of parameters for which follow-on innovation by the licensee occurs."
L24|Worker-level consequences of import shocks| We analyse the effects of imports on employment and earnings by distinguishing between import competition in final products and firms' use of imports in production (offshoring). We use Finnish worker-firm data merged with product -level trade data. We focus on Chinese imports and instrument them by changes in China's share of world exports. Both types of importing increase the job loss risk for all workers and, in particular, for workers in production occupations. An increase in import competition has larger negative effects than an increase in offshoring. Production workers suffer the largest earnings losses, while for high -skilled workers the wage-effect is positive.
L24|The Principle of Reciprocity in the 21st Century|The principle of reciprocity is central to trade cooperation. Economic theory characterizes reciprocal policy changes that guide nations from noncooperative policies to the Pareto efficiency frontier. This paper extends the theory of reciprocity to a wide range of settings relevant for 21st century trade negotiations. Global value chains and rigid institutional constraints can lead to nations lacking the policy space necessary to influence relevant local prices abroad. Trade agreements then have a role in addressing these local price externalities in addition to the usual terms-of-trade externality. Yet we show that the standard concept of reciprocity---policy changes that equally increase net export value at world prices---can nonetheless guide nations toward the efficiency frontier. The crucial condition for reciprocity's application is that the policy changes which undo the terms-of-trade inefficiencies also undo the other inefficiencies. We find a set of policies such that no nation can gain from any reciprocal unwinding of trade commitments, and we show that these policies are globally efficient. Such stable policies are then a suitable prediction for trade negotiation outcomes when local price externalities matter. We derive the new predicted outcome and explore its relevance for existing theory and empirics of trade cooperation, including settings with imperfect competition, political economy, and global value chains.
L24|The Value of Relational Adaptation in Outsourcing: Evidence from the 2008 shock to the US Airline Industry|In this paper, we theoretically analyze, and empirically test for, the importance of relational adaptation in outsourcing relationships using the airline industry as case study. In the airline industry, adaptation of flight schedules is necessary in the presence of bad weather conditions. When major carriers outsource to independent regionals, conflicts over these adaptation decisions typically arise. Moreover, the urgency of needed adjustments requires that adaptation be informal and hence enforced relationally. Our model shows that for relational adaptation to be self-enforcing, the long-term value of the relationship between a major and a regional airline must be at least as large as the regional airline’s cost of adapting flight schedules across joint routes. Thus, when facing a negative economic shock, the major is more likely to preserve routes outsourced to regional airlines that have higher adaptation costs, and hence higher relationship value. We analyze the evolution of U.S. airline networks around the 2008 financial crisis, and we find that consistent with our predictions, routes outsourced to regional networks with worse average weather, and hence higher adaptation costs, were more likely to survive the shock.
L24|The Outsourcing In The Southeast Region Of Coahuila Mexico: Quality Of Work And Precarious Employment In The Automotive Industry, La Subcontratacion En La Region Sureste De Coahuila, Mexico: La Calidad De Los Empleos Y La Precarizaciã“N Laboral En La Industria Automotriz|The competitiveness in the global markets, forces companies to incorporate efficient methods, which seek increasing production capacity, reduce time-to-market, reduce costs, increase customer satisfaction and make more efficient the use of resources. This can be done by outsourcing excluding everything out of the core of business. This research identifies variables with more influence in precariousness and quality employment in outsourcing companies in the automotive segment. We wish to identify reason for high worker turnover. These constant changes are costs that affect market competitiveness. A questionnaire is applied to outsourcing company employees of Southeast Coahuila. The outsourcing rate increased 186 percent from 2004 to 2014. According to national statistics 16% of the labor force works in thesecompanies. These numbers illustrate the importance of the activity, that justifies improving in measurement and knowledge of human resource management. The results show a lack of quality and precariousness employment producing the work. There is no written contract indicator and low salaries are received. In Mexico there are regulations for outsourcing companies, but lack clarity regarding how the rights of the workers are safeguarded and protected. In the Mexican case, the current laws shows its limitations.
L24|Analysis Of The Dimensions Of Organizational Learning In Central Region Of Coahuila Enterprises, Analisis De Las Dimensiones Del Aprendizaje Organizacional En Empresas De La Region Centro De Coahuila|this paper analyzes the dimensions of organizational learning in eight big enterprises from the metalworking industry in the central region of the state of Coahuila. The purpose is to identify if these dimensions have an effect on the development of organizational learning in enterprises. We used the instrument adapted by Mayorca, RamÃ­rez, Viloria and Campos (2007), which consists of 43 items that group seven dimensions of organizational learning. The empirical study was descriptive and correlational. A cross section sample of 415 workers was used at the end of 2014. Both the relationship between these dimensions and the socio-demographic variables of the sample where studied. The study findings reveal statistically significant correlations in seven dimensions. We also found the dimensions of greatest influence in the enterprises central region of Coahuila, were Strategic management, Systems to Capture Learning, Team Learning and Connect to Environment
L24|Energy Supply Contracting Adoption: Empirical Evidence from the Swiss Market|Energy supply contracting consisting in outsourcing energy-related services is considered as a promising tool to induce investment in energy efficiency and renewable technologies. Yet, energy contracting markets grow slowly and Switzerland is lagging behind. In order to assess whether the potentials are under-exploited, the determinants of energy supply contracting adoption are assessed using a random effects probit model on a dataset of 2,003 accepted and rejected contracts in Switzerland. Results show that the advantages of risk sharing and economies of scale brought by contracting as well as trust towards the supplier and the technology seem determining in the client's choice. The number of interlocutors involved, inducing higher expected adaptation costs, impacts negatively adoption. Less specific contracts involving residential or new buildings are more likely to be signed. The results imply that in order to fully exploit the potentials of contracting, a priority is to clarify to which extent owners can transfer the costs onto the tenants. Information campaigns are still needed to reduce the lack of confidence in energy renewable technologies. This study also provides the suppliers with guidelines to better exploit the market.
L24|Offshoring and Directed Technical Change|We study the implications of offshoring on innovation, technology, and wage inequality in a Ricardian model with directed technical change. Profit maximization determines both the extent of offshoring and the direction of technological progress. A fall in the offshoring cost induces technical change with an ambiguous factor bias. When the initial cost of offshoring is high, an increase in offshoring opportunities causes a fall in the real wages of unskilled workers in industrial countries, skill-biased technical change and rising skill premia. When the offshoring cost is sufficiently low, instead, offshoring induces technical change biased in favor of the unskilled workers. (JEL J24, J31, L24, O33)
L24|Contract Farming: What’s In It for Smallholder Farmers in Developing Countries?|No abstract is available for this item.
L24|A model of wage and employment effects of service offshoring|This paper develops a two-sector model of trade in goods and intermediate tasks that differ in tradability and skill intensity. A skill-abundant country with high productivity is shown to offshore more unskilled tasks than skilled tasks, without relying on a particular correlation structure between tradability and skill intensity. With putty-clay technology that allows retraining in the long run, transition from the non-offshoring to the offshoring equilibrium generates wage and employment effects that switch from negative to positive as tradability declines, with the switches occurring at a higher degree of tradability for skilled tasks. This is consistent with the empirical literature.
L24|Vertical Separation Increases Gasoline Prices|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12203-abs-0001""> I examine the relationship between vertical separation and gasoline stations' prices and sales. The endogeneity of stations' organizational forms is addressed using both panel methods and an instrumental variables strategy. Controlling for the endogeneity of form, I find that vertical separation raises margins by 25%–45% but does not have a statistically significant impact on output. I interpret these results as suggesting that vertical separation induces local agents to exert effort in ways that increase consumers' demand . ( JEL L14, L24, L81)"
L24|The Impact of Trade Liberalization on Micro Enterprises: Do Banks Matter? Evidence from Indian Manufacturing|" type=""main"" xml:id=""obes12082-abs-0001""> This paper looks at the impact of trade liberalization on micro enterprises with differential access to banks. I use Indian data on rural micro enterprises employing less than ten workers in the manufacturing sector to find that trade liberalization, measured by a fall in the tariff, is associated with a larger increase or a smaller decrease in output, capital–labour ratio and labour productivity in districts with a larger number of bank branches per capita. Evidence is consistent with strong complementarities between trade liberalization effects, and the economic dynamism and access to financial intermediation associated with greater bank presence in the enterprise's location. The study underscores that trade liberalization can be beneficial to micro entrepreneurs under certain conditions and emphasizes reallocation resulting from trade liberalization. The study hence highlights the role for development policy in exploiting gains from trade."
L24|Deals not done: Sources of failure in the market for ideas|" type=""main"" xml:id=""smj2261-abs-0001""> Using novel survey data on technology licensing, we report the first empirical evidence linking the three main sources of failure emphasized in the market design literature (lack of market thickness, congestion, lack of market safety) to deal outcomes. We disaggregate the licensing process into three stages and find that, although lack of market thickness and deal failure are correlated in the first stage, they are not in the latter stages, underscoring the bilateral monopoly conditions under which negotiations over intellectual property often occur. In contrast, market safety is only salient in the final stage. Several commonly referenced bargaining frictions (congestion) are salient, particularly in the second stage. Also, universities and firms differ in the stage during which they are most likely to experience deal failure . Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd."
L24|Vertical flexibility, outsourcing and the financial choices of the firm|We investigate the relationship between the extent of vertical flexibility and the underlying financial choices of a firm. By vertical flexibility we mean the opportunity to outsource a necessary input and to reverse the choice as input market conditions dictate. A firm simultaneously selects the portion of equity and debt and its vertical setting. Debt is provided by a lender that requires the payment of a fixed coupon over time and, as a collateral, an option to buy out the firm in certain circumstances. Debt leads to the same level of flexibility acquired by an unlevered firm. However, investment to set up a flexible technology occurs earlier. An alternative to debt is the involvement of venture capital for the production of the input. We explore this second avenue finding that the extent of outsourcing adopted is lower than for the unlevered firm, but the firm invests earlier.
L24|Relationship-specific Investments and Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement with Heterogeneous Suppliers|This paper examines the impact of intellectual property rights (IPR) enforcement on multinationals’ choice of input suppliers and industry profits in a host economy. The framework consists of suppliers with heterogeneous capabilities who must engage in a relation-specific investment to customize intermediate inputs upon a transfer payment by final producers. An outsourcing contract with better technologically-endowed suppliers requires a lower transfer and generates a higher surplus. Stronger IPR enforcement leads firms to self-select into better quality suppliers on average by reducing their outside option. Weak legal institutions instead make it possible for a larger range of suppliers, including the less capable ones, to form partnerships by granting them a larger outside option. A better IPR environment is more likely to harm lagging countries where the technology distribution is characterized by less capable suppliers.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L24|How do distinct firm assets and behaviors shape the form of alliance networks and provoke their instability? A multi-level network analysis|This study explores the relative contributions of large incumbent and small innovative firms in explaining the different structures and dynamics of interorganizational networks across multi-levels of analysis, egocentric, sectoral, and industrial. Empirically, we study alliance network evolution in the pharmaceutical industry and one of its major market segments, the antibody sector, from 2000 to 2007. Results show that small biotech and large pharmaceutical firms have opposite behavior and can both occupy central positions, though not at the same network level and for different durations. Key findings are that two distinct types of firms, with markedly dissimilar sizes and economic assets, shape the form and stability of alliance networks albeit each at a given level, industrial or sectoral. Consequently, network structure and stability are different at these different levels of aggregation. JEL Codes: D85, L14, L16, L20, L24, L26
L24|Patents Rights and Innovation by Small and Large Firms|This paper studies the causal impact of patents on subsequent innovation by the patent holder. The analysis is based on court invalidation of patents by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, and exploits the random allocation of judges to control for the endogeneity of the judicial decision. Patent invalidation leads to a 50 percent decrease in patenting by the patent holder, on average, but the impact depends critically on characteristics of the patentee and the competitive environment. The effect is entirely driven by small innovative firms in technology fields where they face many large incumbents. Invalidation of patents held by large firms does not change the intensity of their innovation but shifts the technological direction of their subsequent patenting.
L24|Multifaceted Transactions, Incentives, and Organizational Form|When not every facet of a transaction can be contracted upon and transacting parties' payoffs are asymmetric, low-powered incentives for those facets of the transaction that can be contracted upon may be necessary to avoid too large a distortion in those facets that cannot be contracted upon (Barzel, 1982, 1997; Hansmann, 1996; Holmstrom and Milgrom, 1991). Distinguishing between different types of capital (financial, physical, intangible), different forms of incentives (performance pay, organizational form, ownership), and different transacting pairs (manager/shareholder, supplier/buyer, customer/firm), and using a model of investment developed by Falkinger (2014), we extend the preceding insight to explain partnerships, mutuals, cooperatives, government ownership, and vertical integration. Distinguishing between resource allocation and resource creation, we show that resource creation calls for higher powered incentives than does resource allocation. Allowing for diversification-induced economies of scale in the use of capital, we establish the result that larger, more diversified firms offer higher-powered incentives. Finally, allowing for the partial contractibility of investment and the use of capital, we show that the former decreases the power of incentives whereas the latter increases that power, thereby providing a combined explanation for the Nineteenth- and Twentieth-Century rise of large military and civilian bureaucracies and the more recent outsourcing of products and services previously sourced internally. Our results suggest that the recognition of the multiple facets of most transactions can help explain numerous institutional arrangements, as well as the apparent lack of disadvantage of low-powered-incentives organizations competing with their high-powered-incentives counterparts (Bohren and Josefsen, 2013; Hansmann and Thomsen, 2012).
L24|Cross‐licensing and competition|We analyze the competitive effects of bilateral cross‐licensing agreements in a setting with many competing firms. We show that firms can sustain the monopoly outcome if they can sign unconstrained bilateral cross‐licensing contracts. This result is robust to increasing the number of firms who can enter into a cross‐licensing agreement. We also investigate the scenario in which a cross‐licensing contract cannot involve the payment of a royalty by a licensee who decides ex post not to use the licensed technology. Finally, policy implications regarding the antitrust treatment of cross‐licensing agreements are derived.
L24|Patents Rights and Innovation by Small and Large Firms|This paper studies the causal impact of patents on subsequent innovation by the patent holder. The analysis is based on court invalidation of patents by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, and exploits the random allocation of judges to control for the endogeneity of the judicial decision. Patent invalidation leads to a 50 percent decrease in patenting by the patent holder, on average, but the impact depends critically on characteristics of the patentee and the competitive environment. The effect is entirely driven by small innovative firms in technology fields where they face many large incumbents. Invalidation of patents held by large firms does not change the intensity of their innovation but shifts the technological direction of their subsequent patenting.
L24|Outsourcing und Offshoring in der deutschen Industrie|The extent and structure of outsourcing and offshoring since 1971 is examined in this paper. Official statistics show that the share of intermediate inputs on production in German industry has increased significantly since the mid-1990s, both at current prices and price-adjusted. The share leveled off in the last years at a level of nominal 68 percent. Business cycle influences on the development of outsourcing and offshoring are low. Outsourcing varies by sector and size of enterprise. In some knowledge-intensive industries, such as pharmaceuticals and engineering, outsourcing is low and has barely increased. For large companies, outsourcing is more pronounced than for small ones. Comparing of the development of the share of intermediate inputs and the wage ratio suggests that labor costs as a reason to outsourcing has decreased. Also, offshoring has increased. The share of imported inputs in the purchase of intermediate inputs has increased significantly since the 1990s. In 2010, one third of intermediate inputs were imported, one-fifth of that from other EU countries. Imports from EU countries have grown much faster than those from the rest of the world. Thus, European Union members benefit from German offshoring. A rough estimate of outsourcing effects shows that the employment generated significantly exceeds direct employment in the industry. Dieser Beitrag untersucht die Entwicklung von Ausmaß und Struktur von Outsourcing, den Bezug von Vorleistungen, und darunter Offshoring, den Bezug von Leistungen aus dem Ausland, im Zeitraum seit 1971. Auf der Basis amtlicher Statistiken wird gezeigt, dass die Vorleistungsquote der deutschen Industrie seit Mitte der 1990er Jahre deutlich angestiegen ist, sowohl zu laufenden Preisen als auch preisbereinigt. Sie hat sich in den vergangenen Jahren auf einem Niveau von nominal 68 Prozent eingependelt. Konjunkturelle Einflüsse auf die Entwicklung sind gering. Outsourcing variiert nach Branche und Größe der Unternehmen. Dabei zeigt sich, dass Outsourcing in einigen der wissensintensiven Branchen wie Pharmazie oder Maschinenbau vergleichsweise gering ist und auch kaum zugenommen hat. Bei großen Unternehmen ist Outsourcing deutlich stärker ausgeprägt als bei kleinen. Die Gegenüberstellung der Entwicklung von Vorleistungs- und Lohnquote deutet darauf hin, dass die Bedeutung von Lohnkosten für die Zunahme der Vorleistungsquote abgenommen hat. Mit der Zunahme des Outsourcings hat auch das Offshoring zugenommen. Die Importanteile bei den Vorleistungen sind seit den 1995er Jahren deutlich gestiegen. Im Jahr 2010 wurde ein Drittel der Vorleistungen importiert, allein ein Fünftel aus der EU. Die Importe aus den EU-Ländern sind dabei deutlich stärker gewachsen als die aus dem Rest der Welt. Profitiert vom Offshoring der deutschen Industrie haben also insbesondere die Länder der Europäischen Union. Eine überschlägige Abschätzung der Beschäftigungseffekte von Outsourcing zeigt, dass die dadurch generierte Beschäftigung die unmittelbare Beschäftigung in der Industrie deutlich übersteigt.
L24|TFP, Labor Productivity and the (Un)observed Labor Input: Temporary Agency Work|The study focuses on the question of whether productivity estimates are biased due to the emergence of a new input that is usually omitted: temporary agency worker (TAW). The study analyzes labor productivity and TFP by means of a structural approach using a representative dataset of German manufacturing firms. The empirical results show, once TAW is taken into account, that: i) labor productivity in most manufacturing sectors is significantly lower; ii) average TFP differs significantly in most sectors; but iii) the coefficients for regular labor are not significantly different between estimations with and without TAW.
L24|Vertical organization of production and firm growth behavior|Many industries are characterized by a marked heterogeneity in vertical boundaries among their firms: some firms are vertically integrated in the production of inputs while others adopt disintegration strategies. This paper empirically explores if different vertical organizational forms are associated with unlike growth “behaviors” within the same industry. To this end, an econometric analysis is conducted over a sample of around 500 Italian machine tool (MT) builders for the period 1998-2007. Ceteris paribus, vertically integrated firms show a distribution of growth rates with a higher number of episodes of “moderate” growth, and this is true in case of both output expansion and contraction. Adjustment costs, organizational slacks, a better coordination along the production chain and a more effective handling of changes in customers’ needs may all concur to explain their more “moderate” growth profile with respect to disintegrated firms. This work provides insight into the output dynamics in a mature industry in which both vertically integrated and dis-integrated firms coexist.
L24|Do joint ventures and strategic alliances create value for bondholders?|This paper investigates whether joint ventures and strategic alliances create value for bondholders by examining the bond market’s reaction to announcements of these two types of cooperative business activities. Based on 2964 announcements from 1985 to 2011, we find that joint ventures and strategic alliances create significant value for bondholders. The average two-month abnormal bond return is 0.64% for joint ventures and 0.70% for strategic alliances. We find no evidence of a wealth transfer between the bondholders and stockholders. We further explore the determinants of bond value creation through hypotheses on the synergy effect, the alleviation of financial constraints, and real options. The results of our study show that financial synergy is a main driver of bondholder wealth effects in joint ventures, while operating synergy is a dominant factor in strategic alliances. We also find evidence to support the real option hypothesis for both events. Finally, we show that the structure of bond contracts plays an important role in the link between synergy and abnormal bond returns.
L24|Compact organizational space and technological catch-up: Comparison of China's three leading automotive groups|This study examines why compact organizational space may matter for technological catch-up, through a comparison of China's leading automotive groups. The comparative analysis demonstrates that the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation (SAIC) surpasses its two local rivals in terms of technological capabilities partly because the firm has managed its organizational space in close connection with intensive growth strategies at the group level. SAIC has greatly benefited from compact organizational space in building technological capabilities, as it encourages the mobilization and integration of internal resources and promotes group-wide synergy for an effective internalization of acquired assets.
L24|R&D outsourcing and intellectual property infringement|We empirically address value appropriation hazards when firms enter into external relationships in search for innovation. Using firm-level data from Germany we document a positive link between R&D outsourcing and intellectual property infringement. In line with theory we show that this effect varies with the market value of knowledge, and the allocation of property rights. We discuss how outsourcing induced spillovers may foster technology diffusion, affecting industry evolution and market structure.
L24|Co-owner relationships conducive to high quality joint patents|Multi-country joint ownership of a patent positively impacts patent quality, which is evidenced by their receiving statistically more forward patent citations than patents co-owned within a single country. This paper also considers the possibility that university partnerships and income differences between international co-owners further influence joint patent quality. Multi-country co-ownership in countries with similar per capita incomes enhances the likelihood a joint patent is high quality in the short run, when quality is assessed as forward citations received within three years. However, this short run benefit disappears when differences in national patent regimes are controlled for in the analyses. Finally, although co-ownership with a university is not found to have an immediate impact, it does enhance the likelihood that a joint patent is classified as high over the life of the patent.
L24|Broadband Diffusion and Firm Performance in Rural Areas: Quasi-Experimental Evidence|This article analyzes the causal impact of advanced broadband accessibility on firm performance. We exploit a unique local policy intervention of a staged broadband infrastructure installation across rural municipalities in the Province of Trento (Italy), generating a source of exogenous (spatial and temporal) variation in the provision of next-generation broadband technology (ADSL2+). Employing a difference-in-differences strategy and using longitudinal firm-level data on annual balance sheet information of corporate enterprises, we show that ADSL2+ availability is associated with a significant increase in annual sales turnover of about 40 percent and an increase in value added of roughly 25 percent over the period of two years. The positive effect is found to be rather stable for different lengths of treatment exposure and across industrial sectors. However, no significant effects are found with respect to number of employees. Placebo estimations support a causal interpretation of our results. Overall, established corporate enterprises in 'underserved' rural and remote areas appear to profit considerably from enhanced broadband delivery programs in terms of economic performance.
L24|Strategic alliances in the company’s value creation| Modern, global, knowledge-based economy creates very difficult business environment conditions. They are characterized by high volatility and instability. Strategic cooperation agreements have become key factors-contributor to the building of a lasting, permanent and difficult to copy competitive position. Actions without collaboration in many situations are impossible, and strategic alliances have become not only an attractive option among the various forms of value creation, but a necessity. The aim of the article is assessing the role of strategic alliances in the creation of companies’ value. The key issue is to determine the meaning and place of decisions concerning cooperation in the process of value creation. In addition, the analysis covered selected case studies of global corporations.
L24|The Strategic Use of Licensing Commitments in a Standardization Context|Abstract Purpose This paper focuses on the strategic inclusion of reciprocity clauses in the licensing commitments disclosed by firms claiming standard essential patents (SEPs) in the telecom industry. We highlight the main cost and benefit of using these clauses for SEPs holders, namely, a possible deterrence effect for potential standard users on the one hand, and a legal instrument to prevent holdup and negotiate cross-licenses with other SEPs owners on the other hand. Methodology/approach We formulate general hypotheses explaining firms’ disclosure strategies with respect to reciprocity clauses, and use an original dataset of 19,601 patent disclosures in 12 different ETSI (European Telecommunications Standard Institute) projects (including UMTS, GSM, 3GPP, or GPRS) to test them empirically. Findings Our econometric results first confirm our predictions that reciprocity clauses are used as an insurance mechanism in technologically complex environments. They are more frequently included in patent disclosures when the ownership of SEPs at the project level is more fragmented. We also find that firms do not claim reciprocity clauses before having already declared a significant number of non-reciprocal SEPs in the same project, which suggests a deterrence effect on standard users that must be balanced by a strong patent position. Practical implications/originality Our findings highlight a trade-off for the SEPs holder to insert a reciprocity clause. There is both a cost and a benefit of adding this clause to the patent licensing commitment. Contrary to the usual literature on the subject, we do not analyze the general patenting strategies but the conducts on the licensing terms.
L24|Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory (FRAND) Licensing Terms - Research Analysis of a Controversial Concept|The complexity of standards in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) creates a tension between the need to reward the owners of Standard Essential Patents (SEPs) that may cover standard specifications and the need to make standards available to all for public use. In the last few years, this tension has crystallized into a difficult debate on licensing principles that must be Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory (FRAND or FRAND licensing). The purpose of this report is to provide a balanced account of the current controversy relating to the FRAND licensing of standard essential patents and to explore future research topics in this area. It draws on the arguments that arose at an expert workshop held under Chatham House rules at the Institute for Prospective Technological Studies (IPTS) and on an extensive review of the related literature.
L24|Firms’ Qualifications and Subcontracting in Public Procurement: An Empirical Investigation|Using a newly assembled dataset, we empirically investigate the effects of subcontracting on procurement auction prices in Italy. In this setting, the pre-qualifications required for firms aiming to bid on public contracts determine the firms’ different subcontracting formats. We find that fully qualified firms in a position to choose whether to subcontract generally offer lower prices than partially qualified firms, which must proceed with mandatory subcontracts. This result indicates that the firms’ voluntary arrangements tend to improve market performance, while imposed arrangements tend to worsen market performance, in the public procurement supply-chain. (JEL H57, L23, L24, D44)
L24|Dimensions of Precarity: A Contradictory Case of Non-Standard Employment|This paper discusses the concept of ‘precarious employment’ in relation to the Swedish shipbuilding industry in the 1960s and 1970s. In this setting, characterized by shortage of labour, a dual labour market structure emerged, where some workers were directly employed by the shipyards and others indirectly employed through intermediaries. The case differs from classical accounts of dual labour markets and it is not obvious to use the term precarious employment to describe the situation of the external workers. On the one hand, the external workers had insecure jobs and were involved in triangular employment relationships, where the true identity and responsibility of the employer was unclear. They were also excluded from the social security systems. On the other hand, the external workers appear to have had higher incomes, opportunities to work long hours, less responsibility for unrewarding maintenance tasks and perhaps even the advantage of working under more flexible supervision. The case demonstrates the diversity that can be found in historical work arrangements and suggests that the term precarious employment should be applied with some caution, both past and present.
L24|Joint Activity without Establishing a Legal Entity: Comparison with Similar Forms of Collaboration|The article brings up the issue of identification of joint activity with other collaboration forms, in particular with cooperation, partnership, joint ventures, reorganization (merge, acquisition) since these forms also mean incorporation of entities. Purpose of the study is to find out specific features of joint activity in the context of investigation of its essence and comparison with other similar collaboration forms. The essence of the joint activity is disclosed by analysis of this notion interpretation in regulations. Main features of joint activity without establishing a legal entity are found out and substantiated. Author makes an effort to deepen the contents of the notion 'joint activity'. Interrelation is studied between joint activity and other collaboration forms of entities by comparison of organizational and methodological grounds of their implementation. Comparative analysis of joint activity is made in relation to cooperatives, investment companies. Conclusion is drawn that joint activity represents a separate business form and therefore needs relevant accounting and legal provision.
L24|Current Perspectives on the Employment Impact of Digital Technologies|This paper examines the ongoing debate about whether digital innovations are an opportunity or a risk for employment in advanced economies. The main frameworks of analysis and the stylised fact of the employment effect of technological progress are explained before presenting the most recent empirical insights on the relationship between digital innovations, productivity growth and employment growth. Finally, the impact of digital technologies is examined for varying types of skill composition of labour and the implications in terms of unemployment and income inequalities are raised. The paper offers a review of the literature on the topic.
L24|The Analysis of Expenses for R&D Activities in Turkey|Purpose: Nowadays, inequality between developing and under developied countries differences has a rapid increasing. Developed countries impress underdeveloped countries to become dependent through them. Methodology: For that reason, Turkey has to increase its capability of making technological innovations. Findings: It has tried to be identified by examining the expenses of R&D in public, mercantile establishments and universities in Turkey that which expense isnâ€™t enough and which expense should be doubled. Recommendations: As a result, developing new resolution strategies will be easier.
L24|Harnessing innovation in Romania – A comparative analysis|In order for national economies to ensure a high degree of competitiveness in the area of research, development and innovation, the former need to secure and develop a commercial coordinate so as to support the demand side for innovative goods and services. Measures taken in this direction can be revealed by a series of indicators such as the contribution of medium/high technology products to the trade balance or external revenues derived from patents and licenses. This paper aims to investigate, through a comparative analysis, the results recorded by Romania in terms of capitalizing on intellectual output, as well as the prerequisites of the relevant system’s competitiveness.
L24|Fair, Reasonable and Non-discriminatory (FRAND) Licensing Terms. Research Analysis of a Controversial Concept|The complexity of standards in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) creates a tension between the need to reward the owners of Standard Essential Patents (SEPs) that may cover standard specifications and the need to make standards available to all for public use. In the last few years, this tension has crystallized into a difficult debate on licensing principles that must be Fair, Reasonable and Non-Discriminatory (FRAND or FRAND licensing). The purpose of this report is to provide a balanced account of the current controversy relating to the FRAND licensing of standard essential patents and to explore future research topics in this area. It draws on the arguments that arose at an expert workshop held under Chatham House rules at the Institute for Prospective Technological Studies (IPTS) and on an extensive review of the related literature.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L24|Intellectual Property and Innovation in Information and Communication Technology (ICT)|The aim of this study is to provide a structured review of the role of IPR in fostering innovation and economic growth in the European ICT sector. Typically IPR analysis of industries focuses on patents. In practice, however, IPR strategies are developed combining the use of different IP rights. The scope of analysis considers this and looks at the joint use of patents, trademarks and industrial designs, each protecting a different type of knowledge-based asset. Based on these characteristics, the focus of the research is to provide an overview of the mechanisms typically employed in order to appropriate the returns from R&D investments. For each formal IPR, we briefly review the main contributions to the economic literature, both theoretical and empirical, on the rationale for its existence and the effects it generates on firmsâ€™ behaviour and market outcomes. We then highlight the most important emerging issues. In the final section of the study, we focus on the software industry.
L24|Broadband Diffusion and Firm Performance in Rural Areas: Quasi-Experimental Evidence|This article analyzes the causal impact of advanced broadband accessibility on firm performance. We exploit a unique local policy intervention of a staged broadband infrastructure installation across rural municipalities in the Province of Trento (Italy), generating a source of exogenous (spatial and temporal) variation in the provision of next-generation broadband technology (ADSL2+). Employing a difference-in-differences strategy and using longitudinal firm-level data on annual balance sheet information of corporate enterprises, we show that ADSL2+ availability is associated with a significant increase in annual sales turnover of about 40 percent and an increase in value added of roughly 25 percent over the period of two years. The positive effect is found to be rather stable for different lengths of treatment exposure and across industrial sectors. However, no significant effects are found with respect to number of employees. Placebo estimations support a causal interpretation of our results. Overall, established corporate enterprises in ‘underserved’ rural and remote areas appear to profit considerably from enhanced broadband delivery programs in terms of economic performance.
L24|International technology transfer and domestic patent policy: An empirical analysis of Indian industry|Firms in the developing countries transfer technology predominantly produced in the developed economies through different modes namely market-mediated channels including trade in goods and services, foreign direct investment, licensing or non-market channels like employees turnover. Multitude of host country’s factors (locational and policy related) influences the mode-choice decision of multinational enterprises among exports, FDI and licensing to work in a host country. Among these factors, provision for the protection of patent rights reduces transactions costs that lead to externalization in form of arm’s-length licensing against FDI. India has made patent policy changes during the post globalization period to comply with Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights Agreement. Accordingly, this study attempts to find the influence of the patent policy changes on licensing strategy of the Indian manufacturing industry. This paper is based on panel data of 51 industries for period 1989-90 to 2009-10. We have checked each panel data regression for the presence of heteroscedasticity, contemporaneous correlation and serial correlation. In case of the presence of heteroscedasticity and contemporaneous correlation the results are based on heteroskedastic panels corrected standard errors and correlated panels corrected standard errors. As the modeling is based on macro-panel data having large number of industries (N) and time period (T) each data series is checked for unit-root using panel data unit-root tests. The study uses Fisher type test. We estimate the model after controlling for the general policy changes in India following the liberalization, privatization and globalization of the economy. We are able to establish a substitutable relationship between licensing from international market and in-house R&D. The removal of licensing regulations of different industries has a positive influence on the firm’s decision to license. We also find a complementary relationship between capital goods import and licensing. Thus, policy makers should allow for easy capital imports to facilitate technology transfers. The study indicates that patent policy influences technology transfer to India albeit negatively and limited to patent-sensitive industries confirming the monopoly power effect for such industries. Thus, policy makers have to use regulatory approach to facilitate transfers instead of merely relying on the market approach. Moreover, with respect to patent-sensitive industries there is need to closely watch the licensing behavior of the technology owners for anti-competitive practices.
L24|Comparing Domestic and Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions in the Pharmaceutical Industry|This paper considers the determinants and effects of domestic versus cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&As) in the pharmaceutical industry. Results show that companies that have had large research and development (R&D) expenditures as a percentage of sales in the past, but which have not had a significant number of drug approvals in the previous five years, tend to merge with foreign firms. Domestic mergers are formed between two firms within the same country, which typically have lower R&D expenditures as a percentage of sales and drug approvals in the previous five years. In addition, results show that domestic mergers increase drug approvals in the short run, but the effect diminishes three years after an M&A is finalized. However, cross-border mergers, which occur between two companies from different countries, largely have long-lasting (five years or more) positive effects on new drug approvals. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
L24|Competing R&D joint ventures in Cournot oligopoly with spillovers|This paper considers competition between R&D cartels, whereby prospective Cournot competitors coordinate their R&D decisions in order to maximize joint profit. It studies how R&D activity, aggregate profit, consumer surplus, and social welfare vary as the number of competing cartels varies. It also compares equilibrium with second best R&D, and discusses the policy implications of the results. The results show that the effects of R&D cartel competition depend on the welfare criterion adopted and on whether there are cooperative synergies or not. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2015
L24|Does two-part tariff licensing agreement enhance both welfare and profit?|It is general belief that firm profit is higher under two-part tariff licensing, while social welfare is greater under fixed-fee licensing. We show that this conclusion need not hold when technology transfer is costly and, in particular, when the quality of licensed technology is endogenously chosen. We demonstrate that both social welfare and firms profit are higher under two-part tariff licensing than they are under fixed-fee licensing. We also show that a higher quality of technology is licensed under the two-part tariff scheme than it is under the fixed-fee licensing contract. Our analysis suggests that both firms and society may prefer two-part tariff licensing contract under costly technology transfer. This study presents direct contrast result and contributes, therefore, to the extant literature wherein the transfer of technology is costless. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2015
L24|Privatization in the presence of patent licensing|This paper analyzes the licensing policy for a cost-reduction technology of a foreign R&D institution when it is faced with a domestic monopoly manufacturer. It is found that, due to objective differences, a public domestic manufacturer will be charged higher than a private domestic manufacturer for a certain licensed technology. Accordingly, to save on the licensing payment made to the foreign R&D institution, the domestic government is recommended to (partly) privatize the public manufacturer. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2015
L24|Service Offshoring and Corruption: Do Firms Escape Corrupt Countries?|We analyze how service offshoring by Swedish firms is affected by corruption in source countries. The results suggest that firms avoid corrupt countries and that corruption reduces the volume of service offshoring. Analyzing firm heterogeneity, we find that large and internationalized firms are the ones that are the most sensitive to corruption. In addition, sensitivity to corruption tends to increase with falling income in source countries. These results suggest that the gains from reduced corruption may be the greatest for poor countries. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L24|Technology Transfer in Oligopoly in Presence of Fixed-Cost in Production|This paper discusses different possibilities of licensing between Cournot duopolists with a technology characterized by constant marginal cost and positive fixed-cost. It is shown that optimal fixed-fee and per-unit royalty can be negative. This implies that the licensor can subsidize the licensee in the equilibrium to license its technology even if they compete in the output market in the post-licensing stage. Moreover superiority of up-front fee as an advance on royalties is also identified. The firm having lower marginal cost and higher fixed cost prefers royalty licensing than licensing by fixed-fee, while the other firm having lower fixed cost and higher marginal cost sometimes prefers fixed-fee licensing. Interestingly, a firm that earns less profit in the no-licensing stage may become the licensor of its technology. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L24|Researchers’ participation in standardisation: a case study from a public research institute in Germany|In this paper we examine public sector researchers’ participation in standardisation bodies. Whereas previous research emphasized on patents and publications as outputs of research activities, we also consider standardisation as another activity of researchers. The latter has not been adequately taken into account. Assuming that publishing and patenting activities have an influence on researchers’ involvement in standardisation we seek evidence based on objective publishing, patenting and standardisation data. Based on individual data of more than 600 researchers from the BAM Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing in Germany, we perform multivariate regression analyses to determine the characteristics that influence researchers’ participation in standardisation at different levels. The estimation results show a negative relationship between high quality scientific publications productivity and participation in standardisation committees and a positive relationship between technical and industry-oriented publications productivity and standardisation activities. Patenting and standardisation activities appear to be contradictory only in a few model specifications. Academic qualifications of the researchers have a positive and statistically significant impact on the probability of participating in standardisation committees. Our findings reveal important insights for analysing researchers’ activities in the future, but also for the management of research institutes and for policy makers. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L24|Governance mode choice in collaborative Ph.D. projects|Joint Ph.D. projects are a prominent form of research collaboration, connecting universities to firms and public research organizations. When entering into such collaborations, partners need to make choices regarding a project’s governance. This paper investigates how a university and its partners govern such projects, including decision-making, daily management and disclosure policies. Earlier studies show that shared governance modes have had a higher success rate than centralized governance modes. Nevertheless, more than two thirds of the 191 joint Ph.D. projects we investigated opted for centralized rather than shared governance. Our findings show that: (1) geographical and/or cognitive distance render the adoption of a shared governance mode less likely; (2) the partner controlling critical resources tends to centralize governance, and (3) partnering firms are more likely to put restrictions on publication output than public research organizations. We therefore recommend that universities and their partners take these aspects into account when selecting such projects. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L24|The effect of federal research funding on formation of university-firm biopharmaceutical alliances|The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is the largest funder of health and life science research in the United States. The research sponsored by the agency has continued to aid in the development of new biopharmaceutical therapies, many of which are commercialized via alliances between universities and biopharmaceutical firms. In this paper, we examine this commercialization pathway more closely, evaluating the effects of NIH research funding on US universities’ alliance formation. Based on results from instrumental variables models, we estimate that, on average, producing one additional university-firm alliance requires a sustained increase of $294 million in universities’ total NIH research funding over the preceding five-year period. In addition, a sustained increase in funding of $100 million over 5 years increases the probability of a university forming at least one alliance by 0.54, or 54 percentage points. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L24|Measuring the performance of university technology transfer using meta data approach: the case of Dutch universities|The objective o this study is to empirically measure the performance of Dutch university’s technology transfer. Dutch universities are ranked high on research output but there is scarce evidence about the commercialization of research-based innovation. We present a novel approach to measure the performance of university technology transfer using meta data analysis. We use data on research output as meta-data to estimates the potential for technology transfer, and data about the actual technology transfer projects as measured by patents, license agreements and spin-offs. We tested our model for Dutch universities and validated it using data from private and state universities in the US. Our results suggest that most Dutch research universities have poor performance while technical Dutch universities and academic medical center perform well. We pilot-tested our model for selected US universities and the result confirm the validity of our approach. Our approach contributes to the literature on university technology transfer by adding a novel approach for measuring performance of university technology transfer while taking into account university research as the potential for technology transfer. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
L24|Productivity, outsourcing and exit: the case of Australian manufacturing|This paper uses a panel of small and medium manufacturing firms in Australia and studies the relationship between productivity and outsourcing accounting for the possibility of inefficient firms self-selecting into exit instead of outsourcing to domestic suppliers. Estimating a propensity model on an unbalanced panel of firms and correcting for the selection bias when firms opt for exit shows that the impact of productivity on the outsourcing decision could be much larger than estimated so far. The paper further explores the impact of outsourcing on a firm’s future performance and finds that the effect is non-uniform and productivity dependent, and outsourcing mostly brings improvements to firms that initially had low productivities. The most productive firms seem to outsource for other reasons such as focusing on innovation and exports with an eye on longer-term returns. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L24|Trust, transaction costs and contractual incompleteness in franchising|The aim of this study is to address empirically the degree of contractual completeness in franchising by combining transaction cost and relational governance perspectives. First, the ratio of specific and residual decision rights is developed as a measure of contractual completeness. Second, we extend the transaction cost perspective of contractual completeness in franchising by arguing that the franchisor’s and franchisees’ investments have a negative effect on contractual completeness under bilateral dependence and a positive effect under unilateral dependence. Third, we complement the transaction cost perspective by developing new hypotheses regarding the impact of general and knowledge-based trust on contractual completeness. General trust of the franchisor reduces the franchisor’s perception of relational risk and hence the necessity to control the network relationship by more complete contract planning, and knowledge-based trust increases information sharing between the partners and hence the knowledge base for specifying more detailed contracts. The data from the German franchise sector provide some support of the hypotheses. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
