L26|The rise and fall of family firms in the process of development|Abstract This paper explores the causes and the consequences of the evolution of family firms in the growth process. The theory suggests that in early stages of development, valuable family specific human capital stimulated the productivity of family firms and the development process. However, in light of the rise in the importance of managerial talents for firms’ productivity in later stages, family firms generated a misallocation of managerial talents, curbing productivity and economic growth. Evidence supports the dual impact of family firms in the development process and the role of socio-cultural characteristics in observed variations in the productivity of family firms.
L26|Does FDI Promote Entrepreneurial Activities? A Meta-Analysis|This study uses meta-analysis to analyze 557 estimates from 35 studies that estimate the effect of inward FDI on entrepreneurial activity. We address two questions: (i) Does FDI lead to greater entrepreneurial activity in host countries? (ii) What factors are responsible for the different estimates across studies? In addressing these questions, we make two methodological contributions. We extend the new Andrews-Kasy meta-analysis estimators (Andrews & Kasy, 2019) to allow for explanatory variables, and we develop a nested framework of multiple meta-analysis models that allows for testing between models and model selection. We estimate that, across all studies, the average estimated effect of FDI on entrepreneurship is positive but small in size, and statistically insignificant. In contrast, the average effect from studies that control for endogeneity is negative and statistically significant.
L26|Immigrant Entrepreneurs and Innovation in the U.S. High-Tech Sector|We estimate differences in innovation behavior between foreign versus U.S.-born entrepreneurs in high-tech industries. Our data come from the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs, a random sample of firms with detailed information on owner characteristics and innovation activities. We find uniformly higher rates of innovation in immigrant-owned firms for 15 of 16 different innovation measures; the only exception is for copyright/trademark. The immigrant advantage holds for older firms as well as for recent start-ups and for every level of the entrepreneur’s education. The size of the estimated immigrant-native differences in product and process innovation activities rises with detailed controls for demographic and human capital characteristics but falls for R&D and patenting. Controlling for finance, motivations, and industry reduces all coefficients, but for most measures and specifications immigrants are estimated to have a sizable advantage in innovation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L26|Gender Differences in Self-employment Duration: the Case of Opportunity and Necessity Entrepreneurs|A strand of the self-employment literature suggests that those “pushed” into self-employment out of necessity may perform differently from those “pulled” into self-employment to pursue a business opportunity. While findings on self-employment outcomes by self-employed type are not unanimous, there is mounting evidence that performance outcomes differ between these two self-employed types. Another strand of the literature has found important gender differences in self-employment entry rates, motivations for entry, and outcomes. Using a unique set of data that links the American Community Survey to administrative data from Form 1040 and W-2 records, we bring together these two strands of the literature. We explore whether there are gender differences in self-employment duration of self-employed types. In particular, we examine the likelihood of self-employment exit towards unemployment versus the wage sector for five consecutive entry cohorts, including two cohorts who entered self-employment during the Great Recession. Severely limited labor-market opportunities may have driven many in the recession cohorts to enter self-employment, while those entering self-employment during the boom may have been pursuing opportunities under favorable market conditions. To more explicitly test the concept of “necessity” versus “opportunity” self-employment, we also examine the wage labor attachment (or weeks worked in the wage sector) in the year prior to becoming self-employed. We find that, within the cohorts we examine, there are gender differences in the rate at which men and women depart self-employment for either wage work or non-participation, but that the patterns are dependent on pre self-employment wage-sector attachment and cohort effects.
L26|Are Business Start-Ups Liquidity Constrained? Evidence from a Quasi-Experimental Allocation of Housing Wealth in East Germany|Are entrepreneurs liquidity constraint? Using quasi-random housing wealth variation resulting from communist era decisions, we argue yes, as we find that wealthier East Germans are more likely to become self-employed after reunification. In the literature, no such strong relationship was found using regional house price changes the US and UK. In these economies, our results suggest, the effects of liquidity constraints are masked by anticipatory savings of the would be self-employed, which was impossible for the East Germans in our sample due to communism.
L26|Crowdfunding Dynamics|Various forms of social learning and network effects are at work on crowdfunding platforms, giving rise to informational and payoff externalities. We use novel entrepreneur-backer data to study how these externalities shape funding dynamics, within and across projects. We find that backers decide to back a particular project based on past contributions not only to that project—as documented by prior work—but also to other contemporaneous projects—a novel result. Our difference-in-differences estimates indicate that such ‘cross-project funding dynamics’ account for 4-5% in the increase of contributions that projects generate on a daily basis. We show that recurrent backers are the main transmission channel of cross-project funding dynamics: by initiating social learning about project existence and quality, recurrent backers encourage future funding by other backers. Our results demonstrate that even though contemporaneous projects compete for funding, they jointly benefit from their common presence on the platform. We finally show that these crowdfunding dynamics stir platform growth, with important consequences for competition among platforms.
L26|Risk Aversion and Entrepreneurship: New Evidence Exploiting Exposure to Massive Earthquakes in Italy|This paper investigates the impact of risk attitudes on the decision to become an entrepreneur. In contrast to previous research, we handle endogeneity issues relying on an instrumental variables strategy considering as a source of exogenous variation in risk aversion the early exposure to a massive earthquake. Using several waves of the Bank of Italy Survey of Household Income and Wealth (SHIW), we find that individuals experiencing an earthquake become significantly more risk averse. Second-stage estimates show that risk aversion has a significant negative impact on the probability of becoming an entrepreneur.
L26|Retos y oportunidades del emprendimiento apalancado en tecnología digital|El objetivo de este estudio es identificar las principales barreras que enfrenta el emprendimiento apalancado en tecnología digital en Colombia y proponer soluciones de política pública que permitan superarlas para impulsar su crecimiento hacia futuro. Los resultados que aquí se presentan se basan en un taller en el cual participaron emprendedores, universidades y entidades que apoyan el emprendimiento, desarrollado por Fedesarrollo en conjunto con la firma Háptica.
L26|Has the Swedish business sector become more entrepreneurial than the US business sector?|Recent studies document a 30-year decline in various measures of entrepreneurship in the U.S. Using detailed Swedish employer-employee data over the period from 1990 to 2013, we find young firms to be more prominent in the Swedish business sector than in the U.S. business sector. Young Swedish firms, aged five years or less, account for more than half of all firms during this period. We also observe an increase in Swedish entrepreneurial activity for start-ups. However, since the mid-2000s, job destruction rates for young firms have been increasing, which implies a declining employment share for younger firms. Moreover, most of the job creation by young firms occurs in the expanding service sector. We discuss different explanations for why Sweden appears not to have the same strong decline in entrepreneurial activity as the U.S. has had during the last two decades. We argue that one important explanation is the economic reforms that were implemented in Sweden in the 1990s that mitigated several hurdles to entrepreneurship.
L26|Task Discretion, Labor Market Frictions and Entrepreneurship|Each job can be performed in several ways, which we call tasks An agent's performance at a task is informative about his productivity at different tasks. But tasks are not contractible: choosing tasks is the prerogative of management within firms, and of the agent if he is an entrepreneur. Firms will invest in the discovery of their workers' productivity at different tasks only if they cannot easily move to other firms. Therefore, labor-market frictions determine whether learning an agent's talent occur within firms, or whether an agent may become an entrepreneur to acquire task discretion.
L26|Firm soundness and knowledge externalities: a comparative regional analysis|This paper investigates the role of regional context with regard to human capital and knowledge spillover effects in SMEs’ financial soundness. Our empirical setting is based on the multilevel analysis for panel data, which better allows for the treatment of hierarchical data. It is applied to firms belonging to the industrial sector and operating in four European countries over the 2010–2015 period. We find that a combination of individual- and regional-level characteristics explain firm soundness more accurately than individual features alone. Furthermore, we find that a higher local educational level and knowledge spillover improve the firm soundness.
L26|Persistence of Entrepreneurship in Different Historical Contexts|Persistence of entrepreneurship over longer periods of time could indicate a culture of entrepreneurship among the local population that may be an important factor for regional development, but does persistence of economic activity require cultural transmission? We exploit the diverse historical developments in the territory that is Poland today to analyze the level and the sources of persistence from the 1920s until today. Persistence is mainly found in those regions that were part of Germany before World War II. This persistence is noticeable despite the exchange of most of the pre-war population, ruling out that persistence is driven by transmission of culture. In most regions that were already part of Poland before World War II, the relationship between historical and current levels of entrepreneurship is not significant. Persistence of entrepreneurship is related to the historical success of regions, which we capture by the pre-war level of and self-employment in manufacturing industries, particularly in those that can be regarded as knowledge intensive. Our main conclusion is that persistence of entrepreneurship requires a certain level of successful economic development that we capture by the degree of industrialization in the early 20th century, but it does not necessarily require persistence of the local population.
L26|New(s) data for Entrepreneurship Research? An innovative approach to use Big Data on media coverage|Although conventional register and survey data on entrepreneurship have enabled remarkable insights into the phenomenon, the added value has slowed down noticeably over the last decade. There is a need for fresh approaches utilising modern data sources such as Big Data. Until now, it has been quite unknown whether Big Data actually embodies valuable contributions for entrepreneurship research and where it can perform better or worse than conventional approaches. To contribute towards the exploration of Big Data in entrepreneurship research, we use a newly developed dataset based on publications of the German Press Agency (dpa) to explore the relationship between news coverage of entrepreneurship and regional entrepreneurial activity. Furthermore, we apply sentiment analysis to investigate the impact on sentiment of entrepreneurial press releases. Our results show mixed outcomes regarding the relationship between reporting of entrepreneurial events, i.e., media coverage, and entrepreneurial activity in German planning regions. At this stage, our empirical results reject the idea of a strong relationship between actual entrepreneurial activities in regions and the intensity of it being reported. However, the results also imply much potential of Big Data approaches for further research with more sophisticated methodology approaches. Our paper provides an entry point into Big Data usage in entrepreneurship research and we suggest a number of relevant research opportunities based on our results.
L26|Intellectual Property Protection Mechanisms and the Characteristics of Founding Teams|Intellectual property protection mechanisms (IPPMs) are critical to fostering innovation and their relevance has grown enormously with the increased trade in goods and services involving intellectual property. Scholars have investigated what factors facilitate or hinder the use of such IP protection strategies, identifying country, sector, and firm characteristics. However, the extant literature has overlooked the role of founding team characteristics on the choice of IPPMs. Using data from a large sample of European small and young entrepreneurial firms, we show that controlling for size, R&D intensity, and other firms and market effects, the founding team characteristics such as gender and education greatly influence the choice of IPPMs.
L26|Motherhood, migration, and self-employment of college graduates|Abstract Women face unique challenges in starting and running their own businesses and may have differing motives to men for pursuing self-employment. Previous research suggests that married women with families value the flexibility that self-employment can offer, allowing them to balance their family responsibilities with their career aspirations. This may be especially true for college graduates, who tend to have more successful businesses. Access to childcare may also affect their labor force decisions. Using American Community Survey microdata, we examine how birth-place residence, a proxy for access to extended family and childcare, relates to self-employment and hours worked for college graduate married mothers. Our results suggest that flexibility is a major factor pulling out-migrant college-educated mothers into self-employment. Additionally, it appears that, in response to fewer childcare options, self-employed mothers away from their birth-place work fewer hours, while self-employed mothers residing in their birth-place are able to work more hours per week.
L26|Transitioning from Solo Self-Employed to Microbusiness Employer: Local Economic Environment or Owner Characteristics?|Only a minority of micro-businesses create jobs for others. This paper addresses whether personal characteristics and resources of the microbusiness owner or the local external economic environment are drivers of job creation. In the UK context of significant growth in self-employment but a declining proportion who create jobs, an investigation using longitudinal data is provided. Individual demographic and resource characteristics are found to be more important, but place effects are relatively weak. Entrepreneurship policy needs to target particular groups, including women and less experienced business owners in their localities.
L26|Who Founds? An Analysis of University and Corporate Startup Entrepreneurs Based on Danish Register Data|We compare individuals presently employed either at an university or at a firm from a R&D intensive sector and analyze which of their personal-specific and employer-specific characteristics determine their choice of subsequently founding a startup. Our data set is unusually rich and combines the population of Danish employees with their present employers. We focus on persons who at least hold a Bachelor's degree in engineering, sciences and health and track them over the time period 2001-2012. We show that (i) there are overall little differences between the characteristics of university and corporate startup entrepreneurs, (ii) common factors triggering startup activity of both university and corporate employees are education, top management team membership, previous job mobility and being male, (iii) it is exclusively human capital-related characteristics that affect startup choice of university employees while (iv) the characteristics of the present workplace constitute major factors of entrepreneurial activity.
L26|New Evidence on Long-Term Effects of Start-Up Subsidies: Matching Estimates and their Robustness|The German start-up subsidy (SUS) program for the unemployed has recently undergone a major make-over, altering its institutional setup, adding an additional layer of selection and leading to ambiguous predictions of the program’s effectiveness. Using propensity score matching (PSM) as our main empirical approach, we provide estimates of long-term effects of the post-reform subsidy on individual employment prospects and labor market earnings up to 40 months after entering the program. Our results suggest large and persistent long-term effects of the subsidy on employment probabilities and net earned income. These effects are larger than what was estimated for the pre-reform program. Extensive sensitivity analyses within the standard PSM framework reveal that the results are robust to different choices regarding the implementation of the weighting procedure and also with respect to deviations from the conditional independence assumption. As a further assessment of the results’ sensitivity, we go beyond the standard selection-on-observables approach and employ an instrumental variable setup using regional variation in the likelihood of receiving treatment. Here, we exploit the fact that the reform increased the discretionary power of local employment agencies in allocating active labor market policy funds, allowing us to obtain a measure of local preferences for SUS as the program of choice. The results based on this approach give rise to similar estimates. Thus, our results indicating that SUS are still an effective active labor market program after the reform do not appear to be driven by “hidden bias”.
L26|Types of Institutions and Well-Being of Self-Employed and Paid Employees in Europe|This paper analyzes the role of different types of institutions, such as entre- preneurship-facilitating entry conditions, labor market regulations, quality of government, and perception of corruption for individual well-being among self-employed and paid employed individuals. Well-being is operationalized by job and life satisfaction of individuals in 32 European countries measured by data from EU Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC). We find that institutions never affected both occupational groups in opposite ways. Our findings indicate that labor market institutions do not play an im- portant role well-being. The results suggest that fostering an entrepreneurial society in Europe is a welfare enhancing strategy that benefits both, the self- employed and paid employees.
L26|Wage Employment, Unemployment and Self-Employment across Countries|Poor countries have low rates of wage employment and high rates of self-employment. This paper shows that they also have high rates of unemployment relative to wage employment, and that self-employment is particularly high where the unemployment-wage employment ratio is high. I interpret high unemployment-employment ratios as evidence of labor market frictions, and develop a simple heterogeneous-firm search and matching model with choice between job search and self-employment to analyze their effect. Quantitative analysis of the model, separately calibrated to eight countries, shows that variation in labor market frictions can explain almost the entire variation in not only unemployment, but also wage employment and self-employment across the calibration countries. The model generates joint variation in unemployment and self-employment accounting for at least a third of their relationship in the data. Labor market frictions reduce output not only by affecting employment, but also by pushing searchers into low-productivity own-account work.
L26|Who Gains from Active Learning in Higher Education?|The aim of this paper is to study whether and how teaching style (i.e., traditional vs active mode) affects academic performance of young individuals in tertiary education. We focus on entrepreneurship education as an ideal subject for experimenting alternative teaching methods. Identification relies on Triple Differences (DDD) estimates based on detailed administrative data for the universe of students in a Master's program in Management and Finance in Italy over 2011-2015. We measure academic achievement through several indicators, both right after the end of the entrepreneurship course (short run) and at the end of the program (long run). Our preferred estimates show no significant effects of the teaching mode on student's achievement, both in the short and in the long run. However, further estimates reveal interesting heterogeneities across students, being active teaching more effective in the case of females and students from secondary schools with an academic track.
L26|Entrepreneurship over the Business Cycle in the United States: A Decomposition|Entry rates into self-employment increase during recessions and decrease during economic upswings. I show that this is mostly explained by the higher unemployment rate during a recession, together with the fact that at all times, unemployed persons have a relatively high propensity to become entrepreneurs out of necessity because they do not find paid employment. I use econometric decomposition techniques to quantify these effects based on the monthly matched US Current Population Survey before, during and after the Great Recession. I also document that this counter-cyclical pattern of entrepreneurial entry strongly applies to unincorporated entrepreneurship, but only weakly to incorporated entrepreneurship. This highlights the association of unincorporated and incorporated entrepreneurship with necessity and opportunity entrepreneurship, respectively. The results are useful for policy-makers and practitioners to understand, forecast and act on the different types of entrepreneurial activities that are to be expected over the business cycle.
L26|September 11 and the Rise of Necessity Self-Employment among Mexican Immigrants|Since the September 11 attacks (9/11), the U.S. has seen a tightening of immigration policies. Previous studies find that stricter immigration enforcement has the unintended effect of pushing undocumented immigrants into self-employment. This paper builds on the literature to better understand the changes in the types of self-employment among Mexican immigrants triggered by the tightened immigration enforcement after 9/11. Using a difference-in-differences approach, and the recently developed measures by Fairlie and Fossen [2018] to distinguish between necessity and opportunity self-employment, we find that both necessity and opportunity self-employment increased among Mexican immigrants after 9/11. However, the effect is most prominent on necessity self-employment, consistent with the hypothesis that they are pushed into self-employment as a survival alternative.
L26|Entrepreneurial Persistence beyond Survival: Measurement and Determinants|Entrepreneurial persistence is demonstrated by an entrepreneur's continued positive maintenance of entrepreneurial motivation and constantly-renewed active engagement in a new business venture despite counter forces or enticing alternatives. It is thus a crucial factor for entrepreneurs when pursuing and exploiting their business opportunities and to realize potential economic gains and benefits. Using rich data on a representative sample of German business founders, we investigate the determinants of entrepreneurial persistence. Next to observed survival we also construct a hybrid persistence measure capturing also the motivational dimension of persistence. We analyze the influence of individual-level (human capital and personality) and business-related characteristics on both measures as well as their relative importance. We find that the two indicators emphasize different aspects of persistence. For the survival indicator, the predictive power is concentrated in business characteristics and human capital, while for hybrid persistence, the dominant factors are business characteristics and personality. Finally, we show that results are heterogeneous across subgroups. In particular, formerly-unemployed founders do not differ in survival chances, but they are more likely to lack a high psychological commitment to their business ventures.
L26|Types of Institutions and Well-Being of Self-Employed and Paid Employees in Europe|This paper analyzes the role of different types of institutions, such as entrepreneurship-facilitating entry conditions, labor market regulations, quality of government, and perception of corruption for individual well-being among self-employed and paid employed individuals. Well-being is operationalized by job and life satisfaction of individuals in 32 European countries measured by data from EU Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC). We find that institutions never affected both occupational groups in opposite ways. Our findings indicate that labor market institutions do not play an important role well-being. The results suggest that fostering an entrepreneurial society in Europe is a welfare enhancing strategy that benefits both, the self-employed and paid employees.
L26|Persistence of entrepreneurship in different historical contexts|Persistence of entrepreneurship over longer periods of time could indicate a culture of entrepreneurship among the local population that may be an important factor for regional development, but does persistence of economic activity require cultural transmission? We exploit the diverse historical developments in the territory that is Poland today to analyze the level and the sources of persistence from the 1920s until today. Persistence is mainly found in those regions that were part of Germany before World War II. This persistence is noticeable despite the exchange of most of the pre- war population, ruling out that persistence is driven by transmission of culture. In most regions that were already part of Poland before World War II, the relationship between historical and current levels of entrepreneurship is not significant. Persistence of entrepreneurship is related to the historical success of regions, which we capture by the pre-war level of and self- employment in manufacturing industries, particularly in those that can be regarded as knowledge intensive. Our main conclusion is that persistence of entrepreneurship requires a certain level of successful economic development that we capture by the degree of industrialization in the early 20th century, but it does not necessarily require persistence of the local population.
L26|Data Science for Entrepreneurship Research : Studying Demand Dynamics for Entrepreneurial Skills in the Netherlands|The recent rise of big data and artificial intelligence (AI) is changing markets, politics, organizations, and societies. It also affects the domain of research. Supported by new statistical methods that rely on computational power and computer science --- data science methods --- we are now able to analyze data sets that can be huge, multidimensional, unstructured, and are diversely sourced. In this paper, we describe the most prominent data science methods suitable for entrepreneurship research and provide links to literature and Internet resources for self-starters. We survey how data science methods have been applied in the entrepreneurship research literature. As a showcase of data science techniques, based on a dataset of 95% of all job vacancies in the Netherlands over a 6-year period with 7.7 million data points, we provide an original analysis of the demand dynamics for entrepreneurial skills in the Netherlands. We show which entrepreneurial skills are particularly important for which type of profession. Moreover, we find that demand for both entrepreneurial and digital skills has increased for managerial positions, but not for others. We also find that entrepreneurial skills were significantly more demanded than digital skills over the entire period 2012-2017 and that the absolute importance of entrepreneurial skills has even increased more than digital skills for managers, despite the impact of datafication on the labor market. We conclude that further studies of entrepreneurial skills in the general population --- outside the domain of entrepreneurs --- is a rewarding subject for future research.
L26|Local Best Practices for Business Growth|Can best practices of successful business peers influence the efficiency and growth of small-scale enterprises? Does it matter how this information is disseminated? This paper conducts a field experiment among urban retail shop owners in Indonesia to address these research questions. Through extensive baseline quantitative and qualitative assessments, we develop a handbook of local best practices that associates specific business practices with performance and provides detailed implementation guidance informed by exemplary local shop owners. The handbook is distributed to a randomly selected sample of shop owners and is complemented with three experiential learning modules: one group is invited to watch a documentary video on experiences of highly successful peers, another is offered light in-shop assistance on the implementation of the handbook, and a third group is offered both. Eighteen months after the intervention, we find no effect of offering the handbook alone, but significant impact on practice adoption when the handbook is coupled with experiential learning. On business performance we find sizable and significant improvements as well, up to a 35% increase in profits and 16.7% in revenues. The types of practices adopted map these performance improvements to efficiency gains rather than other channels. The analysis suggests these interventions are simple, scalable, and highly cost-effective.
L26|Capabilities and firm growth: the role of formal collaboration agreements|The paper presents an empirical analysis of the effect of formal network agreements on growth of firm in Italy in the years 2011-2013. The theoretical background is given by evolutionary theories that assign a key role in determining the ability of firms to capture business opportunities to internal capabilities and to external knowledge and capabilities. We suggest that firms establishing formal relationships with other firms can extend the â€œset of things that they are able to doâ€ â€“the set of capabilitiesâ€“ so that they are able to capture opportunities and grow. The study is based on a novel database of Italian firms that matches networked firms in year 2012 with firms that did not sign a formal network agreement but possess similar structural characteristics. In order to deal with possible self-selection phenomenon, we use difference-in-differences regression models to assess the effect on growth of belonging to a formal network agreement. Moreover, to study the effect of characteristics of network we employ two stage Hackman regression models. Results show that networked firms have a higher growth rate and that the size of the network plays a role. Results are in line with the evolutionary interpretation and suggest that formal network agreement can function as long-range antennas for firms that are more constrained from the geographical point of view. These agreements allow to acquire capabilities and knowledge of the market that allow firms to expand their economic activity.
L26|Entrepreneurial Spirits in Women and Men. The Role of Financial Literacy and Digital Skills|We investigate the attitudes to entrepreneurship of Italian households, focusing on the importance of digital skills and financial literacy as potentially relevant factors shaping entrepreneurial entry. We put the gender focus to our analysis to detect whether, and to what extent, women and men differ in their propensity to run a business. We carry out our research by using a sample of the Bank of Italy SHIW dataset for the year 2008 and 2010. Our findings suggest a strong heterogeneity, between men and women, of the importance of digital skills and financial literacy as entrepreneurial drivers. Results show that the impact of financial literacy on the probability of being an entrepreneur is significant, but only for men. Digital skills increase the probability of being entrepreneur with a bigger effect for men than for women.
L26|Do young innovative companies create more jobs? Evidence from Pakistani textile firms|Using unique innovation survey data collected among a homogenous sample of firms active in the textiles and apparel sector in Pakistan, this paper analyses the role of innovation for employment growth. In particular, it develops and tests the hypothesis that innovation is conducive to employment creation, and that this is especially the case for smaller and younger firms, supporting the hypothesis that young innovative companies grow faster by engaging in riskier and more radical innovation to catch up with incumbent firms. We find empirical evidence for these hypotheses, which is robust to different model specifications and estimation techniques and to different measures of innovation. Young innovative companies also perform well in absolute employment creation making them interesting from a policy perspective.
L26|The landscape of corporate venturing in Germany: Insights on corporate venture capitals and corporate accelerators|This paper adds to the literature of external corporate venturing, especially corporate venture capitals (CVCs) and corporate accelerators (CAs) by providing an overview of the German corporate venturing market and by offering first intriguing findings based on a novel and unique hand-collected dataset. It presents insights regarding the set-up, organization and staffing of corporate venturing units, as well as characteristics of start-ups under management. This study distinguishes between the corporate venturing unit's mission, organization, governance and network as well as vehicle leads. Moreover, differences in the characteristics of start-ups supported by corporate venturing units are detected. This work offers unique insights on the German corporate venturing landscape and thereby serves as starting point for future and more elaborate research.
L26|Micro Enterprises Performances Potential Index (MEPPI): A Study with the Reference to Rural Areas of the Cuddalore District, Tamilnadu|Micro enterprises are recognized as the prime source of livelihood for the poor population in the rural areas around the globe. The impact of micro enterprises on the rural economy is determined by the performance of these micro enterprises, their success rate and the potential for the sustainability in the market which depends upon the various factors like financial capability, profitability, resource availability, demand in the market, skill up gradation of the micro entrepreneurs and the competitiveness. In addition to this the factors such as labour, the performance potential of the micro enterprises, capital availability with low cost technology, raw materials availability, better infrastructure, political stability and the supportive economics policies like subsidies and export import guidance and many others join together to determine the performance and sustainability of the micro enterprises. A successful entrepreneur needs to be known and ready to adopt the necessary changes and differentiations in the product suitable to the market change which warrants the entrepreneurs knowledge about the dynamics of the market conditions regarding the trend in the demand, demand forecasting, performance evaluation of the enterprises at the particular period and its production and market potential for the future. The available literature about the performance of micro enterprises reveals that lake of timely assessment about the concurrent performance of the micro enterprise and their performance potential for the future leads to the failure of the products and the microenterprises (Olawale (2014), Wan Nurulasiah binti Wan Mustapa, Abdullah Al Mamun , Mohamed Dahlan Ibrahim, Mbugua Stephen Kamunge , Agnes Njeru , Ondabu Ibrahim Tirimba, (2018) and Bushu 2019) which calls for an in-depth attempt to discover the resource and market potential for the best performance of the micro enterprises at the gross root level. This paper is attempted to fill this gap in research.
L26|Existenzgründungen von Frauen: Aktuelle Entwicklungen|Frauen sind seit jeher im Gründungsgeschehen in Deutschland unterrepräsentiert. Diese Unterrepräsentanz hat sich in jüngerer Vergangenheit wieder verstärkt. Analysen auf Basis der Gewerbeanzeigenstatistik zeigen, dass dies zum einen darauf zurückzuführen ist, dass die Gründungsneigung von Frauen noch stärker als die der Männer zurückgegangen ist. Zum anderen trägt ein weit überdurchschnittliches Ausmaß an Gründungsaktivitäten von Männern aus den EU-8- und EU-2-Beitrittsstaaten, mit dem ihre Landsfrauen nicht mithalten können, dazu bei. Die von Frauen gegründeten Unternehmen weisen teilweise andere Branchenschwerpunkte als die von Männern gegründeten auf. Sie sind zumeist im Dienstleistungssektor angesiedelt. Im Bereich der freiberuflichen Gründungen sind Frauen sogar leicht überrepräsentiert. Qualitative Unterschiede im Hinblick auf Größe und Innovationspotenzial bestehen zwischen von Frauen und Männern gegründeten gewerblichen Einzelunternehmen kaum (mehr).
L26|Persistenz von Selbstständigen in der Grundsicherung|Die vorliegende Untersuchung setzt sich mit der Situation von Selbstständigen in der Grund-sicherung auseinander. Ursächlich für den Bezug von ergänzenden Leistungen der Grundsi-cherung sind in den meisten Fällen deutlich rückläufige Einkommen. Tatsächlich ist die Ein-kommenssituation selbstständiger Leistungsberechtigter trotz guter Ausbildung und langer Arbeitszeiten noch deutlich schlechter als die der abhängig Beschäftigten in der Grundsiche-rung. Dennoch gelingt es den meisten Selbstständigen, die Hilfebedürftigkeit relativ schnell wieder zu beenden. Ein Teil von ihnen ist allerdings verhältnismäßig lange auf ALG II ange-wiesen. Da dies in den meisten Fällen betriebliche Gründe haben dürfte, ist hier möglicher-weise das der Selbstständigkeit zugrunde liegende Geschäftsmodell kritisch zu hinterfragen. Allgemein ist die Grundsicherung für Selbstständige jedoch ein sinnvolles Instrument, das es vielen ermöglicht, ihr Unternehmen nach einer Krise neu auszurichten und anschließend wieder auf eigenen Beinen stehen zu können.
L26|Bürokratiewahrnehmung von Unternehmen|Diese Studie untersucht, wie Unternehmen Bürokratie wahrnehmen. In Abhängigkeit von der Intensität des Belastungsempfindens, des wahrgenommenen Aufwands zur Erfüllung bürokratischer Erfordernisse und der Emotionen, die Bürokratie bei Unternehmen hervorrufen, können drei Wahrnehmungstypen identifiziert werden - der Unbelastete Typ, der Pragmatische Typ und der Verdrossene Typ. Zum Verdrossenen Typ zählt mehr als jedes zweite Unternehmen in Deutschland. Ein erheblicher Anteil der Unternehmen steht dem Nutzen von bürokratischen Regeln und Vorschriften skeptisch gegenüber. Oftmals sind sie kaum in der Lage, alle bürokratischen Erfordernisse vollumfänglich umzusetzen. Ein beträchtlicher Teil baut ganz bewusst Bürokratie autonom ab. Zugleich zeigen die Unternehmen eine hohe Bereitschaft, die Politik im Prozess des Bürokratieabbaus aktiv zu unterstützen.
L26|The German Mittelstand: Antithesis to the Silicon Valley entrepreneurship model?|"Whilst internationally, the Mittelstand in Germany is admired and many countries try to emulate it, the current debate in Germany praises the Silicon Valley model of entrepreneurship, contrasting the Mittelstand as low-growth, low-tech and non-innovative - in short: as a hindrance to Germany's economic future. We therefore ask whether the Mittelstand actually is the antithesis to the Silicon Valley entrepreneurship model. We show that Mittelstand is more than a small and medium enterprise size, identifying its distinctive features (identity of ownership and management, sense of belonging). In this regard, we also discuss the influence of historical paths and current institutional settings on the Mittelstand model. Asking to what extent the Mittelstand is distinctive, we address its diverse contributions to economy and society. We suggest that the Mittelstand is an excellent example of everyday entrepreneurship and a vibrant segment of economy which is also competitive, innovative, and growth orientated; albeit in different ways compared to Silicon Valley entrepreneurship. In concluding, we outline ideas for future research and implications for policymakers. In our view, future research and policies should stand back from dichotomies such as ""Mittelstand versus Silicon Valley entrepreneurship"" and acknowledge the diversity and heterogeneity of entrepreneurship."
L26|Export activity, innovation and institutions in Southern European nascent entrepreneurship|This paper studies the role of personal characteristics, perceptual variables and country-level conditioning (financial environment, government quality and support, education quality and entrepreneurship know-how, innovation environment and support, business infrastructure, entrepreneurial culture and society, and gender roles) in explaining the export propensity and intensity of nascent entrepreneurs in four Southern European countries (Portugal, Spain, Italy and Greece), using Total Early-stage Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA) data from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) dataset in 2003-2010. Due to the nascent nature of the business, export activity is starting or about to start at the time of the survey and, for that reason, it cannot be studied using theoretical frameworks based on productivity heterogeneity, which has not yet been measured. In this sample of nascent businesses, there is no evidence of a selection effect into exporting and the individual-level factors influencing export propensity and intensity are identical. The most relevant individual-level variables facilitating export activity are new products, new technology, graduate education, and entrepreneurship networks. The most relevant country-level factors facilitating export activity are the availability of funding, the national government's macroeconomic support, and the support for new technology.
L26|Stars in social media: New light through old windows?|We review the economics of superstars, originally developed for stars in traditional media, and discuss whether they are applicable for the (allegedly) novel phenomenon of stars in social media (influencer, micro-celebrities). Moreover, we analyse potentially new factors for creating social media superstardom that may be special to the nature of social media. Our overall result is that the economics of superstars, like the role of talent, market concentration effects, MacDonald-style and Adler-style effects, remain applicable and relevant for social media stars. In line with this assessment, we find that several (allegedly) new star factors in social media, like user-generated content, prosumption, disappearance of gatekeepers and authenticity, turn out to be only partly applicable or just slightly different to traditional concepts. However, algorithm management and upload strategies represent novel success factors relevant for social media superstardom that are not captured by traditional superstar theories.
L26|What Skills Lead to Entrepreneurial Success? Evidence from Non-Farm-Household Enterprises in Indonesia|The abundance of small enterprises in developing countries has led to debates regarding the role that of entrepreneurial skill in business performance. Analyses of the skills and characteristics important for success can inform entrepreneurship training programs or educational curricula designed to increase the number of successful entrepreneurs. We addressed these issues in the context of Indonesia, a low-middle-income country in which almost half of workers are self-employed. After developing a conceptual framework linking fluid intelligence, crystallized intelligence, and educational attainment, we estimated the effect of these different types of intelligence on the profit and value of non-farm-household businesses. We found that fluid intelligence had sizeable and positive returns on business. On the other hand, crystallized intelligence had a positive and large effect only in sectors that required intense concentration or computers. Some heterogeneous effects regarding business size were also found. Our results were robust when we controlled for possible selection into non- farm entrepreneurship.
L26|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital (VC) and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and initial patent quality than non-VC-backed ones. VC backing increases a startup's likelihood of reaching the right tails of the firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, outcomes are better for startups matched with more experienced venture capitalists. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing for business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The presence of venture capital, the degree of assortative matching between startups and financiers, and the taxation of VC-backed startups matter significantly for growth.
L26|Business Dynamics in the National Establishment Time Series (NETS)/Leland Crane, Ryan Decker|Business microdata have proven useful in a number of fields, but the main sources of comprehensive microdata are subject to significant confidentiality restrictions. A growing number of papers instead use a private data source seeking to cover the universe of U.S. business establishments, the National Establishment Time Series (NETS). Previous research documents the representativeness of NETS in terms of the distribution of employment and establishment counts across industry, geography, and establishment size. But there exists considerable need among researchers for microdata suitable for studying business dynamics---birth, growth, decline, and death. We evaluate NETS in terms of its ability to corroborate key insights from the business dynamics literature with a particular focus on the behavior of new and young firms. We find that NETS microdata exhibit patterns of business dynamics that are markedly different from official administrative sources, limiting the usefuln ess of NETS for studying these topics.
L26|Spatial patterns and determinants of firm exit: an empirical analysis on France|Abstract The purpose of this research is to study the role of spatial agglomeration economies as drivers of firm exit in France over the period 2009–2013 by focusing on two regional variables (local financial development and local specialization). The spatial autocorrelation detected in the data leads us to apply spatial econometric techniques (Spatial Dynamic Panel models and spatial GMM) that permit us to control the estimation of spatial spillover effects. Our results show that firm exit is significantly influenced by positive spatial autocorrelation. Therefore, locations with high exit rates tend to be surrounded by similar ones. However, this phenomenon differs according to the period. In addition, we find that greater local financial development reduces the exit rate in a department, whereas local specialization seems not to exert any effect.
L26|An analytical approach to crowdinvesting: The impact of marketing and idea stealing on the entrepreneur's decision making|In a game theoretical setting, this paper studies the entrepreneur's decision making by using a new financing opportunity referred to as crowdinvesting. In this model, the entrepreneur can collect money and advertise his innovative idea. However, crowdinvesting carries the risk of being copied by a potential competitor. Faced with this trade-off, the entrepreneur strategically diminishes his marketing activity under certain circumstances to remain the monopolist in the market. In the second part, we compare crowdinvesting with two alternative financing opportunities, banks and venture capital. We show that crowdinvesting, often mentioned as a financing instrument for drastic innovations, is generally not appropriate for these ideas because the danger of being copied is too high for the entrepreneur.
L26|Reconsidering the returns to entrepreneurship: Applying a modified version of Lazear’s occupational choice model|The paper analyzes a modified version of Lazear’s (2004, 2005) model for occupational choice that includes a utility adjustment factor reflecting non-pecuniary net benefits associated with entrepreneurship. The model is used to derive analytical expressions for the relative income returns to entrepreneurship defined in two ways: in relation to the incomes of observationally similar wage employed and in relation to the counterfactual incomes of entrepreneurs as wage employed. The analysis shows that the upper bound on the income returns defined in counterfactual terms increases with the market value of entrepreneurial talent and that the lower bound decreases with increasing non-pecuniary benefits. If the entrepreneurial incomes are instead related to the incomes of observationally similar wage employed, and if the skill profiles in the population are assumed to follow a Fréchet distribution, then the upper bound on the relative expected returns will decrease with increasing non-pecuniary benefits. We also show that entrepreneurs on average will earn less than observationally similar wage employed even if there are no net benefits and that the associated self-selection bias will increase the higher the fraction of entrepreneurs. Individual-based data from the Swedish employment register is used to calibrate the parameters of the modified Lazear model and to compute the income returns to entrepreneurship. The model-based income distributions for entrepreneurs and wage employed are consistent with the observed distributions.
L26|High-Growth Firms And The Labor Market Entry Of First Generation Immigrants|The number of refugees in Europe has increased dramatically in recent years, and many countries are facing great challenges to integrating these refugees into their societies. A small group of high-growth firms have at the same time attracted attention because they create the most new jobs at any given point in time. Using matched employer-employee data from Statistics Sweden, we find that these high-growth firms in general are more likely to recruit first-generation immigrants that are unemployed. This provides support for the hypothesis that managers in high-growth firms, to greater extents, recruit marginalized individuals because they want to take advantage of their growth opportunities and therefore do not wait for the best match. Rapidly growing firms are thus less selective in their hiring decisions, and policies that are focused on increasing the number of high-growth firms might also help immigrants who face difficulties entering the labor market.
L26|The Rise and Decline of Industrial Foundations as Controlling Owners of Swedish Listed Firms: The Role of Tax Incentives|Beginning in the interwar period, industrial foundations became a vehicle for the corporate control of large listed firms in Sweden, but in the 1990s they were replaced by wealthy individuals who either directly own controlling blocks or who own them through holding companies. We study potential explanations for this change and propose two taxation-related candidates: shifts in the relative effective taxation across owner types and the dismantling of the inheritance taxation that prevented the generational transfer of the ownership of large controlling blocks. Our analysis exploits newly computed marginal effective capital income tax rates across capital owners, accounting for all relevant factors, including rules governing tax exemptions. We show that the 1990–91 tax reform, abolition of the wealth tax for controlling owners in 1997, 2003 tax exemption of dividends and capital gains on listed stock for holding companies with a voting or equity share of at least 10 percent, and abolition of the inheritance and gift taxes in 2004 reversed the rules of the game. Recently, control has largely been wielded through direct ownership, and the role of foundations is rapidly declining. These findings point to the importance of tax incentives for the use of foundations as the control vehicles of listed firms.
L26|Intrapreneurship and Trust|Trust and entrepreneurship are seen as key ingredients of long-term prosperity. However, it is not clear how these two are related. Part of the confusion can be traced back to the measurement of entrepreneurship, biased towards independent entrepreneurship (self-employed and new firms), and excluding entrepreneurship within established organizations. We shed new light on the relationship between trust and entrepreneurship, by proposing two mechanisms relating trust to entrepreneurship by employees, so-called intrapreneurship. We hypothesize that generalized trust influences the prevalence of intrapreneurship in an economy, and the allocation of entrepreneurial talents between independent entrepreneurship and intrapreneurship, through two mechanisms. First, generalized trust may substitute for complete contracts as a means of organizing labor in society, enabling a level of job autonomy in organizations necessary for intrapreneurship to flourish. Second, by way of its influence on the size and scope of the welfare state, generalized trust may increase the benefits of employment relative to self-employment, causing entrepreneurial individuals to elect to be intrapreneurs rather than independent entrepreneurs. Using a novel dataset, we find support for these hypotheses in a cross-country regression model covering the time period 2011–2017.
L26|The Collaborative Innovation Bloc: A Reply to our Commentators|We are grateful for the comments to our article, and for the opportunity to respond to them. In our original contribution, we argued that the application of the EOE perspective could help make Austrian economics more concrete, relevant and persuasive, especially regarding policy prescriptions. At the heart of this perspective is the idea that entrepreneurship, when construed as the act of building an innovative firm, is an inherently collaborative activity. The comments have strengthened our conviction that the EOE perspective is of value for Austrian economics and been of great help in furthering our thinking on the matter. The comments have also helped us see how the perspective fits in with the broader tradition of Austrian economics.​
L26|Local Rates of New Firm Formation: An Empirical Exploration using Swedish Data|We assess the empirical literature on the determinants of spatial variations in new-firm formation rates by undertaking a systematic empirical analysis of the relative roles of different demand- and supply-side factors. Using instrumental variables to address endogeneity, we find that local growth drives local entrepreneurship exclusively in services industries. Average establishment size has a robust negative influence on local new-firm formation rates, but its effect varies across industries. Local industry diversity is only positive for new-firm formation in high-tech and knowledge-intensive activities. There is also some evidence of that longer distances to urban centers is associated with higher new-firm formation rates. The only local factor with a consistent positive effect on new-firm formation across industries is local density of skilled workers. We conclude that industry structure, geography and agglomeration matter, but in the end, new firms are started by people, so it is unsurprising that the main factor driving local entrepreneurship is the characteristics of the local residents.
L26|A Theory of Gazelle Growth: Competition, Venture Capital Finance and Policy|This paper proposes a theory of gazelle growth in which gazelles can either grow organically or by acquisitions. In the model, there are three types of firms: incumbent, target, and gazelle. We show that the lower cost of organic growth can increase the incentives for acquisition growth. The reason for this is that the incumbent understands that if it acquires the target firm, the gazelle will then invest organically anyway to grow, and therefore, the acquisition will not be sufficient to protect the incumbent's market power. The gazelle could then acquire the target firm at a good price. We also show that financial support for the organic growth of gazelles can increase gazelles' growth by acquisitions since incumbents' preemptive motives are reduced.
L26|Working for an entrepreneur: Heaven or Hell?|Recruiting employees to an entrepreneurial venture is a challenging task. From the employee’s perspective, accepting a position in an entrepreneurial venture potentially implies considerable uncertainty. This paper provide a literature review and identifies research gaps related to labor mobility of employees into and out of entrepreneurial firms. Who works for an entrepreneur? What are the conditions under which the employees of entrepreneurial firms work? Additionally, labor mobility after an employee works for an entrepreneurial firm is discussed. In conclusion the quality of the jobs generated by entrepreneurial firms may be questionable (and still relatively unexplored in empirical research), but they are nevertheless important from a labor dynamics perspective. Better understanding about motives to work for an entrepreneur, issues related to job security beyond survival rates, and job quality may contribute to ease the recruitment problems that many entrepreneurial firms struggle with. Furthermore, the relevance and potential pros and cons of working for an entrepreneurial firm in future career paths (entrepreneur or employee) needs to be carefully addressed in future research.
L26|Market and Network Corruption|Economists tend to reduce all corruption to impersonal market-like transactions, ignoring the role of social ties in shaping corruption. In this paper, we show that this simplification substantially limits the understanding of corruption. We distinguish between market corruption (impersonal bribery), and network (or parochial) corruption which is conditional on the social connections between bureaucrats and private agents. We argue, both theoretically and empirically, that these types of corruption have different qualities. Using data from the Life in Transition Survey (LiTS) which covers all post-socialist countries we show, first, that the correlation between market and network corruption is weak, which implies that ignoring network corruption leads not only to an underestimation of the overall scale of corruption but also biases national corruption rankings. Secondly, in line with theoretical expectations, we find that network corruption is more persistent over time, less related to contemporary national socio-economic and institutional characteristics and has stronger historical roots than market corruption. Yet, network corruption, unlike bribery, is not able to ‘grease the wheels’ and is not associated with political instability. Lastly, we show that the decline in bribery which was observed in almost all post-socialist countries in the period from 2010 to 2016 was accompanied by rising network corruption in many of them, which has important policy implications.
L26|Closing the Finance Gap by Nudging: Impact Assessment of Public Grants for Women Entrepreneurs|Several recent papers draw attention to a lack of rigorous research on public policies supporting women entrepreneurs' competitiveness. This paper evaluates the effect of small business development gender-specific matching grants using a quasi-experimental approach. The grants have a positive effect on firm survival, as well as positive effects on obtaining bank loans, turnover, value added, employment, and total factor productivity. Heterogeneous treatment effects show that the grants increase the chance of young women entrepreneurs' firm survival and are even more effective for firms owned by mature women. Cost-benefit analysis estimates an increase in value added, which outweighs scheme-induced costs by 80% in the short-run and 170% in the long run.
L26|Do Public Firms Respond to Industry Opportunities More Than Private Firms? The Impact of Initial Firm Quality|We track firms at birth and compare the growth pattern of IPO firms and their birth-matched counterparts. Firms that are larger at birth with faster initial growth are more likely to attain a larger size later in life and go public. Firms in the top percentile of predicted propensity to go public grow 29 times larger fifteen years later than matched firms if they actually become public, and 14 times larger if they stay private, showing a large selection effect. We show that public firms, and especially those public firms backed by venture capital, respond more to demand shocks post-IPO.
L26|Cheap Talk and Coordination in the Lab and in the Field: Collective Commercialization in Senegal|Coordination is central to social interactions. Theory and conventional lab experiments suggest that cheap talk/communication can enhance coordination under certain conditions. Two aspects that remain underexplored are (1) the interaction between the number of players (group size) and communication and (2) how existing findings might play out in the field. We address both of these by studying a typical naturally-occurring setting that requires coordination; that is, one where members of agricultural cooperatives seek to jointly sell their output. Combining artefactual/lab-in-the-field experiments (LFEs), natural field experiments (RCTs), surveys, and cooperative records, we find that (1) revealing farmers' intended sales (i.e., cheap talk/communication) yields enhanced collective commercialization (i.e., coordination), particularly in larger groups; (2) such cheap talk may lead to higher incomes for small-scale farmers; (3) participants transfer learning from the LFEs thus affecting subsequent behavior in the RCTs (i.e., the day-to-day environment). Our results contribute to existing literature by highlighting the potential for cheap-talk institutions to (1) boost coordination, particularly in settings with greater strategic uncertainty (e.g., larger farmer cooperatives), and (2) promote collective entrepreneurship and development.
L26|Passive Versus Active Growth: Evidence from Founder Choices and Venture Capital Investment|This paper develops a novel approach for assessing the role of passive learning versus a proactive growth orientation in the entrepreneurial growth process. We develop a simple model linking early-stage founder choices, venture capital investment and skewed growth outcomes such as the achievement of an IPO or significant acquisition. Using comprehensive business registration data from 34 US states from 1995-2004, we observe that firms that register in Delaware or obtain intellectual property such as a patent or trademark are far more likely to ultimately realize significant equity growth, and these choices also predict early-stage venture capital investment. Moreover, the estimated probability of receiving venture capital as reflected in early-stage founder choices predicts growth even for firms that do not receive venture capital. We use these findings to estimate bounds on the fraction of proactive versus passive firms among firms that ultimately achieve significant equity growth. While nearly half of all firms that achieve modest equity growth (> $10M) are consistent with passive learning (as they neither make early-stage founder choices nor receive venture capital), 78% of firms experiencing an equity growth event greater than $100M are associated with active founder choices and/or venture capital investment, and these firms are concentrated in geographic hubs such as Silicon Valley. Finally, our approach offers a novel approach for estimating the private returns to venture capital, matching on founder choices rather than demographics; consistent with prior studies, venture-backed firms are approximately 5X more likely to grow, with heterogeneity across location and time period.
L26|The Impact of State-Level R&D Tax Credits on the Quantity and Quality of Entrepreneurship|The acceleration of start-up activity is often cited as a rationale for the R&D tax credit, a key innovation policy instrument adopted increasingly by US states over the past quarter century. While there is a strong empirical base linking the R&D tax credit to increased R&D expenditures and innovation, prior work has not provided causal evidence that this policy effects the rate of formation and growth potential of new businesses. This paper combines data from the US Startup Cartography Project with the Panel Database on Incentives and Taxes to implement a difference-in-differences estimate of the impact of the R&D tax credit on the quantity and quality-adjusted quantity of entrepreneurship. Our key finding is that the R&D tax credit is associated with a significant long-term impact on both the overall quantity and quality-adjusted quantity of entrepreneurship, with the bulk of the effect materializing more than five years after the policy is enacted. These findings stand in contrast to an analysis of the adoption of state-level investment tax credits. There, we observe no long-term impact on the quantity of entrepreneurship but a marked decline in the rate of formation of growth-oriented startups over time. Combined with other evidence regarding the efficacy of R&D tax credits in spurring innovative investment, our results shed light on the potential for this fiscal policy to also stimulate the formation of growth-oriented start-ups.
L26|The Short Term Impact of a Productive Asset Transfer in Families with Child Labor: Experimental Evidence from the Philippines|Productive asset grants have become an important tool in efforts to push the very poor out of poverty, but they require labor to convert the asset into income. Using a clustered randomized trial, we work with the Government of the Philippines to evaluate a key component of their child labor elimination program, a $518 productive asset grant directed at families with child laborers. Treatment increases household based economic activity. Household well-being improves, mainly through increases in food security and child welfare. Households achieve these improvements in well-being by drawing upon the labor of household members. Adolescent labor is the most available labor, and we observe increases in employment among adolescents not engaged in child labor at baseline. Households with a family firm or business prior to treatment especially lack available adult labor to work with the asset leading to increases in child labor, including hazardous work, amongst children who were not in child labor at baseline.
L26|Experimental Innovation Policy|Experimental approaches are increasingly being adopted across many policy fields, but innovation policy has been lagging. This paper reviews the case for policy experimentation in this field, describes the different types of experiments that can be undertaken, discusses some of the unique challenges to the use of experimental approaches in innovation policy, and summarizes some of the emerging lessons, with a focus on randomized trials. The paper concludes describing how at the Innovation Growth Lab we have been working with governments across the OECD to help them overcome the barriers to policy experimentation in order to make their policies more impactful.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L26|Public research and innovative entrepreneurship: Preliminary cross-country evidence from micro data|This paper provides a first assessment of the degree to which public research contributes to innovative entrepreneurship, using data on start-ups and venture capital (VC). It looks at academic start-ups founded by recent undergraduates and doctorate students or researchers. It shows that academic start-ups represent 15% of all start-ups in the specific sample under scrutiny. Their share is higher in science-based technological fields such as biotechnology (23%). Across the majority of countries and technology fields, start-ups created by undergraduate students represent the highest share of all academic start-ups. As to their performance, start-ups founded by researchers are more likely to patent and those founded by students introduce innovations that are more radical compared to other start-ups. While start-ups founded by undergraduate students receive less VC funding and are less likely to exit via IPO or acquisition, those created by researchers are as successful as their non-academic counterparts.
L26|Market And Network Corruption|Economists tend to reduce all corruption to impersonal market-like transactions, ignoring the role of social ties in shaping corruption. In this paper, we show that this simplification substantially limits the understanding of corruption. We distinguish between market corruption (impersonal bribery), and network (or parochial) corruption which is conditional on the social connections between bureaucrats and private agents. We argue, both theoretically and empirically, that these types of corruption have different qualities. Using data from the Life in Transition Survey (LiTS) which covers all post-socialist countries we show, first, that the correlation between market and network corruption is weak, which implies that ignoring network corruption leads not only to an underestimation of the overall scale of corruption but also biases national corruption rankings. Secondly, in line with theoretical expectations, we find that network corruption is more persistent over time, less related to contemporary national socio-economic and institutional characteristics and has stronger historical roots than market corruption. Yet, network corruption, unlike bribery, is not able to ‘grease the wheels’ and is not associated with political instability. Lastly, we show that the decline in bribery which was observed in almost all post-socialist countries in the period from 2010 to 2016 was accompanied by rising network corruption in many of them, which has important policy implications
L26|New Evidence on Long-Term Effects of Start-Up Subsidies: Matching Estimates and Their Robustness|"The German start-up subsidy (SUS) program for the unemployed has recently undergone a major make-over, altering its institutional setup, adding an additional layer of selection and leading to ambiguous predictions of the program's effectiveness. Using propensity score matching (PSM) as our main empirical approach, we provide estimates of long-term effects of the post-reform subsidy on individual employment prospects and labor market earnings up to 40 months after entering the program. Our results suggest large and persistent long-term effects of the subsidy on employment probabilities and net earned income. These effects are larger than what was estimated for the pre-reform program. Extensive sensitivity analyses within the standard PSM framework reveal that the results are robust to different choices regarding the implementation of the weighting procedure and also with respect to deviations from the conditional independence assumption. As a further assessment of the results' sensitivity, we go beyond the standard selection-on-observables approach and employ an instrumental variable setup using regional variation in the likelihood of receiving treatment. Here, we exploit the fact that the reform increased the discretionary power of local employment agencies in allocating active labor market policy funds, allowing us to obtain a measure of local preferences for SUS as the program of choice. The results based on this approach give rise to similar estimates. Thus, our results indicating that SUS are still an effective active labor market program after the reform do not appear to be driven by ""hidden bias""."
L26|Factors affecting succession planning in Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Zimbabwe: a case study of Harare|Lack of proper succession planning is one of the major causes of SMEs closure or failure after the death or retirement of founder. Zimbabwean SMEs are not an exception. This study seeks to analyze factors affecting succession planning in SMEs in Zimbabwe. Employing the questionnaire as a data collection instrument and relying on heterogeneous sampling, the study; whose recommendations are 4-fold, basically found out that there is need for proper succession planning if Zimbabwean SMEs are to circumvent the problem of discontinuity after death or retirement of founder.
L26|ENTREPRENEURIAT ET CAPACITE D’INNOVATION, CAS DES PME AGROALIMENTAIRES. Une évidence empirique sur données camerounaises et implications pour une politique de développement sectoriel<BR>[ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND CAPACITY OF INNOVATION, CASES OF AGRO-FOOD SMEs. EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE ON CAMEROON DATA AND IMPLICATIONS FOR SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY]|The purpose of this article is to analyze innovation capacity and describe innovation trends in agro-food SMEs in Cameroon. The data analysis based on a subsample of 96 agro-food companies located in the cities of Douala, Yaoundé and Bafoussam. The descriptive analyzes reveal an innovation trend of agribusiness SMEs oriented towards adaptive innovations, as opposed to radical innovations. They are also more engaged in commercial and organizational innovations. In terms of the characteristics of innovation, the results of logistic regression reveal a wide range of external and internal factors influencing the direction of innovation. These factors are R&D activity, size, the role of competition and the geographical location of companies.
L26|Impact de la qualité du capital humain sur la capacité d’innovation des PME : application sur un pays en développement<BR>[Impact of quality of human capital on the innovation capacity of SMEs: application to a developing country]|The aim of this article is to analyze the influence of the quality of human capital on the innovation capacity of SMEs. The empirical analysis consisted of constructing a human capital indicator based on the main correspondence factor analysis. The data analysis based on a sample of 512 SMEs located in the cities of Douala, Yaoundé and Bafoussam. The results of the logistic regression show that SMEs that employ highly educated managers are more likely to innovate. However, this assumption nuanced with respect to product innovations. On the other hand, the training of managers on the job does not influence their ability to innovate. These results question the relevance of current policies for the creation and development of SMEs and suggest the importance of placing a particular emphasis on the quality of human capital as a vector of innovation. They also challenge public decision-makers on the need to initiate training programs and upgrade the skills of SME managers on new managerial practices.
L26|Do private enterprises outperform state enterprises in an emerging market? The importance of institutional context in entrepreneurship|Do private-owned enterprises (POEs) outperform state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in an emerging market? Due to political and social connections, SOEs have several advantages over POEs in emerging markets and transition economies, but we hypothesize that these advantages wane in pro-market institutional environments that prioritize market competition, rule of law, and the rewards to profitable enterprise. In this study, therefore, we explore how institutional quality moderates the relationship between privatization and entrepreneurs’ sales performance. To do this, we blend agency theory and entrepreneurial cognition theory with insights from institutional economics to develop a model of emerging market venture performance. Using data from the World Bank’s Enterprise Survey of entrepreneurs in China, our results suggest that POEs outperform SOEs but only in environments with high-quality market institutions. In environments with low-quality market institutions, SOEs outperform POEs.
L26|The Perception of Entrepreneurial Climate in the Republic of Croatia|One of the most important roles of the government is to provide a positive entrepreneurial climate that allows clearly defined market conditions, thus attracting entrepreneurs (Vehovec, 2002). By focusing on the characteristics important for entrepreneurial growth, governments can develop policies and programs in a targeted manner to help entrepreneurs. In order to examine the entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia, the Entrepreneurial Climate Questionnaire was completed by 761 leaders from various Croatian companies. The three-factor structure of the entrepreneurial climate was obtained. The first factor, described as the strategic postulates of the country and their impact on the market (clarity of the vision of development and the vitality of the country systems that support it, such as science, education, legislation, financial strategy and justice), the respondents estimated as very unfavorable for successful business development in Croatia. The second factor, described as the behavior of the country on an operational level (public administration services), respondents rated somewhat more favorable than the first factor, though still far from optimal. The third factor, described as the country’s impact on competition, was also assessed by the respondents as unfavorable (primarily, they are dissatisfied with the high level of corruption, numerous public administrations demands, unregulated grey labor market and high prices of the financial services). Significant differences in estimates with respect to the form of ownership have been established, e.g. the state-owned companies estimated the entrepreneurial climate as the most favorable, private foreign companies as less favorable, and private domestic companies estimated it as the most unfavorable. At this point, it seems that the Republic of Croatia does not stimulate, instead, it is a major obstacle to the serious development of entrepreneurial climate and competitiveness. The results show that the situation could easily change with clear strategic guidelines and determination to make changes.
L26|Entrepreneurship, Institutions, and Economic Growth: Does the Level of Development Matter?|This study questions the assumption that entrepreneurship unequivocally leads to economic growth. Using insights from institutional theory and development economics, we reevaluate entrepreneurship’s contribution towards economic growth. Our study uses Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) data for a panel of 83 countries from 2002 to 2014 and highlights several important findings. First, our evidence suggests that entrepreneurship encourages economic growth but not in developing countries. Second, we find that a country’s institutional environment—measured by GEM’s Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs)—contributes to economic growth in more developed countries but not in developing countries. Lastly, we find that opportunity-motivated entrepreneurship encourages economic growth in developed countries, while necessity-motivated entrepreneurship discourages economic growth in developing countries. These findings have important policy implications. Namely, our evidence contradicts policy proposals that suggest entrepreneurship and the adoption of pro-market institutions that support it will encourage economic growth in developing countries. Our evidence suggests these policy proposals are unlikely to generate the desired economic growth.
L26|Integration into formal enterprise space: Challenges and opportunities for informal sector entrepreneurs|A vast majority of micro and small enterprises (MSEs) operate in an informal enterprise space, functioning without the required legal and regulatory approvals, notwithstanding crucial role that they play in job creation, poverty alleviation, exports, and regional economic development. Living in an informal enterprise space is not a choice, but forced reality brought on by regulatory burdens, complex compliance structures, and an inefficient and slow-moving government system. This article looks at the informal MSME sector in terms of the challenges and opportunities on its route to formalization. It highlights some of these important aspects, which facilitates the transition into formal enterprise space. IT has provided inputs resulting from interactions with entrepreneurs, associations, and NGOs working in the informal MSME space. The study was also supplemented by secondary source materials. Some of the sectors that have been evaluated are waste management and recycling, last-mile public transport connectivity operators, handloom weavers, potters and street food vendors.
L26|Influence of push and pull factors on female entrepreneurship in Romania|When it comes to follow the path of entrepreneurship, there are several factors influencing the decision of female entrepreneurs. The present study aimed to research the importance and influence that two categories of factors are exerting on this decision, as in regards to female entrepreneurs that are Romanian. Through using a questionnaire that evaluated several aspects of those influencing factors grouped as push and pull factors, the results were processed in the SPSS software via various methods such as Correlation tests, Pearson correlation, Factor analysis and linear regression. Those lead to the conclusion that for our particular sample of Romanian female entrepreneurs there are not applicable the same results as the theory implies. In our case, the sample is more focused and motivated by intrinsic benefits rather than extrinsic ones, choosing the entrepreneurial path due to pull factors rather than push ones as the specialty literature reflects.
L26|An academic perspective on the entrepreneurship policy agenda: themes, geographies and evolution|Text mining is being increasingly used for the automatic analysis of different corpus of documents, either standalone or complementarily to other bibliometric techniques. The case of academic research into entrepreneurship policy is particularly interesting due to the increasing relevance of the topic and since the knowledge about the evolution of themes in this field is still rather limited. Consequently, this paper analyses the key topics, trends and shifts that have shaped the entrepreneurship policy research agenda to date using text mining techniques, cluster analysis and complementary bibliographic data to examine the evolution of a corpus of 1,048 academic papers focused on entrepreneurial-related policies and published during the period 1990-2016 in ten of the most relevant entrepreneurship journals. The results of the analysis show that inclusion, employment and regulation-related papers have largely dominated the research in the field, evolving from an initial classical approach about the relationship between entrepreneurship and employment to a wider and multidisciplinary perspective, including the relevance of management, geographies, and narrower topics such as agglomeration economics or internationalization instead of previous generic sectorial approaches. Overall, the text mining analysis reveals how entrepreneurship policy research has gained increasing attention and has become both more open, with a growing cooperation among researchers from different affiliations; and more sophisticated, with concepts and themes that moved forward the research agenda closer to the priorites of policies implementation
L26|Who Works for Whom? Worker Sorting in a Model of Entrepreneurship with Heterogeneous Labor Markets|Compared to more established firms, young firms tend to hire younger workers and provide them with lower earnings. To understand these facts, a dynamic model of entrepreneurship is constructed, where individuals can become entrepreneurs, or work in either a corporate or an entrepreneurial sector. Sectoral differences in production technology, financial constraints, and labor market frictions lead to sector-specific wages and worker sorting into the entrepreneurial sector by productivity and assets. Individuals with lower assets tend to accept jobs in the entrepreneurial sector, an implication that finds support in the data. The analysis indicates that sector-specific labor market frictions are critical to the model's ability to generate worker sorting and to match the key features of the entrepreneurial sector. (Copyright: Elsevier)
L26|Advancing Conceptualization of University Entrepreneurship Ecosystems: The Role of Knowledge-based Entrepreneurial Firms|University entrepreneurship ecosystems are increasingly important in facilitating innovation and entrepreneurial opportunities in today’s knowledge-based economies. However, we have an incomplete understanding of the role of the entrepreneurial firm as the key user of university knowledge. We propose that use of university knowledge positively influences entrepreneurial firm performance and that the entrepreneurial firm’s resource and capabilities facilitate its ability to create value from university knowledge. We test our hypotheses with survey data on knowledge intensive entrepreneurial firms from 10 European countries. Our study contributes to an increased understanding of the economic, societal, and technological contributions of universities by illustrating empirically the role of entrepreneurial firm’s resources and capabilities as moderators of value in university ecosystems.
L26|Exploring the Impact of R&D on Patenting Activity in Small Women-Owned and Minority-Owned Entrepreneurial Firms|The relevant economics literature on the impact of R&D on patenting activity falls within two methodological areas of inquiry. The first area might be classified as a test of the Schumpeterian hypothesis. The second and lesser research area might be classified as an estimation of the knowledge production function relationship between R&D and patenting. This paper focuses on estimates of the R&D-to-patenting relationship for a random sample of small, entrepreneurial firms whose research projects were supported through the U.S. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. Our paper contributes to the R&D-to-patenting literature in two ways. It examines empirically a unique set of small, entrepreneurial firms funded by the public sector, and it explores the effect of the gender and ethnicity of firm owners on the propensity of their firms to patent from funded research projects.
L26|The Fountain of Knowledge: An Epistemological Perspective on the Growth of U.S. SBIR-Funded Firms|The premise of this paper is that a basis for firms receiving Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) research awards to develop commercializable technologies is not only their proposed creative ideas but also their endowment of attendant knowledge necessary to develop the technology being proposed. Based on this premise, we propose that those firms that have higher growth rates attributable to their SBIR awards are also those firms that are more creative and have more knowledge endowments. Empirically, we quantify a firm's creativity and its sources of research knowledge in terms of its past experiences, and we find that firms with more technical experience and sector experience are those that have realized higher growth rates from their SBIR-funded research.
L26|Business and technology paradigms: The entrepreneurial bridge|In 1982, Giovanni Dosi contributed with an explanation that attempted to conciliate the demand-pull and the technology-push views on technological selection. The solution based on Kuhnian analysis of scientific revolutions assumes the origins of technological changes to be independent of market factors, but ultimately validated by these same factors. This paper demonstrates that technological selection actually occurs within market processes, when entrepreneurs use their judgment to interpret and evaluate the scope of the habitual, conventional, and institutional routines shaping the social environment. Since entrepreneurs specialize around their idiosyncratic interpretations, business paradigms emerge that comprise different technological paradigms. Therefore, business paradigms instrumentally use technological paradigms in order to better correspond to the socially routinized and non-routinized behavior of market agents.
L26|The Impact of Management Practices on SME Performance|We examine the impact of management practices on firm performance among SMEs in Britain over the period 2011-2014, using a unique dataset which links survey data on management practices with firm performance data from the UK’s official business register. We find that SMEs are less likely to use formal management practices than larger firms, but that such practices have demonstrable benefits for those who use them, helping firms to grow and increasing their productivity. The returns are most apparent for those SMEs that invest in human resource management practices, such as training and performance-related pay, and those that set formal performance targets.
L26|Financing Ventures|The relationship between venture capital and growth is examined using an endogenous growth model incorporating dynamic contracts between entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. At each stage of financing, venture capitalists evaluate the viability of startups. If viable, venture capitalists provide funding for the next stage. The success of a project depends on the amount of funding. The model is confronted with stylized facts about venture capital; viz., statistics by funding round concerning the success rates, failure rates, investment rates, equity shares, and IPO values. Raising capital gains taxation reduces growth and welfare.
L26|House Prices, Home Equity, and Personal Debt Composition|Using a monthly panel dataset of individuals' debt composition including mortgage and non-mortgage consumer credit, we show that house price changes can explain a significant fraction of personal debt composition dynamics. We exploit the variation in local house price growth as shocks to homeowners' housing wealth to study the consequential adjustment of personal debt composition. To account for local demand shocks and disentangle the housing collateral channel from the wealth effect, we use renters and non-equity-withdrawal homeowners in the same region as control groups. We present direct evidence that homeowners reoptimize their debt structure by using withdrawn home equity to pay down comparatively expensive short-term non-mortgage debt during a housing boom, unsecured consumer loans in particular. We also find that homeowners withdraw home equity to finance their entrepreneurial activities. Our study sheds new light on the dynamics of personal debt composition in response to changes in house prices.
L26|Young Enterprises and Bank Credit Denials|By employing a sample of 20,956 observations of nonfinancial small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) headquartered in the euro area, between 2009 and 2015, we test whether young businesses are more likely to face credit rejections from lenders than their older peers. Our findings appear to confirm our suspicions that new enterprises consistently experience higher denials from banks compared with more established businesses. Such a result is stable to different model specifications and is also confirmed once we handle the issue of sample selection bias potentially affecting our data. Additional tests also reveal that credit constraints are particularly difficult for young SMEs located in Southern and Central Europe, as well as for those operating in the “trade” industry. Overall, our evidence suggests that actions from the policy maker could be desirable to support the viability of credit and, thus, ensure the growth of young businesses in the euro area.
L26|Competition in the Venture Capital Market and the Success of Startup Companies: Theory and Evidence|We examine the effect of a competitive supply of venture capital (VC) on the success rates of VC-backed startup companies (e.g. IPOs). We first develop a matching model of the VC market with heterogeneous entrepreneurs and VC firms, and double-sided moral hazard. Our model identifies a non-monotone relationship between VC competition and successful exits: a more competitive VC market increases the likelihood of a successful exit for startups with low quality projects (backed by less experienced VC firms in the matching equilibrium), but it decreases the likelihood for startups with high quality projects (backed by more experienced VC firms). Despite this non-monotone effect on success rates, we find that VC competition leads to higher valuations of all VC-backed startups. We then test these predictions using VC data from Thomson One, and find robust empirical support. The differential effect of VC competition has a profound impact on entrepreneurship policies that promote VC investments.
L26|Employment in China’s hi-tech zones|Abstract The purpose of this paper is to explore employment differences over time across China’s hi-tech zones. Using data from China’s Ministry of Science and Technology, we find that if a university science park is within a hi-tech zone, employment in that zone is higher, but that finding only holds for zones established in the pre-information communication technology period. After 2000, proximity to a university science park does not appear to be necessary for the exchange of tacit knowledge which we contend leverages the technology base of firms and organizations in the zone and thus their level of employment. We also find greater employment in hi-tech zones in which information technology is a dominant industry.
L26|Entrepreneurship and knowledge spillovers from the public sector|Abstract A compelling body of research has found that investments in knowledge from other firms and universities spill over to enhance the performance of entrepreneurial firms. This literature has shown that firm performance is positively related to investments in new knowledge by other firms and research universities. This paper addresses a gap in the literature by positing that public sector knowledge is also conducive to enhancing performance by knowledge intensive entrepreneurial (KIE) firms. Our findings suggest that the public sector provides a fertile source of knowledge for enhancing KIE firm performance.
L26|Obstacles For Academic Entrepreneurship in Turkey|Today, as a result of the knowledge economy, universities are focusing more on creating commercial knowledge along with their primary tasks ? education and research. Increasing demand for university-industry collaboration, universities? new roles in the economic development through technology transfer, and commercialization of knowledge are among the major factors that lead to concepts such as ?entrepreneurial university? and ?academic entrepreneur?. Academic entrepreneurship is actually a wider concept that covers all the efforts and activities toward the commercialization of the scientific research outputs of the universities and their industrial partners.In Turkey, Supreme Council for Science and Technology supports academic entrepreneurship activities and encourages potential academic entrepreneurs through various support mechanisms. However, there are many problems that academic entrepreneurs encounter and this study aims to discuss possible solutions for these problems and obstacles.
L26|Determinants of Business Risks With Impact on SMEs in V4 countries|Many enterprises fight with various risks and it can be a reason of lack of success for their business. The first step towards successful risk management is a risk identification. Entrepreneurs use different methods for risk identification and they also detect diverse risks. The aim of the article is to identify determinants of business risks in SMEs in Visegrad Four. The article deals with the partial results of the empirical questionnaire survey, which was completed in 2018 at the Tomas Bata University in Zlín in the Czech Republic. Questionnaires from the owners of micro and SME enterprises in Hungary (388), Poland (498), Slovakia (487) and Czech Republic (408) were collected. Entrepreneurs were asked for the ability to identify risks, importance of risks and methods used for risk management in their companies. 3 research questions were set in this context. In process of solving the formulated research questions the following statistical tools such as tables, descriptive characteristics, and Person coefficient of contingency were used. Finally, the results indicate that there are differences in risk identification among countries. Also the importance of each risk is different. The similarity of results in Czech Republic and Slovakia was proved. The article concludes with a discussion which explains possible couse of differences and similarities of results.
L26|Quality of business environment in the SME segment|The aim of this paper was to evaluate the quality of the business environment in the segment of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the Czech and the Slovak Republic. In regards to the defined aim a survey-based research was conducted with enterprises operating in the SME segment. Responses from 312 enterprises in the Czech Republic and 329 enterprises in Slovak Republic were obtained via an online questionnaire during this research. The research brought some interesting findings. The evaluation of the business environment in both countries is relatively negative. The current risk rate of the business environment received a more positive rating in both countries. Significant differences in entrepreneurs? notions were discovered when evaluating the development of business environment in the recent past. Entrepreneurs of both countries were rather skeptical in evaluating the current quality of business environment in regards to starting a business.
L26|Students? perception of the importance of entrepreneurship development in universities: The case of a South African universit|Entrepreneurship plays a vital role in economic prosperity, and its promotion as a solution to unemployment has been highlighted as a high priority by the South African government. Currently, Higher Education Institutions in South Africa experience a constant need to produce more entrepreneurial graduates. In order to do so, these institutions have to foster and promote an entrepreneurial culture amongst students. However, the question can be asked: are universities doing enough to support and develop entrepreneurship? The purpose of this paper is to examine South African students? perceptions on the role of the university that they are currently enrolled at, in developing entrepreneurship. The results provide this university with valuable insights that may enable them to re-invent the entrepreneurship objectives of the university.
L26|Students? motivations and attitudes toward entrepreneurship at a South African Higher Education Institution|The fact that entrepreneurship plays a vital role in contributing to the promotion of economic. In recent decades, the South African government has highlighted that entrepreneurship training especially in Higher Education Institutions (HEI?s), is of utmost importance. The decision to be an entrepreneur is determined by specific factors based on an individual?s motivation and attitude. However, in order for HEI?s to create and foster an entrepreneurial culture, it is important to determine the entrepreneurial motivations and attitudes of the students. Descriptive analysis and one-sample t-tests indicated that students at the HEI feel they can easily pursue a career in self-employment if they wished to do so, and that the most important reason for wanting to start their own business was to become an independent person.
L26|Generation Y female students perceived barriers towards entrepreneurship: A comparative study|Entrepreneurship is a critical ingredient for stimulating economic growth and employment opportunities in all societies. Female participation in entrepreneurial venture creation, including Generation Y, in both developed and emerging economies are seen as a key contributor to economic growth. However, entrepreneurs face numerous barriers on the road to success, which may have significant influence on an individual?s motivation to become entrepreneurs. Using a convenience sample of 328 South African and 250 Netherland?s female students, this paper reports on study conducted to compare female generation Y students? perceived barriers towards entrepreneurship, in South African and the Netherland?s. The collected data was analysed using reliability analysis and a two independent-samples t-test. The findings suggest that South African students perceived barriers towards? entrepreneurship is higher than those of their counterparts in the Netherlands.
L26|Stem Students And Entrepreneurship Education: A Critical Discourse Analysis Approach|In this paper we apply a critical analysis of institutional influence in shaping perceptions and social construction of STEM education and entrepreneurship education at high education level in Croatia. The reseach is based on identifying and analysing of qualitative data: policy documents on entrepreneurship education (strategy for entrepreneurship education, curricula) as well as national strategy on education, science and technology. Scientific papers in the field of higher education concerning entrepreneurship education and STEM education in Croatia have also been used. The method we use is critical discourse analysis. The aim of the paper is to identify dominant discourses in entrepreneurship education and STEM education at the university level and their potential impact on students' perceptions of the career choice in STEM and/or entrepreneurship field. We identify high level of symbolic capital for STEM subjects in analysed documents and these are academic disciplines that attract relatively few female students. Social constraints can prevent women converting their cultural capital into economic capital.
L26|Assessment of the efficiency of investment in entrepreneurial zonesin Croatia using data envelopment analysis|The promise of entrepreneurial zones development in Northern Croatia has been huge. In the last decade 282,2 million kuna has been invested on the area of Vara?din and Me?imurje county in the Republic of Croatia and the result has been activation of 52 zones financed from public sources and generation of 14,4 thousand working vacancies (Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Crafts, 2015). Despite certain employment capacity there is still a large number of non-active or half-filled entrepreneurial zones that are a reason for suspicion in cost effectiveness of these investments. In this paper investment efficiency of local self-government units (municipalities and towns) on the area of Vara?din and Me?imurje county in the Republic of Croatia has been assessed by using data envelopment analysis. The analysis has been conducted by using CCR and BCC model oriented on outputs. Concretely, the results of the conducted analysis are valuable due to the fact that political management of towns and municipalities ? that has been non-efficient investor in entrepreneurial zones ? is given information on necessary changes and their extent and also on good practice examples from neighbour towns and municipalities.
L26|State-Of-The-Art Entrepreneurship Theories: A Critical Review Of The Literature|"After a long period of ""semi-forgetfulness"", the academic interest in the entrepreneurship field and in the study of the entrepreneur as an individual has resurfaced in the last two and a half decades. This resurgence is related with the reactivation of small businesses and the emergence of an ""entrepreneurial culture"". Since Richard Cantillon introduced the term for the first time in 1755, several entrepreneurship theories have been put forward by scholars to explain the entrepreneurial phenomenon. This variety of theories causes that this field have a weak conceptual framework. This research, therefore, has a double purpose. On the one hand it aims to review and summarize the multidisciplinary nature of the different entrepreneurship theories. On the other hand, this paper gives a critical review showing the strengths and weaknesses of these theories. In order to achieve these objectives and understanding that the research of these theories continues to be important for the development of this field, this paper classifies 26 entrepreneurship theories into four Mainstreams (Economic, Psychological, Sociological and Management Entrepreneurship Theories). Then, this work summarizes the main proposals of each entrepreneurship theory. Finally, this research presents some critics and limitations to the entrepreneurship theories in order to present some future research directions.From the above discussions, this research concludes that it is clear that the field of entrepreneurship have some interesting and relevant theories. But taking advantage of the renewal fascination with the study of the entrepreneurship field and the multiplicity of interpretations and alternative approaches that have been developed, it is time to refocus our efforts at integrating the diverse viewpoints and to analyze if there are any common denominators within the diversity of entrepreneurship literature. The value of this investigation can be appreciated from two points of view: (1) it facilitate researchers the integration of diverse perspectives that allow finding any common denominator within the entrepreneurial literature diversity and (2) helps to identify specific gaps within the entrepreneurship field that have not yet been studied and that must be answered. So, this investigation pretends to contribute to the study, research and practice of the entrepreneurship field."
L26|Entrepreneurship Education And Risk Taking Behaviour Of Nigerian Graduates|The Federal Government of Nigeria wants every citizen to acquire functional, relevant, practical, and appropriate skills for developing competencies as equipment for the individuals to live and contribute to the development of the nation. This had lead to the introduction of Entrepreneurship Education at all level of education. Despite the importance of entrepreneurship education to Nigerian graduate upon graduation some graduate still finds it difficult to establish a business of their own because of fear of risk-taking involved. This paper discussed the relationship between entrepreneurship education and risk-taking behavior of Nigerian graduates upon graduation. The following points are mentioned in the article: entrepreneurship education, entrepreneur, attributes of an entrepreneur, entrepreneur risks and types of entrepreneur risks. Conclusion: to reduce the rate of unemployment among graduates in Nigeria, graduates must be willing to take a risk to establish their businesses. Recommendation: risk-taking attitude of students must change hence, they must develop a positive attitude towards risk-taking.
L26|Borrower-Specific and Institutional Factors Leading to the Forced or Voluntary Exit of Microfinance Borrowers|Microfinance borrowers tend to have no properties to offer as loan security (collateral) as they are poor and low-income, and thus would constitute a considerable risk to lenders once they default. MFIs, therefore, have to device a system to ensure that loan defaults are as low as possible in order to maintain their financial sustainability, without which they would resort to higher interest rates that would only defeat the original intent of their microfinance lending philosophy.This paper seeks to identify factors that affect the voluntary exits or forced eviction of Philippine borrowers from microfinance lending networks focusing on indicators that are (a)internal to the borrowers? personal circumstances and business operating environments; and(b)those that capture the microfinance institutions? loan delivery operations. The analysis will analyze data compiled by the Social Enterprise Development Partnerships, Inc. (SEDPI) on micro-insurance borrowers in the Philippines from 2000 to 2010. Econometric analysis will employ Heckman selection techniques to determine significant determinants of either the forced eviction or the voluntary exit of MFI borrowers. Two versions of the Heckman equation system will be developed. The first version defines the selection equation to select MFI borrower observations who were forced to leave the program (FORCED=1; VOLUNTARY=0) for the outcome equation that identifies significant factors behind such MFI action. The second version?s selection equation focuses on the voluntary borrower exits (VOLUNTARY=1; FORCED=0) so that the outcome equation will determine significant factors behind such borrowers? decisions. Explanatory variables will capture personal, business, Centre-related, and macroeconomic factors. Expected results will shed light on how sudden changes in personal circumstances of certain borrowers (physical and economic), business viability issues (often associated with macroeconomic conditions), and institutional factors affecting borrower servicing and other borrower-lender relationship issues may lead to either the MFIs? decision to evict certain borrowers or individual borrowers voluntarily deciding to exit from the MFI lending system. This study offers important implications on achieving a proper balance of financial sustainability and social outreach goals of microfinance operations. This balancing of goals has been a difficult challenge for most MFIs globally. The Philippine microfinance experience may help shed light on possible remedies to this elusive balancing goal.
L26|Position and development of small and medium enterprises in European countries|SMEs have irreplaceable task not only in macro-economic ? in area of working posts creation, contribution to the flexibility of market mechanism or its contribution to the value added creation, but they are profitable also at the micro-economic level. The goal of the contribution is to search position and development of such enterprises in the frame of chosen European countries and how they contribute to economic growth and competitive environment. During the analysis we considered SME Policy Index. Overall position and development had been analyzed by chosen indexes, mainly index of economic freedom, global competition index, doing business index and corruption perception index. The results speak about increasing trend of SMEs in EU, creating employment possibilities, with limitation of barriers to make business in individual countries.
L26|Alternative finance: theoretical and empirical consideration|Alternative finance presents a stream that has boomed several years ago. These finance tools are often described with attributes such as ?non-traditional?, ?online? or ?innovative?. Since this research area is relatively new, there are scholar and practitioner discussions about what kind of financial tool belongs to the label ?alternative finance? and which one not. Indeed, alternative finance segment is on the rise and has to be understood as a reliable source of financing business ventures (even more not only ventures with business attribute). The aim of this paper is to provide theoretical and empirical remarks to this research stream. Authors continue with this paper with their research interest and present a part of gained information during their research. The paper is articulated as follows: first the alternative finance sphere is discussed including the taxonomy and current state of knowledge about this segment mainly on the European level. Second, follow-up empirical research is provided answering four hypotheses related to alternative finance attributes and general awareness among society. In conclusion final remarks and future perspectives are highlighted.
L26|Les réformes structurelles : philosophie sociale et choix politique|Les réformes structurelles engagées en France ont une grande cohérence. Elles visent à développer un nouveau modèle économique et un nouveau modèle social basés sur le développement de l’entrepreneuriat et une individualisation des parcours professionnels censés favoriser l’innovation et la croissance en rupture radicale avec ce qui est parfois désigné comme l’ancien monde. L’analyse et l’expérience rappellent à une certaine réalité de l’entreprise et de la finance et conduisent à formuler un diagnostic moins optimiste faisant craindre une montée du dualisme au sein de la société allant à l’encontre du but recherché.
L26|Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Productivity in Germany, 1871-2015|Entrepreneurship in Germany has been stagnating. As a result, the effectiveness of technological innovation to improve labor productivity weakened, which has been implicated in rising income inequality and poverty. In this paper we provide an overview of technological innovation and labor productivity growth from 1871. From this we show that over the past three decades the economy has found it increasingly difficult to transform technological innovation into labor productivity growth: in glaring contrast to earlier periods. Despite higher spending on R&D and more personnel than ever working in research labs, labor productivity growth continues to decline. Two interrelated reasons are offered for this phenomenon. The first is that the national innovation system itself has certain weaknesses. The second is entrepreneurial stagnation. We discuss the weaknesses of the innovation system and the nature and causes of entrepreneurial stagnation. We call for policies that will improve the innovation system, educational and managerial capabilities, venture capital investments, and the contestability of markets. Strengthening social protection and raising real wages are important supportive measures.
L26|The financing of immigrant-owned firms in Canada|Abstract Using recent survey data, this paper examines access to financing by immigrant business owners. We hypothesize that immigrant and Canadian-born owners finance their businesses in significantly different ways and that immigrant-owned small and medium enterprises (SMEs) have more difficulty accessing financial capital. The results suggest that, after adjusting for firm and owner characteristics, financing sources for growth financing tend to be similar for the two groups. Although immigrant owners—notably those in Canada for more than 20 years—were less likely than Canadian-born owners to seek financing from any source, their applications were as likely to be approved. Both immigrant and Canadian-born owners reported that, among seven potential obstacles to firm growth presented in the survey, “access to financing” was the least important. The study finds only weak evidence to support the hypothesis that access to financial capital is a more serious issue among immigrant-owned SMEs than among SMEs with Canadian-born owners.
L26|Do Startups Provide Employment Opportunities for Disadvantaged Workers?|This paper analyzes whether startups offer job opportunities to workers potentially facing labor market problems. It compares the hiring patterns of startups and incumbents in the period 2003 to 2014 using administrative linked employer-employee data for Germany that allow to take the complete employment biographies of newly hired workers into account. The results indicate that young plants are more likely than incumbents to hire older and foreign applicants as well as workers who have instable employment biographies, come from unemployment or outside the labor force, or were affected by a plant closure. However, an analysis of entry wages reveals that disadvantageous worker characteristics come along with higher wage penalties in startups than in incumbents. Therefore, even if startups provide employment opportunities for certain groups of disadvantaged workers, the quality of these jobs in terms of initial remuneration seems to be low.
L26|Growth Dynamics of Young Small Firms: Evidence from Tunisia|The aim of this paper is to investigate the growth dynamics of young small firms (in contrast with larger and older incumbents) in a developing country context, using a unique and comprehensive dataset of non-agricultural Tunisian companies. Our results suggest that significant differences between young and mature firms can be found as far as the drivers of their growth are concerned. The key finding being that - while consistently with the extant literature Gibrat’s law is overall rejected - the negative impact of the initial size is significantly larger for young than mature firms. This result has interesting policy implications: since smaller young firms are particularly conducive to employment generation, they can be considered good candidate for targeted accompanying policies addressed to sustain their post-entry growth.
L26|Self-Employment Can Be Good for Your Health|Drawing upon theoretical insights from the Job Demand-Control model, which links occupational characteristics to health, this paper provides the first causal evidence of the physical and mental health consequences of self-employment. Specifically, I utilize German longitudinal data for the period 2002-2014 and difference-in-differences estimations and find that both switches from unemployment to self-employment (necessity entrepreneurship) and transitions from regular employment to self-employment (opportunity entrepreneurship) lead to health enhancements for entrepreneurs with and without employees. Specifically, necessity entrepreneurs experience improvements in mental but not physical health, while opportunity entrepreneurship is associated with both physical and mental health gains, which is in line with the theoretical predictions. Importantly, the health improvements cannot be explained by changes in income or working conditions and are not driven by personality and risk preferences or the local unemployment conditions. The results have implications for entrepreneurship theory and practice, current and would-be entrepreneurs as well as policy-makers.
L26|Does regulation trade-off quality against inequality? The case of German architects and construction engineers|We exploit an exogenous price increase by about 10% for architectural services to answer the question how price regulation affects income inequality and service quality. Using individual-level data from the German microcensus for the years 2006 to 2012, we find a significant reform effect of 8% on personal net income for self-employed architects and construction engineers. This group moved from the second lowest to the highest quintile of the net income distribution. This increase in inequality is associated with a deterioration of service quality. The reform reduced average scores of a peer ranking for architects by 18%.
L26|The Effect of Self-Employment on Income Inequality|It is well known that the self-employed are over-represented at the bottom as well as the top of the income distribution. This paper shifts the focus from the income situation of the self-employed to the distributive eﬀects of a change in self-employment rates. With representative German data and unconditional quantile regression analysis we show that an increase in the proportion of self-employed individuals in the labor force increases income polarization by tearing down ﬂoors at the bottom and allowing higher earnings potentials at the very top of the hourly income distribution. Recentered inﬂuence function regression of inequality measures corroborate that self-employment is a source of income inequality in the labor market.
L26|Does Regulation Trade-Off Quality against Inequality? The Case of German Architects and Construction Engineers|We exploit an exogenous price increase by about 10% for architectural services to answer the question how rice regulation affects income inequality and service quality. Using individual-level data from the German microcensus for the years 2006 to 2012, we find a significant reform effect of 8% on personal net income for self-employed architects and construction engineers. This group moved from the second lowest to the highest quintile of the net income distribution. This increase in inequality is associated with a deterioration of service quality. The reform reduced average scores of a peer ranking for architects by 18%.
L26|Existenzgründungen von ausländischen Staatsbürgern: Aktualisierung 2018|Ausländer haben das Existenzgründungsgeschehen in den Jahren 2007 bis 2016 sowohl in Deutschland als auch Nordrhein-Westfalen in erheblichem Maße mitgeprägt. Eine besonders große Rolle haben ausländische Gründer im gewerblichen Bereich gespielt. Differenzierende Analysen auf Basis der Gewerbeanzeigenstatistik zeigen, dass der Gründungsboom unter den Ausländern ausschließlich auf die Bürger der ost- und mitteleuropäischen EUBeitrittsstaaten von 2004 und 2007 zurückging. Unter den übrigen Ausländern war im betrachteten Zeitraum ebenso wie unter den Deutschen ein Rückgang bei den gewerblichen Gründungen zu beobachten. Die Gründungen von Ausländern weisen teils andere Tätigkeitsschwerpunkte und eine im Durchschnitt geringere wirtschaftliche Substanz auf als die der deutschen Gründer. Diese Unterschiede sind wiederum zu einem großen Teil auf die Bürger der genannten EU-Beitrittsstaaten zurückzuführen, deren Anteil am gewerblichen Gründungsgeschehen seit 2014 aber rückläufig ist.
L26|Neugegründete Unternehmen und ihre Entwicklung: Eine empirische Analyse anhand verschiedener Erfolgsdimensionen|Die vorliegende Studie widmet sich der Entwicklung neugegründeter Unternehmen in den ersten vier Jahren. Ziel war es anhand von verschiedenen Erfolgsdimensionen (Überleben am Markt, Deckung des Lebensunterhaltes und Schaffung von Arbeitsplätzen) zu analysieren, wie sich die Unternehmen in der Nachgründungsphase entwickeln. Es zeigt sich, dass fast drei Viertel der Neugründungen am Markt verbleiben. Allerdings schafft nur eine Minder-heit dieser Unternehmen neue Arbeitsplätze. Auch den Lebensunterhalt kann vier Jahre nach Gründung nur rund die Hälfte aus der unternehmerischen Tätigkeit bestreiten. Es zeigt sich, dass dafür beispielsweise eine hybride Selbstständigkeit, ein weiteres Haushaltseinkommen und/oder persönliche Wahrnehmung der Vorteile einer Selbstständigkeit verantwortlich sind.
L26|Times are a changin'? The emergence of new firms and rank persistence|Young firms are known to grow at a faster rate than incumbents. With administrative firm data from Germany, we show that the higher growth rates indeed translate into upward mobility within the firm size distribution. Young firms are therefore not only able to catch up, but also to grow larger in absolute values. Recentered influence function regression results reveal that young firms cause significant rank mobility within the stock of firms, which even holds when the local skewness of the firm size distribution is accounted for. The results clearly indicate a Schumpeterian growth process where young firms challenge established ones.
L26|Brain-driven entrepreneurship research: Expanded review and research agenda towards entrepreneurial enhancement|The advent of significant advances in neuroscience has produced the capacity to examine the human brain at a profound level, yet the academic and practical value of existing evidence based on neuroscience techniques and methods within the field of entrepreneurship remains unexplored. To address these issues, the author draws from entrepreneurship research and presents a braindriven approach as a basis for future in-depth studies on the role of cognitive, affective, motivational and hormonal mechanisms in entrepreneurship theory and practice. To further articulate a research agenda, the author reviews the state of knowledge of existing evidence by content analysis of articles published until 2016. The analysed articles incorporate the use of a brain-driven research perspective in their studies. It is found that although neuroscience affords unique technological opportunities, few studies have thus far benefited from these advances, and among existing studies, only the topic of entrepreneurial decision-making has been partially covered. Building on these observations, the author proposes a definition of brain-driven entrepreneurship research and a research agenda to advance the integration of neuroscience tools and technologies in entrepreneurship research.
L26|The impact of firm performance on the business transfer mode|This paper analyzes the impact of family firms' past and future economic viability on the incumbents' decision on the business transfer mode. Using the German IAB Establishment Panel and estimating logistic regression models we show that the decision on the business transfer mode rather depends on the expected future performance than on the past one. Moreover, family businesses that are exclusively managed by their owners are more likely to be planning an intra-family succession. However, ambiguity about the future performance overrides the original intention and induces the incumbents to sell the business.
L26|The Effect of Self-Employment on Income Inequality|It is well known that the self-employed are over-represented at the bottom as well as the top of the income distribution. This paper shifts the focus from the income situation of the self-employed to the distributive effects of a change in self-employment rates. With representative German data and unconditional quantile regression analysis we show that an increase in the proportion of self-employed individuals in the labor force increases income polarization by tearing down floors at the bottom and allowing higher earnings potentials at the very top of the hourly income distribution. Recentered influence function regression of inequality measures corroborate that self-employment is a source of income inequality in the labor market.
L26|SMEs' responses to potentially disruptive innovations: Does strategic entrepreneurship provide an explanation?|This study analyses how established SMEs respond to potentially disruptive inno-vations and business models in the course of increasing digitization. Drawing on the strategic entrepreneurship approach we argue that SMEs showing strategic entrepreneurial behaviour are more likely to respond to potentially disruptive innovations and business models proactively. We find that established SMEs recognizing disruptive innovations and business models as a business opportunity apply significantly more frequently strategic measures to exploit these opportunities. Observing and evaluating relevant new technologies and devel-opments is a key determinant of belonging to the group of SMEs demonstrating strategic en-trepreneurial behaviour. In our sample only a minority belongs to the group of proactive es-tablished SMEs.
L26|The role of hybrid entrepreneurship in explaining multiple job holders’ earnings structure|Despite the high prevalence of hybrid entrepreneurs among multiple job holders, research on hybrid entrepreneurship and multiple job holding has largely evolved independently from each other. We take a first step for a fruitful exchange between both research streams by building on hybrid entrepreneurship theories to explain why multiple job holders frequently have higher hourly earnings in their second job compared to their main job. Consistent with these entrepreneurship theories, our empirical analysis, based on the British Household Panel Survey (1991–2008), demonstrates that engaging in self-employment as second job significantly increases the probability of having higher average earnings in this second job, compared to being paid employed in both occupations. Furthermore, we explore the roles of gender and household composition in explaining multiple job holders’ earnings structure.
L26|Immigration and new firm formation: Evidence from a quasi-experimental setting in Germany|This paper analyzes in how far immigration affects firm formation at the regional level. For this purpose, we exploit a placement policy in Germany in the 1990s for immigrants of German origin from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. Our panel regressions suggest that immigration had a positive impact on regional firm formation. The most likely mechanisms driving this result are labor supply-side effects and positive implications of cultural diversity. Overall, our paper demonstrates that immigration induced changes in local labor supply can partially be absorbed by the creation of firms.
L26|Participation and Losses in Multi-Level Marketing: Evidence from an FTC Settlement|More than 20 million Americans are affiliated with Multi-Level Marketing firms (MLMs), but there is little empirical evidence on who participates in this controversial part of today's labor market. We link data on 350,000 individuals cited in an FTC settlement with one of the largest MLMs to detailed county-level information. We find that participation is greater in areas with higher median income and where women are absent from the labor market, suggesting value in flexible work. However, losses are correlated with higher inequality and lower social capital, suggesting that the pitfalls accrue to vulnerable groups.
L26|Does high growth persist? A focus on growth formulas and the influence of firm exits|This study investigates the development of firms after high-growth. We argue that the formula used for measuring growth determines results. Implications from different formulas are tested with data from Amadeus on Bulgarian firms for the years 2001-2010. We provide first evidence for an absolute growth formula and its systematic comparison to alternative choices. The focus is on growth in employees, but we offer additional evidence for sales and profits. Using a two-part regression model with separate equations for survival and growth, we find that high-growth does not persist when size of exits is accounted for. Losses by exiting high-growth firms outweigh further gains in size by survivors. This result equally holds for the 1 percent fastest growers in absolute terms, the top 1 percent in terms of log growth and high-growth firms defined according to Eurostat-OECD. Implications for the future study of high-growth firms and policies focused at them are discussed.
L26|Born to be an entrepreneur? How cultural origin affects entrepreneurship|Persistent differences in entrepreneurial activity between regions and countries remain unexplained. This paper argues that cultural heritage is an important determinant. We exploit a quasi-experimental setting comparing entrepreneurial activities of individuals with different cultural ancestry from within Switzerland but who live in the same municipality today and are hence exposed to the same economic and institutional environment. We find that individuals with cultural origin on the German-speaking side of the Swiss language border found 20% more firms than their counterparts with cultural origin on the French-speaking side ─ no matter if they currently live in the German-speaking or French-speaking region. These newly founded firms are identical in terms of survival rate, industry composition, legal form, and firm size, independent of the cultural origin of firm founders. A model of entrepreneurial choice suggests that the empirical patterns of firm entry and performance are more likely driven by differences in risk aversion or preferences for entrepreneurship rather than by skill.
L26|Labour Market Decisions of the Self-Employed in the Netherlands at the Statutory Retirement Age|We investigate retirement decisions of the self-employed in the Netherlands using administrative data. We focus on the time period around which individuals reach the statutory retirement age (SRA, 65 years in most cases). After the statutory retirement age, each Dutch resident receives the Old Age State Pension annuity (AOW), providing an income at the subsistence level. Both the timing and the magnitude of this state pension are well known in advance. According to a standard leisure/consumption trade-off life cycle model, receiving AOW should therefore have no impact on labour supply choices. While employees often face the demand side restriction of mandatory retirement, this does not apply to the self-employed. We investigate whether retirement and earnings of the self-employed change at the SRA and whether any such changes vary with, e.g., the level of financial wealth. We find a peak in retirement when self-employed reach the SRA. The evidence suggests that the benchmark of retiring at 65 is acting as a driver, due to behavioural features like anchoring or a social norm.
L26|A General Equilibrium Theory of Occupational Choice under Optimistic Beliefs about Entrepreneurial Ability|This paper studies the impact of optimism on occupational choice using a general equilibrium framework. The model shows that optimism has four main qualitative effects: it leads to a misallocation of talent, drives up input prices, raises the number of entrepreneurs, and makes entrepreneurs worse off. We calibrate the model to match U.S. manufacturing data. This allows us to make quantitative predictions regarding the impact of optimism on occupational choice, input prices, the returns to entrepreneurship, and output. The calibration shows that optimism can explain the empirical puzzle of the low mean returns to entrepreneurship compared to average wages.
L26|Opportunity versus Necessity Entrepreneurship: Two Components of Business Creation|A common finding in the entrepreneurship literature is that business creation increases in recessions. This counter-cyclical pattern is examined by separating business creation into two components: “opportunity” and “necessity” entrepreneurship. Although there is general agreement in the previous literature on the conceptual distinction between these two factors driving entrepreneurship, there are many challenges to creating a definition that is both objective and empirically feasible. We propose an operational definition of opportunity versus necessity entrepreneurship using readily available nationally representative data. We create a distinction between the two types of entrepreneurship based on the entrepreneur’s prior work status that is consistent with the standard theoretical economic model of entrepreneurship. Using this definition we document that “opportunity” entrepreneurship is pro-cyclical and “necessity” entrepreneurship is counter-cyclical. We also find that “opportunity” vs. “necessity” entrepreneurship is associated with the creation of more growth-oriented businesses. The operational distinction proposed here may be useful for future research in entrepreneurship.
L26|Dinner Table Human Capital and Entrepreneurship|"We document three new facts about entrepreneurship. First, a majority of male entrepreneurs start a firm in the same or a closely related industry as their fathers' industry of employment. Second, this tendency is correlated with intelligence: higher-IQ entrepreneurs are less likely to follow their fathers. Third, an entrepreneur that starts a firm in the same 5-digit industry as where his father was employed tends to outperform entrepreneurs in the same industry whose fathers did not work in that industry. We consider various explanations for these facts and conclude that ""dinner table human capital"", where children obtain industry knowledge through their parents, is an important factor behind what type of firm is started and how well it performs."
L26|Return Migration and Self-Employment: Evidence from Kyrgyzstan|A common finding of the migration literature is that migrants are more likely to choose self-employment upon return to their origin countries than non-migrants. This has led to the belief that return migration stimulates entrepreneurship in source countries and hence supports economic development. In this paper, we test these assertions, drawing on the Life in Kyrgyzstan Study, a rich longitudinal data set from a transition economy with high levels of international temporary migration. We find that for return migrants, self-employment is often a temporary occupational choice, suggesting that self-employment serves as a 'parking lot'. In addition, we find evidence that return migrants who were self-employed before migrating are less likely to opt for self-employment on their return, implying that migration disrupts self-employment trajectories. Both findings cast doubt on the common narrative of return migration stimulating entrepreneurship and therefore economic development.
L26|The Determinants of Young Firms Growth in Tunisia|The aim of this paper is to investigate the growth dynamics of young small firms (in contrast with larger and older incumbents) in a developing country context, using a unique and comprehensive dataset of non-agricultural Tunisian companies. Our results suggest that significant differences between young and mature firms can be found as far as the drivers of their growth are concerned. The key finding being that − while consistently with the extant literature Gibrat's law is overall rejected − the negative impact of the initial size is significantly larger for young than mature firms. This result has interesting policy implications: since smaller young firms are particularly conducive to employment generation, they can be considered good candidate for targeted accompanying policies addressed to sustain their post-entry growth.
L26|Business cycles and start-ups across industries: An empirical analysis of German regions|We analyze whether start-up rates in different industries systematically change with business cycle variables. Using a unique data set at the industry level, we mostly find correlations that are consistent with counter-cyclical influences of the business cycle on entries in both innovative and non-innovative industries. Entries into the large-scale industries, including the innovative part of manufacturing, are only influenced by changes in the cyclical component of unemployment, while entries into small-scale industries, like knowledge intensive services, are mostly influenced by changes in the cyclical component of GDP. Thus, our analysis suggests that favorable conditions in terms of high GDP might not be germane for start-ups. Given that both innovative and non-innovative businesses react counter-cyclically in ‘regular’ recessions, business formation may have a stabilizing effect on the economy.
L26|Do startups provide employment opportunities for disadvantaged workers?|This paper analyzes whether startups offer job opportunities to workers potentially facing labor market problems. It compares the hiring patterns of startups and incumbents in the period 2003 to 2014 using administrative linked employer-employee data for Germany that allow to take the complete employment biographies of newly hired workers into account. The results indicate that young plants are more likely than incumbents to hire older and foreign applicants as well as workers who have instable employment biographies, come from unemployment or outside the labor force, or were affected by a plant closure. However, an analysis of entry wages reveals that disadvantageous worker characteristics come along with higher wage penalties in startups than in incumbents. Therefore, even if startups provide employment opportunities for certain groups of disadvantaged workers, the quality of these jobs in terms of initial remuneration seems to be low.
L26|Skills, Scope, and Success: An Empirical Look at the Start-up Process in Creative Industries in Germany|Creative industries comprise enterprises focusing on the creation, production, and distribution of creative or cultural goods and services. Following an explorative empirical approach, we analyze start-ups in creative industries regarding three issues along the start-up process: (1) personal characteristics of creative entrepreneurs, (2) their use of labor and capital as input factors, and (3) start-up success as measured by start-up survival, degree of innovativeness, and change in household income. Based on individual-level data from the KfW Start-up Monitor, a large-scale survey on entrepreneurship in Germany, our regression results show that entrepreneurs in creative industries tend to be younger and better educated than entrepreneurs in other economic sectors. Businesses in creative industries are prevalently started on a small scale, as part-time occupations, and with less financial resources. Yet they show a higher persistence and an above-average degree of innovativeness.
L26|High-Growth Entrepreneurship|We study the patterns and determinants of job creation for a large cohort of start-up firms. Analysis of the universe of U.S. employers reveals strong persistence in employment size from firm birth to age seven, with a small fraction of firms accounting for most employment at both ages, patterns that are little explained by finely disaggregated industry controls or amount of finance. Linking to data from the Survey of Business Owners on characteristics of 54,700 founders of 36,400 start-ups, and defining “high growth” as the top 5% of firms in the size distribution at age zero and seven, we find that women have a 30% lower probability of founding high-growth entrepreneurships at both ages. A similar gap for African-Americans at start-up disappears by age seven. Other differences with respect to race, ethnicity, and nativity are modest. Founder age is initially positively associated with high growth probability but the profile flattens after seven years and even becomes slightly negative. The education profile is initially concave, with advanced degree recipients no more likely to found high growth firms than high school graduates, but the former catch up to those with bachelor’s degrees by firm age seven, while the latter do not. Most other relationships of high growth with founder characteristics are highly persistent over time. Prior business ownership is strongly positively associated, and veteran experience negatively associated, with high growth. A larger founding team raises the probability of high growth, while diversity (by gender, age, race/ethnicity, or nativity) either lowers the probability or has little effect. More start-up capital raises the high-growth propensity of firms founded by a sole proprietor, women, minorities, immigrants, veterans, novice entrepreneurs, and those who are younger or with less education. Perhaps surprisingly, women, minorities, and those with less education tend to choose high growth industries, but fewer of them achieve high growth compared to their industry peers.
L26|Pathways to Formalization: Going beyond the Formality Dichotomy|Too often, academics and policy makers interpret formality as a binary choice and formalization as an irreversible process. Yet, formalization has many facets and shades on the business and labor fronts, and firms may not be able or willing to formalize all at once. This paper explores the joint process of business and labor formalization, using a unique panel data set of Peruvian micro enterprises. The paper finds that business formality does not imply labor formality, and vice versa. Further, there is significant churning in and out of different dimensions of formality within a relatively short period. Using an instrumental variable approach, the paper infers that business formalization affects labor formalization but not the other way around, and that enforcement is a key driver of formalization. Overall, the analysis shows that formalization is a gradual and reversible process, with small entrepreneurs weighing their possibilities in each pathway to business (often) or labor (less often) formalization, but rarely both at the same time.
L26|Micro-entrepreneurship and subjective well-being: Evidence from rural Bangladesh|Microcredit has long been hailed as a powerful tool to promote livelihoods and reduce poverty through entrepreneurship. However, its impacts on people's subjective well-being remain underexplored. We present a unified theoretical framework for analyzing the effect of microcredit-enabled entrepreneurship on overall life satisfaction – a key manifestation of subjective well-being. Empirically, we apply an instrumental variable approach to a unique census-like household survey conducted in three villages of Bangladesh in 2013. In spite of having no direct effects, we find that microcredit borrowing has an indirect negative effect on overall life satisfaction, through increased worry. On a positive note, we find that female micro-borrowers experience an increase in satisfaction with financial security and achievement in life. We also provide evidence that micro-borrowers with higher levels of assets experience an increase in satisfaction with financial security.
L26|Incubators, Accelerators and Regional Economic Development|A growing wave of co-location programmes promises to boost growth for young firms. Despite great public and policy interest we have little idea whether such programmes are effective. This paper categorises accelerators and incubators within a larger family of 'co-location' interventions. We then develop a single framework to theorise workspace-level impacts. We summarise available evaluation evidence and sketch implications for regional economic policy. We find clear evidence programmes are effective overall. But we know little about how effects operate - or who benefits. Providers and policymakers should experiment further to establish optimal designs.
L26|Prediction based on entrepreneurship-prone personality profiles: sometimes worse than the toss of a coin|Abstract The human personality predicts a wide range of activities and occupational choices—from musical sophistication to entrepreneurial careers. However, which method should be applied if information on personality traits is used for prediction and advice? In psychological research, group profiles are widely employed. In this contribution, we examine the performance of profiles using the example of career prediction and advice, involving a comparison of average trait scores of successful entrepreneurs with the traits of potential entrepreneurs. Based on a simple theoretical model estimated with GSOEP data and analyzed with Monte Carlo methods, we show, for the first time, that the choice of the comparison method matters substantially. We reveal that under certain conditions the performance of average profiles is inferior to the tossing of a coin. Alternative methods, such as directly estimating success probabilities, deliver better performance and are more robust.
L26|Brilliant Technologies and Brave Entrepreneurs: A New Narrative for African Manufacturing|In this paper I argue that the manufacturing sector still has an important role to play in Africa's development. Despite failing to industrialize in the past, there may be a new window of opportunity. This is due to the convergence of what has been called 'brilliant' new technologies associated with the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) and a resurgence of start-up entrepreneurship. In this light I (i) show why manufacturing is vital for African economies, (ii) critically analyse the nature and impact, both in terms of opportunities and risks, of the new technologies associated with the 4IR for Africa; (iii) describe the resurgence of technological start-up entrepreneurship in Africa and (iv) call for policy support in the form of complimentary investments and regulations to allow entrepreneurs to utilize opportunities and to minimize threats. In short, a new narrative for African manufacturing is possible.
L26|Women-owned micro and small enterprises in Bhutan : what major obstacles impede their growth and innovation?|The research identified and examined the major obstacles impeding the growth and innovation of Women Micro and Small Enterprises (WMSEs) in Bhutan. The research was carried out using World Bank’s Bhutan Enterprise Survey data (2015) and in-depth interviews of eighty-one micro and small businesswomen. It was noted that increasing number of Bhutanese women has started to participate in economic activities in the recent years. However, the growth in WMSEs has ensued largely in the form of gain in number but not in terms of business innovation and upward progression in the entrepreneurial ladder. These imply that numerous obstacles continue to impede the growth and innovation of WMSEs in Bhutan. What are these obstacles? How could they overcome these obstacles? Using mixed-method, the research has attempted to answer these critical questions. Through triangulation of the results from the quantitative and qualitative analysis, the study concluded that the obstacles needing immediate attention are poor access to finance; labour shortage; inadequate business skills (managerial, financial and technical); competitions among similar enterprises, lack of proper business premises (location, rent and space), lack of formal education, lack of training opportunities, and seasonality of businesses.
L26|Regional knowledge, entrepreneurial culture, and innovative start-ups over time and space―an empirical investigation|Abstract We investigate the role of entrepreneurship culture and the historical knowledge base of a region on current levels of new business formation in innovative industries. The analysis is for German regions and covers the time period 1907–2014. We find a pronounced positive relationship between high levels of historical self-employment in science-based industries and new business formation in innovative industries today. This long-term legacy effect of entrepreneurial tradition indicates the prevalence of a regional culture of entrepreneurship. Moreover, local presence and geographic proximity to a technical university founded before the year 1900 is positively related to the level of innovative start-ups more than a century later. The results show that a considerable part of the knowledge that constitutes an important source of entrepreneurial opportunities is deeply rooted in history. We draw conclusions for policy and for further research.
L26|Self-Employment and Well-Being Across Institutional Contexts|This paper investigates whether the relationship between a person's occupational sta- tus and well-being differs across countries with varying institutional contexts. We find that the relationship between job- and life satisfaction of self-employed people as well as of paid employees varies considerably across countries. Our results indicate that entrepreneurship-friendly institutions in a country are conducive to the well-being of self-employed. Remarkably, the quality of entrepreneurial institutions also increases the levels of well-being of paid employees, but the effect is more pronounced for the self-employed.
L26|Historical Roots of Entrepreneurial Culture and Innovation Activity?An Analysis for German Regions|There is a research gap with respect to understanding the role of entrepreneurial culture and tradition for actual start-up behaviour. We combine historical self-employment data (entrepreneurial tradition) with a psycho- logical measure for entrepreneurial attitudes (entrepreneurial culture). The results reveal a positive relationship between the historical level of self- employment in a region and the presence of people with an entrepreneurial personality structure today. Our measure for a regional culture of entrepreneurship is positively related not only to the level of new business formation but also the amount of innovation activity.
L26|The effect of being Protestant on entrepreneurial choice|This brief research note identifies a causal effect of being Protestant on entrepreneurial choice.
L26|Entrepreneurship and Job Satisfaction: The Role of Age|This paper investigates the relationship between job satisfaction and age for self-employed persons as compared to paid employees. While, on average, there are higher levels of job satisfaction in self-employment as compared to paid employment, we find that an individual's age is an important moderator in this relationship. Specifically, the probability of the self-employed to experience high levels of job satisfaction is quite similar across all age cohorts, but the job satisfaction of paid employees varies significantly with age. The degree to which self-employed people are more satisfied with their work than paid employees, therefore, is affected by the age of the individuals involved. We find that only those paid employees at the final stage of their working life have the same probability of experiencing a high level of job satisfaction as a self-employed person with comparable individual characteristics.
L26|The regional emergence of innovative start-ups: a research agenda|This chapter reviews the empirical evidence concerning the regional emergence of innovative new businesses. It is argued that analyses using aggregate data that focus on the regional level and do not account for career patterns of innovative founders are of limited value in guiding policy that is aimed at fostering the emergence of innovative new businesses. Progress can be mainly expected from research that investigates the family backgrounds, education, and employment careers of potential founders. Moreover, it would be helpful to develop clearer empirical definitions of what constitutes an innovative new business, and the distinctions between different types of innovative businesses.
L26|Crowdinvesting in entrepreneurial projects: Disentangling patterns of investor behavior|Crowdinvesting emerged recently as an alternative way of funding for start-up projects. Our dataset consists of all pledges made at Companisto, one of the largest crowdinvesting platforms in Europe. Using cluster analysis based on individual investment histories, we find that crowdinvestors differ in their investment strategies and motivations. We can distinguish three types of crowdinvestors that vary in their response to project quality signals of entrepreneurs, project-related information reducing the degree of uncertainty and social influence by fellow investors: Casual Investors, Crowd Enthusiasts, and Sophisticated Investors. We conclude that crowdinvestors are anything but a homogeneous group. Instead, they are motivated by different factors and respond to different signals when making investment decisions.
L26|Entrepreneurial beginnings: Transitions to self-employment and the creation of jobs|Owner-operated firms are an important part of the New Zealand economy. They employ approximately 30% of the private-for-profit workforce, as well as providing jobs and income to the working proprietors themselves. This paper addresses two questions: what characteristics are associated with entrepreneurship (starting a self-employed business); and which sorts of entrepreneurs are more successful (create jobs)? We pay particular attention to differences in start-up and survival rates by business owner sex and ethnicity, but also consider whether other individual characteristics (including age and skill) and prior job characteristics also relate to the decision to start a business or to create jobs. We find substantial negative gaps in entrepreneurship for females and non-European-only ethnicity groups – gaps that arise in large part because of differential rates of entry into self-employment and, in the case of non-European-only ethnicities, higher attrition rates from self-employment after entry. These gaps persist in the presence of controls for skill, prior labour market experience and other individual characteristics.
L26|Shattering the glass ceiling? How the institutional context mitigates the gender gap in entrepreneurship|We examine how the institutional context affects the relationship between gender and opportunity entrepreneurship. To do this, we develop a multi-level model that connects feminist theory at the micro-level to institutional theory at the macro-level. It is hypothesized that the gender gap in opportunity entrepreneurship is more pronounced in low-quality institutional contexts and less pronounced in high-quality institutional contexts. Using data from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) and regulation data from the economic freedom of the world index (EFW), we test our predictions and find evidence in support of our model. Our findings suggest that, while there is a gender gap in entrepreneurship, these disparities are reduced as the quality of the institutional context improves.
L26|Migrant STEM Entrepreneurs|STEM workers are considered to be key drivers for economic growth in the developed world. Migrant workers play an increasing role in the supply of this occupational category. We study the universe of STEM workers in the Swedish economy over the period 2003-2015 and find that migrants are less likely to form their own business, but those who are entrepreneurs earn income at least as large as that of their native-born counterparts. While the income differential for economic migrants may be partially explained by self-selection, the estimated effect is not significantly different between natives and refugee migrants.
L26|The Impact of New Firm Formation on Regional Employment Change by Industry over Time and Space (in Korean)|While it is widely assumed that a high level of new firm formation in a region contributes to employment growth, the empirical evidence concerning the long-term impacts that become effective only after a substantially long time lag is still elusive. Drawing from a panel dataset that covers 234 administrative districts (Si-Gun-Gu) over the 2004-2016 period, we investigate the long-term employment effects of new firm formation. The relationship between regional employment change and start-up rate is analyzed using Almon polynomial distributed lags model with fixed effects. Our findings show that the effects of new firm formation on employment growth persists over a long time-period of up to eleven years. We found the magnitude of the overall effects varies substantially between industrial sectors. The entry of manufacturing firms has stronger positive employment effects compared to that of service firms. It is also found that the entry of startups in knowledge intensive as well as in innovative industries? such as high-tech manufacturing or professional business service ? has a relatively stronger employment effect. On the other hand, the impacts of new firm formation in social or personal service industries were found to be negative.
L26|Age and High-Growth Entrepreneurship|Many observers, and many investors, believe that young people are especially likely to produce the most successful new firms. We use administrative data at the U.S. Census Bureau to study the ages of founders of growth-oriented start-ups in the past decade. Our primary finding is that successful entrepreneurs are middle-aged, not young. The mean founder age for the 1 in 1,000 fastest growing new ventures is 45.0. The findings are broadly similar when considering high-technology sectors, entrepreneurial hubs, and successful firm exits. Prior experience in the specific industry predicts much greater rates of entrepreneurial success. These findings strongly reject common hypotheses that emphasize youth as a key trait of successful entrepreneurs.
L26|Innovation, Productivity Dispersion, and Productivity Growth|We examine whether underlying industry innovation dynamics are an important driver of the large dispersion in productivity across firms within narrowly defined sectors. Our hypothesis is that periods of rapid innovation are accompanied by high rates of entry, significant experimentation and, in turn, a high degree of productivity dispersion. Following this experimentation phase, successful innovators and adopters grow while unsuccessful innovators contract and exit yielding productivity growth. We examine the dynamic relationship between entry, productivity dispersion, and productivity growth using a new comprehensive firm-level dataset for the U.S. We find a surge of entry within an industry yields with a lag an increase in productivity dispersion and then after a subsequent lag an increase in productivity growth. These patterns are more pronounced for the High Tech sector where we expect there to be more innovative activities. These patterns change over time suggesting other forces are at work during the post-2000 slowdown in aggregate productivity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L26|Age and High-Growth Entrepreneurship|Many observers, and many investors, believe that young people are especially likely to produce the most successful new firms. We use administrative data at the U.S. Census Bureau to study the ages of founders of growth-oriented start-ups in the past decade. Our primary finding is that successful entrepreneurs are middle-aged, not young. The mean founder age for the 1 in 1,000 fastest growing new ventures is 45.0. The findings are broadly similar when considering high-technology sectors, entrepreneurial hubs, and successful firm exits. Prior experience in the specific industry predicts much greater rates of entrepreneurial success. These findings strongly reject common hypotheses that emphasize youth as a key trait of successful entrepreneurs.
L26|Incubators, Accelerators and Regional Economic Development|A growing wave of co-location programmes promises to boost growth for entrepreneurs and young firms. Despite great public and policy interest we have little idea whether such programmes are effective. This paper categorises accelerators and incubators within a larger family of co-location interventions. We then develop a single framework to theorise workspace-level impacts. We summarise available evaluation evidence and sketch implications for regional economic policy. We find clear evidence programmes are effective overall. But we know little about how effects operate – or who benefits. Providers and policymakers should experiment further to establish optimal designs.
L26|Do employee spinoffs learn markets from their parents? Evidence from international trade|It is well established that employee spinoffs learn their parents’ technologies, but little is known about their demand-side learning. We exploit the identification in international trade data of parent markets (countries) to investigate whether exporting employee spinoffs of exporting parents have an advantage in accessing their parents’ markets over exporting comparison firms well positioned to learn those markets at arm’s length. We find that, controlling for the greater overlap of spinoffs with their parents’ export products, at entry spinoffs access 51 percent more parent markets than exporting firms in the same 4-digit industries and municipalities as the parents. This advantage shrinks monotonically with time, becoming statistically insignificant four years after entry, indicating that intrafirm learning provides spinoffs with a four-year head start over learning at arm’s length. Spinoffs do not overlap more than comparison firms with parent markets that the parents did not serve at spinoff entry, providing evidence against the alternative hypothesis that product overlap inadequately controls for greater technological similarity of spinoffs to parents. Firm entry into parent markets predicted by spinoff status does not lead to entry into “adjacent” markets the following year.
L26|When They Work with Women, Do Men Get All the Credit?|We study discrimination against female entrepreneurs. We analyze bank lending to 6,422 firms in 22 transition countries, both at the extensive and intensive margin. We find that gender discrimination occurs only if a firm is both managed and owned by females, especially in localities where gender bias is acute or more domestic banks are present. In contrast if either the top manager or owner is male, we find no evidence of discrimination. Importantly, these results are not driven by females having inferior skills to males.
L26|Reestructuración industrial y empleo en Baja California, México (1989-2014)|Este trabajo describe la evolución de la economía y de la industria manufacturera en el estado de Baja California. A partir de algunos planteamientos teóricos y empíricos desde la organización industrial y del análisis de los cambios en la estructura del empleo por actividad manufacturera, el trabajo encuentra tendencias de concentración del empleo manufacturero en la gran empresa y una disminución de la participación de las pequeñas y medianas empresas, lo que puede deberse a una interacción entre el nivel tecnológico característico de las industrias que siguen favoreciendo a la gran empresa, y la reducción de la dinámica económica del estado, lo cual ha promovido la concentración industrial del empleo. Por otro lado, la participación de la microempresa dentro de la industria en el largo plazo puede deberse al deterioro de la dinámica económica con respecto a los noventa del siglo pasado, lo que motivó el emprendedurismo de personas desempleadas que abrieron microempresas para mantener su fuente de ingresos.
L26|Waiting for the Payday? The Market for Startups and the Timing of Entrepreneurial Exit|Most technology startups are set up for exit through acquisition by large corporations. In choosing when to sell, startups face a tradeoff. Early acquisition reduces execution errors but later acquisition improves the likelihood of finding a better match since in the early market, there are fewer buyers because early acquisition requires costly absorptive capacity. Moreover, the buyer’s decision to invest in absorptive capacity is related to the startup’s decision about the timing of the exit sale. In this paper, we build a model to capture this complexity and the related tradeoffs. We find that the early market for startups is inefficiently thin if the timing of exit is a strategic choice, i.e. startups have to commit to whether to exit early or late. Too few startups are sold early, and too few buyers invest in absorptive capacity. Paradoxically, venture capital aggravates the inefficiency. However, if the timing of exit is a tactical choice, i.e. startups can choose to go late after observing the early offers, there are too many early acquisitions and too much investment in absorptive capacity by incumbents
L26|Big Data, artificial intelligence and the geography of entrepreneurship in the United States|There is increasing interest in the potential of artificial intelligence and Big Data (e.g., generated via social media) to help understand economic outcomes and processes. But can artificial intelligence models, solely based on publicly available Big Data (e.g., language patterns left on social media), reliably identify geographical differences in entrepreneurial personality/culture that are associated with entrepreneurial activity? Using a machine learning model processing 1.5 billion tweets by 5.25 million users, we estimate the Big Five personality traits and an entrepreneurial personality profile for 1,772 U.S. counties. We find that these Twitter-based personality estimates show substantial relationships to county-level entrepreneurship activity, accounting for 24% (entrepreneurial personality profile) and 32% (all Big Five trait as separate predictors in one model) of the variance in local entrepreneurship and are robust to the introduction in the model of conventional economic factors that affect entrepreneurship. We conclude that artificial intelligence methods, analysing publically available social media data, are indeed able to detect entrepreneurial patterns, by measuring territorial differences in entrepreneurial personality/culture that are valid markers of actual entrepreneurial behaviour. More importantly, such social media datasets and artificial intelligence methods are able to deliver similar (or even better) results than studies based on millions of personality tests (selfreport studies). Our findings have a wide range of implications for research and practice concerned with entrepreneurial regions and eco-systems, and regional economic outcomes interacting with local culture.
L26|Can government intervention make firms more investment-ready ? a randomized experiment in the Western Balkans|Many innovative start-ups and small and medium-size enterprises have good ideas, but do not have these ideas fine-tuned to the stage where they can attract outside funding. Investment readiness programs attempt to help firms to become ready to attract and accept outside equity funding through a combination of training, mentoring, master classes, and networking. This study conducted a five-country randomized experiment in the Western Balkans that worked with 346 firms and delivered an investment readiness program to half of the firms, with the control group receiving an inexpensive online program instead. A pitch event was then held for these firms to pitch their ideas to independent judges. The investment readiness program resulted in a 0.3 standard deviation increase in the investment readiness score, with this increase occurring throughout the distribution. Two follow-up surveys show that the judges'scores predicted investment readiness and investment outcomes over the subsequent two years. Treated firms attained significantly more media attention and were 5 percentage points more likely to have made a deal with an outside investor, although this increase is not statistically significant (95 confidence interval of -4.7 to +14.7 percentage points).
L26|A General Equilibrium Theory of Occupational Choice under Optimistic Beliefs about Entrepreneurial Ability|This paper studies the impact of optimism on occupational choice using a general equilibrium framework. The model shows that optimism has four main qualitative effects: it leads to a misallocation of talent, drives up input prices, raises the number of entrepreneurs, and makes entrepreneurs worse off. We calibrate the model to match U.S. manufacturing data. This allows us to make quantitative predictions regarding the impact of optimism on occupational choice, input prices, the returns to entrepreneurship, and output. The calibration shows that optimism can explain the empirical puzzle of the low mean returns to entrepreneurship compared to average wages.
L26|Labour Market Decisions of the Self-Employed in the Netherlands at the Statutory Retirement Age|We investigate retirement decisions of the self-employed in the Netherlands using administrative data. We focus on the time period around which individuals reach the statutory retirement age (SRA, 65 years in most cases). After the statutory retirement age, each Dutch resident receives the Old Age State Pension annuity (AOW), providing an income at the subsistence level. Both the timing and the magnitude of this state pension are well known in advance. According to a standard leisure/consumption trade-off life cycle model, receiving AOW should therefore have no impact on labour supply choices. While employees often face the demand side restriction of mandatory retirement, this does not apply to the self-employed. We investigate whether retirement and earnings of the self-employed change at the SRA and whether any such changes vary with, e.g., the level of financial wealth. We find a peak in retirement when self-employed reach the SRA. The evidence suggests that the benchmark of retiring at 65 is acting as a driver, due to behavioural features like anchoring or a social norm.
L26|Aiming for the Goal: Contribution Dynamics of Crowdfunding|We study reward-based crowdfunding campaigns, a new class of dynamic contribution games where consumption is exclusive. Two types of backers participate: buyers want to consume the product while donors just want the campaign to succeed. The key tension is one of coordination between buyers, instead of free-riding. Donors can alleviate this coordination risk. We analyze a dynamic model of crowdfunding and demonstrate that its predictions are consistent with high-frequency data collected from Kickstarter. We compare the Kickstarter mechanism to alternative platform designs and evaluate the value of dynamically arriving information. We extend the model to incorporate social learning about quality.
L26|Entrepreneurial Discovery Capital|This paper identifies how capital losses are unavoidably incurred in the discovery of viable entrepreneurial ventures. Losses are proportional to the novelty and perceived profit potential of a prospective venture, exemplified by the high risk/high return nature of high technology start-ups. Venture capitalists internalize the costs and benefits of this discovery process, and set up portfolios where the majority of funded ventures unavoidably fail or earn subpar returns. They incur these losses in order to discover the one Winner venture whose outsize returns will compensate for the capital losses in the failed ventures. The investment in failing ventures is unavoidable and necessary to discover the Winner because the winning business model cannot be determined ex ante. I call this investment “Entrepreneurial Discovery Capital.” This paper hypothesizes that many industry and economy-wide cycles may be the result of such a process that occurs at a much larger scale than a single fund. Venture capital in microcosm provides a model of an economy-wide process where the decisions of myriad market participants are coordinated “as if by an invisible hand” by signals from the capital markets.
L26|The role of Social Networks on Household Business Performance in Vietnam: A qualitative assessment|Household business owners mainly rely on their social networks of strong ties to acquire resources in Vietnam. However, no consensus is found in the literature on the influence of strong ties on the performance of small firms in developing countries. Using an original set of qualitative data, this paper provides new evidence on the influence of social networks on household businesses by following a relational approach of the networks. It contributes to the literature by distinguishing the effects of social networks at different phases of the business cycle. It shows that, in the business creation process, strong ties are by far the preferred source of the initial capital as well as information supports. They shape the business at a small size and make it not adapted to rapid changes in the market demand and the technologies in the latter phase of business development. Weak ties are much less mobilized at the start of the business, but they provide a source of valuable information to create innovative businesses. The more the business grows, the higher is the strength of the weak ties. The study illustrates that the use of social networks, including the weak ties, should be understood to be embedded in family structures and local community contexts, with a set of duties and rights embedded in reciprocal relationships beyond not only the business interactions. _________________________________ Les entreprises informelles comptent principalement sur leurs réseaux familiaux pour acquérir des ressources au Vietnam. Cependant, aucun consensus ne se dégage de la littérature sur l’influence des liens forts sur la performance des petites entreprises dans le contexte des pays en développement. À l’aide d’un corpus d’entretiens original, cet article fournit un nouvel éclairage sur l’influence des réseaux sociaux dans le fonctionnement des petites entreprises. En suivant une approche relationnelle des réseaux, il contribue à la littérature en distinguant les effets des réseaux sociaux à des phases différentes du cycle de vie de l’entreprise. Il montre que les liens forts sont la source privilégiée pour obtenir le capital initial et les informations nécessaires dans le processus de création d’entreprise. L’usage des liens forts façonne l’entreprise en la conditionnant à une petite taille et la rendant inadaptée aux changements rapides de la demande et des technologies. Les liens faibles sont beaucoup moins mobilisés au début de l'entreprise, mais ils constituent une source d'informations précieuses pour créer des entreprises innovantes. Plus l'entreprise se développe, plus les liens faibles deviennent cruciaux. L’étude montre que l’utilisation des réseaux sociaux, y compris des liens faibles, est fortement incluse dans les structures familiales et les contextes communautaires locaux, qui supposent un ensemble de droits et de devoirs, notamment une réciprocité qui va au-delà des relations commerciales.
L26|Different Strokes for Different Folks: Entrepreneurs' Job Satisfaction and the Intersection of Gender and Migration Background|Migrant enterprises comprise about 10% of all enterprises in Germany and are therefore a crucial part of the German economy and its entrepreneurial ecosystems. Relatedly, migrant entrepreneurship is a highly recognized topic within political discussions as well as within entrepreneurship research. While there is already an impressive body of work regarding the nature and quality of migrant enterprises, many questions regarding the personal motives and satisfaction of migrant entrepreneurs still remain unanswered (particularly with reference to gender and generation of migration). Using the German Socio-Economic Panel dataset, we close this research gap by investigating the job satisfaction of migrant entrepreneurs in Germany compared with native entrepreneurs, and also with conventionally employed migrants and natives. First generation migrants show, in general, less job satisfaction than the native population. Second generation male migrant entrepreneurs’ show less job satisfaction, however this association is reversed for females: second generation female migrant entrepreneurs are more satisfied with their self-employment than their native counterparts. These differing results lead to differing implications for policy makers who wish to create and develop entrepreneurial and labour market support for different target groups.
L26|Prediction Based on Entrepreneurship-Prone Personality Proﬁles: Sometimes Worse Than the Toss of a Coin|The human personality predicts a wide range of activities and occupational choices—from musical sophistication to entrepreneurial careers. However, which method should be applied if information on personality traits is used for prediction and advice? In psychological research, group proﬁles are widely employed. In this contribution, we examine the performance of proﬁles using the example of career prediction and advice, involving a comparison of average trait scores of successful entrepreneurs with the traits of potential entrepreneurs. Based on a simple theoretical model estimated with SOEP data and analyzed with Monte Carlo methods, we show, for the ﬁrst time, that the choice of the comparison method matters substantially. We reveal that under certain conditions the performance of average proﬁles is inferior to the tossing of a coin. Alternative methods, such as directly estimating success probabilities, deliver better performance and are more robust.
L26|The effect of self-employment on income inequality|It is well known that the self-employed are over-represented at the bottom as well as the top of the income distribution. This paper shifts the focus from the income situation of the self-employed to the distributive effects of a change in self-employment rates. With representative German data and unconditional quantile regression analysis we show that an increase in the proportion of self-employed individuals in the labor force increases income polarization by tearing down oors at the bottom and allowing higher earnings potentials at the very top of the hourly income distribution. Recentered in uence function regression of inequality measures corroborate that self-employment is a source of income inequality in the labor market.
L26|Upping the Ante: The Equilibrium Effects of Unconditional Grants to Private Schools|We test for financial constraints as a market failure in education in a low-income country by experimentally allocating unconditional cash grants to either one (L) or to all (H) private schools in a village. Enrollment increases in both treatments, accompanied by infrastructure investments. However, test scores and fees only increase in H along with higher teacher wages. This differential impact follows from a canonical oligopoly model with capacity constraints and endogenous quality: greater financial saturation crowds-in quality investments. Higher social surplus in H, but greater private returns in L underscores the importance of leveraging market structure in designing educational subsidies.
L26|Eclipse of the Public Corporation or Eclipse of the Public Markets?|Since reaching a peak in 1997, the number of listed firms in the U.S. has fallen in every year but one. During this same period, public firms have been net purchasers of $3.6 trillion of equity (in 2015 dollars) rather than net issuers. The propensity to be listed is lower across all firm size groups, but more so among firms with less than 5,000 employees. Relative to other countries, the U.S. now has abnormally few listed firms. Because markets have become unattractive to small firms, existing listed firms are larger and older. We argue that the importance of intangible investment has grown but that public markets are not well-suited for young, R&D-intensive companies. Since there is abundant capital available to such firms without going public, they have little incentive to do so until they reach the point in their lifecycle where they focus more on payouts than on raising capital.
L26|Who Creates New Firms When Local Opportunities Arise?|New firm formation is a critical driver of job creation, and an important contributor to the responsiveness of the economy to aggregate shocks. In this paper we examine the characteristics of the individuals who become entrepreneurs when local opportunities arise due to an increase in local demand. We identify local demand shocks by linking fluctuations in global commodity prices to municipality level agricultural endowments in Brazil. We find that firm creation response is almost entirely driven by young individuals with generalist and managerial skills. In contrast, we find no such response within the same municipalities among skilled, yet older individuals. Those individuals who respond to local demand shocks are younger and more skilled than the average entrepreneur in the population. Entrepreneurial response of young individuals is larger in municipalities with better access to finance, more skilled human capital, and with overall younger demographics. These results highlight how the characteristics of the local population can have a significant impact on the entrepreneurial responsiveness of the economy.
L26|Historical Roots of Entrepreneurial Culture and Innovation Activity - An Analysis for German Regions|There is a research gap with respect to understanding the role of entrepreneurial culture and tradition for actual start-up behaviour. We combine historical self-employment data (entrepreneurial tradition) with a psychological measure for entrepreneurial attitudes (entrepreneurial culture). The results reveal a positive relationship between the historical level of self-employment in a region and the presence of people with an entrepreneurial personality structure today. Our measure for a regional culture of entrepreneurship is positively related not only to the level of new business formation but also the amount of innovation activity.
L26|Spinoffs, parents, and institutions: Evidence from the Italian motorcycle industry|In this paper we study the impact of spinoff generation events on the performance of parent organizations. Using data from the Italian motorcycle industry (1893-1993), we find that parents have higher survival chances after a spinoff generation event, confirming results from previous studies about other manufacturing industries. We also show that these enhanced survival patterns differ across time and space, and we link these effects to institutional differences: spinoff generation did not determine any survival advantage for parent firms in the Fascist era and in the Turin cluster, while it had an additional positive effect in the Motorvalley cluster. The paper contributes to the literature on spinoff generation and employee mobility and adds to the debate on the role of institutions in evolutionary economic geography, by showing the importance of contextual factors for the performance of parent firms.
L26|Corporate Income Taxation, Leverage at Entry, and the Growth of Entrepreneurial Companies|We study whether corporate income taxation affects the long-term growth of newly incorporated companies through its effect on their choice of leverage at entry. We first document the distribution of initial leverage, which is persistent over several years. We then find that a decrease in corporate income taxation leads to a sizeable decrease in leverage at entry. This effect on initial conditions has long-term effects: an inverted-U relationship exists between leverage at entry and long-term corporate growth, conditional on survival. These effects are economically sizeable, and stronger in countries with better creditor rights and more transparent financial transactions.
L26|Determinants and dynamics of business aspirations : evidence from small-scale entrepreneurs in an emerging market|Small-scale entrepreneurs are ubiquitous in emerging market economies, yet very few graduate to become larger businesses. This paper asks whether such entrepreneurs aspire to grow and, if so, on which dimensions of the business? What factors influence these aspirations, how realistic are they, and do entrepreneurs dynamically update them based on realized outcomes? A unique panel data set of small-scale retailers in Indonesia is used to show that the average business has strong short- and long-term aspirations for growth in shop size, number of employees, number of customers, and sales. Yet, more than 50 percent of the businesses report no aspirations for growth in the next 12 months, and 16 percent fail to imagine an ideal business over the long term. Entrepreneurs with low profits, business skills, and agency beliefs, as well as those who are older, female, and less educated have significantly lower aspirations. Analysis from a year later shows that most entrepreneurs fail to set realistic aspirations at baseline, but significantly adjust their aspirations to realistic levels with realized outcomes. The analysis also shows that baseline aspirations are a strong predictor of measures of business expansion and innovation, as well as performance outcomes a year later.
L26|Classifying Firms with Text Mining|Statistics on the births, deaths and survival rates of firms are crucial pieces of information, as they enter as an input in the computation of GDP, the identification of each sectorâ€™s contribution to the economy, and the assessment of gross job creation and destruction rates. Official statistics on firm demography are made available only several months after data collection and storage, however. Furthermore, unprocessed and untimely administrative data can lead to a misrepresentation of the life-cycle stage of a firm. In this paper we implement an automated version of Eurostatâ€™s algorithm aimed at distinguishing true startup endeavors from the resurrection of pre-existing but apparently defunct firms. The potential gains from combining machine learning, natural language processing and econometric tools for pre- processing and analyzing granular data are exposed, and a machine learning method predicting reactivations of deceptively dead firms is proposed.
L26|"“Labour Market Decisions of the Self-Employed in the Netherlands at the Statutory Retirement Age"""|We investigate retirement decisions of the self-employed in the Netherlands using administrative data. We focus on the time period around which individuals reach the statutory retirement age (SRA, 65 years in most cases). After the statutory retirement age, each Dutch resident receives the Old Age State Pension annuity (AOW), providing an income at the subsistence level. Both the timing and the magnitude of this state pension are well known in advance. According to a standard leisure/consumption trade-off life cycle model, receiving AOW should therefore have no impact on labour supply choices. While employees often face the demand side restriction of mandatory retirement, this does not apply to the self-employed. We investigate whether retirement and earnings of the selView postf-employed change at the SRA and whether any such changes vary with, e.g., the level of financial wealth. We find a peak in retirement when self-employed reach the SRA. The evidence suggests that the benchmark of retiring at 65 is acting as a driver, due to behavioural features like anchoring or a social norm.
L26|Caractéristiques de l’entrepreneuriat féminin à Dakar au Sénégal|Cet article vise principalement à mieux comprendre la participation des femmes aux activités entrepreneuriales de la région de Dakar. À partir de modèles théoriques bien connus, nous créons le modèle de l’entrepreneure sénégalaise en mettant l’accent sur la culture entrepreneuriale. Des méthodes d’analyse de données multidimensionnelles, à partir de données primaires collectées auprès de 153 femmes entrepreneures, nous permettent de créer des typologies supervisées de l’entrepreneuriat féminin selon les secteurs (formel, informel). Les résultats montrent que la création dépend du capital humain, social et culturel de l’entrepreneure, et confirment l’importance du capital social dans l’entrepreneuriat féminin des pays en développement.
L26|Le caratteristiche imprenditoriali delle farmacie di comunitÃ : unâ€™indagine esplorativa|In the last ten years, community pharmacies have undergone relevant normative interventions which have led from one side, to an increase in the number of competitors for dispensing activities, and from the other, to a pharmacistsâ€™ eventual role in the implementation of new care services. Faced with a transforming scenario, community pharmacists are expected to develop managerial and professional competences in order to respond to environmental challenges and safeguard both their profitability and their ability to fulfil the goals posed by the national health and pharmaceutical policies. The present study seeks to investigate to what extent community pharmacists perceive environmental turbulence and to what extent they believe to possesses entrepreneurial and managerial orientation, and self-efficacy, to build their pharmaciesâ€™ competitive advantage. A survey was prepared and a questionnaire have been sent to the pharmacists belonging to the provincial Association of Young Pharmacists of Agrigento, Italy. The results of the exploratory analysis are discussed along the paper in the light of the major changes community pharmacies are currently experiencing.
L26|Vers la compréhension de l’entrepreneur de demain : s’inspirer de l’entrepreneur dans les industries culturelles et créatives|Cet article a pour objectif de comprendre l’entrepreneur de demain en convoquant les travaux relatifs à l’entrepreneuriat culturel et créatif. Nous montrons, en référence aux dernières approches en entrepreneuriat s’appuyant sur la philosophie pragmatiste, qu’il importe de se concentrer sur l’agir créatif qui lie l’entrepreneur et son environnement. Puis, nous caractérisons l’environnement de cet agir en ICC, notamment l’existence d’un marché très concurrentiel, hautement incertain, et où les fins et les moyens sont imbriqués. Nous pointons dès lors des enjeux auxquels l’entrepreneur de demain est/sera confronté en l’occurrence l’existence (1) d’un écosystème valorisant sa créativité et (2) d’espaces économiques démocratiques créatifs.
L26|Becoming a mompreneur: Parental leave policies and mothers' propensity for self-employment|Contractionary parental leave policy reforms decrease the time mothers can stay at home after giving birth. This might discourage them to become an entrepreneur. Exploiting a German parental leave policy reform, we apply a regression discontinuity approach to establish a causal relationship between parental leave policies and the probability for mothers to become entrepreneurs (i.e., “mompreneurs”). We find that a decrease in the generosity of parental leave lowers the odds of mothers to become self-employed by 17%. We show additional evidence that suggests that this is particularly due to the reduced period of paid parental leave.
L26|Becoming a mompreneur: Parental leave policies and mothers' propensity for self-employment|Contractionary parental leave policy reforms decrease the time mothers can stay at home after giving birth. This might discourage them to become an entrepreneur. Exploiting a German parental leave policy reform, we apply a regression discontinuity approach to establish a causal relationship between parental leave policies and the probability for mothers to become entrepreneurs (i.e., “mompreneurs”). We find that a decrease in the generosity of parental leave lowers the odds of mothers to become self-employed by 17%. We show additional evidence that suggests that this is particularly due to the reduced period of paid parental leave.
L26|Drivers of growth in Tunisia: Young firms vs incumbents|The aim of this paper is to investigate the growth dynamics of young small firms (in contrast with larger and older incumbents) in a developing country context, using a unique and comprehensive dataset of non-agricultural Tunisian companies. Our results suggest that significant differences between young and mature firms can be found as far as the drivers of their growth are concerned. The key finding being that - while consistently with the extant literature Gibrat's law is overall rejected - the negative impact of the initial size is significantly larger for young than mature firms. This result has interesting policy implications: since smaller young firms are particularly conducive to employment generation, they can be considered good candidates for targeted accompanying policies addressed to sustain their post-entry growth.
L26|Structural transformation in Africa: New technologies, resurgent entrepreneurship and the revival of manufacturing|In this paper I argue that manufacturing is still important for structural transformation in Africa. Despite failing to industrialize in the past, there may be a new window of opportunity. This is due to the convergence of new technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) and a resurgence of start-up entrepreneurship. In this light I (i) show why manufacturing is vital for African economies, (ii) critically analyze the nature and impact, both in terms of opportunities and risks, of the new technologies associated with the 4IR for Africa; (iii) describe the resurgence of tech start-up entrepreneurship in Africa and (iv) call for policy support in the form of complimentary investments and regulations to allow entrepreneurs to utilize opportunities and to minimize threats. The paper show that a new narrative for African structural transformation is possible.
L26|Does managerial personality matter? Evidence from firms in Vietnam|Using novel data from micro, small and medium firms in Vietnam, we estimate the relationship between behavioural and personality traits of owners/managers – risk attitudes, locus of control, and innovativeness – and firm-level decisions. We extend the analysis beyond standard metrics of firm performance such as revenue and growth to study intermediate investments, including product innovation, worker training, and adoption of workplace safety measures that are potentially conducive to observed firm performance. Our results show that innovativeness and locus of control are positively correlated with revenue while risk aversion predicts lower revenue. Risk aversion is positively correlated with the adoption of safety measures. Innovativeness, as expected, is associated with an increased probability of product innovations. An internal locus of control predicts higher probability of investments, innovations and worker training. Heterogeneity analyses indicate that innovativeness and risk aversion matter more for firm outcomes in provinces characterized by better business climate. Our results are robust to a variety of checks. We contribute to a nascent and rapidly growing literature on the importance of managerial capital by shedding light on the role of managerial personality characteristics for decision-making in firms in a dynamic transition economy.
L26|Creativity and entrepreneurship: Empirical evidence for Catalonia| In recent years creativity has gained importance because of its potential to generate economic growth based on their role in the innovation processes and economic development. In this regard, this work is twofold. First, it addresses the mechanisms through which creativity promotes knowledge externalities and innovation contributing to regional economic growth and competitiveness. And second, it aims to analyse the role of creativity, diversity and innovation on entrepreneurship at a municipality level for Catalonia. To conduct this analysis, information provided by the Register of Industrial Establishments of Catalonia (REIC) â€“ a register that includes the creation of new establishments located in Catalonia between 2002 and 2007 â€“ , and by the Statistical Institute of Catalonia (IDESCAT) are used. Main results highlight the role of creativity in the spreading of ideas and the creation of new projects encouraging entrepreneurship at local level. However, the role of cultural diversity does not seem to be so relevant in deciding the location of new firms in Catalan municipalities. Finally, intellectual and technological productivity in the municipality (in terms of patents) favours the creation of new firms but only in municipalities closer to technologic and scientific centres. Keywords: creativity, diversity, innovation, entrepreneurship, industrial location JEL codes: O31, M14, O32, L26, O14
L26|Determinants and Dynamics of Business Aspirations : Evidence from Small-scale Entrepreneurs in an Emerging Market|Small-scale entrepreneurs are ubiquitous in emerging market economies, yet very few graduate to become larger businesses. We ask whether such entrepreneurs even aspire to grow, and if so, on which dimensions of the business? What factors influence these aspirations, how realistic are they, and do entrepreneurs dynamically update them based on realized outcomes? Using a unique panel data set of small-scale retailers in Indonesia, we show that the average business has strong short- and long-term aspirations for growth in shop size, number of employees, number of customers, and sales. Yet, more than half of the businesses report no aspirations for growth in the next 12 months, and 16 percent fail to imagine an ideal business over the long-term. Entrepreneurs with low profits, business skills, and agency beliefs, as well as those who are older, female, and less educated have significantly lower aspirations. Analysis from a year later shows that most entrepreneurs fail to set realistic aspirations at baseline, but significantly adjust their aspirations to realistic levels with realized outcomes. The analysis also shows baseline aspirations are a strong predictor of measures of business expansion and innovation, as well as performance outcomes a year later.
L26|Can Government Intervention Make Firms More Investment-Ready? A Randomized Experiment in the Western Balkans|Many innovative start-ups and SMEs have good ideas, but do not have these ideas fine-tuned to the stage where they can attract outside funding. Investment readiness programs attempt to help firms to become ready to attract and accept outside equity funding through a combination of training, mentoring, master classes, and networking. We conduct a five-country randomized experiment in the Western Balkans that works with 346 firms and delivers an investment readiness program to half of these firms, with the control group receiving an inexpensive online program instead. A pitch event was then held for these firms to pitch their ideas to independent judges. The investment readiness program resulted in a 0.3 standard deviation increase in the investment readiness score, with this increase occurring throughout the distribution. Two follow-up surveys show that these judges' scores predict investment readiness and investment outcomes over the subsequent two years. Treated firms attain significantly more media attention, and are 5 percentage points (p.p.) more likely to have made a deal with an outside investor, although this increase is not statistically significant (95 confidence interval of -4.7 p.p., +14.7p.p.).
L26|An international comparison of the contribution to job creation by high growth firms|This paper addresses three simple questions: how should the contribution of HGFs to job creation be measured? how much does this contribution vary across countries? to what extent does the cross-country variation depend on variation in the proportion of HGFs in the business population? The first is a methodological question which we answer using a more highly articulated version of the standard job creation and destruction accounts. The other two are empirical questions which we answer using a purpose-built dataset assembled from national firm-level sources and covering nine countries, spanning the ten three year periods from 2000/03 to 2009/12. The basic principle governing the development of the accounting framework is the choice of appropriate comparators. Firstly, when measuring contributions to job creation, we should focus on just job creating firms, otherwise we are summing over contributions from firms with positive, zero, and negative job creation numbers. Secondly, because we know growth depends in part on size, the ’natural’ comparison for HGFs is with job creation by similar-sized firms which simply did not grow as fast as HGFs. However, we also show how the measurement framework can be further extended to include, for example, a consistent measure of the contribution of small job creating firms. On the empirical side, we find that the HGF share of job creation by large job creating firms varies across countries by a factor of two, from around one third to two thirds. A relatively small proportion of this cross-country variation is accounted for by variations in the influence of HGFs on job creation. On average HGFs generated between three or four times as many jobs as large non-HGF job creating firms, but this ratio is relatively similar across countries. The bulk of the cross-country variation in HGF contribution to job creation is accounted for by the relative abundance (or rarity) of HGFs. Moreover, we also show that the measurement of abundance depends upon the choice of measurement framework: the ’winner’ of a cross-national HGF ’beauty context’ on one measure will not necessarily be the winner on another.
L26|Changing Business Dynamism and Productivity : Shocks vs. Responsiveness|The pace of job reallocation has declined in all U.S. sectors since 2000. In standard models, aggregate job reallocation depends on (a) the dispersion of idiosyncratic productivity shocks faced by businesses and (b) the marginal responsiveness of businesses to those shocks. Using several novel empirical facts from business microdata, we infer that the pervasive post-2000 decline in reallocation reflects weaker responsiveness in a manner consistent with rising adjustment frictions and not lower dispersion of shocks. The within-industry dispersion of TFP and output per worker has risen, while the marginal responsiveness of employment growth to business-level productivity has weakened. The responsiveness in the post-2000 period for young firms in the high-tech sector is only about half (in manufacturing) to two thirds (economy wide) of the peak in the 1990s. Counterfactuals show that weakening productivity responsiveness since 2000 accounts for a significant drag on a ggregate productivity.
L26|Eclipse of the Public Corporation or Eclipse of the Public Markets?|Since reaching a peak in 1997, the number of listed firms in the U.S. has fallen in every year but one. During this same period, public firms have been net purchasers of $3.6 trillion of equity (in 2015 dollars) rather than net issuers. The propensity to be listed is lower across all firm size groups, but more so among firms with less than 5,000 employees. Relative to other countries, the U.S. now has abnormally few listed firms. Because markets have become unattractive to small firms, existing listed firms are larger and older. We argue that the importance of intangible investment has grown but that public markets are not well-suited for young, R&D-intensive companies. Since there is abundant capital available to such firms without going public, they have little incentive to do so until they reach the point in their lifecycle where they focus more on payouts than on raising capital.
L26|Waiting for the payday? The market for startups and the timing of entrepreneurial exit|Most technology startups are set up for exit through acquisition by large corporations. In choosing when to sell, startups face a tradeoff. Early acquisitions reduce execution errors but later acquisitions improve the likelihood of finding a better match because there are fewer buyers in the early market as early acquisitions require costly absorptive capacity. Moreover, the decision of buyers to invest in absorptive capacity is related to the decision of startups on the timing of the exit sale. In this paper, we build a model to capture this complexity and the related tradeoffs. We find that the early market for startups is inefficiently thin when the timing of exit is a strategic choice, i.e. startups have to commit whether to go early or late. Too few startups are sold early and too few buyers invest in absorptive capacity. Venture capital paradoxically aggravates the inefficiency. Instead, when the timing of exit is a tactical choice, i.e., startups can choose to go late after observing the early offers, there are too many early acquisitions and too much investment in absorptive capacity by incumbents.
L26|Early-Stage Business Formation : An Analysis of Applications for Employer Identification Numbers|This paper reports on the development and analysis of a newly constructed dataset on the early stages of business formation. The data are based on applications for Employer Identification Numbers (EINs) submitted in the United States, known as IRS Form SS-4 filings. The goal of the research is to develop high-frequency indicators of business formation at the national, state, and local levels. The analysis indicates that EIN applications provide forward-looking and very timely information on business formation. The signal of business formation provided by counts of applications is improved by using the characteristics of the applications to model the likelihood that applicants become employer businesses. The results also suggest that EIN applications are related to economic activity at the local level. For example, application activity is higher in counties that experienced higher employment growth since the end of the Great Recession, and application counts grew more rapidly in counties engaged in shale oil and gas extraction. Finally, the paper provides a description of new public use dataset, the “Business Formation Statistics (BFS),” that contains new data series on business applications and formation. The initial release of the BFS shows that the number of business applications in the 3rd quarter of 2017 that have relatively high likelihood of becoming job creators is still far below pre-Great Recession levels.
L26|Is there a role for patents in the financing of new innovative firms?|It is argued by many that one of the benefits of the patent system is that it creates a property right to invention that enables firms to obtain financing for the development of that invention. In this paper, I review the reasons why ownership of knowledge assets might be useful in attracting finance and then survey the empirical evidence on patent ownership and its impact on the ability of firms to obtain further financing at different stages of their development, both starting up and after becoming established. Studies that attempt to separately identify the role of patent rights and the underlying quality of the associated innovation(s) will be emphasized, although these are rather rare.
L26|Initial Coin Offerings and the Value of Crypto Tokens|This paper explores how entrepreneurs can use initial coin offerings — whereby they issue crypto tokens and commit to only accept those tokens as payment for their products — to fund venture start-up costs. We show that the ICO mechanism allows entrepreneurs to generate buyer competition for the token, giving it value. We also find that venture returns are independent of any committed growth in the supply of tokens over time, but that initial funds raised are maximized by setting that growth to zero to encourage saving by early participants. Nonetheless, since the value of the tokens depends on a single period of demand, the ability to raise funds is more limited than in traditional equity finance. Furthermore, a lack of commitment in monetary policy undermines saving behavior, hence the cost of using tokens to fund start-up costs is inflexibility in future capital raises. Crypto tokens can also facilitate coordination among stakeholders within digital ecosystems when network effects are present.
L26|Immigrant Entrepreneurship in America: Evidence from the Survey of Business Owners 2007 & 2012|We study immigrant entrepreneurship and firm ownership in 2007 and 2012 using the Survey of Business Owners (SBO). The survival and growth of immigrant-owned businesses over time relative to native-founded companies is evaluated by linking the 2007 SBO to the Longitudinal Business Database (LBD). We quantify the dependency of the United States as a whole, as well as individual states, on the contributions of immigrant entrepreneurs in terms of firm formation and job creation. We describe differences in the types of businesses started by immigrants and the quality of jobs created by their firms. First-generation immigrants create about 25% of new firms in the United States, but this share exceeds 40% in some states. In addition, Asian and Hispanic second-generation immigrants start about 6% of new firms. Immigrant-owned firms, on average, create fewer jobs than native-owned firms, but much of this is explained by the industry and geographic location of the firms. Immigrant-owned firms pay comparable wages, conditional on firm traits, to native-owned firms, but are less likely to offer benefits.
L26|How Redeployable are Patent Assets? Evidence from Failed Startups|Entrepreneurial firms are important sources of patented inventions. Yet little is known about what happens to patents “released” to the market when startups fail. This study provides a first look at the frequency and speed with which patents originating from failed startups are redeployed to new owners, and whether the value of patents is tied to the original venture and team. The evidence is based on 1,766 U.S. patents issued to 285 venture capital-backed startups that disband between 1988 and 2008 in three innovation-intensive sectors: medical devices, semiconductors, and software. At odds with the view that the resale market for patented inventions is illiquid, we find that most patents from these startups are sold, are sold quickly, and remain “alive” through renewal fee payment long after the startups are shuttered. The patents tend to be purchased by other operating companies in the same sector and retain value beyond the original venture and team. We do find, however, that the patents and people sometimes move jointly to a new organization following the dissolution of the original venture, and explore the conditions under which such co-movement is more likely. The study provides new evidence on a phenomenon—of active markets for buying and selling patents—underexplored in the literature and consequential for both entrepreneurial and established firms.
L26|Centers of Gravity: The Effect of Stable Shared Leadership in Top Management Teams on Firm Growth and Industry Evolution|We study the processes of firm growth in the evolution of the Japanese cotton spinning industry during 1883-1914 by integrating strategy and historical approaches and utilizing rich quantitative firm-level data and detailed business histories. The resultant conceptual model highlights growth outcomes of path dependencies as firms evolve across periods of single vs. shared leadership, establish stability in shared leadership, or experience repeated discord-induced TMT leader departures. While most firms do not experience smooth transitions to stable shared TMT leadership, a focus on value creation, in conjunction with talent recruitment and promotion, enabled some firms to achieve stable shared leadership in spite of discord-induced departures, engage in long term expansion, and emerge as “centers of gravity” for output and talent in the industry.
L26|Initial Coin Offerings: Financing Growth with Cryptocurrency Token Sales|Initial coin offerings (ICOs) have emerged as a new mechanism for entrepreneurial finance, with parallels to initial public offerings, venture capital, and pre-sale crowdfunding. In a sample of more than 1,500 ICOs that collectively raise $12.9 billion, we examine which issuer and ICO characteristics predict successful real outcomes (increasing issuer employment and avoiding enterprise failure). Success is associated with disclosure, credible commitment to the project, and quality signals. An instrumental variables analysis finds that ICO token exchange listing causes higher future employment, indicating that access to token liquidity has important real consequences for the enterprise.
L26|Online Syndicates and Startup Investment|Early crowdfunding platforms were based on a premise of disintermediation from professional investors, and relied on the ‘wisdom of the crowd’ to screen high quality projects. This becomes problematic when equity is involved, as the degree of asymmetric information between entrepreneurs looking for funding and the crowd is higher than in reward-based crowdfunding. As a result, platforms later experimented with incentives for professional investors to curate deals for crowd. We study how the introduction of such incentives influenced the allocation of capital on the leading US platform, finding that the changes led to a sizable 33% increase in capital flows to new regions. Professional investors use their reputation to vouch for high potential startups that would otherwise be misclassified because of information asymmetry. This allows them to arbitrage opportunities across regions and shift capital flows to startups that are 37% more likely to generate above median returns. At the same time, this ‘democratization effect’ relies on the presence of intermediaries with professional networks that bridge these new regions to California. Using a large-scale field experiment with over 26,000 investors we further unpack the frictions to online investment, and show that social networks constitute a key barrier to additional democratization, since they influence how the crowd evaluates intermediaries in the first place.
L26|Financing Ventures|The relationship between venture capital and growth is examined using an endogenous growth model incorporating dynamic contracts between entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. At each stage of financing, venture capitalists evaluate the viability of startups. If viable, VCs provide funding for the next stage. The success of a project depends on the amount of funding. The model is confronted with stylized facts about venture capital; viz., statistics by funding round concerning the success rate, failure rate, investment rate, equity shares, and the value of an IPO. Raising capital gains taxation reduces growth and welfare.
L26|Who Creates New Firms When Local Opportunities Arise?|New firm formation is a critical driver of job creation, and an important contributor to the responsiveness of the economy to aggregate shocks. In this paper we examine the characteristics of the individuals who become entrepreneurs when local opportunities arise due to an increase in local demand. We identify local demand shocks by linking fluctuations in global commodity prices to municipality level agricultural endowments in Brazil. We find that the firm creation response is almost entirely driven by young and skilled individuals, as measured by their level of experience, education, and past occupations involving creativity, problem-solving and managerial roles. In contrast, we find no such response within the same municipalities among skilled, yet older individuals, highlighting the importance of lifecycle considerations. These responsive individuals are younger and more skilled than the average entrepreneur in the population. The entrepreneurial response of young individuals is larger in municipalities with better access to finance, and in municipalities with more skilled human capital. These results highlight how the characteristics of the local population can have a significant impact on the entrepreneurial responsiveness of the economy.
L26|Selection into Entrepreneurship and Self-Employment|We study the effects of ability and liquidity constraints on entrepreneurship. We develop a three sector Roy model that differentiates between entrepreneurs and other self-employed to address puzzling gaps that have emerged between theory and evidence on entry into entrepreneurship. The model predicts—and the data confirm—that entrepreneurs are positively selected on highly-remunerated human capital, but other self-employed are negatively selected on those same abilities; entrepreneurs are positively selected on collateral, but other self-employed are not; and entrepreneurship is procyclical, but self-employment is countercyclical.
L26|From Population Growth to Firm Demographics: Implications for Concentration, Entrepreneurship and the Labor Share|The US economy has undergone a number of puzzling changes in recent decades. Large firms now account for a greater share of economic activity, new firms are being created at a slower rate, and workers are getting paid a smaller share of GDP. This paper shows that changes in population growth provide a unified quantitative explanation for these long-term changes. The mechanism goes through firm entry rates. A decrease in population growth lowers firm entry rates, shifting the firm-age distribution towards older firms. Heterogeneity across firm age groups combined with an aging firm distribution replicates the observed trends. Micro data show that an aging firm distribution fully explains i) the concentration of employment in large firms, ii) and trends in average firm size and exit rates, key determinants of the firm entry rate. An aging firm distribution also explains the decline in labor’s share of GDP. In our model, older firms have lower labor shares because of lower overhead labor to employment ratios. Consistent with our mechanism, we find that the ratio of nonproduction workers to total employment has declined in the US.
