L30|The effect of government contracting with faith-based health care providers in Malawi|We study the impact of contracting-out of maternal health care by the government of Malawi to providers from the Christian Health Association of Malawi (CHAM) in the form of Service Level Agreements (SLAs). Under a SLA, a CHAM facility provides agreed maternal and newborn services free-of-charge to patients, and is reimbursed on a fixed price per service. We merge data on health facilities in Malawi with pregnancy histories from the 2010 Malawi Demographic and Health Survey, and exploit the staggered implementation of SLAs across facilities. Using difference-in-differences, we estimate the differential effects on pregnancy- related health care utilisation to mothers residing near and far from facilities with a SLA over time. Our findings show that SLAs reduced home births and increased skilled deliveries at CHAM hospitals. We observe greater provision of prenatal care services at CHAM health centres but no overall increase in the number of prenatal care visits. We find evidence of a reduction in certain components of prenatal care.
L30|De l’intérêt de créer un nouveau concept: la lucrativité limitée|The Interest in Creating a New Legal Concept: Limited Lucrativity The notion of non-profit is one of the foundations of the social economy. However, this reality is never accepted as a structuring criterion in Union law. Based on an analysis of European Union law rules and the case law of the European Court of Justice (ECJ), the purpose of this article is first to show that the concept of non-profitmaking is not operational to distinguish profit-making enterprises from social economy enterprises. On this basis, the second question will be to determine what can be done to promote a better legal recognition of the social economy and its particularities in the European system. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union defines two categories of organisations: on the one hand, those organisations that do not seek profit and, on the other hand, civil or commercial law companies, which include cooperative companies. Under European Union law, certain associations, as well as all mutuals and cooperatives, are grouped together with profit-making companies. Wheter an entity is described, under its national law, as a non-profit or for-profit entity never has any beary on the application of Union’s law. It is therefore difficult to find examples in positive law where the absence of profit is valued per se and could be considered in the application of internal market and competition legislation. However, this reality has an impact on the way economic activity is carried out. Social economy enterprises therefore do not find their place in the current legal 6 frameworks. They are positioned in the same competitive perimeter as for-profit companies. How can the singularity of social economy enterprises in terms of limited profit distribution be reflected in the European Union laws? According to the binary classification currently used, neither their complete assimilation into the for-profit category nor their classification as non-profit enterprises reflect what social economy enterprises are and their needs. The first step of a useful response was taken by the ECJ in a decision concerning cooperatives. The ongoing work of the European Commission and the European Parliament to promote the concept of social enterprise in European Union law also offers interesting avenues for reflection. To go even further, we propose to introduce into EU law the notion of limited lucrativity, which would define all organisations (sometimes also called “not-for-profit entities”) which are likely to make profits but which are not intended to distribute them to their owners because their final purpose is different. This European concept would be operational because it could lead to the application of specific rules, for example on competition, public procurement or taxation. In any case, the aim would be to restore the conditions for free and undistorted competition with profit-making companies that are not subject to the same constraints on access to capital. The introduction of this concept into Union law would lead to better political recognition and legal translation at European level of one of the strong characteristics of social economy enterprises.
L30|Housing cooperatives are a growing presence in Australiaâ€™s housing system, providing a diversity of housing forms to a variety of household types across the income spectrum, typically serving low- and moderate-income households. International evidence shows that housing cooperatives can provide a range of housing from very low price points through to market rate in both non-urban and urban contexts. The research presented in this report reviewed a selection of international cooperative housing sectors in addition to the Australian context, with the aims of compiling current evidence for the social and financial benefits of housing cooperatives, to develop a framework to assess this in Australia; and to identify preliminary issues regarding the growth and diversification of housing cooperatives in Australia. Australian and international evidence for the benefits of housing cooperatives focuses on seven primary areas; greater levels of social capital, greater housing security and quality, health and wellbeing, skills acquisition, reduced costs, broader economic and development outcomes. Based on the international review, five factors can be seen to help the growth of cooperative housing in addition to supportive policy and/or public funding. Core amongst these are a stable asset base if the State itself is not the developer, access to appropriate finance, and familiarity and acceptance in the market. The growth and diversification of Australiaâ€™s cooperative housing sector requires assessment of its legislative and funding environment. Factors for consideration are: 1. Individual project viability; 2. Access to property title; 3. Appropriate development finance and resident mortgage mechanisms; 4. Policy support; 5. Appropriate regulation|No abstract is available for this item.
L30|Enabling Civil Society: Select survey findings|Civil society and civil society organisations (CSOs) are important to development co-operation, both as implementing partners for members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC), and as development actors in their own right. Agenda 2030 is clear on the necessity of mobilising CSOs to implement, and uphold accountability for, the Sustainable Development Goals. The Global Partnership for Effective Development Co operation has committed to ensuring effectiveness in relation to CSOs in development co-operation, inclusive of the provision of CSO enabling environments.Recognising that how DAC members work with CSOs is part of CSO enabling environments, in 2017 the OECD Development Co-operation Directorate (DCD) established a work stream on civil society to provide guidance on DAC member support for civil society and a strategy for engaging with civil society. Under the work stream, a study on how DAC members work with CSOs was launched to identify areas of DAC member support to and engagement with CSOs for which guidance is needed. This paper introduces a selection of key findings and recommendations from two 2018-2019 surveys complemented with DAC statistical data.The paper points to evidence of member effort to work with CSOs in ways that enable CSOs to maximise their contribution to development. However, evidence also shows that members need to continuously examine their practices to ensure coherence between objectives and the many advantages that CSOs are seen to bring to development, and the members’ means of support to and engagement with CSOs.
L30|Social Responsibility of Recycling|Recycling is the process of making or manufacturing new products from a product that has originally served its purpose. If these used products are disposed of in an appropriate, environmentally friendly way, the process of recycling has been set in motion. There is some debate over whether recycling is economically efficient. Municipalities often see fiscal benefits from implementing recycling programs, largely due to the reduced landfill costs. Fiscal efficiency is separate from economic efficiency. Economic analysis of recycling includes what economists call externalities, which are unpriced costs and benefits that accrue to individuals outside of private transactions.
L30|Capacity choice in an international mixed triopoly|This paper considers a mixed triopoly model where a state-owned firm, a domestic labor-managed firm and a foreign capitalist firm are allowed to pre-install capacity as a strategic commitment device. First, each firm simultaneously and independently chooses its capacity level. None of the firms can reduce or dispose of capacity. Second, each firm simultaneously and independently chooses its output level. The paper shows that there is an equilibrium solution where only the domestic labor-managed firm pre-installs excess capacity as a strategic commitment device.
L30|To join or not to join? The impact of social interactions on local participation decisions|This paper investigates how social interactions impact the decision to participate in one’s local environment. Existing work often reports correlations between social interactions and local participation, but it is unclear what the causal direction of this relationship is. A key contribution of this paper is that we are able to estimate the causal effect of social interactions on the decision to participate by systematically varying social attributes in a choice experiment. Based on a large-scale survey in one Dutch municipality we analyze 3894 choice observations of 435 respondents. Our sample includes respondents who currently participate and respondents who do not. We find that at the recruitment stage being asked by a friend or acquaintance significantly increases the chances to volunteer. We also find significant homophily effects in terms of age as well as for the characteristics of the group already participating. Financial incentives have significant negative impacts on the decision to participate.
L30|Cooperative organizations and members’ role: A new perspective|The theoretical structure and management of a cooperative organization have not changed much during the last decades. Most importantly, the role of the members’ council in corporate governance remains neglected in the contemporary cooperative literature. In this paper, we offer a new perspective on how cooperative organizations can cope with future challenges by re-establishing the role of the members’ council and the members in cooperative organizations
L30|Stackelberg Mixed Triopoly Games with State-Owned, Labour-Managed and Capitalist Firms|This paper investigates three sequential-move games with a capitalist firm, a labour-managed firm and a state-owned firm. The first game is as follows. In stage one, the capitalist firm chooses its output level. In stage two, the other firms choose their output levels simultaneously and independently. In stage three, the market opens and all firms sell their outputs. The structures of the second and third games are nearly identical and differ only in order in which the firms choose output levels in the first two stages. The paper discusses the equilibrium outcomes of the three sequential-move games.
L30|Inventory Holding and a Mixed Duopoly with a Foreign Joint-Stock Firm|This paper investigates a mixed duopoly model in which there is a state-owned firm competing with a foreign joint-stock firm. The following situation is considered. In the first period, each firm non-cooperatively decides how many it sells in the current market. In addition, each firm can hold inventory for the second-period market. By holding large inventory, a firm may be able to commit to large sales in the next period. In the second period, each firm non-cooperatively chooses its second-period output. At the end of the second period, each firm sells its first-period inventory and its second-period output and holds no inventory. The paper traces out the firms’ reaction functions in the mixed duopoly model.
L30|Is it possible for universities to create spiritual workplaces?|The globalized world of work poses significant challenges to universities ? ranging from increased digitalisation and virtualization, to greater diversity in student numbers, larger student intakes and the need for universities to continuously engage with business, industry and other external stakeholders. Contemporary universities have also developed a distinct managerial nature (managerilaism) which means they are increasingly managed like private sector organisations. This is in contrast to the collegial structures that prevailed in universities in previous generations. The shift from collegiality to managerilaism has implications for academics ? specifically related to autonomy, moral, motivation and commitment. Based on the Communities of Practice as theoretical framework the paper proposes an emphasis on workplace spirituality as a means to compensate for the erosion of collegiality. It further provides suggestions to university management on how to create a spiritual workplace especially for academic staff.
L30|Empirical models of firms and industries|We review important developments in empirical industrial organization (IO) over the last three decades. The paper is organized around six topics: collusion, demand, productivity, industry dynamics, interfirm contracts and auctions. We present models that are workhorses in empirical IO and describe applications. For each topic, we discuss at least one empirical application using Canadian data.
L30|"Supportare la ricerca e l’innovazione in sanità tramite i modelli organizzativi: il caso dell’Azienda Ospedaliera “SS. Antonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo” di Alessandria/Supporting research and innovation in health by organizational models: the case study of the General Hospital ""SS. Antonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo"" of Alessandria"|"Research and innovation is broadly recognized as a key factor to contain public expenditure and to enhance human resources. However, there are not models to support this key activity. In other words, there are not organizational models which can support physicians’ research activity. Obviously, considering the current age of austerity, this model becomes essential to be competitive on the research market. This paper proposes the case study of the General Hospital ""SS. Antonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo"" of Alessandria, and the decision of adopting a structure aimed at supporting and coordinating scientific research and innovation. An organizational model which might be adopted by other hospitals and/or medical centers."
L30|Entry, donor market size, and competitive conduct among nonprofit firms|This paper empirically characterizes competitive behavior among charitable nonprofits where prices and output are difficult to observe. Using a model tailored to donative nonprofits and an empirical methodology that exploits cross-sectional variation in market size and various measurable demographic and cost characteristics applicable for nonprofits, this paper estimates the threshold number of potential donors required for nonprofit economic viability in five major charitable sectors. We find that our sample markets generally reach competitive levels once five or more nonprofits in a given nonprofit sector are observed. The paper offers several possible interpretations of these findings and directions for future research.
L30|Public–private partnerships for the provision of public goods: Theory and an application to NGOs|When will a public good or service be provided by the government, when will it be provided by a NGO, and when will we see a private–public partnership? This paper provides a model where a typical public good requires different inputs which raises the possibility of partnerships to exploit comparative advantages of different parties. But hold-up problems due to contractual incompleteness in specifying tasks discourage separation of ownership and management. The fact that public goods have the property of non-rivalry and non-excludability and that NGOs tend to be non-profits drives our key results. We apply the framework to NGOs in developing countries which, in the last few decades, have been increasingly involved in various capacities in the provision of a wide range of public goods and services.
L30|Conditional generosity and uncertain income: Evidence from five experiments|We study how other-regarding behavior extends to environments with income uncertainty and conditional commitments. Should fundraisers ask a banker to donate “if he earns a bonus” or wait and ask after the bonus is known? Standard EU theory predicts these are equivalent; loss-aversion and signaling models predict a larger commitment before the bonus is known; theories of affect predict the reverse. In five experiments incorporating lab and field elements (N=1363), we solicited charitable donations from lottery winnings worth between $10 and $30, varying the conditionality of donations between participants. While the results suggest some heterogeneity across experimental contexts and demographic groups, in each experiment conditional donations (“if you win”) were higher than ex-post donations. Pooling across experiments, this is strongly statistically significant; we find a 23% greater likelihood of donating and a 25% larger average donation commitment in the Before treatment. Our findings add to our understanding of pro-social behavior and have implications for charitable fundraising, for effective altruism giving pledges, and for experimental methodology.
L30|Market power and price discrimination in the US market for higher education|We estimate an equilibrium model of private and state college competition that generates realistic pricing patterns for private colleges using a large national data set from the National Postsecondary Student Aid Study (NPSAS). Our analysis distinguishes between tuition variation that reflects efficient pricing to students who generate beneficial peer externalities and variation that reflects arguably inefficient exercise of market power. Our findings indicate substantial exercise of market power and, importantly, sizable variation in this power along the college quality hierarchy and among students with different characteristics. Finally, we conduct policy analysis to examine the consequences of increased availability of quality public colleges in a state.
L30|The sequencing of gift exchange: A field trial|There is now an extensive literature on “gift exchange” showing that when principals and agents can trade “gifts” (rewards that should not emerge in a competitive equilibrium), exchange becomes more efficient. However, it is not obvious how gift exchange should be organized if the principal's goal is to increase the performance of a reciprocal agent. Specifically, who should make the first gift, the principal or the agent? Although both orderings, by themselves, have been hypothesized and examined in theory and experiments, the literature is largely silent on the comparison. I report the results of a field experiment that compares the principal-first and agent-first orderings to each other and a gift-less control. Consistent with the previous experimental literature, I find that principal-first, gifts do increase agent performance. Unlike the literature, however, I find that agent-first, gifts are also effective. Comparing the two, I see that the agent-first ordering works best, is clearly cheaper to implement and differences appear on both the extensive and intensive margins.
L30|Identity, Incentives, and Their Dynamics in the Production of Publicly Provided Goods|This paper aims to clarify the role of government provision of valuable goods and services when (i) workers may be intrinsically motivated to exert effort and (ii) there are constraints on how production occurs. We analyze the optimal organization of production in a model where agents' preferences have a behavioral component and where some decisions are made by a central authority and others are made at a lower, decentralized level. In this framework we show that it may be optimal for the central authority to choose a relatively inefficient monitoring technology and to reduce monetary incentives. The mechanism driving this result is related to a general-equilibrium effect as mediated by the public-administration budget constraint and the firm's own composition of workers.
L30|Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization, Volume II: Applications. An Introduction|We introduce here the second volume of the Handbook of Game Theory and Industrial Organization, by L. C. Corchón and M. A. Marini (ed.), Edward Elgar, Cheltenam, UK and Northampton, MA, describing its main aim and its basic structure.
L30|Trends and Features of Research on Foreign Aid: A Literature Review|This paper reviews the economics literature on foreign aid. Aid supporters tend to emphasize results, while its detractors tend to highlight the incentives it provides (although they may still acknowledge some of aid’s positive results, particularly on public health). Like the modes to deliver it, research on foreign aid has evolved over the years. From the traditional aid-growth regressions research has refocused towards micro issues, including institutional inefficiencies or sector-specific bottlenecks. This tendency is positive, in so far as it can lead to useful policy advice that improves the way aid is given. Great gaps in knowledge remain, though. Notably, the aid market is poorly understood in aspects such as donors’ interaction with the recipient government or donors’ coordination. In terms of political economy, recipient countries’ decision making with regards to aid fungibility or the incentives provided by new types of aid (notably China’s) have been largely unexplored. Moreover, the types of public goods that improve households’ living standards are little understood. The scarcity of research on these questions is greatly due to lack of data – or even data opacity; if aid is to be better understood and improved, far greater efforts must be made in terms of collecting and sharing data.
L30|Managing Dynamic Capabilities of Cities? From a Firm-based towards an Issue-based View of Dynamic Capabilities|The dynamic capability view (DCV) primarily addresses the question of how single firms are dealing with changing environments. In this study we explore if and how a multi-actor constellation can develop dynamic capabilities and how they come about against the backdrop of managing cities. Based on an explorative, qualitative research design, we investigate implications of the DCV for managing cities. Our single case study is set in the southwestern German city of Kaiserslautern and our results suggest that to comprehend how cities are managed in light of the DCV, existing conceptions should be refined from a firm-centered towards an issue-centered understanding, understood for our purposes as occasions where multiple actors collaborate on a temporary basis regarding a relevant and resource intensive phenomenon.
L30|Social Enterprise in Italy: Typology, Diffusion and Characteristics|Italian social enterprises are not a new topic in literature. Several aspects e.g. theoretical frameworks, quality of work and job satisfaction, networking strategies, and the impact of the recent financial crisis, have been studied from many different perspectives in the last twenty years. Most of these contributions focus in particular on social cooperatives, as the most representative legal form of social enterprise in Italy. Therefore, the idea that has been spreading in literature and among scholars is that social cooperatives are the only example of social enterprise existing in Italy. Conversely, in recent years, new forms of non-profit organizations, that were traditionally based on volunteer and donor support, have started to operate as social enterprises, employing people and running commercial activities. This article, which is one of a very few works that explore this topic, is intended to answer the following research questions: �How many different types of SEs are there in Italy?�; �How many SEs of each type are there?�; �In what ways and to what extent do they differ from each other?�.
L30|Are the risks of being creative manageable? The case of public research in Hard Science|This study analyses the risk associated to creative research in the field of Hard Science. The theoretical framework in which the research question has been developed affirms that researchers’ creativity and their risk aversion are negatively correlated. In the analysis of two case study, we found that many of the sources of the different risks perceived by researchers are generated by a misfit between scientists’ goals and mission of the organization in which they operate. In this research, we found that scientists show aversion for a great variety of risks, which mainly change according to the research field, to the nature of the research (basic vs applied), to the composition of the research team and to the type of research activities (experimental vs theoretical). This paper develops a categorization of the observed risks and proposes the exploitation of some resources in order to decrease the impacts of the risks on researchers’ creativity.
L30|From measuring the past to strategically framing challenges in the healthcare sector. The role of the balance scorecard|Raising challenges and reducing resources in the healthcare sector, have put performance management center stage. Recent debate has, on the one hand, highlighted the negative effects of this increasingly diffuse management approach, on the other hand, more emphasis has been placed on the need to move from performance measurement to performance management and to better integrate it with strategic planning. From this stand point a body of studies focused on the replacement of traditional accounting system by multidimensional frameworks and more specifically by the Balance scorecard. The paper investigates the role of balance scorecard in the healthcare sector and how this multidimensional framework might help to effectively link strategy and performance management, for a more comprehensive and strategic management of healthcare organizations in a fast moving environment. The paper provides empirical evidence, through a case study, on the role that a multidimensional approach such as the one delivered by the Balance scorecard can have to help organization and managers to move from measuring the past to strategically framing challenges.
L30|How Much Is That Star in the Window? Professorial Salaries and Research Performance in UK Universities|Using individual level data on the salary of all UK university professors, matched to results on the performance of academic departments from the 2014 Research Excellence Framework, we study the relationship between academic salaries and research performance. The UK higher education sector is particularly interesting because professorial salaries are unregulated and the outcome of the official research evaluation is a key financial concern of universities. To frame our analysis, we present a simple model of university pay determination, which shows that pay level and pay inequality in a department are positively related to performance. Our empirical results confirm these theoretical predictions; we also find that the pay-performance relationship is weaker for the more established and better paying universities. Our findings are also consistent with the idea that higher salaries have been used by departments to recruit academics more likely to improve their performance.
L30|Evaluation Of The Effectiveness Of Thetelecommunication Company'S Cluster Management|Effective management of the cluster in telecommunication company requires the system of performance indicators. The composition of these indicators is determined by the criterion of efficiency, specificity of activity of the company and features of its external and internal environment. The authors developed a balanced scorecard to evaluate the efficiency of enterprise management. It is adapted to the specificities of small communications companies. Testing of the system at the Russian enterprises reaffirmed its adequacy. There is recommendation on the use of the developed system in the practice of management.
L30|Corruption and Incompetence in Public Procurement|We study a game where inefficiencies in public procurement managed by politicians comefrom two sources: corruption (moral hazard) and incompetence (adverse selection). We characterizethe respective impact of judicial and accounting courts on the cost effectiveness ofprocurement and the level of corruption. Although improving the quality of both courts mattersas a direct deterrent of corruption, it may also indirectly decrease the quality of the poolof politicians and hence deteriorates the cost efficiency of procurement.
L30|Do tax incentives affect charitable contributions? Evidence from public charities' reported revenues|This paper estimates the effect of the charitable contribution tax deduction on charities' donation revenue from charities' tax filings. A one percent increase in the tax cost of giving causes charitable receipts to fall by about four percent, an effect three times larger the consensus in the literature. Further analysis reveals substantial heterogeneity in the tax response by subsector: health care and home care are more tax-sensitive than other charities, while higher education and arts are less tax-sensitive. The results are consistent with substantial tax response heterogeneity within the sample and between sampled and unsampled charities, implying that the mean tax elasticity of charitable contributions is a poor predictor of tax incentive effects for individual charities.
L30|Strategic managerial delegation and industrial policy competition in vertically-related markets|In a successive duopoly in which all firms are private except the home upstream SOE, we show that if the SOE is less efficient than its foreign rival, the home managerial delegation policy will force the SOE to price below marginal cost; otherwise, it will resort to marginal cost pricing to force out its rival. Both upstream firms will not be pure profit maximizers and will compete in profit and sales. The home government will subsidize its downstream firm if the market is large or the foreign rival's output is small. The foreign government will always subsidize its downstream firm.
L30|Section 6. Institutional Changes|According to the Federal Property Register, the movement, over the period 2013–2015, of the number of organizations registered as holders of ownership rights and economic societies with state stakes appears to be as follows
L30|Раздел 6. Институциональные Изменения|Основными событиями минувшего года в рамках рассматриваемой проблематики стали старт второй трехлетней приватизационной программы на 2014–2016 гг., утверждение новой государственной программы по управлению федеральным имуществом до 2018 г., возврат под контроль государства компании «Башнефть» по судебным основаниям, продолжение активного строительства интегрированных структур в оборонной промышленности и смежных отраслях, отсутствие значимых сделок на рынке корпоративного контроля с участием госкомпаний, а также расширение инструментария управления субъектами государственного сектора экономики на уровне типовых документов прикладного характера.
L30|Compensation and Intrinsic Motivation in Nonprofit and For-Profit Organizations|We develop a theoretical model in which for-profit and nonprofit employers compete to hire a worker who derives intrinsic motivation from the nonprofit’s social mission. We also use a unique data set of California establishments to provide new evidence on sectoral differences in pay and HRM systems, finding a greater incidence of training and benefits in nonprofits, lower wages (with the wage gap increasing in skill level), and less incentive pay than in for-profits. The model is used to interpret both this new evidence and other empirical results from the literature, including the inconclusive sign of the FP-NP wage differential.
L30|Improving the peer review process: a proposed market system|Abstract The current peer review system suffers from two key problems: promotion of an in-crowd whose methods, opinions and innovations it protects; and failure to represent the opinions and interests of non-peer clients. As a result, whole disciplines orient themselves toward navel-gazing research questions of little import to society or even science as a whole, and new methods and concepts must be unusually persuasive to break through. We thus suggest a more efficient and integrity-preserving system based on an open two-sided market in which buyers and sellers of peer review services would both be subject to a set of recursive quality indicators. We lay out key features we think would be important to reduce the opportunities for gaming and that improve the signals about the societal value of a contribution. Our suggestions include a level of reward offered by the author of a paper to get refereed and a level of desired quality of the referee. They include randomly selecting from a group of referees that express a willingness to accept the offered contract. They include the possibility that papers are put up by non-authors for peer-review for assessment on different criteria, such as societal relevance. And they finally include the possibility that referee reports themselves become refereed by other referees. What we envisage is that such an open market in which all elements are subject to peer review will over time lead to specialized reviewers in different criteria, and more useful signals about the nature and quality of any individual piece of work. Our incentivized market set-up would both professionalize the peer review process and make it completely transparent, an innovation long overdue.
L30|Tracing the Emergence of Broadening Marketing Proposition: A Thorny Path|The broadening marketing concept was introduced in 1969 and was initially well-received by marketing scholars. However, during the subsequent four decades, the concept has been increasingly questioned and has divided marketing scholars in to two opposing camps. This paper traces the evolution of the broadening marketing proposition and critically examines the arguments put forward against the broadening proposition.
L30|Pluralism without Privilege? Corps Intermédiaires , Civil Society, and the Art of Association|No abstract is available for this item.
L30|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of state-owned companies and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 of the largest Russian companies, we estimated direct and indirect state participation as a percentage of shareholdings for direct and indirect federal property during the time period of 2006–2014. We used two methods to estimate the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with OECD and Rosstat statistics for a broader sample of Russian companies owned by the public sector. This study revealed a decline in SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market and a slight increase in their share of total revenues and employment. The results indicated that public SOEs demonstrated significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies had a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over a 9-year period, we observed that this gap narrowed. This may be due to conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy that result in certain advantages for SOEs in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control experienced a rapid growth in revenue and productivity compared to other firms. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
L30|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of companies with state participation and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 largest companies we have estimated direct and indirect state participation as percentage of shareholdings which are in direct and indirect federal property in 2006—2014. We have used two methods for estimating the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with those of OECD and Rosstat statistics for the broader sample of Russian companies in the public sector. This article reveals the decline of SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market as well as a slight increase of their share in total revenue and employment. The results show that public SOEs, demonstrate significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies have a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over 9-year period we observed a reduction of this gap. This may be due to the fact that in conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy SOEs had certain advantages in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control had a rapid growth in revenue and productivity in comparison with the rest of them. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
L30|How Much Is That Star in the Window? Professorial Salaries and Research Performance in UK Universities|We study the relationship between academic salaries and research performance. To this end, we use individual level data on the salary of all UK university professors, matched to results on the performance of academic departments from the 2014 government evaluation of research. The UK higher education sector is particularly interesting because professorial salaries are unregulated and the outcome of the official research evaluation of universities is one of their key financial and academic concerns. We first present a simple model of university pay determination, which shows that pay level and pay inequality in a department are positively related to performance. Our empirical results confirm these theoretical predictions; we also find that the pay-performance relationship is weaker for the more established and better paying universities. Our findings are also consistent with the idea that higher salaries have been used by departments to recruit academics more likely to improve their performance.
L30|A simple model for cash flow management in nonprofits|Cash flow management is one of the most significant challenges that face nonprofit organizations. A shortage is cash, even if it's temporary, is a major risk factor for the organization. Nevertheless the standard method for cash flow management – a cash flow projection - does not produce satisfactory results for nonprofits. The weak point of the cash flow projection method is that it ignores the inherent unpredictability of the income stream. This is a typical characteristic of the nonprofits sector, due to its reliance on income stream from donations and grants. In this article I present a simple simulation model that overcomes this problem. The simulation model connects between the cash flow and the accounting data. It enables the organization to assess its cash flow risk, and to analyze different scenarios that can eliminate the risk. The model was tested in several nonprofit organizations, and the article presents its implementation in one of them.
L30|Discussion about Evaluation of Private Non-profit Success|The aim of the consultation paper is to discuss criteria and success factors of non-profit organizations from the perspective of their stakeholders. Literature review is based on the research of more than fifty recently published scientific papers from high quality scientific journals. The purpose of this paper is the formulation of possible criteria and success factors for defining the research hypothesis and design of a questionnaire within the authors research project which focuses on the Czech non-profit sector. The literature review shows three different but interrelated groups of success indicators of non-profit organizations: i) financial indicators, ii) mission accomplishment towards external stakeholders (public benefit) and iii) satisfaction of internal stakeholders (management, staff, and volunteers). Review also reveals new potential determinant of success - a level of corporate culture.
L30|HRM responses to ageing societies in Germany and Japan: Contexts for comparison|This brief introductory discussion develops contexts within which to compare human resource management (HRM) responses to ageing societies in Japan and Germany. Here we define key concepts that occur throughout this Special Issue. While giving due attention to the historical and current contexts for emerging challenges to HRM policy-makers, practitioners and researchers posed by ageing societies in Germany and Japan, we propose that the relevant contexts for interpreting these challenges are essentially global, national, and regional in nature. In conclusion we present a brief overview of the contributions to this Management Review Special Issue.
L30|Workplace accommodation for older teachers in Japan and Germany: The role of the institutional context in supporting late career options for teachers with ill health|Owing to the ageing of their respective populations, policy-makers in Japan and Germany are challenged to extend the working life of individual employees. However, conditions of physical and mental ill health tend to increase with old age, leading to disabilities that affect whether and how individuals can remain active in the labour market. Workplace accommodation is a means to enable disabled individuals to remain productively employed. Drawing on qualitative interview data, this discussion explores how institutions such as School Authorities in Japan and Germany use workplace accommodation to support teachers with physical and mental disabilities. Teachers are a white-collar profession strongly affected by ill health, especially burnout. The discussion furthermore explores how such workplace accommodation measures influence older teachers´ career expectations and career outcomes, including thoughts about (early) retirement. It finds that even though the institutional contexts in Japan and Germany are rather similar, career options and expectations vary, though with similar (negative) outcomes for national strategies towards the extension of working lives.
L30|The Role of Nongovernmental Organizations in the Public Decision Making Process|The purpose of this paper is to analyse the role of NGOs in the public decision-making process in European countries as well as Romania and the extent to which their involvement passes beyond the formal stage. The first part of the paper describes the current relationship between NGOs and government and how it influences the public decision-making process in Romania. The second part of the paper comparatively analyzes the experience of some European countries regarding NGOs involvement in the public decision making process and identifies the theoretical and practical aspects that can be implemented in Romania. The end of the paper presents the final conclusions on the subject under discussion.
L30|The qualia experience of museum visitors---A case study of National Museum of History, Taiwan|Along with the trend of experience economy, visitors? affective experiences have been greatly emphasized. The deepest affective experience is ?qualia?, which is defined as a profoundly touching feeling with happiness and durable memory. Qualia experience, which add extra values to products and brands, have been a heated issue in many areas, especially in cultural and creative industry as well as in tourism industry. Although affective inspiration is the most essential value of museums, qualia experience is the concept rarely applied to the field of museum visitor study. Therefore, this paper aims to explore the museum visitors? qualia experience, concerning how do visitors feel, rather than what do they think or have learned. The study adopts National Museum of History, Taiwan, as a case study, in order to fully investigate visitors? qualia experience in the context of the museum. National Museum of History has the history of more than sixty years and is one of the most popular museums in Taiwan. 10 museum visitors and 11 museum volunteers have been interviewed along with the data collection of field observation, photos and the museum documents. The results of the study reveal six heartfelt dimensions including 12 touching factors of triggering visitors? feelings. Suggestions are also made regarding how to improve museum visitors? affective experience. The contributions of this study are twofold. In theory, this study proposes the ideas of qualia experience may shed new light on the discussion of museum visitors study. In practice, the results of the paper suggest museums how to enrich and enhance visitors? qualia experience in the future
L30|Social Entrepreneurship Research – Challenges, Explanations and Suggestions for the Field Development (Przedsiebiorczosc spoleczna – wyzwania, przyczyny i sugestie dla obszaru badawczego)|Employing critical review of the key literature in the area of entrepreneurship and management studies on social entrepreneurship, this paper aims to outline the current challenges this field is facing, also introducing related explanations and suggesting required changes. The field of social entrepreneurship research is at its nascent stage, determined by ongoing definitional debates and low legitimacy in the scholarship, leading to limited theory development. The key challenge lies in the lack of consistent theory and weak research infrastructure. What lies behind these challenges is the complexity and diversity of the social entrepreneurship phenomenon and academic discourses. There are significant institutional and economic differences between individual countries and regions, which in the end constitute the complexity of the phenomenon. The related definitional debate generates challenges in developing the research infrastructure, which is strengthened by functionalist approach. At the same time, there is a strong need to employ the contribution of other, affiliated disciplines, not limited to entrepreneurship and management, feeding on sociology, anthropology, political science, economics. Their conceptual framework, research methods, particularly derived from sociology, may serve as a useful framework for the field development. This may generate scholarly interest in moving towards other research paradigms, employing subjectivist approaches, or assuming radical change in the society. Moving beyond dominant functionalist paradigm may give voice to initiatives and ventures in social entrepreneurship that have so far been marginalized in research. This, in result, could develop social entrepreneurship research field.
L30|An Exploration of Nonprofit Hospital Executive Compensation Abstract:|No abstract is available for this item.
L30|Do Tax Credits Increase Charitable Giving? Evidence from Arizona and Iowa|The majority of U.S. states have implemented tax credits that encourage donating to specific classes of nonprofits. However, the effect on the nonprofits themselves is unknown. This paper estimates the causal effect of two of the costliest programs. Arizona's Working Poor Tax Credit (WPTC) and the Endow Iowa Tax Credit (Endow Iowa) provide stark contrast for analysis. The WPTC, the largest tax credit for charitable giving in terms of tax expenditure, provides a broadly targeted 100 percent credit with a cap of $200 per person. Endow Iowa provides a sharply targeted 25 percent credit with a cap of $300,000 per tax-payer. A model of donor budget constraints and preferences suggests that Endow Iowa has greater potential to induce large increases in contributions to its targeted charities than does the WPTC. Using synthetic control methods to construct counterfactuals, I estimate a 125 percent increase in contributions to community foundations in Iowa. In contrast, I find no evidence that the WPTC increased contributions to the targeted Arizona nonprofits. Evidence suggests that the growth in contribution levels in Iowa included increases in both the number of community foundations and the level of contributions per foundation.
L30|La network governance del Circuito teatrale regionale. Una prospettiva di rete per lo sviluppo dello spettacolo dal vivo in Puglia. Un primo studio sui Teatri Abitati|This paper aims to investigate a theoretical model about network governance. The object of study is the experience of performing arts into Puglia Region. The importance of analyzing the network is to comprise the characteristics of the latter and methods of interaction and management within forms public-private partnership and to understand the impact of the network in terms of performance for those involved. It is a case study with exploratory purposes. It is a first analysis to be developed later, making it a multiple case study. Regarding the latter, the study aims to contribute with this, and future developments to other cases, to the literature in terms of network performance assessment, still not analyzed. The network appears to have some flexible in the face of the various changes of scenery, which is why it has developed into complex areas as it may be cultural sector and in specific the sector of performing arts.
L30|Competition In Public School Districts: Charter School Entry, Student Sorting, And School Input Determination|This article develops and estimates an equilibrium model of charter school entry, school input choices, and student school choices. The structural model renders a comprehensive and internally consistent picture of treatment effects when there may be general equilibrium effects of school competition. Simulations indicate that the mean effect of charter schools on attendant students is positive and varies widely across locations. The mean spillover effect on public school students is small but positive. Lifting caps on charter schools would more than double entry but reduce gains for attendant students.
L30|Koordination, Lernen und Innovation zur Entwicklung peripherer ländlicher Regionen: Phase II der Begleitforschung zum Modellvorhaben LandZukunft|Das Bundesministerium für Ernährung und Landwirtschaft suchte mit seinem Modellvorhaben LandZukunft von 2012 bis 2014 nach neuen Wegen, um anhaltende sozioökonomische Probleme in peripheren ländlichen Regionen zu lösen. Dazu sollten das aus der Managementlehre bekannte Instrument des Steuerns über Ziele, neue Finanzierungsinstrumente wie Mikrokredite und die Beteiligung neuer 'unternehmerischer Menschen' in vier Modellregionen erprobt werden. Die Begleitforschung untersuchte in ihrer zweiten Phase von 2014 bis 2015, inwiefern das Modellvorhaben zum Lernen und Kapazitätsaufbau in den teilnehmenden Regionen beigetragen hat sowie neue und dauerhafte Lösungen für die Herausforderungen peripherer Regionen anstoßen konnte. Darüber hinaus wurde das Steuern über Ziele hinsichtlich seines Potentials zur Koordination der ländlichen Entwicklung im politischen Mehrebenensystem untersucht. Der thematische Fokus der Begleitforschung jenseits dieser Querschnittsthemen ergab sich aus den unterschiedlichen Aktivitäten der Modellregionen: die Stärkung lokaler Bildungslandschaften, die touristische Destinationsentwicklung, die Entwicklung neuer Finanzierungsangebote, Finanzierung und Strategien sozialen Unternehmen sowie die mögliche Rolle großer Bildungseinrichtungen für die ländliche Entwicklung. Neben der Auswertung des Forschungsstandes und von Dokumenten basieren die Ergebnisse insbesondere auf Befragungen von beteiligten Akteuren und teilnehmender Beobachtung in den vier Modellregionen. Die Forschungsergebnisse zeigen, dass das Modellvorhaben in den Regionen auf großes Engagement gestoßen ist. Die schnelle Umsetzung des Vorhabens war aber mit großem Aufwand und hohen Kompetenzanforderungen verbunden, die nicht überall vorausgesetzt werden können. Das Steuern über Ziele birgt die Gefahr von Interessenkoalitionen zwischen Kontrolleuren und Kontrollierten, um die Fördermittel auszugeben und Ergebnisse positiv nach außen darzustellen. Lernprozesse konzentrierten sich auf die Fähigkeiten, die nötig waren, um das Modellvorhaben finanziell abzuwickeln, während strategische Veränderungen und institutionelle Anpassungsprozesse wesentlich seltener zu beobachten waren. Nachhaltige Entwicklungen konnten vor allem dort angestoßen werden, wo an vorhandene Kompetenzen und Kapazitäten angeknüpft wurde. Aufbauend auf diesen Erkenntnissen leitet die Begleitforschung Handlungsempfehlungen ab. So sollte beispielsweise das Steuern über Ziele nur dann für die ländliche Entwicklung in Betracht gezogen werden, wenn Innovationen nicht im Vordergrund stehen, sodass bereits Erfahrungswerte für mögliche Zielwerte und deren Verhandlung zwischen den Vertragspartnern vorliegen. Zudem sollte der thematische Fokus der Strategie möglichst eng gewählt werden, um die Definition und Kontrolle der Ziele sowie die Aneignung des nötigen Wissens zu erleichtern.
L30|The Training And Continued Improvement Of Human Resources In The Romanian Police Force - Particularities|In any work domain, the training and improvement of human resources represents a need of the environment, of society and of change. All organizations are constantly preoccupied with obtaining optimized performances focalized on human resources, through the use of a continuous and organized process. The Police, as a specialized institution of the state, due to the objectives that govern its activities, finds the training and continued improvement of human resources , with the aim of obtaining better results and permanently adapting to the ever changing environment their work takes places in , of utmost importance. This part of HRM in the Romanian police force has some particularities that are shown in the content item.
L30|Giving and Probability|When and how should a fundraiser ask for a donation from an individual facing an uncertain bonus income? A standard model of expected utility over outcomes predicts that the individual’s before choice – her ex-ante commitment conditional on her income – will be the same as her choice after the income has been revealed. Deciding “if you win, how much will you donate?” involves a commitment (i) over a donation for a state of the world that may not be realized and (ii) over uncertain income. Models involving reference-dependent utility, tangibility, and self-signaling predict more giving before, while theories of affect predict more giving after. In our online field experiment at a UK university, as well as in our laboratory experiments in Germany, charitable giving was significantly larger in the Before treatment than in the After treatment for male subjects, with a significant gender differential. Lab treatments isolated distinct mechanisms: for men, donations were higher in all treatments where the donation’s collection was uncertain, whether or not the income was known. This supports a (self)-signaling explanation: commitments realized with a lower probability must involve larger amounts to have the same signaling power. Our results are directly relevant to fundraising and volunteer-recruitment strategies,and offer further evidence that we need to exercise caution in applying expected-utility theory in the presence of social preferences.
L30|Payment Evasion|This paper shows that a firm can use the purchase price and the fine imposed on detected payment evaders to discriminate between unobservable consumer types. Assuming that consumers selfâ€ select into regular buyers and payment evaders, we show that the firm typically engages in secondâ€ degree price discrimination in which the purchase price exceeds the expected fine. In addition, we find that higher fines do not necessarily reduce payment evasion. We illustrate with data from fare dodging on public transportation.
L30|Financial vulnerability: an empirical study of Ugandan NGOs|Nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) pursue wide ranging and very diverse projects and they have become more vital for developing countries than ever. They draw public awareness for human rights, promote the development of democratic institutions and seek to improve the well-being of communities by being increasingly engaged in different aspects of socio-economic development, such as health and education. However, NGOs are dependent upon their external environment, especially the financial resource environment. The financial situation of most organisations is negatively affected by constraints to credit, their inability to raise own capital and to engage in profit-making activities, which renders them financially vulnerable. The more financially vulnerable an NGO is, the more difficult it is to pursue long and medium term organisational commitments and goals. This may even result in decreased, interrupted or terminated programmes. This study adapts the methodologies that have previously been used for developed countries to predict financial vulnerability in developing countries. It contributes to the body of empirical literature on development finance, by identifying alternative proxies to assess the financial vulnerability of the NGO sector, including donor conditions, endowments (investments funds or equity) and savings. It takes an empirical approach and examines a selection of studies on the financial vulnerability of NGOs, using data from 295 NGOs in Uganda to explore the possible relationship between organisational characteristics and financial vulnerability. The study confirms the results of previous studies. Revenue concentration and surplus margin are significant predictors of financial vulnerability. The existence of equity is another variable which can help to manage financial vulnerability. The study also found that larger and community funded NGOs are less likely to be financial vulnerable.
L30|Does hospital competition improve health care delivery in China?|This paper analyzes whether hospital competition is associated with improved health care delivery in China, particularly in the dimensions of health care quality and cost. We explore the differences in competition over time and across regions to examine the relationship in an environment wherein the hospital industry is largely state owned, the price of medical care is partially regulated, and hospitals can compete on both quality and cost. Using provincial- and individual-level data, along with a set of outcome indicators, we find that hospital competition is significantly correlated with lower observation room mortality, shorter outpatient waiting time, and fewer outpatient costs, while we do not find evidence that would suggest negative influences of competition on the other measures of hospital performance. Our results offer new evidence in support of competition-based reforms in China's health care sector and provide implications for other developing countries facing similar health care challenges.
L30|Executive compensation, organizational performance, and governance quality in the absence of owners|I study the relationship between chief executive compensation, organizational performance, and governance quality in large U.S. nonprofits. Due in large part to the absence of shareholders, the nonprofit sector is characterized by weaker monitoring mechanisms and potentially more severe agency problems relative to their for-profit counterparts. As a result, there have been numerous instances of executive abuse, such as exorbitant pay for very little work. Despite the size of the nonprofit sector (5.5% of GDP and 9% of employment) and the obvious monitoring and legal responsibility concerns, governance issues at nonprofits have received much less attention than that at for-profits. Using recent IRS data on governance practices at nonprofits, I find that, after controlling for known determinants, both the CEO-to-employee relative pay ratio and the consumption of perquisites are significantly negatively related to an index of nonprofit governance quality. Furthermore, consistent with governance problems at nonprofits and inconsistent with the Pay-for-Performance Hypothesis, I find a significantly negative relationship between CEO-to-employee relative pay and multiple measures of nonprofit performance. These results highlight the importance of strong governance mechanisms in mitigating high levels of relative pay to and poor performance by executives in organizations marred by severe agency conflicts and ineffective monitoring mechanisms.
L30|Born local: toward a theory of new venture’s choice of internationalization|This book presents some of Zoltán J. Ács’ most important contributions since the turn of the the new millennium, with a particular intellectual focus on the knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship. This approach was shaped by three major events: the rapid globalization that occurred in the first decade of the 21st century; research on the role institutions have played in economic development during the past few decades; and the spread of entrepreneurial activity around the world following the collapse of communism at the end of the 20th century. This entrepreneurial activity has given rise to many questions of theory, measurement and policy.
L30|Born local: toward a theory of new venture’s choice of internationalization|This manuscript offers a theory regarding two distinct avenues to new venture internationalization: a direct path described in much of the extant literature and an intermediated one in which new ventures and multinational firms create symbiotic relationships in order to expand internationally. The term “born local”, as opposed to “born global”, describes how new ventures are created from knowledge spillovers and other resources in a geographically bounded environment. The theory suggests that the greater the number of value chain activities and the greater the number of countries involved, the more likely that the new venture will pursue the intermediated mode of internationalization. We suggest that new ventures frequently specialize and use existing MNEs as conduits for international expansion; however the greater the perceived ex-post costs of protecting intellectual property, transaction costs, and extraction costs related to hold-up, agency, and monopoly rents, the more likely the new venture will pursue a direct mode of internationalization. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
L30|Giving and Probability|When and how should a fundraiser ask for a donation from an individual facing an uncertain bonus income? A standard model of expected utility over outcomes predicts that the individual’s before choice – her ex-ante commitment conditional on her income – will be the same as her choice after the income has been revealed. Deciding “if you win, how much will you donate?” involves a commitment (i) over a donation for a state of the world that may not be realized and (ii) over uncertain income. Models involving reference-dependent utility, tangibility, and self-signaling predict more giving before, while theories of affect predict more giving after. In our online field experiment at a UK university, as well as in our laboratory experiments in Germany, charitable giving was significantly larger in the Before treatment than in the After treatment for male subjects, with a significant gender differential.
L30|Il ruolo delle reti pubblico-private per l’innovazione dei servizi nelle smart cities|"Il dibattito scientifico e le politiche europee in materia di innovazione per lo sviluppo intelligente delle città evidenziano il ruolo delle relazioni collaborative tra attori pubblici e privati (inclusi gli utilizzatori finali dei servizi urbani) per l’efficace implementazione di percorsi di sviluppo ""smart"". Tuttavia, ancora limitati sono gli approfondimenti, soprattutto di tipo empirico, tesi a comprendere le caratteristiche delle relazioni collaborative orientate allo sviluppo di nuovi servizi nell’ambito delle smart cities e i fattori che influenzano la loro efficacia. Integrando filoni teorici complementari - l’innovazione nel contesto delle smart cities, l’innovazione aperta e l’innovazione dei servizi - il lavoro mira a colmare tale gap conoscitivo attraverso l’elaborazione di un framework multidimensionale che identifica le dimensioni chiave per analizzare i driver, la struttura, le innovazioni realizzate dalle reti di innovazione smart-oriented e i fattori critici ai fini del successo dell’innovazione collaborativa nel contesto nelle smart cities. Sulla base del framework viene poi condotta un’analisi esplorativa basata su due casi studio di successo relativi a reti di collaborazione pubblico-private che hanno portato all’efficace sviluppo di nuovi servizi in due città europee (Amsterdam e Siracusa). I risultati dell’analisi permettono di comprendere più in profondità la natura delle reti pubblico-private per l’innovazione smart-oriented e di identificare i fattori critici rispetto ai quali orientare le azioni concrete di policy makers e manager per influenzarne positivamente l’efficacia."
L30|Section 6-7. Military Economy and Military Reform in Russia|The accession of the Republic of Crimea to the Russian Federation in March 2014 was not favored by the global community and resulted in Western economic sanctions against Russia, getting even tougher throughout the entire year. The sanctions were focused chiefly on Russia’s defense sector, having a strong adverse impact on the fulfillment of the state armaments program and the military-industrial complex (MIC) development program planned by the Russian leadership. The key tit-for-tat measures included the development of import substitution plans in the military-industrial complex and the placement of the Military Industrial Commission under the supervision of President Vladimir Putin in September. The international sanctions in 2014 had no effect whatsoever on the performance of the plans of professionalization and combat training of Russia’s Armed Forces.
L30|Section 6. Institutional Changes|The main developments over the past year in the sphere under consideration were the launch of the second three-year privatization program for the years 2014–2016; the approval of the new government program Federal Property Management until 2018; the transfer, by a court ruling, of JSC Bashneft back to Russian Federation ownership; the continuation of the active process of creation of integrated structures in the defense industry and related sectors; absence of any significant deals completed on the corporate control market with the participation of state companies; and the expansion, at the level of approved model documents, of the set of available instruments to be applied in the management of entities belonging to the public sector of the national economy.
L30|Раздел 6. Институциональные Изменения|Основными событиями минувшего года в рамках рассматриваемой проблематики стали старт второй трехлетней приватизационной программы на 2014–2016 гг., утверждение новой государственной программы по управлению федеральным имуществом до 2018 г., возврат под контроль государства компании «Башнефть» по судебным основаниям, продолжение активного строительства интегрированных структур в оборонной промышленности и смежных отраслях, отсутствие значимых сделок на рынке корпоративного контроля с участием госкомпаний, а также расширение инструментария управления субъектами государственного сектора экономики на уровне типовых документов прикладного характера.
L30|Unbalanced credit distribution in emerging economies and FDI|This empirical study shows that an increasing credit distribution to State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), to the detriment of private firms, slows the increase in inward FDI in emerging economies. The first approach is global and dynamic; it relies on GMM and Bayesian techniques, utilizing a sample of 40 emerging countries over the period 1988-2008. Then, a sectoral approach is implemented for 1992-2012 and strengthens the negative effect on inward FDI (but the difference of financial dependence between sectors does not have clear effects). Finally, certain policy actions can improve the allocation of domestic and foreign capital in emerging economies.
L30|Governance of Non-Profit and Non-Governmental Organizations - Within- and Between- Organization Analyses: An Introduction|Despite the fact that nonprofit organizations play a large role in the production and distribution of goods and services in modern economies, and the rising role of non-governmental organizations in carrying out projects in developing countries, our knowledge of their governance, and of its’ implications for their behavior and performance, is limited. This special issue tries to uncover some of the mechanisms and institutions that characterize the governance of non-profits and NGOs, as well as its implications. In particular, the papers focus on: (i) the determinants of NGO governance and its implications for reducing poverty in developing countries, (ii) the governance of non-profit organizations, (iii) the impact of governance characteristics on the performance of non-profit organizations, and (iv) the effect of non-profit governance on the interaction between the non-profit and for-profit sectors.
L30|Does Mandatory Measurement and Peer Reporting Improve Performance?|We examine the effect of mandated measurement and peer disclosure of new information on the persistence of performance improvements in a setting without performance incentives. Value of information (VOI) theory posits that information can improve the accuracy of posterior beliefs and thereby have a decision facilitating effect. These effects are more pronounced when the information is new versus an update. Using data from the Japanese National Hospital Organization, we analyze performance trends following regulation requiring standardized measurement and peer disclosure of absolute and relative patient satisfaction performance. After controlling for ceiling effects and regression to the mean, mandatory patient satisfaction measurement and peer disclosure introduce positive and significant mean shifts in performance with larger improvements for poorly performing hospitals. The largest positive effects occur when the information is new. Our study provides empirical evidence of the decision facilitating value of information without confound from its decision influencing value.
L30|Regulation, firm dynamics and entrepreneurship|Entrepreneurship can have important positive effects linked to job creation, wealth and income generation, innovation and industry competitiveness. Scholars and policy-makers around the world have turned to the regulatory environment as a mechanism through which entrepreneurship can be encouraged, grown and its economic benefits harnessed. The effect of regulatory conditions on entrepreneurship however is not well understood, and can be nuanced given the wide range of regulatory tools and possible areas of impact. This paper serves as the introduction to a special issue, which seeks to shed some light on the relationship between regulation, firm dynamics and entrepreneurship. We identify some foundational considerations relevant to this relationship and discuss key questions, followed by a brief overview of each of the papers contained in the special issue. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L30|Corporate Philanthropy and Productivity: Evidence from an Online Real Effort Experiment|Contributing to a social cause can be an important driver for workers in the public and nonprofit sectors as well as in firms that engage in corporate philanthropy or other corporate social responsibility policies. This paper compares the effectiveness of a social incentive that takes the form of a donation received by a charity of the subject’s choice to a financial incentive. We find that social incentives lead to a 13% rise in productivity, regardless of their form (lump sum or related to performance) or strength. The response is strong for subjects with low initial productivity (30%), whereas high-productivity subjects do not respond. When subjects can choose the mix of incentives, half sacrifice some of their private compensation to increase social compensation, with women more likely to do so than men. Furthermore, offering subjects some discretion in choosing their own payment schemes leads to a substantial improvement in performance. Comparing social incentives to equally costly increases in private compensation for low-productivity subjects reveals that the former are less effective in increasing productivity, but the difference is small and not statistically significant.Data, as supplemental material, are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2014.1985 . This paper was accepted by Uri Gneezy, behavioral economics .
L30|The Impact of Market Share on Health Insurance Premiums|It is usually argued that market concentration leads to higher prices. This well-known proposition has led to concern about the level of concentration in state health-insurance markets, since the largest insurer in many states has a market share greater than 50 %. Moreover, the data compiled by the American Medical Association indicates that insurance markets have become more concentrated over the last ten years. Thus, some have suggested that health insurance premiums would decrease significantly if state markets were made more competitive. This paper explores that proposition through a computational model and an empirical analysis of the relationship between the market share of the largest firm in a state and the average health insurance premium in that state. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
L30|Academics’ entrepreneurship propensities and gender differences|Using survey data from a large public research organization, this study examines entrepreneurship propensities of academic researchers, focusing on gender differences. Although sample means of female and male propensities toward entrepreneurship are fairly similar, regression estimates show significant gender differences in the association of several factors with propensities to start businesses. In particular, prior record of researchers’ patenting and institutional leadership promote tendencies towards entrepreneurship among male researchers, but not among female researchers. Also, unlike the male scientists, doctoral degrees and preference for open access of research results do not significantly influence the entrepreneurial attitudes of female researchers. The results for the full sample are similar to those for the male subsample, with a negative coefficient on the variable identifying females. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York (outside the USA) 2015
L30|Corps Intermédiaires, Civil Society, and the Art of Association|This paper traces the shifts in treatments of intermediate groups among some liberal and democratic political theorists in the 18th and 19th centuries. The decades of the late 18th and early 19th centuries are traditionally understood to encompass the emergence of fully liberal political and social theory, and an early version of liberal political practice, in France, the UK, and the US; they have lately been identified by North, Wallis, and Weingast as the decades when those three societies substantially made the transition to “open access” political, economic, and legal orders. This transition consists in part in the democratization of organizational tools that had previously been open only to members of the elite, such as the shift from specially chartered monopolistic corporations to general incorporation laws, and that from parliamentary oligopolistic party competition to modern parties competing in wide-suffrage elections. Although the early liberal theorists did not fully perceive the changes happening around them, their analyses and reactions can help us see things about the shift to open-access orders that might not be fully visible in retrospect. To varying degrees they looked forward to the possibility of a pluralism without privilege, but they also had doubts about its possibility. They offered some reasons to prefer pluralism with privilege to the absence of both. They worried that centralization, democratic or otherwise, might be the preeminent fact of modern state consolidation, and that purely voluntary, equal, associational pluralism might not be powerful enough to check it. The kinds of pluralism grounded in ancient regime privilege and status, in entrenched jurisdictional pluralism within the constitutional order, or in pre-political cultural and customary ties might be needed to motivate the oppositional political action that could protect pluralism and freedom.
L30|Health Care Systems’ Evolvement and the Changing Role of the State in Selected CEEC|Despite common heritage, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia (hereinafter Central and Eastern European Countries – CEEC) opted for different models while reforming their health care systems. A common (and important) component of these reforms was privatization and introduction of various market mechanisms in health care systems. The objective of the paper is to identify main challenges resulting from the health care reforms in CEEC. Review of the literature (using EBSCO and ScienceDirect databases) on the results of the health care reforms in CEEC will be followed by an analysis of the changes in health care financing in CEEC between 1995-2012 with a special emphasis on the role of the state in this process. WHO statistics (data) on national health care expenditures divided further into: total health expenditure, general government expenditure, private expenditure, and out of pocket expenditure (with various configurations) will be used. It is argued that health care reforms led (among others) to shifting the financial risk to patients and the state is slowly (and continually) withdrawing from financing health care in CEEC. This diminishing share of state financing of health care is not compensated by tax deductions and/or other forms of allowances. Also the issue of restricted access to health care is indicated here as a by-product of the health care reforms undertaken in CEEC.
L30|Governance of non-profit and non-governmental organizations - within- and between- organization analyses: an introduction|Despite the fact that nonprofit organizations play a large role in the production and distribution of goods and services in modern economies, and the rising role of non-governmental organizations in carrying out projects in developing countries, our knowledge of their governance, and of its' implications for their behaviour and performance, is limited. This special issue tries to uncover some of the mechanisms and institutions that characterize the governance of non-profits and NGOs, as well as its implications. In particular, the papers focus on: (i) the determinants of NGO governance and its implications for reducing poverty in developing countries, (ii) the governance of non-profit organizations, (iii) the impact of governance characteristics on the performance of non-profit organizations, and (iv) the effect of non-profit governance on the interaction between the non-profit and for-profit sectors.
L30|Translating as response to paradoxes – when implementing HRM strategies in service organisations|The purpose of this article is on the one hand to investigate paradoxes caused by the collision between rationalities of top management HRM strategies and local ones at the level of line managers, and on the other, the responses to them. A grounded-theory approach is used on empirical material from a university hospital and a dozen of high quality hotels. The study has shown that hospital HR staff and hotel directors respond to paradoxes by translating. A conclusion is that when repeatedly having to cope with these paradoxes, a special skill is developed, the skill of translating top-down strategic decisions into alternatives that fit different local conditions. The paradoxes, which the line managers responsible at the local level could otherwise not handle, are thus manageable thanks to consciously developed translating skills by hospital HR staff and hotel directors. These translations work as stimuli to strategy implementation when there is trust between translators and those who must execute the strategies, i.e. the line managers.
L30|Using Creative Problem Solving (Cps) To Improve Efficiency In A Non-Profit Organization|The purpose of this study was to improve the internal efficiency of a non-profit organization, using Creative Problem Solving (CPS) method. The research was designed around an intervention and structured in three stages (pre-consult, intervention and follow-up), with a team designated by management, in order to bring leadership cohesion to both departments of the organization and also between the board and executive management. The results, expressed in the tasks performed and in the interviews to team members, allowed us to conclude on the effectiveness of the CPS method to improve organizational innovation and change, by driving more and more teams in the organization to adopt it, and by establishing a stronger relationship between departments, as well as between the board and executive management. These results highlight possible solutions to improve the management, and to develop organizational innovation in non-profit organizations.
L30|Property management of the state treasury of the Russian Federation: some of the current trends<BR>[Управление Имуществом Государственной Казны Рф: Некоторые Актуальные Тенденции]|The article analyzes the current problems of the property management of the state treasury as part of the public sector of the Russian economy. Focus is on the property complex of the treasury in the narrow sense (excluding the budget funds, securities and land), that is, the area of ??property relations, which, despite the considerable scale, until the mid-2010s remain outside as a coherent state regulation, and detailed investigation. The authors analyze the quantitative parameters of the property of the treasury in the structure of federal property in the 2000s, the formation and limited approach to the management of treasury assets in government programs. The principles and directions of the further implementation of the state policy in this sphere.
L30|Transfer of Know-how for SMEs in Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. White Paper: Georgia|This report has been prepared in the framework of the project “Transfer of know-how to small and mid-size businesses” of the International Visegrad Fund (IVF) and USAID. It summarizes the conditions of the SME sector (small and medium size enterprises) in Georgia, identifies the main problems in their development and provides recommendations for further interventions based on the Czech experience, existing literature and a survey implemented among SME stakeholders.Georgia generally receives favorable evaluations of its business environment. It ranks high in indices of economic freedom and is among the top countries with respect to ease of starting and doing business. On the other hand, the SME sector suffers from several problems. The most serious obstacle to SME development seems to be in the area of finance; access to finance is difficult for SMEs and the cost of credit is high. Human capital and innovations are among the weak points of Georgian SMEs as well.The different shortcomings of the environment and markets call for different interventions. The paper is roadmap of concrete activities – it contains a set of recommendations to support SMEs development drawn on three different sources: first, the theoretical foundations of entrepreneurship policy, second, the Czech experience and know-how in the SME sector, and finally, the ideas of local experts and stakeholders generated during interviews and workshops.Activities and recommendations have been divided into “generic,” which relate to a particular determinant of business environment and have an impact across industries and sectors such as access to financing, education, developing skills training, R&D, innovation, export strategy, start-ups, and those which are “sector-specific,” such as banking, health and agriculture. Political stability, the main problem in Georgia, is beyond the scope of possible interventions.
L30|Lean Education System: A Case Study|The number of students in the institutions of secondary education approaches 5.5 million in the Turkish education system. Such a big system should be managed very well in order to educate successful students. In successful managements, successful results are obtained by taking proper steps. The key to good management is examination of the current state and determination of correct strategies in agreement with the objectives. This system aims not only at maximum quality but also to minimize the cost. In this way, it will also enhance customer satisfaction and its preferability. Previously used only in the manufacturing systems, lean philosophy is also available in the service sectors today. In this study, the current system at private high schools ? one of the most important parts of the education sector included in the service sector ? was examined; the processes of the high school were defined and analyzed; and the waste was determined. Lean thinking and lean tools were utilized to eliminate waste and to enhance quality and customer satisfaction.
L30|The Effect of Schooling on Cognitive Skills|To identify the causal effect of schooling on cognitive skills, we exploit conditionally random variation in the date Swedish males take a battery of cognitive tests in preparation for military service. We find an extra ten days of school instruction raises scores on crystallized intelligence tests (synonyms and technical comprehension tests) by approximately 1 percent of a standard deviation, whereas extra nonschool days have almost no effect. In contrast, test scores on fluid intelligence tests (spatial and logic tests) do not increase with additional days of schooling but do increase modestly with age.
L30|Marco teórico y metodológico para la validación cualitativa de un modelo explicativo de las responsabilidad social en sociedades cooperativas<BR>[Theoretical and methodological framework for the qualitative validation of an explanatory model of social responsibility in cooperative societies]|En este trabajo se presenta un marco teórico y una propuesta metodológica para la validación cualitativa de un modelo explicativo de la Responsabilidad Social en las Sociedades Cooperativas. La variable central de análisis, la llamada Orientación a la Responsabilidad Social en Cooperativas (ORSCOOP), no es directamente observable, siendo necesario medirla a través de un conjunto de indicadores. Igualmente ocurre con el resto de variables estratégicas con las que la ORSCOOP está relacionada en el modelo que proponemos (satisfacción de los socios, innovación, calidad del servicio y resultado cooperativo o desempeño). Para la validación de los indicadores se recurre a una metodología cualitativa en base a la valoración y acuerdo de un grupo de profesionales expertos quienes, por aplicación de la técnica Delphi, colaborarán para lograr una definición única y consensuada. A partir de sus opiniones y recomendaciones se llevarán a cabo las modificaciones oportunas con el fin de unificar los criterios procedentes de los distintos expertos. Como resultado se obtendrá una escala consensuada para cada variable del modelo propuesto. Esta unanimidad de opiniones en el resultado final será la base para un posterior tratamiento cuantitativo del modelo conceptual propuesto.
L30|Discrimination by microcredit officers: Theory and evidence on disability in Uganda|This paper studies the relationship between a microfinance institution (MFI) and its loan officers when officers discriminate against a particular group of micro-entrepreneurs. Using survey data from Uganda, we provide evidence that loan officers are more biased than other employees against disabled micro-entrepreneurs. In line with the evidence, we build an agency model of a non-profit MFI and a biased loan officer in charge of granting loans. Since incentive schemes are costly and the MFI's budget is limited, the MFI faces a trade-off between combating discrimination and granting loans. We show that the optimal incentive premium is a non-decreasing function of the MFI's budget. Moreover, even a non-discriminatory welfare-maximizing MFI may let its loan officer discriminate, because eradicating discrimination would come at the cost of too many loans. Observing an MFI's loan allocation biased against a minority group therefore does not imply that the institution is biased against this group.
L30|Behavioral consequences of customers’ satisfaction with banking products and services|The premise that consumer satisfaction determines behavioral models that positively influence business results, is accepted both in the academic and business environment. This research addresses the consequences of satisfaction from the customer’s perspective, focusing on behaviors that customers of banks adopt as a result of satisfaction/dissatisfaction experienced from the performed transactions. Based on literature review, we have developed our own research model and tested the hypotheses formulated regarding the relationships formed between customer satisfaction and behavioral responses to customer satisfaction. For this purpose, we conducted a survey in which the investigated statistical population consists of customers who have completed at least one transaction with suppliers of banking products and services in the last six months. The sample gathered 511 persons using the snowball method, and respondents filled in questionnaires through online self-administration. We tested the research hypotheses using SPSS. Data analysis involved testing the reliability of the used measurement scales, score factors determination, testing the validity of constructs included in the research model, re-search hypotheses testing. In this article, in analyzing the relationship between customer satisfaction with banking products and services and its behavioral consequences, we take into consideration trust and supplier switching costs as moderator variables.
L30|Data envelopment analysis, endogeneity and the quality frontier for public services|Applying Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) to real-world public policy issues can raise many interesting complications beyond those considered in standard models of DEA. One of these complications arises if the funding levels of public service providers, and their ability to attract and retain clients and able staff, depend upon the quality of the output which they produce. This dependency introduces additional inter-relationships between inputs and outputs beyond the uni-directional Production Possibility Frontier (PPF) relationship considered by standard DEA models. The paper therefore analyses the multiplier effects which can be generated by these additional relationships, in which key resource inputs become endogenous variables subject to the external environmental variables which the public service provider faces across these different relationships. The magnitude of these multiplier effects can be captured by focusing DEA on the estimation of an Achievement Possibility Frontier, which reveals the wider set of opportunities which are available to a public service provider to improve its own output quality than that revealed by the estimation of the PPF associated with standard models of DEA. In doing so, the paper enables DEA to be still applied, but in modified form, to the estimation of the scope for improved output of any given public service provider in the presence of such resource endogeneity.
L30|Stochastic income and conditional generosity|"We study how other-regarding behavior extends to environments with uncertain income and conditional commitments. Should fundraisers ask a banker to donate ""if he earns a bonus"" or wait and ask after the bonus is known? Standard EU theory predicts these are equivalent; loss-aversion and signaling models both predict a larger commitment before the bonus is known; theories of affect predict the reverse. In field and lab experiments, we allow people to donate from lottery winnings, varying whether they decide before or after learning the lottery's outcome. Males are more generous when making conditional donations before knowing the outcome, while females' donations are unaffected. Males also commit more in treatments where income is certain but the donation's collection is uncertain. This supports a signaling explanation: it is cheaper to commit to donate before the uncertainty is unresolved, thus a larger donation is required to maintain a positive image. This has implications for experimental methodology, for fundraisers, and for our understanding of pro-social behavior."
L30|International cooperation strategies for strengthening food sovereignty: learning from organizations in transition's practices| In a contest of double crisis, the alimentary one and the crisis of NGOs and international cooperation effectiveness and credibility, proposal coming from peasants and social organizations for a food sovereignty could represent a new common objective reachable from North and South's society affords. Through a qualitative methodology based on semi-structured interviews with experts and technical staff of organizations that include food sovereignty among theirs working areas, this work claim to understand projects' execution mains problems and to pick out significant learning from organizations' practices experimented to promote food sovereignty strategy in cooperation with its allied; that requires a restucturation of its internal structure, activities, relationships with partners and donors under a process view and a long-term strategy.
L30|Una aproximación regional a la eficiencia y productividad de los hospitales públicos colombianos|Este estudio utiliza el Indicador de Luenberger para evaluar la eficiencia y productividad de los hospitales públicos en Colombia. El análisis empírico se realizó para una muestra de 336 hospitales durante el periodo 2003-2011. Los resultados indican una caída de la productividad de los hospitales públicos colombianos, sustentada en el deterioro del cambio tecnológico como resultado de una escasa inversión en tecnología. Evidencia de esto es que solo uno de cada veinticinco hospitales experimentó un desempeño eficiente y productivo, mientras uno de cada tres evidenció lo contrario. Por regiones, los hospitales de las zonas Central y Caribe fueron los más ineficientes e improductivos. Además, contribuyeron con dos terceras partes de la disminución de la productividad general.******ABSTRACT: We used the Luenberger Productivity Indicator to estimate efficiency and productivity for Colombian public hospitals. The empirical application was applied to a sample of 336 hospitals during the period 2003-2011. The results show a decline in productivity of Colombian public hospitals, explained by the decreased in technological change as a result of low investment in technology. Evidence for this is that one of every twenty five hospitals experienced efficient and productive performance, while, one of every three showed the opposite. The results summarized by regions revealed that Hospitals in Central and Caribbean regions were the most unproductive and inefficient, and they also contributed two-thirds of the overall decline in productivity.
L30|Can Competition Reduce Quality?|We analyze the effect of competition on quality provision in spatial markets where providers compete in both price and quality (e.g., health care, long-term care, child care, education). By making two key assumptions about the providers in such markets, namely that they are (partly) motivated and have decreasing marginal utility of income, we find, contrary to the existing literature, an unambiguously negative relationship between competition intensity and quality provision. This relationship holds regardless of whether quality and price decisions are made simultaneously or sequentially. However, even if competition reduces quality, it does not necessarily follow that social welfare is reduced.
L30|Pro Bono Work and Trust in Expert Fields|A controversy has been simmering in law for at least 30 years about whether pro bono work should be mandatory for lawyers, who now donate 1-3% of their time to the poor. This has centered on the unmet legal needs of the poor, the duty of lawyers, and the contrast with US doctors, who are conspicuous in their tradition of voluntary pro bono work. In 2003 alone, they donated $12 billion of labor amounting to 5-10% of their time. This debate has tended to neglect the credence good aspect of the services of experts (e.g., of doctors, lawyers, and accountants), and the role that voluntary pro bono work might play. Expert services have un- verifiable quality to non-experts and are subject to moral hazard. Experts who cheat their customers should crowd out experts who do not, resulting in low trust, prestige, and wages. We ask how pro bono work might promote trust in expert fields. We introduce incomplete information into a psychological game theoretic model of experts who value the esteem from their customers. In our model, pro bono work arises in equilibrium because experts who value the perception of honesty among their customers more are also more willing to give away labor to the poor to signal their honesty. We show that if the aversion to disappointing this esteem is sufficiently high, there is a unique equilibrium in which their wages are high, they do pro bono work, and experts who would have been dishonest are crowded out of the field. Our novel approach involving psychological factors suggests that while mandatory pro bono could redistribute surplus from experts to the poor, it could also undermine the screening effect of pro bono work, and thus, cause a deterioration in service quality.
L30|Are Donors Afraid of Charities’ Core Costs? Scale Economies in Non-profit Provision and Charity Selection|We study contestability in non-profit markets where non-commercial providers supply a homogeneous collective good or service through increasing-returns-to-scale technologies. Unlike in the case of for-profit markets, in the non-profit case the absence of price-based sales contracts between providers and donors means that fixed costs are directly relevant to donors, and that they can translate into an entry barrier, protecting the position of an inefficient incumbent; or that, conversely, they can make it possible for inefficient newcomers to contest the position of a more efficient incumbent. Evidence from laboratory experiments show that fixed cost driven trade-offs between payoff dominance and perceived risk can lead to inefficient selection.
L30|Are Donors Afraid of Charities' Core Costs? Scale Economies in Non-profit Provision and Charity Selection|We study contestability in non-profit markets when non-commercial providers supply a homogeneous collective good through increasing-returns-to-scale technologies. Unlike in the case of for-profit competition, in the non-profit case the absence of price-based sales contracts means that fixed costs are directly relevant to donors, and that they can translate into an entry barrier, protecting the position of an inefficient incumbent; or that, conversely, they can make it possible for inefficient newcomers to contest the position of a more efficient incumbent. Evidence from laboratory experiments show that fixed cost driven trade-offs between payoff dominance and perceived risk can lead to inefficient selection.
L30|Una aproximación regional a la eficiencia y productividad de los hospitales públicos colombianos|Este estudio utiliza el Indicador de Luenberger para evaluar la eficiencia y productividad de los hospitales públicos en Colombia. El análisis empírico se realizó para una muestra de 336 hospitales durante el periodo 2003-2011. Los resultados indican una caída de la productividad de los hospitales públicos colombianos, sustentada en el deterioro del cambio tecnológico como resultado de una escasa inversión en tecnología. Evidencia de esto es que solo uno de cada veinticinco hospitales experimentó un desempeño eficiente y productivo, mientras uno de cada tres evidenció lo contrario. Por regiones, los hospitales de las zonas Central y Caribe fueron los más ineficientes e improductivos. Además, contribuyeron con dos terceras partes de la disminución de la productividad general.
L30|Reviving Social Economy in Romania – between emerging social enterprises in all sectors, surviving communist coops, and subsidiaries of globalization actors|Social economy could be considered a response to the current eco-socio-economic crisis, in fact the first crisis of the globalization era. Developing social economy could mean sustainable, largely non-exportable jobs, social inclusion, improvement of local social services, and territorial cohesion. Maybe the tensions between “global” and “local” show a new wave of globalization system whose pre-condition is a sustainable territorial development. Romania in particular has faced a fast-paced transition from a closed society and economy to a country acting in a global market, including an open, global labor market. This meant dramatic changes in property regime and work, employment conditions, a context in which solutions from the top did no longer work and generated a framework for new organizational and entrepreneurial forms of social economy to play a role. Can institutions of the social economy create the path towards territorial, locally-based development in Romania? Could these territories become anchors in the context of the structural changes we live, for a real “globalization with human face” and for the ambitious objectives to be reached by 2020 by Europe in the five main areas: employment, innovation, climate change, education and poverty? We face a paradigm shift in a changing Europe, we have to unlock the potential of social enterprises – the emerging types, but also the past surviving coops
L30|The Efficiency of the Portuguese Agricultural Credit Co-operatives Governance Model|In recent years the importance of corporate governance (CG) has rising new attention, as the 2008 financial crisis illustrates. Co-operative members, staff, regulators and others stakeholders involved in the co-operative banking business became aware of the need to strengthen co-operatives governance, since this is crucial to safeguarding sound management and, ultimately, to the survival and sustainability of these organizations. With their origins rooted in the 16th century, the Portuguese Agricultural Credit Co-operatives (CCAM) have been considered central players in the economic and social development of rural regions. The goal of this paper is to determine the impact of the different governance mechanisms of co-operative banks on control management, by analysing CCAM governance and assess its efficiency in disciplining management. Hence, using data from 1995-2009 period, and multinomial logit models, the relation between CCAM performance and several control mechanisms operating within the SICAM is analysed. The results show that overall internal governance mechanisms are not related to the CCAM performance, which indicates potential weakness of the CCAM internal control mechanisms. On the other hand, external governance mechanisms are related to CCAM operational and cost efficiency indicators, demonstrating the importance of these mechanisms in disciplining CCAM management. Moreover, the results highlight the value of the supervision task of Central CCAM in the performance of the associates.
L30|Performance outcomes of balanced scorecard application in hospital administration in China|This study investigates current status of balanced scorecard (BSC) application and its impact on hospital performance in China. A nationwide survey indicates that a large portion of Chinese public hospitals have adopted BSC in hospital administration at present. By applying univariate and regression data analyses, we find BSC application contributes to the improvement of organizational and personal performance and such a contributing effect increases with the extent (level) of BSC application. In addition, we find the positive impact of BSC application on hospital performance is affected by the factors of operational scope/scale, technological quality (rating) and comprehensiveness of medical resources equipped by the hospitals. Our study findings should enrich the extant literature with empirical evidence on the benefits of BSC application in the health care industry and provide the Chinese experience that can be a reference for expanding BSC application in hospital administration or other non-profit organizations in other countries, the developing countries in particular.
L30|Hey look at me: The effect of giving circles on giving|We conduct a randomized field experiment with a Yale service club and find that the promise of public recognition increases giving. Some may claim that they give when offered public recognition in order to motivate others to give too, rather than for the more obvious expected private gain from increasing one's social standing. To tease apart these two theories, we also conduct a laboratory experiment with undergraduates. We find that patterns of giving are more consistent with a desire to improve social image than a purely altruistic desire to motivate others’ contributions. We discuss the external validity of our lab findings for other settings.
L30|Provision and price of child care services: For-profits and nonprofits|We study the market for child care services, with a special focus on examining competition between for- and nonprofits. We estimate a two-stage oligopoly model of product differentiation. The first stage estimates a model of endogenous market structure and the second stage corrects for market structure to examine the prices charged and capacity choices for child care centers. We find that the actions of “same-type” providers have a statistically significant impact on a provider’s entry and pricing decisions but we fail to find evidence that the actions of “other types” have a significant impact. Nonprofit child care providers and Head Start centers do not appear to crowd out for-profit providers. Further, we find that for-profits and nonprofits respond differently to market characteristics generating spatial differences in the types of center available in a market. Our data suggest that for-profits are more likely to enter markets with higher percentages of economically disadvantaged students, but they primarily serve those who work, rather than live, in the market. The prevalence of disadvantaged students does not impact the entry decision of nonprofits leaving disadvantaged areas with relatively fewer non-profit options to serve residents. Policies to encourage for-profit daycare would likely lead centers to locate in markets where they can provide service for workers, whereas a policy to encourage nonprofit entry might be more effective in providing low cost care for nearby residents.
L30|Organizational structure, police activity and crime|How does the organizational structure of law enforcement agencies affect police activity and crime? We examine the consequences of an organizational reform in Israel that transferred the responsibility for housing arrestees from the police to the prison authority. Using the staggered rollout of the reform in different regions of the country, we document strong evidence that this organizational change led to an increase of 11% in the number of arrests and to a decrease of 4% in the number of reported crimes, with these effects concentrated in more minor crimes. The reform also led to a decrease in the quality of arrests, measured by the likelihood of being charged following an arrest. These findings are consistent with the idea that the reform externalized the cost of housing arrestees from the police's perspective, and therefore led the police to increase its activity against crime.
L30|Assessing the Determinants of NCAA Football Violations|What are the factors that cause members of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) intercollegiate sports cartel to cheat? We develop a model that reflects the multi-institutional aspects of the decision process involved in the determination of major football program NCAA violations including university performance and incentives, rival behavior, and NCAA enforcement. Prior research is prone to omitted variable bias since studies have typically focused on only one of those components. The data sample includes all major football programs from 1981 to 2011, with 3,420 annual institution observations. Our empirical results confirm the multidimensional aspects of the cheating calculus. University characteristics and leadership, conference rivals, public/private university status, and different NCAA enforcement regimes are all significant contributors to the decision to cheat on the NCAA cartel. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2014
L30|A generalized framework for endogenous timing in duopoly games and an application to price-quantity competition|This paper extends the analysis of duopoly market by distinguishing two types of competition: (i) the basic form of competition where each firm is unrestricted in its choice of price and quantity and (ii) the non-basic form of competition where firms’ strategic choices over price and quantity are limited a priori. Our analysis focuses on the former rather than the latter. Under a very general setting of concave industrial revenue and asymmetric convex costs, we show that each firm typically makes more profit in the subgame perfect Nash equilibrium (SPNE) of the leader-follower price-quantity competition, one of the basic competition forms, than in the SPNE of the leader-follower price competition and that each firm always makes more profit under simultaneous move price-quantity competition than under simultaneous move price competition. We establish a generalized framework for endogenous timing in duopoly games which is capable of embodying and overcoming the inconsistency across the existing three frameworks in the field. We highlight the advantages of a 3-period general framework. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2014
L30|Governance typology of universities’ technology transfer processes|Despite the growing interest in university-to-industry technology transfer, there are very few studies on the governance of universities’ technology transfer offices (TTOs). The few existing ones tend to focus on US universities and generally tackle one dimension of the governance. The present paper aims at contributing to this literature in two ways. First, it takes into account the diversity of organizational models with a theoretical perspective: the paper presents a discussion on which combinations of four structural dimensions should yield viable configurations. Four main types of TTOs are identified: (1) classical TTO; (2) autonomous TTO; (3) discipline-integrated Technology Transfer Alliance; and (4) discipline-specialized Technology Transfer Alliance. Second, the paper relies on 16 case studies of universities located in six European countries in order to address the pros and cons of the four types of TTOs. The results provide both a conceptual understanding and an empirical overview of how universities organize their technology transfer and intellectual property management. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
L30|NGOs, from the Promotion of Civic Participation to Public Problems Solving|In the contemporary world, NGOs are considered as important tool for motivating the community. So they committed their true mission and the promotion of civic participation and strengthen social identities. Functional characteristics of non-governmental organizations are the element to leverage the centers of political and social development of powerful governments since they are concrete and familiar with the problems of society and the operational strategies which would facilitate this process of mutual trust between the people and organizations. NGOs on the one hand offer reasonable solutions in line with approved organizations as agents to match between the facts and reality of society and on the other hand changes to a tool to have true political, social and economical behavior. However, the NGOs are active in the formulation of national relations and policy formulation in an organized and disciplined based on three main factors, ie, resources, policies, and institutions. Organizations are not restricted to state administration in centralized system bodies and this process in the democratic system limits the accumulation of desires and expectations and at the end reaches to the desired place. Hence, this research will attempt to emphasis on field research (questionnaire) and according to the development evolution and role of NGOs analyze the effects of this center on youth. Therefore, the hypothesis is that there is a direct relationship between the Enlightenment and the effectiveness of policy towards NGOs and solving social damages.
L30|The Emergence of For-Profit Higher Education Institutions|This paper examines the market conditions that facilitate the entry of for-profit institutions into the higher education market. I show how, despite significant government financial support for public institutions, for-profit institutions may still find it profitable to enter the market. They do so by spending large amounts of money on advertising campaigns in order to attract students who are relatively more influenced by the persuasive effect of advertising. I show that entry is more likely the more government subsidies are targeted directly toward students, as opposed to institutions. Even if it decreases social welfare, the introduction of market conditions that are friendly to for-profit universities will allow a government to fulfill its objective of increasing participation in the higher education system.
L30|Prassi deliberativa, creazione di spazi pubblici e community welfare|L'esperienza di policy di una piccola città italiana illustra come l’idea di spazio pubblico adottata dagli amministratori abbia riformato la spazialità della città e quale sia il potenziale di sviluppo di scelte di questo tipo in tempi di crisi. Si evidenziano i presupposti ed il percorso attraverso il quale le politiche di creazione di spazio pubblico sono in grado, in principio, di favorire comportamenti cooperativi e promuovere lo sviluppo della comunità.
L30|BOOK REVIEW: Dante Cracogna, Antonio Fici, and Hagen Henrÿ (Eds.): International Handbook of Cooperative Law|No abstract is available for this item.
L30|Las entidades del tercer sector como prestadores de servicios asistenciales en el IVA: exensiones y tipos reducidos<BR>[Third sector entities as providers of welfare services under VAT: exemptions and reduced rates]|El estudio trata de dar respuesta a las incertidumbres que se derivan de la actual regulación del IVA en materia de asistencia social, un sector de actividad de gran interés para las entidades de la economía social (Tercer Sector) y, en particular, para las cooperativas. Tras unas consideraciones generales sobre el funcionamiento del impuesto en este contexto, se analizan las exenciones y tipos reducidos aplicables a las prestaciones asistenciales.
L30|¿Siguen las ONG españolas los mecanismos voluntarios de accountability? Análisis del seguimiento de un grupo de ONG españolas de los principios propuestos por la Fundación Lealtad<BR>[Do spanish NGOs accountability mechanisms voluntarily? Analysis of a group of spanish NGOs of the rules proposed the Fundacion Lealtad]|Este trabajo comienza con una introducción en la que hacemos una reflexión sobre la importancia de transparencia en la información suministrada por las ONG, debido a que estimula a los donantes y al público en general, a depositar su confianza en las mismas, no solo respecto de la rendición de cuentas legalista, sino también para el resto de información que los usuarios solicitan. Respecto de la información contable, reconocemos la gran importancia que el informe de auditoría tiene, proporcionando calidad a los estados contables de las organizaciones. Por otra parte y centrándonos nuevamente en el contexto de España, analizamos el grado de aplicación de las normas contables y otras “buenas prácticas” de un grupo de ONG a partir de la información publicada por la Fundación Lealtad. A continuación intentamos comprobar si el no seguimiento de las “buenas prácticas” anteriores podría venir explicado por una serie de variables.
L30|Theoretical And Methodological Approaches On The Evaluation Of Business Incubators|The experience of developed countries on business incubators reveal that these establishments enable the entrepreneurs to focus on business development, job creation, and help foster interactions between entrepreneurs in a dynamic and innovative environment, which ultimately leads to the creation of small and medium sustainable entreprises. The incubator’s intensity and successful promotion of viable businesses depends on their level of development and quality. Therefore, for the evaluation of business incubators it is required to use certain indicators in order to detect factors that hinder their effectiveness. The success of a business incubator is its value to the economic environment and the ability to react quickly to changing external conditions.
L30|Culture Concentration|"Many cities contain local agglomerations of cultural organizations. The ""Museum Mile"" portion of 5th Avenue in New York, the Museumplein in Amsterdam, Exhibition Road in South Kensington, London are famous examples, and there are hundreds of others large and small. These clusters may arise for some of the same reasons that other agglomerations occur, although the cultural organizations that comprise them have more complex objective functions than the profit-maximizing firms whose agglomeration is more frequently studied. In this paper we assemble micro-geographic data on cultural non-profits in US urban areas from 1989 through 2009. We calculate several indices of concentration and dispersion, and assemble a panel data set to explore the impact of these concentrations on local economic well-being. We also present evidence consistent with a hypothesis that there are real agglomeration economies at work, lowering production costs and permitting a larger number of cultural organizations per capita in urban areas where the organizations are more clustered."
L30|Fatal Attraction: health care agglomeration and its consequences|In this paper we focus on a fundamental tension between the economies of agglomeration available to health care organizations and the impacts of spatial concentration of health care organizations on overall health outcomes. We identify plausible measures of health care concentration and dispersion, and adapt them to the US urban context. We calculate these measures for nonprofit health organizations for all US metropolitan areas from 1989 to 2009. We use these data to test for signs that agglomeration economies are important for these organizations. We use mortality rates to serve as an indicator of health outcomes, and provide an analysis of the impacts of agglomeration on health outcomes in US cities. This analysis highlights some disturbing results. The analysis suggests that health care organizations in US cities are more clustered than desirable for achieving the best health outcomes.
L30|Private Provision Of Public Goods And Information Diffusion In Social Groups| I describe a dynamic model of costly information sharing where private information affecting collective‐value actions is transmitted by social proximity. Individuals make voluntary contributions toward the provision of a pure public good, and information transmission about quality of provision is a necessary condition for collective provision to take place in a stationary equilibrium. I show that unlike in the case of private goods, better informed individuals face positive incentives to incur a cost to share information with their neighbors and that these incentives are stronger and provision of the pure public good greater the smaller are individuals' social neighborhoods.
L30|NGOs, from the Promotion of Civic Participation to Public Problems Solving|In the contemporary world, NGOs are considered as important tool for motivating the community. So they committed their true mission and the promotion of civic participation and strengthen social identities. Functional characteristics of non-governmental organizations are the element to leverage the centers of political and social development of powerful governments since they are concrete and familiar with the problems of society and the operational strategies which would facilitate this process of mutual trust between the people and organizations. NGOs on the one hand offer reasonable solutions in line with approved organizations as agents to match between the facts and reality of society and on the other hand changes to a tool to have true political, social and economical behavior. However, the NGOs are active in the formulation of national relations and policy formulation in an organized and disciplined based on three main factors, ie, resources, policies, and institutions. Organizations are not restricted to state administration in centralized system bodies and this process in the democratic system limits the accumulation of desires and expectations and at the end reaches to the desired place. Hence, this research will attempt to emphasis on field research (questionnaire) and according to the development evolution and role of NGOs analyze the effects of this center on youth. Therefore, the hypothesis is that there is a direct relationship between the Enlightenment and the effectiveness of policy towards NGOs and solving social damages.
L30|"""Das große Ziel immer im Auge behalten"": Sportimmanente Indikatoren des Trainerstils von Jürgen Klopp - Transfermöglichkeiten für Führungskräfte in Genossenschaftsbanken"|[Vorwort zur Veröffentlichung] Aus der Perspektive der Führungsforschung gehört Jürgen Klopp zu den transformationalen Führungspersonen, deren Führungsstil auf vier Komponenten basiert: Charisma bzw. Vorbildfunktion des Führenden, Motivation durch Zukunftsvisionen, Anregung zur Eigenverantwortung und individuelle Berücksichtigung des Einzelnen (Riedelbauch, K.: 2011, S. 13). Mit Blick auf die identifizierten Erfolgsfaktoren hat sich Jürgen Klopp bewusst oder unbewusst nach diesen Prinzipien des Führungsansatzes gerichtet. Auf dieser Basis lassen sich weitere neun Erfolgsfaktoren benennen. Zielformulierung, Motivation, hoher Individualitätsgrad, Individuum versus Team, Selbstvertrauen, Fehlermanagement, Wir-Gefühl, Veränderung und Respekt sind die Erfolgsbausteine, die Borussia Dortmund in ihrem Geschäftsfeld zu einer der erfolgreichsten deutschen Mannschaft hervorheben. Diese Faktoren können auch den bankbetrieblichen Führungsalltag beflügeln und unternehmerischen Erfolg begünstigen.
L30|Bundling information goods under 'breakeven' price|Bundling under monopoly tends to increase demand and market efficiency, but likely at the expense of transferring consumers' surplus to firms. Public utilities can use this increase in demand to reduce the monthly fee per consumer. To demonstrate it, I conduct a numerical analysis of the effects of bundling under breakeven price regulation for the Japan Broadcasting Corporation. I estimate the willingness-to-pay for broadcasting services and simulate consumer choices under pure bundling and a-la-carte pricing with breakeven price regulation. Comparing pure bundling and a-la-carte pricing of terrestrial television and satellite television, the increase in demand caused by bundling is very slight due to the strong positive correlation of WTPs. However, compared with a-la-carte pricing, consumer welfare increases by 1.7% with bundling of channels and by 28.2% with bundling of genres.
L30|Neue Beteiligungs- und Steuerungsprozesse in der ländlichen Entwicklung: Phase I der Begleitforschung zum Modellvorhaben|In diesem Bericht werden die Zwischenergebnisse der Begleitforschung 2012 bis 2013 zum Modellvorhaben LandZukunft des Bundesministeriums für Ernährung und Landwirtschaft (BMEL) vorgestellt. Das Modellvorhaben läuft von 2012 bis Ende 2014 in vier aus ursprünglich 17 Landkreisen ausgewählten peripheren Regionen und verfolgt drei Kernziele: Erstens die Aktivierung sogenannter unternehmerischer Menschen für die Regionalentwicklung, zweitens die Erprobung des Instrumentes des Regionalbudgets und anderer neuer Finanzierungsinstrumente und drittens das Austesten der politischen Steuerung über individuell vereinbarte und vertraglich festgeschriebene Ziele. Darüber hinaus erhofft sich das BMEL von dem Modellvorhaben neue Erkenntnisse und Ideen, die auch in anderen Regionen übernommen werden können. Die Begleitforschung konzentriert sich in der ersten Phase auf die angestoßenen Beteiligungsprozesse und ihre Steuerung. Untersucht wird vor allem, wie sich der Wettbewerbsansatz sowie der Ansatz des 'Steuerns über Ziele' und die damit verbundene Stärkung regionaler Entscheidungsfreiheit auf die ländlichen Entwicklungsprozesse auswirken. Ein weiterer Schwerpunkt liegt zu diesem frühen Zeitpunkt der Umsetzung auf der Frage, inwiefern es gelingt, neue Akteure zu mobilisieren, welche individuellen und institutionellen Faktoren dabei eine Rolle spielen und welche Auswirkungen die Beteiligung auf ausgewählte Ziele und Projekte hat. Die Untersuchung beruht auf insgesamt 184 leitfadengestützten Interviews mit den Kreisverwaltungen und den begleitenden Büros in den 17 Wettbewerbsregionen und mit den meisten an LandZukunft beteiligten Akteuren in den vier ausgewählten Regionen. Ergänzend werden Dokumente zur Strategie der Regionen und zu den neu geschaffenen Organisationsstrukturen sowie Protokolle eigener teilnehmender Beobachtungen bei Sitzungen und anderen Treffen ausgewertet. [...]
L30|Free to choose? The impact of healthcare reform|Has the introduction of greater choice and competition in healthcare in England led to improved outcomes for patients? The authors assess changes in the quality of care that hospitals provided for cardiac surgery patients following the mid-2000s reforms.
L30|Impure prosocial motivation in charity provision: Warm-glow charities and implications for public funding|We show that warm-glow motives in provision by competing suppliers can lead to inefficient charity selection. In these situations, discretionary donor choices can promote efficient charity selection even when provision outcomes are non-verifiable. Government funding arrangements, on the other hand, face verification constraints that make them less flexible relative to private donations. Switching from direct grants to government subsidies for private donations can thus produce a positive pro-competitive effect on charity selection, raising the value of charity provision per dollar of funding.
L30|It’s All About MeE: Using Structured Experiential Learning (‘e’) to Crawl the Design Space|There is an inherent tension between implementing organizations—which have specific objectives and narrow missions and mandates—and executive organizations—which provide resources to multiple implementing organizations. Ministries of finance/planning/budgeting allocate across ministries and projects/programmes within ministries, development organizations allocate across sectors (and countries), foundations or philanthropies allocate across programmes/grantees. Implementing organizations typically try to do the best they can with the funds they have and attract more resources, while executive organizations have to decide what and who to fund. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) has always been an element of the accountability of implementing organizations to their funders. There has been a recent trend towards much greater rigor in evaluations to isolate causal impacts of projects and programmes and more ‘evidence base’ approaches to accountability and budget allocations. Here we extend the basic idea of rigorous impact evaluation—the use of a valid counter-factual to make judgments about causality—to emphasize that the techniques of impact evaluation can be directly useful to implementing organizations (as opposed to impact evaluation being seen by implementing organizations as only an external threat to their funding). We introduce structured experiential learning (which we add to M&E to get MeE) which allows implementing agencies to actively and rigorously search across alternative project designs using the monitoring data that provides real time performance information with direct feedback into the decision loops of project design and implementation. Our argument is that within-project variations in design can serve as their own counter-factual and this dramatically reduces the incremental cost of evaluation and increases the direct usefulness of evaluation to implementing agencies. The right combination of M, e, and E provides the right space for innovation and organizational capability building while at the same time providing accountability and an evidence base for funding agencies.
L30|South Sudan’s Capability Trap: Building a State with Disruptive Innovation|"The prevailing aid orthodoxy works well enough in stable environments, but is ill-equipped to navigate contexts of volatility and fragility. The orthodox approach is adept at solving straightforward technical or logistical problems (paving roads, building schools, immunizing children), but often struggles or outright fails when faced with complex, adaptive challenges (fighting corruption, upholding the rule of law, establishing democratic institutions). South Sudan, the world’s newest country, presents a post-conflict environment full of complex, adaptive challenges. Prior to the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in 2005 South Sudan had no formal institutions of self-governance. During the CPA period and after independence in 2011, foreign development agencies have contributed billions of dollars of aid and technical assistance to ""build capacity"" in the nascent Government of South Sudan (GoSS). The donors utilized approaches and mechanisms of support that at least nominally reflect the prevailing aid orthodoxy. We argue that orthodox state building and capacity building more or less failed in South Sudan, leaving the world’s newest country mired in a ""capability trap"" (Andrews, et al 2012). Despite countless trainings, workshops, reforms, and a large corps of foreign technical assistants embedded within state ministries, there is an absence of real change, and GoSS now ""looks like a state"" but performs as anything but. The challenges presented by this new, complicated, post-conflict country demand innovative approaches to building state capability which go beyond importing ""best practice"" solutions while feigning ""client ownership."" We explore one such approach to disruptive innovation that has emerged: Problem Driven Iterative Adaptation (PDIA). To escape from the world's newest capability trap, South Sudan’s government and its international donors must challenge themselves to imagine innovative paths to state building, which diverge from ""business as usual"" and attempt to create something that lasts."
L30|Financial constraints of private firms and bank lending behavior|We investigate whether and how financial constraints of private firms depend on bank lending behavior. Bank lending behavior, especially its scale, scope and timing, is largely driven by bank business models which differ between privately owned and state-owned banks. Using a unique dataset on private small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) we find that an increase in relative borrowings from local state-owned banks significantly reduces firms’ financial constraints, while there is no such effect for privately owned banks. Improved credit availability and private information production are the main channels that explain our result. We also show that the lending behavior of local state-owned banks can be sustainable because it is less cyclical and neither leads to more risk taking nor underperformance.
L30|Inventorship and authorship as attribution rights: An enquiry into the economics of scientific credit|Authorship and inventorship are “attribution rights” upon which individual scientists build their reputation and career. Social and legal norms concerning their distribution within research teams are currently criticized for failing to inform third parties on individual contributions. We examine the case of teams engaged in the “double disclosure” of their research results through both publications and patents, and model the negotiation process taking place between junior or female team members and the senior (male) ones. We suggest that the former may give up inventorship in order to secure authorship, even when entitled to the both. Based on a sample of 680 “patent–publication pairs” (related sets of patents and publications) we show that, very frequently, one or more authors of a publication do not appear as inventors of a related patent. This is less likely to happen for first and last authors, which is in accordance both with our model and the prevailing legal norms on inventorship. However, the probability of exclusion from inventorship also declines with seniority, and increases for women, which is compatible with our model only.
L30|Patent office governance and patent examination quality|The present paper discusses the role of quality in patent examination process from the perspective of patent offices' behavior and organization. After documenting original stylized facts, the paper presents a model in which patent offices set patent fees and the quality level of their examination process. A higher effort in the examination process enhances the patent holders' protection in the judicial system and strengthens the screening of innovations with small inventive steps. We compare the quality of the examination process for various objectives of patent offices. Patent examination quality is the highest in an office maximizing incentives to innovate and the lowest in that maximizing the number of granted patents. A rent-seeking patent office can provide good incentives to innovate if it does not set too high markups on fees.
L30|Credit where credit is due? The impact of project contributions and social factors on authorship and inventorship|We examine the extent to which different types of substantive project contributions as well as social factors predict whether a scientist is named as author on a paper and inventor on a patent resulting from the same project. Using unique survey data from over 2000 life scientists, we find that the predictors of authorship differ from those of inventorship. A wider range of project contributions may result in authorship, and social factors appear to play a larger role in authorship decisions than in inventorship decisions. We also find evidence that project contributions and social factors interact in predicting authorship, suggesting that the two sets of factors should be considered jointly rather than seen as independent determinants of attribution. In addition to providing novel insights into the functioning of the authorship and inventorship system, our results have important implications for administrators, managers, and policy makers, as well as for innovation scholars who often rely on patents and publications as measures of scientists’ performance.
L30|Member Value in Co-operatives|Until today there is a research gap considering the question, what motivates a member to enter or leave a co-op, resp. what are the reasons to stay in a co-operative. The majority of studies about this topic mainly focus on economic factors and the rational behavior of the member. However, co-ops also have other purposes not associated with financial goals. The presented paper is proposing a new perspective on membership in co-operatives, which combines the German-speaking as well as the Anglo-American line of research, and is a first attempt for an interdisciplinary member value approach. The member value approach focuses on the individual member, but does not ignore the co-operative character all the same. Members have got different expectations towards the co-op whereas latent preferences, based on the nine basic needs by Max-Neef (1991), and economic goals must be distinguished. Member value arise as a result of the match between the latent preferences and economic goals of the members and the latent and manifest benefits provided by the co-op, therefore member value is not a statistic, but a dynamic concept.
L30|Informative advertising by an environmental group|Consuming a product does not (necessarily) reveal the environmental damage it may cause. In terms of environmental damage, most goods are credence goods. Therefore, advertising and pricing rarely can transmit such information effectively to consumers. This article considers the scope with which an environmental group (EG) can signal this information to consumers via advertising and campaigning. Although an EG can inform the public, the welfare effects are ambiguous. Therefore, the EG may not have an incentive to acquire information about the firm’s production practices. However, when the firm chooses the level of environmental damage and the EG chooses whether to acquire information, there exists a mixed-strategy equilibrium for some parameter values, such that the EG acquires information, and the threat of advertising causes the firm to produce an environmentally friendly good. Copyright The Author(s) 2013
L30|Designing a global standardized methodology for measuring social entrepreneurship activity: the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor social entrepreneurship study|Although there is a high level of practitioner, policymaker, and scholar interest in social entrepreneurship, most research is based on case studies and success stories of successful social entrepreneurs in a single country. We develop a methodology to measure population-based social entrepreneurship activity (SEA) prevalence rates and test it in 49 countries. Our results provide insights into institutional and individual drivers of SEA. Using the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) methodology of Total Entrepreneurial Activity (TEA), we find that countries with higher rates of traditional entrepreneurial activity also tend to have higher rates of social entrepreneurial activity. We develop a broad definition of social entrepreneurship and then explore types based on social mission, revenue model, and innovativeness. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
L30|Innovation and Inclusive Development: A Discussion of the Main Policy Issues|Inclusive development is a key policy priority since growth processes have not always helped lowerincome groups. Innovation is a major driver of growth and its relationship with inequalities in income and opportunities raises some important policy questions: Do innovation and the resulting technological change necessarily lead to increased inequalities? Do policies aimed at supporting innovation foster inequalities? To what extent can innovation be mobilised to improve the life conditions of the lower income groups? These questions are the basis of this report, which, prepared for the OECD-DST Conference on Innovation for Inclusive Development, reviews the existing evidence in response. L'innovation et le développement inclusif : une discussion des principales questions politiques Le développement inclusif est une priorité politique importante car la croissance économique ne bénéficie pas toujours aux groupes à faible revenu. L'innovation est un moteur de la croissance, et sa relation avec les inégalités de revenus et d'opportunités soulève des questions majeures : l'innovation et le changement technologique qui en résulte conduisent-ils nécessairement à l'accroissement des inégalités ? Les politiques visant à soutenir l'innovation conduisent-elles à une augmentation des inégalités ? Dans quelle mesure l'innovation peut-elle être mobilisée pour améliorer les conditions de vie des groupes à faible revenu ? Ces questions sont au départ du présent rapport, préparé pour la Conférence de l'OCDE et du DST sur l'innovation et le développement inclusif, qui passe en revue les informations et connaissances existantes sur le sujet.
L30|Propuesta para mejorar la progresividad del subsidio cruzado al agua potable en SEDAPAL|El siguiente documento tiene el propósito de evaluar el esquema tarifario de SEDAPAL, en relación al subsidio cruzado y los errores de inclusión y exclusión. La situación analizada y las propuestas serán evaluadas mediante la medición de un indicador de desempeño basado en Angel-Urdinola y Wodon (2007), el cual evaluará principalmente la focalización del esquema hacia aquellos usuarios de SEDAPAL en situación de pobreza. Para ello, se proponen diversos mecanismos con el cual se logre cumplir con minimizar los errores, sin poner en riesgo la estabilidad financiera de esta entidad prestadora del servicio.
L30|Motivation in paid work for non-profit organisations: the case of Private Social Solidarity Institutions|This research characterizes the motivations of paid employees in Private Social Solidarity Institutions (Instituições Particulares de Solidariedade Social – IPSS ), based on self-determination theory. It analyses the impact of types of motivation and employee identification with an organisation on their intention to stay in the organisation. An online questionnaire was given by the District Union of Private Social Solidarity Institutions of Porto (União Distrital de Instituições Particulares de Solidariedade Social do Porto – UDIPSS Porto) to the employees of the IPSS, and the use of structural equations for data analyses allows characterising the relationship between motivations and the intention to remain in an institution. The results show that the more internalized motivations are those most valued by employees and they also show a strong intention to remain in the institution. Internalized motivation is not predictive on the intention to stay with an organisation; however, integration and external regulation do have predictive roles. It is also possible to conclude that IPSS employees identify strongly with the organisation they work for, and that this intensifies the impact of their motivations in the intention to stay in the organisation.
L30|African Jobless Growth Morphology:Vulnerabilities and Policy Responses|As by product of economic growth, jobs are indeed transformational. In other words, efficiency increases as workers get better at what they do (as more productive jobs appear and less productive one disappear). In fact societies flourish as jobs bring together people from different ethnic and social backgrounds while providing alternatives to conflict. Unfortunately, in many African countries, unemployment rates are low and growth is seldom jobless. Regrettably, most of the poor work long hours and cannot make ends meet while the violation of basic human rights is not uncommon. Again, youth unemployment and unmet job expectations are alarming. Consequently, this paper provides a framework that cuts across sectors and shows that the best policy responses vary across African countries (depending on their levels of development, endowments, demography and institutions). Thus, at all stages of development, forcing economic production to spread evenly across areas is both elusive and expensive. Policy makers should therefore identify and execute strategies that balance development outcomes across areas by means of domestic integration instruments. However, in places where integration is hardest, the policy response should be comprehensively total: institutions that unite, infrastructure that connects, interventions that target, incentives that motivate as well as information and communication technologies that enables or drives.
L30|Nonprofit tax exemptions and market structure: The case of fitness centers|Nonprofits are increasingly present in industries with a large for-profit sector, raising questions about their competitive advantage afforded by the nonprofit tax exemption. We estimate an equilibrium model of market structure for recreation/fitness centers to assess whether nonprofit and for-profit firms compete directly for the same customer base. Our results suggest that the two ownership types serve independent markets. Consequently, nonprofits do not meaningfully crowd out for-profit competitors. We find that local property taxes, as a proxy for a firm’s tax burden, significantly affect for-profit entry and that nonprofit entry would fall by 25%, without affecting for-profit entry, if the same property tax liability was imposed.
L30|Social economy entities: a worldwide overview|The third millennium strongly shook the classic economic models, which are no longer able to face social pressure and labor market challenges. Based on solidarity, social responsibility and sustainable growth, social economy is presented to be an alternative for solving the diverse problems of modern society, especially the work integration of vulnerable people. At the European level, the definition of social economy was first promoted in 2002 at the European Standing Conference of Cooperatives, Mutual Societies, Associations and Foundations and the term of social enterprise as actor of the social economy field was recognized in October 2011. But social enterprises' history goes back hundreds of years ago and these organizations could be found all over the Globe. This paper aims to present the social economy models existing worldwide and their mechanism of operation, with a focus on European social economy models.
L30|The Role of Participatory Governance in the EMES Approach to Social Enterprise|This paper emphasizes the importance of participative governance in the EMES approach to social enterprise. The EMES approach is based on three dimensions, rather than a single one, as is common in most Anglo-American definitions of social enterprise. The latter often see social enterprise as a simple phenomenon that can be arranged along a continuum, ranging from economic to social, where more of one means less of the other. Alternatively, a “unified theory”, based on key elements from a single academic discipline, is proposed; but it fails to acknowledge the multi-disciplinary nature of the EMES approach. The multi-dimensional approach of EMES combines economic, social and political elements and, therefore, can more readily promote a truly multi-disciplinary understanding of this complex phenomenon. However, EMES needs to devote greater attention to exploring the interactive and interrelated nature of these three dimensions of social enterprise in Europe.
L30|A Two-production-period Model with State-owned and Labour-managed Firms|This paper considers a two-production-period model in which a state-owned firm competes against a labour-managed firm. In the first production period, the state-owned and labour-managed firms simultaneously and independently choose outputs. The chosen outputs become common knowledge and then, in the second production period, the firms simultaneously and independently choose outputs. After the second period outputs have been chosen, the market opens. The paper shows that there exists a subgame perfect Nash equilibrium that coincides with the Stackelberg outcome in which the labour-managed firm is the leader. Therefore, we find that in equilibrium the state-owned firm cannot play the role of the Stackelberg leader, whereas the labour-managed firm can.
L30|South Sudan's Capability Trap: Building a State with Disruptive Innovation|"The prevailing aid orthodoxy works well enough in stable environments, but is ill-equipped to navigate contexts of volatility and fragility. The orthodox approach is adept at solving straightforward technical or logistical problems (paving roads, building schools, immunizing children), but often struggles or outright fails when faced with complex, adaptive challenges (fighting corruption, upholding the rule of law, establishing democratic institutions). South Sudan, the world's newest country, presents a post-conflict environment full of complex, adaptive challenges. Prior to the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in 2005 South Sudan had no formal institutions of self-governance. During the CPA period and after independence in 2011, foreign development agencies have contributed billions of dollars of aid and technical assistance to ""build capacity"" in the nascent Government of South Sudan (GoSS). The donors utilized approaches and mechanisms of support that at least nominally reflect the prevailing aid orthodoxy. We argue that orthodox state building and capacity building more or less failed in South Sudan, leaving the world's newest country mired in a ""capability trap"" (Andrews et al 2012). Despite countless trainings, workshops, reforms, and a large corps of foreign technical assistants embedded within state ministries, there is an absence of real change, and GoSS now ""looks like a state"" but performs as anything but. The challenges presented by this new, complicated, post-conflict country demand innovative approaches to building state capability which go beyond importing ""best practice"" solutions while feigning ""client ownership."" We explore one such approach to disruptive innovation that has emerged: Problem Driven Iterative Adaptation (PDIA). To escape from the world's newest capability trap, South Sudan's government and its international donors must challenge themselves to imagine innovative paths to state building, which diverge from ""business as usual"" and attempt to create something that lasts."
L30|Competition in Health Care Markets|This chapter reviews the literature devoted to studying markets for health care services and health insurance. There has been tremendous growth and progress in this field. A tremendous amount of new research has been done since the publication of the first volume of this Handbook. In addition, there has been increasing development and use of frontier industrial organization methods. We begin by examining research on the determinants of market structure, considering both static and dynamic models. We then model the strategic determination of prices between health insurers and providers where insurers market their products to consumers based, in part, on the quality and breadth of their provider network. We then review the large empirical literature on the strategic determination of hospital prices through the lens of this model. Variation in the quality of health care clearly can have large welfare consequences. We therefore also describe the theoretical and empirical literature on the impact of market structure on quality of health care. The chapter then moves on to consider competition in health insurance markets and physician services markets. We conclude by considering vertical restraints and monopsony power.
L30|Free to Choose? Reform and Demand Response in the English National Health Service|The impacts of choice in public services are controversial. We exploit a reform in the English National Health Service to assess the impact of relaxing constraints on patient choice. We estimate a demand model to evaluate whether increased choice increased demand elasticity faced by hospitals with regard to clinical quality and waiting time for an important surgical procedure. We find substantial impacts of the removal of restrictions. Patients became more responsive to clinical quality. Sicker patients and better informed patients were more affected. We leverage our model to calculate potential benefits. We find increased demand responsiveness led to a significant reduction in mortality and an increase in patient welfare. The elasticity of demand faced by hospitals increased post-reform, giving hospitals potentially large incentives to improve their quality of care and find suggestive evidence that hospitals responded strongly to the enhanced incentives due to increased demand elasticity. The results suggests greater choice can enhance quality.
L30|Free to Choose? Reform and Demand Response in the English National Health Service|The impacts of choice in public services are controversial. We exploit a reform in the English National Health Service to assess the impact of relaxing constraints on patient choice. We estimate a demand model to evaluate whether increased choice increased demand elasticity faced by hospitals with regard to clinical quality and waiting time for an important surgical procedure. We find substantial impacts of the removal of restrictions. Patients became more responsive to clinical quality. Sicker patients and better informed patients were more affected. We leverage our model to calculate potential benefits. We find increased demand responsiveness led to a significant reduction in mortality and an increase in patient welfare. The elasticity of demand faced by hospitals increased post-reform, giving hospitals potentially large incentives to improve their quality of care and find suggestive evidence that hospitals responded strongly to the enhanced incentives due to increased demand elasticity. The results suggests greater choice can enhance quality.
L30|Do Social Incentives Matter? Evidence from an Online Real Effort Experiment|Money matters, but is that all? This column presents evidence that social incentives can boost productivity in sectors that rely on pro-social behaviour such as health, education, and social care. It argues that this may help explain the growing popularity of Corporate Social Responsibility programmes within firms.
L30|It's All about MeE: Using Structured Experiential Learning ('e') to Crawl the Design Space|There is an inherent tension between implementing organizations–which have specific objectives and narrow missions and mandates–and executive organizations–which provide resources to multiple implementing organizations. Ministries of finance/planning/budgeting allocate across ministries and projects/programmes within ministries, development organizations allocate across sectors (and countries), foundations or philanthropies allocate across programmes/grantees. Implementing organizations typically try to do the best they can with the funds they have and attract more resources, while executive organizations have to decide what and who to fund. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) has always been an element of the accountability of implementing organizations to their funders. There has been a recent trend towards much greater rigor in evaluations to isolate causal impacts of projects and programmes and more `evidence base´ approaches to accountability and budget allocations Here we extend the basic idea of rigorous impact evaluation–the use of a valid counter-factual to make judgments about causality–to emphasize that the techniques of impact evaluation can be directly useful to implementing organizations (as opposed to impact evaluation being seen by implementing organizations as only an external threat to their funding). We introduce structured experiential learning (which we add to M&E to get MeE) which allows implementing agencies to actively and rigorously search across alternative project designs using the monitoring data that provides real time performance information with direct feedback into the decision loops of project design and implementation. Our argument is that within-project variations in design can serve as their own counter-factual and this dramatically reduces the incremental cost of evaluation and increases the direct usefulness of evaluation to implementing agencies. The right combination of M, e, and E provides the right space for innovation and organizational capability building while at the same time providing accountability and an evidence base for funding agencies.
L30|Free to Choose? Reform and Demand Response in the English National Health Service|The impacts of choice in public services are controversial. We exploit a reform in the English National Health Service to assess the impact of relaxing constraints on patient choice. We estimate a demand model to evaluate whether increased choice increased demand elasticity faced by hospitals with regard to clinical quality and waiting time for an important surgical procedure. We find substantial impacts of the removal of restrictions. Patients became more responsive to clinical quality. Sicker patients and better informed patients were more affected. We leverage our model to calculate potential benefits. We find increased demand responsiveness led to a significant reduction in mortality and an increase in patient welfare. The elasticity of demand faced by hospitals increased post-reform, giving hospitals potentially large incentives to improve their quality of care and find suggestive evidence that hospitals responded strongly to the enhanced incentives due to increased demand elasticity. The results suggests greater choice can enhance quality.
L30|Influence des technologies de l’information sur la performance d’une organisation publique - Influence of Information technologies on public organization performance|(VF)Les technologies de l’information (désormais TI) sont au cœur de notre problématique et revêtent une importance stratégique. En effet, celles-ci permettent d’améliorer la performance d’une organisation. L’objectif de cet article est d’expliquer comment, à travers la théorie des parties prenantes et la théorie basée sur les ressources, les TI peuvent apparaître comme l’un des déterminants de la performance au sein d’une organisation publique. (VA)The information technologies (IT now) is the heart of our preoccupations and are a strategic importance. Indeed, these increase the performance of an organization. The aim of this paper is to explain how with stakeholders theory and resources based view, the IT can appear as one of the determinants of performance in public organization.
L30|Quality competition with profit constraints|Firms in markets such as health care and education are often profit constrained due to regulation or their non-profit status, and they are often viewed as being altruistic towards consumers. We use a spatial competition framework to study incentives for cost containment and quality provision by altruistic firms facing profit constraints. If prices are regulated, profit constraints lead to lower cost containment efforts, but higher quality if and only if firms are sufficiently altruistic. Under price competition, profit constraints reduce quality and cost containment efforts, but lead to lower prices if and only if firms are sufficiently altruistic. Profit constrained firms’ cost containment efforts are below the first-best, while their quality might be too high or too low. If prices are regulated, profit constraints can improve welfare and be a complement or substitute to a higher regulated price, depending on the degree of altruism.
L30|Corporate social responsibility in the mining industry: Perspectives from stakeholder groups in Argentina|Since the liberalisation of its investment regime in the 1990s, Argentina has seen a rise in foreign direct investment into large-scale exploration and exploitation of mineral resources. However, many social groups (local communities, grassroots movement and the church) often strongly oppose new mining projects on the grounds of environmental, ethical and economic concerns. In a situation marked by widespread conflict, mining companies continue operating and develop Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives which are often promoted as a means of contributing to the sustainability and development of the nation. The paper develops a framework to highlight how the principles of stakeholder theory could be used as conceptual and practical guidance for conflict-resolution oriented CSR policies. The framework is further used to analyse two case studies of conflictive mining projects in Argentina. The paper explores how key stakeholders perceive contribution of CSR to welfare and the socio-economic development of mining communities and sustainable development of the nation. It demonstrates that institutional and social stakeholder networks often strongly oppose the idea of voluntary self-regulation implied by CSR in situations characterised by weak governance. Even though the CSR of companies could be improved in areas of corporate communication, transparency, stakeholder engagement and dialogue, it is not seen as a panacea for the social conflicts in the sector.
L30|Failures of the State: Theory and Policy|The article deals with the evolution of approaches in modern economic theory to the problem of “failures of the state”. This approach, which has developed in opposition to concepts of “market failure”, can be seen as a search for a new strategy of political and economic analysis of mechanisms of resource allocation and of historical social institutions and their effect on the efficiency of economic processes. Special attention is paid to the problem of information retrieval as a starting point for the analysis of the economic functions of the public sector, to ways of funding state undertakings, to the impact of rent-seeking behavior, to the role of the political process, and to negative externalities such as lack of coordination and the presence of the state in the economy in general. An interdisciplinary approach to “failures of the state” takes into account the influence of legal norms and institutions on the nature of allocation of public resources, as illustrated by the examples from the modern Russian economy.
L30|Value Oriented Organizations with Value Neutral Hierarchies|This paper gives a game-theoretical treatment of the institutional homogenization of value-oriented firms. It explains why intrinsically motivated, value-oriented firms like non-profits may become similar to for-profit firms in terms of organization and norms. It highlights and explains the pairs: value-oriented and flat organizations in contrast to value-neutral managers and hierarchical organizations. We consider a major donor like the government who delegates a project to an organization without endowments under asymmetric information. The non-profit is able to adapt its organization by establishing a hierarchy with an intrinsically motivated manager. The donor can in turn react by employing institutions in order to cope with information asymmetries regarding the mission of the organization and the unverifiable values of the manager. Two main cases are examined, one without competition and a competitive case. The equilibrium in the first case is a flat organization or alternatively highly altruistic hierarchy. The second competitive case is characterized by a value neutral hierarchy.
L30|Foundations Of Banking Origin. Governance And Normative Profiles In The Italian Context|Nowadays Corporate Governance is one of the most interesting and controversial matters of research and study. Undoubtedly, the economic developments of the last decade have made the need for detailed analysis about the processes of Governance and its impact on corporate choices even more fascinating and relevant. This should be done through an interdisciplinary approach, because in fact, the term Governance cannot and must not be exclusively linked to economic and company aspects only. Indeed, the present economic conditions demonstrate the large correlation between social, economic and political factors. Because of this interconnectedness, the importance of the Italian Credit Institutions is highlighted because of their active and decisive part in private and corporate choices. Over the centuries, Italian Savings Banks in particular have been a clear example of such interdependence amongst the public and the private. They were first simple Charity Institutions and then they evolved to play an increasingly important role amongst the Credit Institutions. Their quickness in spreading across the Italian territory and their need to take care of their own clients’ several necessities, induced the Banking Foundations to adopt a precise and rigorous Governance structure which we intend to analyse in this work. It is necessary, therefore, for a complete comprehension, to address the issues concerning the Credit and Savings Institutions’ regularity, current nature and goals. Here, it is also relevant to mention perhaps the most controversial issue about the Banking Foundations, that is, their dual public and private goals and, consequently, the different interests which follow.In conclusion, through this work, we want to give a framework in order to comprehend the Italian Institution of Savings Banks, and particularly, their metamorphosis into Foundations of Banking origin, their role and their particular importance for enterprises development.
L30|Essentials of University Strategy Development in the Field of Lifelong Learning|The process of strategy development reflects, in any organisation, the clarity of the purpose of the organisation’s mere existence. Although many organisations may decide ‘to go with the flow’, in the current economic context it is advisable that organisations, including higher education institutions, go through a thorough strategy development process. The lifelong learning approach brings a shift in the paradigm of education, and was considered to be the manner in which individuals get educated in the knowledge-based society. The most active players in the higher education market embraced this approach by developing lifelong learning strategies, either separated or incorporated in the overall university strategy. In this context, the study presents guidelines for the development of strategies in universities, and attempts to investigate to which extent three public universities representative for different regions of Romania have embraced the lifelong learning approach in their university strategies so far. The investigation uses the framework of the principles of university lifelong learning presented in the Universities‘ Charter on Lifelong Learning (2008).
L30|The Contribution of FDI, Technology and R&D to Spillovers in Industrial Development: A South African Firm-Level Investigation|This article studies the contribution of technological and knowledge spillovers towards the competitiveness of South African manufacturing firms. Literature often emphasizes the role of foreign direct investment (FDI), technology, and research and development (R&D) in spillovers, but seldom consider their effect simultaneously. This study focuses on the micro-economic production level and on the interaction of these factors. It determines their influence on the competitiveness, profits and eventual industrial development. The empirical study utilised data from the World Bank’s firm-level survey on South African manufacturers. The study reveals that direct foreign investments and ownership contribute little towards secondary spillovers, which probably depends on absorptive capacity. Technological advancement is not very significant, while research and development are dependent on absorptive capacity to enhance competitiveness, especially with regard to the investment in human capital. International quality certification, foreign licensing and capacity utilisation all contribute positively towards the ability to enhance productivity growth and the competitiveness of firms.
L30|The Effect of Tax Credit on Politically Distorted Allocations: A Theoretical Approach|Many countries have adopted policies to give preferential treatment for voluntary contributions to certain public goods. Taxable deductions, matching subsidies and rebate subsidies, which decrease gthe price of giving h for donors, are prototypical examples. However, the more aggressive policy of tax credit for voluntary contributions to certain public goods which decreases gthe price of giving h to zero, has not been studied so far in detail, although such a policy can be seen in several countries: the Percentage Law in Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Slovakia, and the Hometown Tax-payment policy in Japan. In these countries, and especially in Eastern European countries, such a policy is justified because, by decentralizing the power of government, it allows individuals to reveal their gtrue h preferences and thus allows necessary adjustment for distorted government allocations. In this paper, I find that, such a policy has this adjustment effect if, and only if, the size of the tax credit exceeds certain threshold. In other words, such a policy can be totally cancelled out by a lobby-government coalition if its size falls beneath a threshold.
L30|The non-government organizations in Slovakia and Austria and the current state of their self-financing|"In this paper we map the development of the NGO sector in Slovakia and Austria. In the context of a common historical development we assess the current state and economic strength of NGOs in both countries. Furthermore, the presented paper deals with the self-financing of non-government organizations and compares the current state and potential of self-financing in Slovakia and Austria. We focus on exploring the self-financing activities of NGOs in the context of maintaining a generally beneficial purpose for which they were founded. We draw on the comparable findings of primary research conducted in Slovakia and Austria, showing that self-financing must be understood in a broader context than a ""business"" of non-government organizations and that it can be in compliance with the general benefit as the primary purpose of organizations founded on a non-profit basis."
L30|Motivational Capital and Incentives in Health Care Organisations|This paper explores optimal incentive schemes in public health institutions when agents (doctors) are intrinsically motivated. We develop a principal-agent dynamic model with moral hazard in which agents’ intrinsic motivation could be promoted (crowding-in) by combining monetary and non-monetary rewards. Intrinsic motivation could also be discouraged (crowding-out) when the health manager uses only monetary incentives. We discuss the conditions under which investing in doctors’ motivational capital by the use of well designed nonmonetary rewards is optimal for the health organizations manager. Our results show that such investments will be more efficient than pure monetary incentives in the long run. We will also prove that when doctors are risk-averse, it is profitable for the health manager to invest in motivational capital.
L30|The Trillion Dollar Conundrum: Complementarities and Health Information Technology|We examine the heterogeneous relationship between the adoption of EMR and hospital operating costs at thousands of US hospitals between 1996 and 2009. We first document a previously-identified puzzle: Adoption of EMR is associated with a slight cost increase. Drawing on the literature on IT and productivity, we analyze why this average effect arises. We find that: (i) EMR adoption is initially associated with a rise in costs; (ii) EMR adoption at hospitals in IT-intensive locations leads to a decrease in costs after three years; and (iii) Hospitals in other locations experience an increase in costs even after six years.
L30|Crisis Caused Changes in Intrinsic Liquidity Value in Non-Profit Institutions|Liquid assets which nonprofit institutions holds are not a source of any special interests and although the close to cash assesses together with credit lines available for nonprofit institution are connected with resigning from realization of the part of incomes or costs, nonprofit institutions decide to hold some liquidity reserves. And not only this resulting from transactional needs, but also from precautional and speculative reasons. Investment in liquid reserves resulting from speculative demand for money may be assessed by usage of capital budgeting methods. In the paper, each of these aspects of liquidity was taken into consideration and presented from nonprofit perspective. Nonprofit liquidity value determination may often significantly contribute to the solution of working capital management problems in these institutions.
L30|Family control and expropriation at not-for-profit organizations: evidence from korean private universities|We study an agency problem in private universities — the conflict between controlling families and other stakeholders. We investigate whether universities over which controlling families have disproportionately significant power relative to the amount of funds they contribute, that is, universities with high expropriation risk, are associated with lower outside donations and poor quality. Using a sample of Korean private universities, we find that measures of family control in excess of monetary contributions are negatively related to the level of outside donation and measures of university quality. We also find that universities at which the controlling family exerts disproportionate control are more likely to face disputes between the controlling family and other stakeholders. Finally, we show that our results are not driven by reverse causality.
L30|A blueprint for a better railway: how innovation, devolution and competition can help Britain's railways to serve consumers better|This paper sets out the origins and development of the UK's unique system of rail operation, funding and regulation. It sets out options to tackle the system's shortcomings to that it works better in the interests of customens and taxpayers. The industry needs the freedom to innovate, to deliver better value and to make rail more attractive for passengers and freight. For too long the rail industry, the government, and the regulator have created ever more byzantine funding and decision-making structures, and since privatisation regulator and government have been drawn into operational detail instead of being focused on what matters-ensuring the industry serves its customers at the best price for the taxpayer.
L30|Analysis of Cross-Country Differences in the Non-Profit Sector Size|This paper theoretically and empirically investigates variations in the size of the non-profit sector among countries. Although the non-profit sector has experienced growth in relative socio-economic importance in recent decades, the available data on the size of the sector indicates substantial variations among countries. Existing literature provides several multi- and interdisciplinary theories, hypotheses and concepts that try to explain those differences, such as for instance the heterogeneity and failure theories, the resource dependence theory and interdependence theory. Empirical findings indicate that the selection of the measurement of sector size influences the ability to explain the differences in the size of the sector across countries. The results of a crosssection regression analysis indicate that almost three quarters of cross-national variation in the sector workforce could be explained, whereas pooled regression indicates that almost three fifths of variation in sector size, if workforce and expenditures are taken as dimensions of the sector, could be explained. Moreover, regression analysis tends to support the propositions of resource dependence and demand heterogeneity (government failure) theory, although there is also some ground for supporting the interdependence theory.
L30|Social economy: going local to achieve the Strategy Europe 2020. Romania Case|Social economy could be considered a response to the crisis in Europe, a new European economic system able to unlock social innovation, growth and jobs and to achieve the set of ambitious objectives to be reached by 2020 in the five main areas: employment, innovation, climate change, education and poverty. Its role is recognized at EU level: in April 2011 the European Commission delivered the final text of “Single Market Act – Twelve levers to boost growth and strengthen confidence”, where lever 8 is “social business” with the goal to encourage social entrepreneurship, so all the actors of the single market who have chosen to pursue not only financial profits as a goal, but also social, environmental or ethical progress. Moreover, social economy is present in draft regulations regarding EU Cohesion policy 2014 – 2020. Support to social entrepreneurship figures among the future investment priorities of the Regulation of ESF and of the Regulation of ERDF. In this very supportive European context, in 2011 Romania begins to do the first steps towards the social economy, thanks to the SOP HRD 2007-2013 projects financed by ESF, Key Area of Intervention 6.1- “Developing Social Economy”. This paper presents also an overview of the conceptual framework of social economy, focusing on the emergence of social enterprise - an alternative model to the profit maximizing firm, not regulated yet in Romania, but more viable in the current socio-economic context: changes in the demand for and supply of welfare services, bottom-up mobilization, emergence of new types of enterprises and concepts. In the last part, the paper analyses in details the Romania case – the history of social economy in Romania, key-actors at present, the first statistics on social economy from “Atlas of Social Economy – Romania 2011”, the present challenges and the future directions.
L30|The constitution, organization and operation of non-profit organizations|Non-profit organizations are associations, foundations or federations which use their own assets and revenues in order to pursue activities of general, community or non-patrimonial purpose. According to these legal regulations, associations and foundations can be constituted by natural or legal persons with the purpose of undertaking such activities of general, community or non-patrimonial (non-profit) purpose. The organization and operation of non-profit organizations presents a series of particularities in the case of associations as opposed to foundations, but there are also common elements.
L30|Nuove competenze manageriali per i musei italiani nello scenario delle riforme del settore pubblico e dell'universita'|This work aims at highlighting the central role of higher education for sectors and fields in-volved in changing processes, like museum sector. First of all, we analyze the most relevant stages of change of higher education in Europe, due to the promotion of the Bologna process. With this analysis, we intend to consider the theoretical components of this reform process: they are largely overlapping with those of general public sector reform. In particular, the common features regard the promotion of the autonomy of the organizations implicated in them, the quest for quality services and the promotion of social inclusion. Therefore, museums are claimed to be proactive in answering to these changes. In this sense, the Associations of Museums which have promoted Charters of Museum Professions, both at national and European level, play an important role. Museums need managerial figures able to interpret the new challenges. Indeed we think an integrated and interdisciplinary education process is necessary, with the support of concrete experiences inside museums and other cul-tural institutions and a cross-approach to the functions of research, defense, preservation, de-velopment and communication. Finally, on-the-job training and ongoing education should be-come usual practices, in order to adapt competences and capabilities of the museums human resources to the evolution of the society and the constant development of the innovation.
L30|Culture Shocks and Consequences: the connection between the arts and urban economic growth|Is there a relationship between local arts and culture production and local prosperity that is permanent rather than transitory? The answer to this question determines whether arts and culture production generates economic growth or a temporary `multiplier' effect that diminishes over time. We argue that despite the obvious public policy interest in the subject there has been no fully satisfactory empirical analysis of this question. In this paper we provide a model that allows us to think systematically about the problem and an empirical methodology capable of testing relevant hypotheses concerning possible answers to the question. We identify data to which these methods can be applied, using per capita GDP and expenditure levels of arts and culture production by not-for-profit organizations in US urban areas. Our analysis suggests that the impact of arts and culture production is not transitory. Shocks to local arts and culture production generate impacts that alter the local economy and change steady-state GDP.
L30|Competition in the market for supplementary health insurance: The case of competing nonprofit sickness funds|This paper examines the competition of nonprofit sickness funds in the market for supplementary health insurance. We investigate product quality strategies when quality is costly and the sickness funds are competing for customers. As long as the sickness funds choose the qualities for simultaneously, any equilibrium will be nondifferentiated. Only if total demand is increasing in quality, both sickness funds provide the maximum quality. For decreasing total demand the existence of an equilibrium depends on the consumers' sensitivity. If there is no equilibrium in the simultaneous competition, sequential quality competition leads to a differentiated equilibrium with a first mover advantage.
L30|Einsatz von eGuides auf der Marienburg in Malbork (Polen): Erhebung und Analyse einer Best Practice|Multimediale Besucherleit- und Informationssysteme, sogenannte eGuides, spielen eine zunehmend wichtige Rolle für Besucherinnen und Besucher von Sehenswürdigkeiten und Ausstellungen. Das EU- Projekt BalticMuseums 2.0 Plus befasst sich mit der Einführung von eGuide-Systemen in Meeresmuseen entlang der südlichen Ostseeküste. Im Rahmen dieses Projektes ist u. a. die Messung der Benutzerakzeptanz für eGuide-Systeme vorgesehen. Der hierzu entwickelte Fragebogen sollte in einem Feldversuch getestet werden. Als Testobjekt wurde das Schlossmuseum auf der Marienburg im heutigen Malbork (Polen) ausgewählt, da dieses Museum die Nutzung eines eGuide-Systems auf der Basis von iPods alternativ zur personellen Gruppenführung anbietet. Die Ergebnisse der im Juli 2011 durchgeführten und bis November 2011 ausgewerteten Besucherbefragung werden in diesem Arbeitspapier dargestellt.
L30|Peer effects and academics' industry involvement: The moderating role of age on professional imprinting|This study explores the interaction between professional imprinting and age in the context of industry-science collaboration. Specifically, we examine the impact of localized and personal peer effects on academics' involvement with industry and how these effects are moderated by the career age of the scientist. We suggest that both localized and personal peer effects drive industry involvement but that the effects from such imprinting are more pronounced for younger researchers, suggesting that professional imprinting takes place in the early stages of a scientist's academic career. Based on a sample of 330 German academics in the field of biotechnology and publication data from the Science Citation Index Expanded (SCIE), we find that scientists with industry-oriented co-authors are more likely to be involved with industry (personal peer effect). Moreover, we find that the scientist's involvement increases with the orientation of the scientist's department towards industry (localized peer effect). Only the latter effect turns out to be moderated by scientist's age. While personal peer effects are independent of the scientist's age, localized peer effects emerge for younger researchers.
L30|Some Aspects of the Behaviour of Informal Economy|The problems inherent to the informal economy are dealt and analysed by representatives of various institutions. They are focused by scientists, syndicate leaders, politicians and even by the actors therein. Due to the interrelation between the informal economy and the human factor behaviour an answer should be given to various issues concerning the formal facts and the informal truths about the personality, the motivations for involvement and the conditions, creating a suitable environment for the “gray” economy. The concept of the informal economy as a function of human factor behaviour enables the revelation of the importance of the system of values to motivate a specific conduct. The established link between the informal economy and various forms of behaviour and market discrepancies makes it possible to look for compatible methods and instruments to restrict it.
L30|Some Aspects of the Behaviour of Informal Economy|The problems inherent to the informal economy are dealt and analysed by representatives of various institutions. They are focused by scientists, syndicate leaders, politicians and even by the actors therein. Due to the interrelation between the informal economy and the human factor behaviour an answer should be given to various issues concerning the formal facts and the informal truths about the personality, the motivations for involvement and the conditions, creating a suitable environment for the “gray” economy. The concept of the informal economy as a function of human factor behaviour enables the revelation of the importance of the system of values to motivate a specific conduct. The established link between the informal economy and various forms of behaviour and market discrepancies makes it possible to look for compatible methods and instruments to restrict it.
L30|Modeling Internal Decision Making Process: An Explanation Of Conflicting Empirical Results On Behavior Of Non‐Profit And For‐Profit Hospitals|This paper develops multiobjective models of hospital decision making that incorporate the internal decision process in both a for-profit and a nonprofit hospital. Predicted output and quality for a nonprofit hospital differ from those for a for-profit hospital under some conditions but converge under others. Convergence may be the result of a complex internal decision structure with decision control primarily by physicians; similar objectives across different organizational forms; or differing constraints. The mechanisms underlying these outcomes provide explanations for conflicting result in empirical studies of nonprofit and for-profit hospitals and provide a different rationale for convergence than nonprofit response to competition from for-profit hospitals. Understanding the source of convergence is important for policies directed toward the tax treatment of nonproift hospitals.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L30|Endogenous Timing In A Mixed Duopoly: Weighted Welfare And Price Competition| In this paper we analyse the endogenous order of moves in a mixed duopoly for differentiated goods. Firms choose whether to set prices sequentially or simultaneously. The private firm maximises profits while the public firm maximises the weighted sum of the consumer and producer surpluses (wighted welfare). It is shown that the result obtained in equilibrium depends crucially on the weigth given to the consumer surplus in weighted welfare and on the degree to which goods are substitutes or complements. We also anlyse whether the equilibria obtained maximise the sum of the consumer and producer suspluses or not. Finally we study whether the nationality of the private firm influences the results.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L30|Social economy and the fourth sector, base and protagonist of social innovation|"The regeneration of the current economic system demands a new kind of innovation whose patterns and participants differ from the purely technological paradigm. Thus has social innovation arisen from different political and academic spheres as a phenomenon connected in a myriad of ways to the positions postulated in the organizational and business models that form the social economy. The aim of this paper is to explain these connections and potentials by defining a new protagonist in the socioeconomic sphere, the so-called ""fourth sector"". This is a new group of organizations and business models that is growing and adapting at an intersection between the public, private and social sectors, and that is being called upon to lead the new processes of social innovation. Their practices cross traditional sector boundaries and create new social relationships among stakeholders in order to develop innovative activities to meet social and / or environmental needs."
L30|Foundations and social economy: conceptual approaches and socio-economic relevance|Theoretical debate about the nature of charitable foundations has traditionally become polarized around two distinct conceptual approaches: the non-profit or third sector approach, versus the social economy approach. This research tries to find a common ground between these two approaches, and to highlight the specificities of the foundation as an organizational formula, supporting its current socio-economic relevance with latest quantitative data on the contemporary Spanish foundation sector. In order to achieve this purpose, data from the main empirical studies about the sector during the last decade are compared, with a special focus on those obtained by the recently constituted Institute for Strategic Analysis of Foundations (INAEF).
L30|Patent office Governance and Patent System Quality|The present paper discusses the role of quality in patent systems from the perspective of patent offices'behavior and organization. After documenting original stylized facts, the paper presents a model in which patent offices set patent fees and the quality level of their examination processes. Various objectives of patent offices' governors are considered. We show that the quality of the patent system is maximal for the patent offices that maximises either the social welfare or its own profit. Quality is lower for the self-funded patent office maximizing the number of patent applications and even smaller for the self-funded patent office maximizing the number of granted patents. A labor union improves examination quality and may compensate for the potentialy inappropriate objectives of patent office management.
L30|Quality competition with profit constraints: Do non-profit firms provide higher quality than for-profit firms?|In many markets, such as education, health care and public utilities, firms are often profit-constrained either due to regulation or because they have non-profit status. At the same time such firms might have altruistic concerns towards consumers. In this paper we study semi-altruistic firms’ incentives to invest in quality and cost-reducing effort when facing constraints on the distribution of profits. Using a spatial competition framework, we derive the equilibrium outcomes under both quality competition with regulated prices and quality price competition. Profit constraints always lead to lower cost-efficiency, whereas the effects on quality and price are ambiguous. If altruism is high (low), profit-constrained firms offer higher (lower) quality and lower (higher) prices than firms that are not profit-constrained. Compared with the first-best outcome, the cost-efficiency of profit-constrained firms is too low, while quality might be over- or underprovided. Profit constraints may improve welfare and be a complement or substitute to a higher regulated price, depending on the degree of altruism.
L30|Patent Office Governance and Patent System Quality|The present paper discusses the role of quality in patent systems from the perspective of patent offices' behavior and organization. After documenting original stylized facts, the paper presents a model in which patent offices set patent fees and the quality level of their examination processes. Various objectives of patent offices' governors are considered. We show that the quality of the patent system is maximal for the patent offices that maximises either the social welfare or its own proffit. Quality is lower for the self-funded patent office maximizing the number of patent applications and even smaller for the self-funded patent office maximizing the number of granted patents. A labor union improves examination quality and may compensate for the potentialy inappropriate objectives of patent office management.
L30|Non-partisan ‘get-out-the-vote’ efforts and policy outcomes|This paper utilizes a simple model of redistributive politics with voter abstention to analyze the impact of nonpartisan ‘get-out-the-vote’ efforts on policy outcomes. Although such efforts are often promoted on the grounds that they provide the social benefit of increasing participation in the electoral process, we find that they have a meaningful impact on policy outcomes and are an important political influence activity for nonprofit advocacy organizations. In equilibrium, nonpartisan gotv efforts are more likely to arise in those segments of the electorate that are sufficiently small and disenfranchised (as measured by the ex ante voter abstention rate). Among those segments in which such efforts arise, the resulting gains are increasing in the level of disenfranchisement of the voters in the segment and decreasing in the segment's size.
L30|No excuses for good behavior: Volunteering and the social environment|We study the effect of the social environment on the quantity and quality of voluntary labor contributions. By extending Benabou and Tirole's (2006) image signaling framework, we derive theoretical predictions on time volunteered given (1) the availability of excuses to stop volunteering and (2) the presence of an authority figure. We test these predictions in an experiment where laboratory subjects are directly involved in a local nonprofit operation. We find that in the absence of excuses to stop volunteering, subjects volunteer longer without working less productively. This increase is partially driven by subjects' reluctance to be the first to stop volunteering. The presence of an authority figure has little impact, but the presence of peers has a positive and significant impact.
L30|No excuses for good behavior: Volunteering and the social environment|We study the effect of the social environment on the quantity and quality of voluntary labor contributions. By extending Benabou and Tirole's (2006) image signaling framework, we derive theoretical predictions on time volunteered given (1) the availability of excuses to stop volunteering and (2) the presence of an authority figure. We test these predictions in an experiment where laboratory subjects are directly involved in a local nonprofit operation. We find that in the absence of excuses to stop volunteering, subjects volunteer longer without working less productively. This increase is partially driven by subjects' reluctance to be the first to stop volunteering. The presence of an authority figure has little impact, but the presence of peers has a positive and significant impact.
L30|The demand for products linked to public goods: Evidence from an online field experiment|We conduct a field experiment at a nonprofit organization's online store to study how demand changes when consumers' purchases can generate revenue for a charitable cause. When purchases can trigger a small donation by an outside anonymous group, consumers respond strongly and apparently without regard for the specific conditions that trigger the donation. Consumers respond similarly when the outside donation requires a personal donation which consumers generally decline. When the outside donations are relatively large, however, consumers appear to pay close attention to the trigger conditions, and increase their purchases only where needed to generate the outside donation. Overall, increasing the salience of financial incentives weakens consumers' positive responses to the outside group's donation pledges. We also present evidence that the donation pledges have positive long-term effects on demand and may reduce price sensitivity.
L30|Designing a Balanced Scorecard for the Evaluation of a Local Authority Organization|Introduced in the early 90’s by Kaplan and Norton, Balanced Scorecard (BSC) composed a contemporary framework for the evaluation of a company or an institution, translating mission and strategy into goals and measures, organized into four different perspectives: Financial, Customer, Internal Process and Learning and Growth. Several variations of the initial scorecard, developed in the years to follow, was intended to be applied by non–profit and government organizations, such as Local Authority Organizations (LAOs), where traditional evaluation methods, focused mainly on the financial performance, were not the most appropriate tools for their performance measurement. The purpose of this paper is to describe and present the design of a BSC in order to be applied to the evaluation of a LAO. The main alteration of the proposed scorecard is the modification of its architecture, where the Customer Perspective, which in the case of a LAO is named Stakeholders Perspective, is placed on the top of the scorecard, instead of the Financial, and is actually identical to the organization’s mission. For each one of the four perspectives of the model, a three–level sub–system is employed which contains one strategic goal, three to four objectives and up to five performance drives for every objective. The design of the scorecard starts with the definition of the strategic goal of every perspective and the process is completed with the selection of the objectives and the performance drivers of the four scorecard’s perspectives. The whole model is presented analytically in a table.
L30|Ein-Euro-Jobs und reguläre Beschäftigung / One-Euro-Jobs and Regular Employment: Eine Analyse potenzieller Substitutionseffekte mit Daten des IAB-Betriebspanels / An Analysis of Potential Substitution Effects Using the IAB Establishment Panel|The most widespread active labour market program in Germany is the so-called ‘One-Euro- Job’. Participants carry out social activities like caring for the elderly, city cleaning or environmental activities. The principal objective is to improve or maintain the employability of hard-to-place unemployed. However, there is a certain risk of within-firm substitution of regular employees by One-Euro-Job participants. The aim of the study is to identify such substitution effects in participating establishments. For this purpose I present some descriptive results from the survey ‘Experience with One-Euro-Jobs’. In a further step I use data from the IAB Establishment Panel 2004 to 2007 to identify substitution effects. To account for selectivity, I apply a difference-in-difference approach and propensity score matching. The empirical results indicate that regular employment relationships are not substituted by One-Euro-Jobs. This holds for West as well as for East Germany. However, the identification of within-firm substitution in the matching procedure requires that the program has no employment effect on the control group. Otherwise, substitution effects cannot be identified. For this reason, I provide evidence for potential displacement effects in the control group using a fixed-effects panel model. The results indicate that the control group is not affected by the program.
L30|Scientists’ perspectives concerning the effects of university patenting on the conduct of academic research in the life sciences|No abstract is available for this item.
L30|Identity, incentives and their dynamics in the production of publicly provided goods|"An important issue in the literature on the role of government provision of goods and services concerns the understanding of inefficiencies related to the opportunistic behavior of public employees. This paper studies incentives in such contexts and analyzes the consequences of introducing a behavioral component into a model of agency within public organizations. In particular, we argue that employees may be motivated to provide effort in ways that enable them to shape their identity/self image. The term identity describes gains and losses in utility from behavior that conforms or departs from the ideal prescribed for particular social categories, such as being a ""good"" public employee. We develop a principal-agent model that incorporates identity, in addition to monetary rewards, and we show that when agents are guided by such intrinsic motivations, it may be optimal for the principal to choose a relatively inefficient monitoring technology and reduce monetary incentives. The mechanism leading to this result is related to the general equilibrium effect going through the public administration budget constraint and the composition of workers within the firm. We then analyze a dynamic version of the model and show that a higher political instability may induce the government to adopt inefficient organization schemes that reduce the value of identity and negatively affect future provision of public services."
L30|Quality competition with profit constraints: Do non-profit firms provide higher quality than for-profit firms?|In many markets, such as education, health care and public utilities, firms are often profit-constrained either due to regulation or because they have non-profit status. At the same time such firms might have altruistic concerns towards consumers. In this paper we study semi-altruistic firms’ incentives to invest in quality and cost-reducing effort when facing constraints on the distribution of profits. Using a spatial competition framework, we derive the equilibrium outcomes under both quality competition with regulated prices and qualityprice competition. Profit constraints always lead to lower cost-efficiency, whereas the effects on quality and price are ambiguous. If altruism is high (low), profit-constrained firms offer higher (lower) quality and lower (higher) prices than firms that are not profit-constrained. Compared with the first-best outcome, the cost-efficiency of profit-constrained firms is too low, while quality might be over- or underprovided. Profit constraints may improve welfare and be a complement or substitute to a higher regulated price, depending on the degree of altruism.
L30|Effects of Procedural Justice Perception, Budgetary Control Effectiveness and Ethical Work Climate on Propensity to Create Budgetary Slack|Because of the increasing importance of effective and productive management of public organizations, budgetary slack is started to be seen as an important problem for public organizations. In order to contribute the solution of this problem, the current study investigates the effects of budgetary control effectiveness, ethical work climate and managers’ procedural justice perception on propensity to create budgetary slack in pubic organizations. The data is obtained through questionnaire responded by 465 managers who work in different public organizations. The results of the analyses show that effectiveness of budgetary control, ethical work climate and procedural justice perception of managers have a statistically significant and negative impact on managers’ propensity to create budgetary slack in public organizations. Budgetary control and ethical work climate affect managers’ perception of procedural justice. In addition, it is inferred from the study that the perception of procedural justice has partial mediation effect between effectiveness of budgetary control, ethical work climate and propensity to create budgetary slack.
L30|Internal Audit Essential Component In The Structure Of A Modern Company|Internal audit has become an essential component in the structure of a modern company, providing greater efficiency through a more adequate human and material resources and a better coordination between different departments of a company. Ensuring that the company meets the standards of corporate governance, internal audit contributes to building a reputation for integrity, which will help develop business relationships based on trust. Internal audit helps the organization to achieve its objectives by evaluating through a systematic and methodical approach its risk management processes, control and governance of the enterprise, making proposals to strengthen their effectiveness. The ultimate objective of the audit process is to improve the use of information by communicating the results to interested users.
L30|University-Industry interactions and knowledge transfer mechanisms: a critical survey|This article reviews the literature on knowledge transfer mechanisms (KTMs) used in university-industry interactions. The literature may be articulated around four dimensions: (i) the relative importance of KTM as perceived by the involved stakeholders, (ii) the factors affecting the organisation of university-industry interactions, (iii) the interrelatedness of different KTMs and, (iv) the impact of increased university-interactions on traditional academic missions. An outstanding fact stemming from this review is that spin-offs and patents are not considered by the university and the industry as the most important KTMs. Traditional KTMs, such as publications or collaborative research however, are perceived as more significant ways of transferring knowledge. A large variety of factors influence the use of a KTM (for instance, characteristics of researchers or of the involved firms). While some trends may be outlined, not much is known so far about the interweaving of different KTMs. Consequently, no simple model of knowledge transfer between universities and the business sector is possible, and should certainly not be restricted to “new” KTMs. As regards to the risks of increased reliance of university on the business sector, I suggest that those risks could be limited under some conditions.
L30|La percepción sobre la responsabilidad social en las sociedades cooperativas de trabajo asociado y las sociedades laborales: un análisis en el ámbito de la ciudad de Madrid<BR>[The perception of social responsability in workers cooperatives and labour managed firms in the city os Madrid]|Esta investigación analiza la percepción de las empresas de participación o de economía social de la ciudad de Madrid, en concreto de las sociedades cooperativas de trabajo asociado y de sociedades laborales, sean anónimas o limitadas, sobre diferentes aspectos relativos a la denominada Responsabilidad Social Corporativa. El trabajo realizado se basa en la obtención de las valoraciones de los responsables de las sociedades objeto de estudio, a través de un cuestionario dirigido a una muestra de estas empresas, el cual ha sido complementado con reuniones de trabajo y entrevistas personales. En el mismo se ha podido constatar que existe cierta preocupación y concienciación sobre la responsabilidad de las empresas con la sociedad y su entorno, sobre todo por parte de los socios trabajadores de estas empresas. Por otro lado, también se ha detectado que es necesario fomentar la asunción de los criterios socialmente responsables por parte de las empresas, potenciar el desarrollo de memorias de sostenibilidad y una mayor implicación de todos los colectivos vinculados con las empresas no sólo los socios trabajadores sino también los socios que sólo aportan capital, los trabajadores no socios, las administraciones y los proveedores, entre otros; puesto que aún existe cierta distancia en comparación con las actuaciones que llevan a cabo empresas de mayor dimensión.
L30|Desigualdad de género en tiempos de crisis: análisis comparativo de la economía social<BR>[Gender inequality in times of crisis: a comparative analysis of social economy]|La crisis económica en la que aún se halla inmersa la economía española ha sido especialmente procaz en el mercado laboral. Las abultadas cifras de desempleo parecen enmascarar una tétrica situación que es experimentada de desigual forma por hombres y mujeres. En este contexto, el objetivo fundamental de este artículo estriba en analizar si las diferencias de género existentes en el mercado laboral español se manifiestan del mismo modo durante la actual crisis o bien se aprecian diferencias entre la época de recesión y la inmediatamente anterior. Valorar si la crisis ha afectado por igual a los miembros de uno y otro sexo o si ha habido diferencias sustanciales entre ellos, conforma el hilo conductor de este trabajo, y en su seno evidenciar las eventuales diferencias existentes entre las empresas de Economía Social y el resto de empresas de la economía española.
L30|Performance Measurement Systems in Theatres: The Case of the Municipal Theatre of Ferrara|In recent years, cultural organisations have introduced and tested new management tools to achieve their institutional goals of efficiency, effectiveness and social cohesion. This process has been widely linked to New Public Management for public sector cultural organisations, but the introduction of these tools has been an interesting process in private cultural organisations too. This paper aims at considering more specifically one kind of management tools: performance measurement systems. Their goal is to give to the management a set of information of quantitative and qualitative nature that could guide the strategic choices in the long-term. With this work, we will consider the real possibilities of application of a good performance measurement system in cultural organisations, with a particular focus on theatres. Our research starts with the analysis of the theoretical framework of performance measurement systems and theatres management. The theoretical approach is supported by the analysis of a case study, the Municipal Theatre of Ferrara (Italy). In this way, we will try to verify and discuss opportunities and critical points implied by the introduction of a performance measurement system in theatres.
L30|eGuides in kulturellen Einrichtungen: Deutschsprachige Museums-Apps|Multimediale Informations- und Führungssysteme in Kultur und Freizeit spielen eine zunehmend wichtige Rolle für Besucher von Sehenswürdigkeiten und Ausstellungen. Derartige Systeme können als Weiterentwicklung von herkömmlichen Audioguides ihre Nutzer bei der Orientierung im Ausstellungsraum oder -gelände und bei der Information zu den Exponaten oder Objekten unterstützen. Ein spezielles Segment hat sich in letzter Zeit im Bereich der Applikationen (Apps), die auf Smartphones benutzt werden können, entwickelt. Vor diesem Hintergrund soll an dieser Stelle die aktuelle Situation bei Museums-Apps beleuchtet werden (Stand: 30. April 2011). Deutschsprachige Museums-Apps bilden den Anfang, um einen Überblick in Deutschland, Österreich, Schweiz zu bekommen. In diesem Arbeitspapier stehen vor allem die Funktionalität und die Bedienbarkeit der Anwendungen im Vordergrund.
L30|The Dissemination of Scholarly Information: Old Approaches and New Possibilities|Current methods of disseminating scholarly information focus on the use of journals who retain exclusive rights in the material they publish. Using a simple model we explore the reasons for the development of the traditional journal model, why it is no longer efficient and how it could be improved upon. One of our main aims is to go beyond the basic question of distribution (access) to that of filtering, i.e. the process of matching information with the scholars who want it. With the volume of information production ever growing - and attention ever more scarce - filtering is becoming crucial and digital technology offers the possibility of radical innovation in this area. In particular, distribution and filtering can be separated allowing filtering to be made open and decentralized. This would promises to deliver dramatic increases in transparency and efficiency as well as greatly increased innovation in related product, processes and services.
L30|Pay as you go: a new proposal for museum pricing|Museums have many different goals beyond efficiency such as social equity, financial revenue, attracting donors and gaining international, regional or local prestige. Various pricing schemes are being discussed with the aim of reaching these goals. The classical ones are entry prices and free entry. The museum club solution or exit donations allow for various additional goals. Each scheme has clear advantages and disadvantages. We propose an innovative pricing instrument: Exit prices, which are charged according to the time spent in a museum. This scheme has a number of notable advantages, in particular the better choice available to the visitors, which increases their satisfaction.
L30|Withering academia?|Strong forces lead to a withering of academia as it exists today. The major causal forces are the rankings mania, increased division of labor in research, intense publication pressure, academic fraud, dilution of the concept of “university”, and inadequate organizational forms for modern research. Academia, in a broader sense understood as “the locus of seeking truth and learning through methodological inquiry,” will subsist in different forms. The conclusion is therefore pessimistic with respect to the academic system as it presently exists but not to scholarly endeavour as such. However, the transformation predicted is expected to be fundamental.
L30|Withering Academia?|Strong forces lead to a withering of academia as it exists today. The major causal forces are the rankings mania, increased division of labor in research, intense publication pressure, academic fraud, dilution of the concept of “university,” and inadequate organizational forms for modern research. Academia, in a broader sense understood as “the locus of seeking truth and learning through methodological inquiry,” will subsist in different forms. The conclusion is therefore pessimistic with respect to the academic system as it presently exists but not to scholarly endeavour as such. However, the transformation predicted is expected to be fundamental.
L30|Religious Organizations|"We propose a model of religious organizations which relies on the ability of such organizations to affect individual beliefs about the causality between actions in the social context and personal utility shocks. We show how religious organizations arise endogenously and characterize their features. Specifically, we find that members of the religious organization share similar beliefs and are more likely to cooperate with one another in social interactions. We identify a ""spiritual"" as well as a ""material"" payoff for members of the religious organization. Our results explain and shed light on empirical phenomena such as the effects of secularization and economic development on religious beliefs and participation, the relation between the size of the religion and the intensity of its members' beliefs, religious segregation and religious conflicts."
L30|Competition and the Strategic Choices of Churches|We examine how the decisions of churches are impacted by the decisions of rival churches. Using a novel dataset, we estimate a model of strategic interaction, which accounts for the location and denomination of churches. We focus on a church's decision of whether to provide a weekday child care program. Empirical evidence indicates that churches compete more strongly with same-denomination churches than with different-denomination churches. These effects diminish with distance. (JEL J13, L31, Z12)
L30|Standing on Academic Shoulders: Measuring Scientific Influence in Universities|This article measures scientific influence by means of citations to academic papers. The data source is the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI); the scientific institutions included are the top 110 U.S. research universities; the 12 main fields that classify the data cover nearly all of science; and the time period is 1981-1999. Altogether the database includes 2.4 million papers and 18.8 million citations. Thus the evidence underlying our findings accounts for much of the basic research conducted in the United States during the last quarter of the 20th century. This research in turn contributes a significant part of knowledge production in the U.S. during the same period. The citation measure used is the citation probability, which equals actual citations divided by potential citations, and captures average utilization of cited literature by individual citing articles. The mean citation probability within fields is on the order of 10-5. Cross-field citation probabilities are one-tenth to one-hundredth as large, or 10-6 to 10-7. Citations between pairs of citing and cited fields are significant in less than one-fourth of the possible cases. It follows that citations are largely bounded by field, with corresponding implications for the limits of scientific influence. Cross-field citation probabilities appear to be symmetric for mutually citing fields. Scientific influence is asymmetric within fields, and occurs primarily from top institutions to those less highly ranked. Still, there is significant reverse influence on higher-ranked schools. We also find that top institutions are more often cited by peer institutions than lower-ranked institutions are cited by their peers. Overall the results suggest that knowledge spillovers in basic science research are important, but are circumscribed by field and by intrinsic relevance. Perhaps the most important implication of the results are the limits that they seem to impose on the returns to scale in the knowledge pro<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L30|Standing on Academic Shoulders: Measuring Scientific Influence in Universities|This article measures scientific influence using citations to academic papers. The data source is the Institute for Scientific Information; institutions include top U.S. research universities. The fields represented span science; and the time period is 1981-1999. The database includes 2.4 million papers and 18.8 million citations that account for much of the basic research conducted in the United States in the late 20th century. We use the citation probability, or actual citations divided by potential citations, to capture utilization of the literature by individual articles. Within fields the mean citation probability is roughly 10^-5. Cross-field probabilities are less than a one-tenth as large and are significant in less than a fourth of the possible cases. Field restricts citation, and this fact suggests limits on scientific influence. Cross-field probabilities are symmetric for mutually citing fields. However, ranked by quality of institution, citation probabilities are asymmetric within fields. Citation probabilities from lower to higher ranked institutions exceed the reverse citations, though the latter are significant. Higher ranked institutions are more often cited by peers than lower ranked institutions. This suggests that knowledge flows from peers increase with rank of institution. Overall the results suggest that spillovers in basic science are important but bounded, limiting the knowledge that spills over between one scientist and another.
L30|Guidelines for the preparation of budgets in not-for-profit organizations|In the absence of clear and acceptable measures for outcomes, the budget is probably the most important managerial tool for nonprofits. Nevertheless many nonprofits operate without a budget at all, or with a limited version of a budget that is used solely for fundraising with no managerial role. The purpose of this paper is to present guidelines for the preparation of budgets that can serve all the aspects of the organization's activity. More specifically the budget should provide the organization's management with tools for decision making, risk management, measuring efficiency and the ability to present a cleat picture of the organization's activities to internal and external stakeholders. The adoption of these guidelines may benefit both nonprofits and their donors. Nonprofits will be able to improve the way they manage their programs while donors will be able to get a clearer picture of the organization and to simplify their procedures for grant applications.
L30|Understanding Radical Change: An Examination of Management Departments in German-speaking Universities|Can radical organizational change be better achieved through planned change measures or through change measures developed as part of an evolutionary process? Based on 20 open interviews as well as recent survey data from 236 junior faculty members and 382 senior faculty members from departments of management at German universities and other academic institutions, this study suggests that the value commitment of the relevant stakeholders is greater to evolutionarily-developed rather than planned change measures, which consequently results in the dominant influence of the evolutionary change measures. Our results support the notion that in contexts that resemble the situation of universities in Germany – namely multi-polar power distribution and demanding preference structures within the affected group – successful radical organizational change management necessitates that the organization develops suitable change measures in an evolutionary way in order to achieve its goals.
