L42|Vertical Integration and Foreclosure: Evidence from Production Network Data|This paper studies the prevalence of vertical market foreclosure using a novel dataset on U.S. and international buyer-seller relationships, and across a large range of industries. We find that relationships are more likely to break when suppliers vertically integrate with one of the buyers' competitors than when they vertically integrate with an unrelated firm. This relationship holds for both domestic and cross-border mergers, and for domestic and international relationships. It also holds when instrumenting mergers using exogenous downward pressure on the supplier's stock prices, suggesting that reverse causality is unlikely to explain the result. In contrast, the relationship vanishes when using rumoured or announced but not completed integration events. Firms experience a substantial drop in sales when one of their suppliers integrates with one of their competitors. This sales drop is mitigated if the firm has alternative suppliers in place.
L42|Dynamic Hospital Competition Under Rationing by Waiting Times|We develop a dynamic model of hospital competition where (i) waiting times increase if demand exceeds supply; (ii) patients differ in their evaluation of health benefits and choose a hospital based on waiting times; and (iii) there are penalties for providers with long waits. We show that, if penalties are linear in waiting times, a more competitive dynamic environment does not affect waiting times. If penalties are instead non-linear, we find that waiting times are longer under the more competitive environment. The latter result is derived by calibrating the model with waiting times and elasticities observed in the English NHS for a common treatment (cataract surgery), which also shows that the difference between waiting times under the two solution concepts is quantitatively small. Policies that facilitate patient choice, an alternative measure of competition, also lead to higher steady-state waiting times, and tougher penalties exacerbate the negative effect of choice policies.
L42|Platform Competition With Cash-back Rebates Under No Surcharge Rules|We analyze competing strategic platforms setting fees to a local monopolist merchant and cash-back rebates to end users, when the merchant may not surcharge platforms’ customers, a rule imposed by some credit card networks. Each platform has an incentive to gain transactions by increasing the spread between its merchant fee and user rebate above its rival’s spread. This incentive yields non-existence of pure strategy equilibrium in many natural environments. In some circumstances, there is a mixed strategy equilibrium where platforms choose fee structures that induce the merchant to accept only one platform with equal probability, a form of monopolistic market allocation.
L42|Hotel rankings of online travel agents, channel pricing, and consumer protection|We investigate whether online travel agents (OTAs) assign hotels worse positions in their search results if these set lower hotel prices at other OTAs or on their own websites. We formally characterize how an OTA can use such a strategy to reduce price differentiation across distribution channels. Our empirical analysis shows that the position of a hotel in the search results of OTAs is better when the prices charged by the hotel on other channels are higher. This is consistent with the hypothesis that OTAs alter their search results to discipline hotels for aggressive prices on competing channels, thereby reducing the search quality for consumers.
L42|Exploitative Abuse and Abuse of Economic Dependence: What Can We Learn From an Industrial Organization Approach?|This article conducts a detailed analysis of the concept of economic dependence and exploitative abuse based on how their treatment in competition law and economics and their enforcement in European case law have evolved. Although the theoretical roots of these concepts lie in economic theory, these issues have been ignored or considered only scantily in the context of competition law enforcement. An effects-based approach should take these problems into account and could provide insights into how to portray the impacts of these abuses. We draw on two examples???from the agri-food industries and the digital economy???of relevant economic dependence issues. This paper highlights the existence of a paradox: although industrial organization models provide relevant tools to characterize these abuses, assess their effects, and devise remedies, it seems that they are seldom used by competition law enforcers. Classification JEL: K21, L12, L40, L42
L42|Generiert der stationäre Buchhandel positive Nachfrageeffekte und verhilft dadurch dem Kulturgut Buch bei seiner Verbreitung? - Ein natürliches Experiment|In Österreich wird die Buchpreisbindung durch ein Bundesgesetz aus dem Jahr 2000 geregelt. Die gesetzlichen Regelungen zur Buchpreisbindung polarisieren sehr stark und diese Polarisierung wird dadurch verstärkt, dass sich die Argumente der Befürworter und Gegner meist sehr schwer mit validen Daten belegen lassen. Die Idee dieser Studie ist, dass wir mit Hilfe eines natürlichen Experiments empirisch untersuchen, inwieweit der stationäre Buchhandel positive Nachfrageeffekte generiert und dadurch dem Kulturgut Buch zu einer weiteren Verbreitung verhilft. Unsere Resultate zeigen, dass der stationäre Buchhandel vor allem bei der Personengruppe der Nicht-Pendler positive Nachfrageeffekte generiert und sich der Großteil dieses positiven Nachfrageeffektes wiederum im Buchhandel vor Ort niederschlägt. Aufgrund der klar abgegrenzten Forschungsfrage und dem methodologischen Zugang stellt diese Studie ein Komplement zu klassischen juristischen bzw. ökonomischen Studien über die Buchpreisbindung dar.
L42|A Study of Exclusionary Coalitions: The Canadian Sugar Coalition, 1888–1889|In this paper we examine exclusion accomplished by a coalition of firms—frequently, a coalition of suppliers and customers—that share the benefits of exclusion. As a particular historical example, we study the Canadian sugar industry of the 1880s, which was controlled by a complex coalition of refiners and wholesalers. We assess the incentives and conduct of the parties as revealed in the records of a House of Commons inquiry into anticompetitive practices in the industry. Drawing upon this example, we identify and evaluate several doctrinal approaches to establishing antitrust liability for anticompetitive exclusionary coalitions.
L42|Is There a Loyalty-Enhancing Effect of Retroactive Price-Reduction Schemes?|Abstract This paper presents an experiment on the effect of retroactive price-reduction schemes on buyers’ repeated purchase decisions. Such schemes promise buyers a reduced price for all units that are bought in a certain time frame if the total quantity that is purchased passes a given threshold. This study finds a loyalty-enhancing effect of retroactive price-reduction schemes only if the buyers ex-ante expected that entering into the scheme would maximize their monetary gain, but later learn that they should leave the scheme. Furthermore, the effect crucially hinges on the framing of the price reduction.
L42|When Prohibiting Platform Parity Agreements Harms Consumers|We consider a three-level supply chain where a monopolistic seller distributes its product both directly through its own distribution channel and indirectly through platforms accessed by intermediaries competing for final consumers. In this setting, we examine the welfare effects of platform parity agreements, namely contractual provisions according to which the seller cannot charge different prices for the same product distributed through different platforms. We find that these agreements mitigate the marginalization problem both in a wholesale and an agency model. However, only in the former model platform parity unambiguously increases consumer surplus; in the latter, it also increases the commissions paid by the monopolist to the platforms, whereby exacerbating the marginalization problem. On the net, platform parity benefits consumers in the agency model when competition between direct and indirect distribution is sufficiently intense. Interestingly, in both models consumers' preferences are always aligned with the platforms' but not with the seller's.
L42|Vertical Integration in the presence of a Cost-Reducing Technology|This paper examines vertical integration incentives in the presence of a cost-reducing technology. Combining the technology adoption and vertical merger literatures in a simple duopoly model, I show that asymmetric integration can occur even in a purely symmetric set-up, without synergies or foreclosure incentives. This paper makes three further contributions. First, in this model, integration is profitable whenever it allows the firm to adopt the technology faster and to become a profitable technology leader for a longer period of time. Second, comparing preemption and precommitment game, I show that the asymmetric equilibrium may exist under both types of game. Third, vertical integration generally reduces consumers' surplus, but often competition authorities should not forbid such vertical mergers if they seek to maximize social welfare.
L42|Zero-rating and vertical content foreclosure|We study zero-rating, a practice whereby an Internet service provider (ISP) that limits retail data consumption exempts certain content from that limit. This practice is particularly controversial when an ISP zero-rates its own vertically integrated content, because the data limit and ensuing overage charges impose an additional cost on rival content. We find that zero-rating and vertical integration are complementary in improving social welfare, though potentially at the expense of lower profit to an unaffiliated content provider. Moreover, allowing content providers to pay for zero-rating via a sponsored data plan raises welfare by inducing the ISP to zero-rate more content.
L42|Happily ever after? Vertical and horizontal mergers in the U.S. media industry|This paper provides an economic analysis of recent vertical and horizontal mergers in the U.S. industry for audiovisual media content, including the AT&T-Time Warner and the Disney-Fox mergers. Using a theory-driven approach, we examine economic effects of these types of mergers on market competition, focusing on digital media content distribution. In doing so, we address three research questions: (i) Is the current development of analyzing industry with its recent merger activity concerning? (ii) Would vertical or horizontal integration be more preferable for overall welfare and competition in this industry? (iii) What are implications for antitrust policy? We conclude from our analysis that in the already highly horizontally concentrated U.S. market for audiovisual content the process of further vertical integration creates concerns from a competition policy perspective. Moreover, even though horizontal concentration on some of the market stages may be anticompetitive as well, vertical integration is likely to be more harmful. As a consequence, we recommend a stricter approach to vertical merger control in this industry, as well as a more active abuse control against already vertically-integrated media companies.
L42|Vertical integration in the e-commerce sector|This paper studies vertical integration of a retailer and an operator in the e-commerce sector. It shows first that the comparison between independent oligopoly and integrated monopoly involves a tradeoff between competition and double marginalization which will have the opposite effect. With linear demand we need at least 3 firms (upstream and downstream) for the independent oligopoly to yield larger surplus. With constant elasticity demand, on the other hand, this is always true. Second it considers a setting where the number of firms is endogenous and determined such that gross profits cover fixed costs. While the integration of a single retailer-delivery operator pair may initially be welfare improving, the resulting market structure may not be sustainable. Furthermore, there exist a range of fixed costs for which the integrated monopoly emerges (following a single integration) and is welfare inferior to the initial independent equilibrium even when the reduction in the number of fixed costs is taken into account. Within this setting it also shows that multiple integration is typically welfare superior (for a given total number of firms) to the integration of a single retailer-delivery operator. Third and last, it considers an extension wherein customers differ according to their location, urban or rural, involving di¤erent delivery costs. It shows that urban integration is more likely to have an adverse effect on welfare than full integration.
L42|Why factors facilitating collusion may not predict cartel occurrence — experimental evidence|Factors facilitating collusion may not successfully predict cartel occurrence: When a factor predicts that collusion (explicit and tacit) becomes easier, firms might be less inclined to set up a cartel simply because tacit coordination already tends to go in hand with supra‐competitive profits. We illustrate this issue with laboratory data. We run n‐firm Cournot experiments with written cheap‐talk communication between players and we compare them to treatments without the possibility to talk. We conduct this comparison for two, four, and six firms. We find that two firms indeed find it easier to collude tacitly but that the number of firms does not significantly affect outcomes with communication. As a result, the payoff gain from communication increases with the number of firms, at a decreasing rate.
L42|The whole is greater than the sum of its parts: Pricing pressure indices for mergers of vertically integrated firms|The paper analyzes gross upward pricing pressure indices called iGUPPI to assess the effects of a merger between vertically integrated firms where in the downstream market also independent rivals are active. Such indices could be used e.g. to screen mergers between mobile network operators which compete with mobile virtual network operators in the downstream retail market. It is shown that the iGUPPI for the downstream market corresponds to the sum of two well-known upward pricing pressure indices, the GUPPI concept of Salop/Moresi (2009) and the vGUPPI concept of Moresi/Salop (2013). Such a simple decomposition however does not hold for the upstream market a priori. Here, additional effects arise which are not included by the two concepts. Further assumptions on the price reactions of the downstream divisions to increases in the input prices are imposed so that the iGUPPI for the upstream market allows for a decomposition into an upstream market version of the GUPPI and the vGUPPI.
L42|Salience and Online Sales: The Role of Brand Image Concerns|We provide a novel intuition for the observation that many brand manufacturers have restricted their retailers’ ability to resell brand products online. Our approach builds on models of salience according to which price disparities across distribution channels guide a consumer’s attention toward prices and lower her appreciation for quality. Thus, absent vertical restraints, one out of two distortions - a quality or a participation distortion - can arise in equilibrium. The quality distortion occurs if the manufacturer provides either an inefficiently low quality under price salience or an inefficiently high quality in order to prevent price salience. The participation distortion arises as offline sales might be entirely abandoned in order to prevent prices from becoming salient. Both distortions are ruled out if vertical restraints are imposed. As opposed to the current EU legislation that considers a range of vertical restraints as being hardcore restrictions of competition per se, we show that these constraints can be socially desirable if salience effects are taken into account.
L42|Complex pricing and consumer-side transparency|We analyze a situation in which two horizontally differentiated firms compete in two-part tariffs (i.e., a linear and fixed price), and some consumers are not informed about the linear per-unit price. We show that there is a non-monotone relationship between the degree of consumer-side transparency and firm profits. Moreover, different from a situation without uninformed consumers, firms may make higher profits under two-part tariffs than under fixed fees only. There is also a non-monotone relationship between transparency and consumer surplus. Our model can explain why firms are against the abolishment of roaming fees and why the European Commission (EC) promotes it.
L42|Hotel rankings of online travel agents, channel pricing and consumer protection|We investigate whether online travel agents (OTAs) assign hotels worse positions in their search results if these set lower hotel prices at other OTAs or on their own websites. We formally characterize how an OTA can use such a strategy to reduce price differentiation across distribution channels. Our empirical analysis shows that the position of a hotel in the search results of OTAs is better when the prices charged by the hotel on other channels are higher. This is consistent with the hypothesis that OTAs alter their search results to discipline hotels for aggressive prices on competing channels, and by this reduce search quality for consumers.
L42|The impact of the interchange fee regulation on merchants: evidence from Italy|Interchange fees (IF) are fees that a cardholder’s bank (issuer) receives from the merchant’s bank (acquirer) when a card payment is executed. Interchange fees are an important part of the fees charged to merchants by acquirers. Because of their level and fragmentation, interchange fees can restrict competition and have thus been regulated in the EU. The Interchange Fee Regulation (IFR) came into effect for all EU member states in 2015 and sets maximum limits on interchange fees. By using a panel of Italian banks we assess the impact of introducing the IF regulation on the fees that acquiring banks charge to merchants (merchant fees), and on the merchants’ acceptance of card-based payments. We find that, in line with the regulatory intent, the ceiling imposed on interchange fees has led to a sizeable drop in merchant fees and to an increase in the acceptance of card payments, measured as transactions per terminal.
L42|Patent pools, vertical integration, and downstream competition|Patent pools are commonly used to license technologies to manufacturers. Whereas previous studies focused on manufacturers active in independent markets, we analyze pools licensing to competing manufacturers, allowing for multiple licensors and nonlinear tariffs. We find that the impact of pools on welfare depends on the industry structure: whereas they are procompetitive when no manufacturer is integrated with a licensor, the presence of vertically integrated manufacturers triggers a novel trade‐off between horizontal and vertical price coordination. Specifically, pools are anticompetitive if the share of integrated firms is large, procompetitive otherwise. We then formulate information‐free policies to screen anticompetitive pools.
L42|Shadow Pricing of Electric Power Interruptions for Distribution System Operators in Finland|Increasing distributed generation and intermittencies, along with the increasing frequency of extreme weather events, impose a serious challenge for electric power supply security. Understanding the costs of interruption is vital in terms of enhancing the power system infrastructure and planning the distribution grid. Furthermore, customer rights and demand response techniques are further reasons to study the worth of power reliability. In this paper, the authors make use of directional distance function and shadow pricing methods in a case study of Finland. The aim is to calculate the cost of one minute of power interruption from the perspective of the distribution network operator. The sample consists of 78 distribution network operators from Finland, and uses cost and network information between 2013 and 2015.
L42|Common-Ownership Concentration and Corporate Conduct|The question of whether and how partial common-ownership links between strategically interacting firms affect firm objectives and behavior has been the subject of theoretical inquiry for decades. Since then, the growth of intermediated asset management and consolidation in the asset-management sector has led to more pronounced common ownership links at the beneficial-owner level. Recent empirical research has provided evidence consistent with the literature’s prediction that common ownership concentration (CoOCo) can affect product market outcomes. The resulting antitrust concerns have received worldwide attention. However, because CoOCo can change the objective function of the firm, the potential implications span all fields of economics that involve corporate conduct, including corporate governance, strategy, industrial organization, and financial economics. This article connects the papers establishing the theoretical foundations, reviews the empirical and legal literatures, and discusses challenges and opportunities for future research.
L42|Price-cost tests and loyalty discounts|We analyze, by means of a formal economic model, the use of price-cost tests to assess the competitive effects of loyalty discounts. In the model, a dominant firm enjoys a competitive advantage over its rivals and uses loyalty discounts as a means to boost the demand for its product. We show that in this framework price-cost tests are misleading or, at best, completely uninformative. Our results cast doubts on the applicability of price-tests to loyalty discount cases.
L42|Shadow Pricing of Electric Power Interruptions for Distribution System Operators in Finland|No abstract is available for this item.
L42|Evaluation of best price clauses in online hotel bookings|We analyze the best price clauses (BPCs) of online travel agents (OTAs) using meta-search price data of nearly 30,000 hotels in different countries. We find that BPCs influence the pricing and availability of hotel rooms across online sales channels. In particular, hotels publish their offers more often at Booking.com when the OTA does not use the narrow BPC, and also tend to promote the direct online channel more actively. Moreover, the abolition of Booking.com’s narrow BPC is associated with the direct channel of chain hotels having the strictly lowest price more often.
L42|When is Double Marginalization a Problem?|Double marginalization refers to the distortion caused by the successive markups of independent firms in a distribution channel. The implication that this both reduces firm profits and harms consumers is known as the double-marginalization problem. Many solutions have been proposed to help sellers mitigate this pricing problem, and it is arguably one of the main reasons why quantity discounts in the distribution channel are as prevalent as they are. Surprisingly, however, the implication that end-user prices will be distorted upward has only been shown under a very restrictive set of circumstances (successive monopoly). Whether and under what conditions double marginalization is a problem in other, more realistic settings is generally unknown. In this paper, we show that double marginalization need not be a problem when an upstream firm sells its product through competing intermediaries and shelf space is costly. When this is the case, we find that there will often be a role for slotting fees, minimum resale price maintenance (min RPM), and minimum advertised pricing (MAP) policies.
L42|Vertical integration in the e-commerce sector|This paper studies vertical integration of a retailer and an operator in the e-commerce sector. It shows first that the comparison between independent oligopoly and integrated monopoly involves a tradeoff between competition and double marginalization which will have the opposite effect. With linear demand we need at least 3 firms (upstream and downstream) for the independent oligopoly to yield larger surplus. With constant elasticity demand, on the other hand, this is always true. Second it considers a setting where the number of firms is endogenous and determined such that gross profits cover fixed costs. While the integration of a single retailer-delivery operator pair may initially be welfare improving, the resulting market structure may not be sustainable. Furthermore, there exist a range of fixed costs for which the integrated monopoly emerges (following a single integration) and is welfare inferior to the initial independent equilibrium even when the reduction in the number of fixed costs is taken into account. Within this setting it also shows that multiple integration is typically welfare superior (for a given total number of firms) to the integration of a single retailer-delivery operator. Third and last, it considers an extension wherein customers differ according to their location, urban or rural, involving di¤erent delivery costs. It shows that urban integration is more likely to have an adverse effect on welfare than full integration.
L42|Input price discrimination with secret linear contracting|We study the welfare effects of input price discrimination when an unconstrained upstream supplier uses linear contracts that are unobservable by downstream firms. With homogeneous final goods, we show that banning input price discrimination decreases welfare. This finding is in contrast to that in the existing literature that considers observable linear contracts. When final goods are sufficiently differentiated, it is shown that banning input price discrimination increases welfare. This result is in contrast to that in the existing literature that considers unobservable two-part tariff contracts.
L42|Measuring the Welfare of Intermediation in Vertical Markets|We empirically investigate the welfare implications of intermediaries in oligopolistic markets, where intermediaries offer additional services to differentiate their products from the ones of the manufacturers. Our identification strategy exploits the unique circumstance that, in the outdoors advertising industry, there are two distribution channels: consumers can purchase the product either directly from manufacturers, or with the intermediation of retailers. Using product-level data for the whole industry, we estimate a differentiated products’ equilibrium model that includes: consumers who have preferences that are specific to each distribution channel and engage in costly search on the demand side; and two layers of activity (where manufacturers and intermediaries bar- gain over wholesale prices) with two distribution channels (where the two distribution channels compete a la Bertrand) on the supply side. The estimated model is used to simulate counterfactual scenarios, where intermediaries do not offer additional services. These counterfactuals are used to quantify the welfare effects of intermediaries.
L42| Milking the Milkers: A Study on Buyer Power in the Dairy Market of Peru| The literature on imperfect competition suggests the existence of two conditions facilitating the exercise of buyer market power: the existence of an inelastic and upward-sloping supply, and the existence of high concentration in purchases. In this study, we use monthly aggregate data (from 1999-2014) of the raw milk market in Peru. We test whether those conditions hold, by analyzing the market and estimating the supply elasticity. Our findings suggest the existence of buyer power in raw milk market since an inelastic raw milk supply and a highly concentrated market is verified. Our assessment is reinforced with the role played by the existing market power of the firms at the downstream segment and the existence of entry barriers in that market segment. JEL Classification-JEL: L11, L12, L13, L41, L42
L42|Measuring the Welfare of Intermediaries in Vertical Markets|We empirically investigate the welfare of intermediaries in oligopolistic markets, where intermediaries offer additional services. We exploit the unique circumstance that, in our empirical setting, consumers can purchase from manufacturers or intermediaries. We specify an equilibrium model, and estimate it using product-level data. The demand includes consumers with costly search and channel-specific preferences. The supply includes two distribution channels. One features bargaining about wholesale prices between manufacturers and intermediaries, and price competition among intermediaries. The other is vertically integrated. The model is used to simulate counterfactuals, where intermediaries do not offer additional services. We find that intermediaries increase welfare.
L42|Measuring the Welfare of Intermediation in Vertical Markets|We empirically investigate the welfare implications of intermediaries in oligopolistic markets, where intermediaries offer additional services to differentiate their products from the ones of the manufacturers. Our identification strategy exploits the unique circumstance that, in the outdoors advertising industry, there are two distribution channels: consumers can purchase the product either directly from manufacturers, or through intermediaries. We specify a differentiated products’ equilibrium model, and estimate it using product-level data for the whole industry. On the demand side, the model includes consumers who engage in costly search with preferences that are specific to the distribution channel. On the supply side, the model includes two competing distribution channels. One features two layers of activity, where manufacturers and intermediaries bargain over wholesale prices, and intermediaries compete on final prices to consumers. The other is vertically integrated. The estimated model is used to simulate counterfactual scenarios, where intermediaries do not offer additional services. We find that the presence of intermediaries increases welfare because the value of their services outweighs the additional margin charged.
L42|Vertical Contracting with Endogenous Market Structure|A manufacturer chooses the optimal retail market structure and bilaterally and secretly contracts with each (homogeneous) retailer. In a classic framework without asymmetric information, the manufacturer sells through a single exclusive retailer in order to eliminate the opportunism problem. When retailers are privately informed about their (common) marginal cost, however, the number of competing retailers also affects their information rents and the manufacturer may prefer an oligopolistic market structure. We characterize how the manufacturer’s production technology, the elasticity of final demand, and the size of the market affect the optimal number of retailers. Our results arise both with price and quantity competition, and also when retailers’ costs are imperfectly correlated.
L42|M&A Advisory and the Merger Review Process|Two firms propose a merger to the antitrust authority. They are uninformed about the efficiencies generated by the merger, but can hire an expert to gather information on their behalf. The authority is also uninformed about the merger's efficiencies, but can run a costly internal investigation to learn them. We analyze the effect of the disclosure of the expert's contract on consumer welfare, and show that consumers are not necessarily better off with disclosure. This negative effect hinges on a free-riding problem between expert and authority in the information acquisition game, and is more relevant in highly competitive industries.
L42|Vertical Integration and Foreclosure: Evidence from Production Network Data|This paper studies the prevalence of vertical market foreclosure using a novel dataset on U.S. and international buyer-seller relationships, and across a large range of industries. We find that relationships are more likely to break when suppliers vertically integrate with one of the buyers’ competitors than when they vertically integrate with an unrelated firm. This relationship holds also, among other things, when conditioning on mergers that follow exogenous downward pressure on the supplier’s stock prices, suggesting that reverse causality is unlikely to explain the result. In contrast, the relationship vanishes when using rumored or announced but not completed integration events. Firms experience a substantial drop in sales when one of their suppliers integrates with one of their competitors. This sales drop is mitigated if the firm has alternative suppliers in place.
L42|Vertical Integration and Foreclosure: Evidence from Production Network Data|This paper studies the prevalence of vertical market foreclosure using a novel dataset on U.S. and international buyer-seller relationships, and across a large range of industries. We find that relationships are more likely to break when suppliers vertically integrate with one of the buyers’ competitors than when they vertically integrate with an unrelated firm. This relationship holds also, among other things, when conditioning on mergers that follow exogenous downward pressure on the supplier’s stock prices, suggesting that reverse causality is unlikely to explain the result. In contrast, the relationship vanishes when using rumored or announced but not completed integration events. Firms experience a substantial drop in sales when one of their suppliers integrates with one of their competitors. This sales drop is mitigated if the firm has alternative suppliers in place.
L42|Resale Price Maintenance with Secret Contracts and Retail Service Externalities|We analyze a setting where a monopolist sells through retailers that set prices and provide valuable but non-contractible services to customers. We assume that contracts are private. We find that purely bilateral price restraints have no effect on the equilibrium outcome and that the standard Bertrand prices and service levels prevail. We also show that if manufacturers can commit to industry-wide resale prices, they can obtain higher prices and service levels but will generally not be able to achieve the fully integrated outcome. Using a specific linear demand system, we find that industry-wide price floors are harmful to consumers.
L42|Collusive Vertical Relations|We investigate the possibility for two vertically related firms to at least partially collude on the wholesale price over an infinite horizon to mitigate or eliminate the effects of double marginalisation, thereby avoiding contracts which might not be enforceable. We characterise alternative scenarios envisaging different deviations by the upstream firm and different punishments. This allows us to show that the most efficient case is that in which the upstream firm deviates along its best reply function and the punishment prescribes the disruption of the vertical relation for good after a deviation from the collusive path.
L42|Vertical licensing, input pricing, and entry|We explore the incentives of a vertically integrated incumbent to license the production technology of its core input to an external firm, transforming the licensee into its input supplier. We find that the incumbent opts for licensing even when licensing also transforms the licensee into one of its direct competitors in the final products market. In fact, the licensee’s entry into the final products market, although it increases the competition and the cost that the licensor faces, reinforces the licensing incentives. Furthermore, the licensee’s entry augments the positive welfare implications of vertical licensing.
L42|Sequential innovation, naked exclusion, and upfront lump-sum payments|Abstract We present a potentially benign naked exclusion mechanism that can be applied to sequential innovation; a non-patentable original innovation by the incumbent supplier fosters derivative innovation by rivals. In the absence of an appropriate legal framework, the original innovator’s equilibrium exclusivity contracts block subsequent efficient entry even if there is (leader–follower) competition in the contracting phase. However, the legal framework may maximize social welfare by imposing a ban on upfront lump-sum payments in exclusivity contracts (by all suppliers) combined with an outright ban on exclusivity contracts by the derivative innovator. The former ban precludes the exclusion of socially beneficial derivative innovation by causing the incumbent supplier to resort to accommodation, rather than to pure exclusion, strategies. The latter ban complements the former by preventing inefficient or excessive derivative innovation.
L42|Salience in Retailing: Vertical Restraints on Internet Sales|We provide an explanation for a frequently observed vertical restraint in e-commerce, namely that brand manufacturers partially or completely prohibit that retailers distribute their high-quality products over the internet. Our analysis is based on the assumption that a consumer's purchasing decision is distorted by salient thinking, i.e. by the fact that he overvalues a product attribute -- quality or price -- that stands out in a particular choice situation. In a highly competitive low-price environment like on an online platform, consumers focus more on price rather than quality. Especially if the market power of local (physical) retailers is low, price tends to be salient also in the local store, which is unfavorable for the high-quality product and limits the wholesale price a brand manufacturer can charge. If, however, the branded product is not available online, a retailer can charge a significant markup on the high-quality good. As the markup is higher if quality rather than price is salient in the store, this aligns the retailer's incentives with the brand manufacturer's interest to make quality the salient attribute and allows the manufacturer to charge a higher wholesale price. We also show that, the weaker are consumers' preferences for purchasing in the physical store and the stronger their salience bias, the more likely it is that a brand manufacturer wants to restrict online sales. Moreover, we find that a ban on distribution systems that prohibit internet sales increases consumer welfare and total welfare, because it leads to lower prices for final consumers and prevents inefficient online sales.
L42|Salience in Retailing: Vertical Restraints on Internet Sales|We provide an explanation for a brand manufacturer's rationale to prohibit retailers to distribute its products over the internet, based on the assumption that a consumer's purchasing decision is distorted by salient thinking. We find that banning online distribution of the branded good aligns retailers’ incentives with the manufacturer's interest to make quality the salient product attribute and allows it to charge a higher wholesale price than under free distribution.
L42|The Effects of a Day Off from Retail Price Competition: Evidence on Consumer Behavior and Firm Performance in Gasoline Retailing|First, we analyze how regular days off from competition and a time-dependent price pattern affect firm performance. Second, we examine the effects on firms' profitability from consumers’ changing search- and timing behavior. We use microdata from gasoline retailing in Norway. Since 2004, firms have practiced an industry-wide day off from competition, starting on Mondays at noon, by increasing prices to a common level given by the recommended prices (decided and published in advance). Hence, firms know when and to what level to raise their price. In areas without local competition, retail prices are always equal to the recommended prices. Hinged on this, we regard recommended prices as the monopoly price level. In turn, a foreseeable low-price window is open before every restoration. During the data period, we observe an additional weekly restoration on Thursdays at noon. We show that an additional day off from competition increases firm performance. As expected, a conventional price search of where to buy reduces firms’ profitability. In contrast, consumers who are aware of the cycle and spend effort on when to buy have a positive impact on firms’ profitability. If consumers spend effort on when to buy rather than where to buy, price competition might be softened even in the low-price windows.
L42|Secret contracting in multilateral relations|We develop a general but tractable framework of multilateral vertical contracting between upstream and downstream Örms, without any restriction on tari§s, and yet taking into account their impact on downstream competition. In equilibrium, tari§s are cost-based and replicate the outcome of a multi-brand oligopoly, a Önding in line with the analysis of a recent merger. To illustrate its versatility, we use this framework to analyze the e§ect of vertical restraints (resale price maintenance and retail price parity clauses) and of alternative business models (resale vs. agency). Finally, we extend the framework so as to endogenize the market structure.
L42|Three Economist’s Tools for Antitrust Analysis: A Non-Technical Introduction|The importance of economics to the analysis and enforcement of competition policy and law has increased tremendously in the developed market economies in the past forty years. In younger and developing market economies, competition law itself has a history of twenty to twenty-five years at most – sometimes much less – and economic tools that have proven useful to competition law enforcement in developed market economies in focusing investigations and in assisting decision makers in distinguishing central from secondary issues are inevitably less well understood. This paper presents a non-technical introduction to three economic tools that have become widespread in competition law enforcement in general and in the analysis of proposed mergers in particular: critical loss analysis, upward pricing pressure, and the vertical arithmetic.
L42|Exclusive contracts and bargaining power|Incorporating Nash bargaining into the standard one-buyer-one-supplier framework in the Chicago School critique, we show a possibility that an inefficient incumbent supplier can deter a socially efficient new supplier entry through exclusive contracts.
L42|Communication in vertical markets: Experimental evidence|An upstream monopolist supplying competing downstream firms may fail to monopolize the market because it is unable to commit not to behave opportunistically. We build on previous experimental studies of this well-known commitment problem by introducing communication. Allowing the upstream firm to chat privately with each downstream firm reduces total offered quantity from near the Cournot level (observed in the absence of communication) halfway toward the monopoly level. Allowing all firms to chat together openly results in complete monopolization. Downstream firms obtain such a bargaining advantage from open communication that all of the gains from monopolizing the market accrue to them. A simple structural model of Nash-in-Nash bargaining fits the pattern of shifting surpluses well. Using third-party coders, unsupervised text mining, among other approaches, we uncover features of the rich chat data that are correlated with market outcomes. We conclude with a discussion of the antitrust implications of open communication in vertical markets.
L42|Trade-in and save: A two-period closed-loop supply chain game with price and technology dependent returns|Consumers evaluate the convenience of changing their products according to the price paid as well as the technology (quality) level. When the consumers wish to capitalize the products residual value, they should return them as early as possible. Accordingly, we develop a model of Closed-loop Supply Chain (CLSC) where consumers seek to gain as much as possible from their returns and the return rate is a function of both price and quality. We model a two-period Stackelberg game to capture the dynamic aspects of a CLSC, where the manufacturer is the channel leader. We investigate who, namely, manufacturer or retailer, should collect the products in the market. Thus, we identify the best CLSC structure to adopt when the return rate is both price- and quality-dependent. Our results demonstrate that it is always worthwhile for companies to collect products and adopt an active return approach for returns. We investigate the effect of retail competition in both forward and backward channels and show the impact of eliminating the double marginalization on market outcomes.
L42|Vertical integration and downstream collusion|We investigate the effect of a vertical merger on downstream firms’ ability to collude in a repeated game framework. We show that a vertical merger has two main effects. On the one hand, it increases the total collusive profits, increasing the stakes of collusion. On the other hand, it creates an asymmetry between the integrated firm and the unintegrated competitors. The integrated firm, accessing the input at marginal cost, faces higher profits in the deviation phase and in the non-cooperative equilibrium, which potentially harms collusion. As we show, the optimal collusive profit-sharing agreement takes care of the increased incentive to deviate of the integrated firm, while optimal punishment erases the difficulty related to the asymmetries in the non-cooperative state. As a result, vertical integration generally favors collusion.
L42|Platform Price Parity Clauses with Direct Sales|We analyze the effects of price parity clauses in a setting where competing sellers distribute their products directly as well as through competing platforms. These clauses prevent a seller from offering its product at a lower price on other platforms or through its own direct sales channel. We show that when we account for the sellers? participation constraints, price parity clauses do not always lead to higher commissions and ?final prices. Instead, we fi?nd that they may simultaneously bene?fit all the actors (platforms, sellers and consumers), even in the absence of traditional efficiency arguments.
L42|Resale Price Maintenance Post Leegin: A Model of RPM Incentives|Abstract The prominent Babies R Us decision (McDonough et al. v. Toys R Us, Inc., 2009) was the first to explore the economic consequences of resale price maintenance after the Supreme Court’s Leegin decision. Previously, litigation concerned the presence or absence of an agreement; but that changed with the new jurisprudence which instead emphasized the restraint’s direct anti-competitive effects. While the district court’s decision in the Babies R Us case rested on the factual circumstances of the case, it did not have before it an economic model through which those facts could be integrated. This paper offers such a model, the predicates of which are drawn from the case. The conclusions derived from the model are entirely consistent with the court’s decision
L42|Resale Price Maintenance: An Economic Analysis of its Anticompetitive Potential|Abstract A decade ago, Leegin overruled Dr. Miles and subjected RPM to rule-of-reason treatment, under which the potential for anticompetitive conduct should be analyzed (rather than automatically assumed to be present). In its Leegin decision, the Supreme Court identified four ways in which RPM could be used to retard competition and consequently reduce consumer welfare: The first two involve the well-known concerns that RPM could be used to support either a manufacturer cartel or a dealer cartel; the last two involve unilateral conduct designed to foreclose entry or hinder smaller rivals. In this paper, we analyze these potentially harmful uses of RPM. We conclude that RPM does not pose a substantial anticompetitive threat.
L42|Online RPM and MFN Under Antitrust Law and Economics|Abstract The legal framing of a firm’s pricing strategy can determine whether it constitutes online resale price maintenance (RPM) or online most favored nation (MFN). Together, cases that involve online RPM and MFN can be viewed as a natural experiment of how antitrust economics and law may adapt to an online world. Thus far, legal theories that have been inconsistent with economic theories have dictated enforcement across jurisdictions, which has led to confusion that thwarts potentially efficient business practices. This paper distinguishes issues of online RPM from traditional RPM and online RPM from online MFN. We apply the economics learning to RPM and analyze the antitrust cases of online RPM and MFN to date in the United States, Europe, and Australia. Finally, we offer policy recommendations that reduce the confusion in current legal doctrine.
L42|Verdrängungspreise an Tankstellen?|Das Wettbewerbsrecht unterschiedlicher Länder kennt vielfältige Tatbestandsmerkmale. Ein sehr umstrittener Tatbestand ist die Margin-Squeeze-Preissetzung (MSP) oder das Setzen negativer Margen. Um den Wettbewerb auf dem Kraftstoffmarkt zu erhöhen hat der deutsche Gesetzgeber das Setzen negativer Margen als Tatbestand in das Gesetz gegen Wettbewerbsbeschränkungen (GWB) aufgenommen. In Folge dessen begann eine umfangreiche Diskussion zu den vermeintlichen Preissetzungsproblemen auf dem deutschen Kraftstoffmarkt. Dieser Beitrag untersucht die Preissetzungsstrategien der Kraftstoffunternehmen, Konzerne wie auch das der unabhängigen Tankstellen. Der vorliegende Beitrag ist einer der wenigen, die das Auftreten von Margin-Squeeze-Fällen empirisch testet. Die Ergebnisse deuten darauf hin, dass die Margin-Squeeze-Preissetzung keine Strategie ist, die von Wettbewerbern auf dem deutschen Kraftstoffmarkt genutzt wird. Darüber hinaus zeigt der vorliegende Beitrag, dass das fehlende MSP-Verhalten nicht nur die Folge von gesetzestreuem Verhalten der Unternehmen ist und diese auch die enge Definition des deutschen Gesetzgebers nicht umgehen, indem sie niedrige Margen setzen, die es für kleinere Unternehmen nicht profitabel machen, auf dem Markt aktiv zu bleiben. Vielmehr lässt sich MSP empirisch nicht nachweisen, sodass keine gesetzliche Regelung notwendig ist.
L42|Wholesale Pricing with Incomplete Information about Private Label Products|This article provides a theoretical model analyzing wholesale pricing tariffs set by a monopolistic manufacturer for its branded product that is sold to final customers by a monopolistic retailer. The bargaining power of the downstream retailer is strengthened by offering also a vertically differentiated private label product whose production costs are known only incompletely to the upstream manufacturer. The model shows that the manufacturer can avoid double marginalization and implement the full information outcome by combining a quantity discount with a market-share discount where only a retailer with a strong private label retroactively receives an allowance. Under these circumstances it is unprofitable for the manufacturer to impose exclusive dealing on the retailer.
L42|Information Exchange in Retail Markets with Uncertainty about Downstream Costs|An information exchange between two producers selling independent products to the same retailer can have ambiguous effects on market efficiency and surplus. When a retailer's costs are unobservable the producers may have an incentive to communicate about their negotiations with that retailer. If each producer is allowed to place one offer the producers will have no incentive to exchange information. However, the retailer may communicate that he refused the first offer to the other firm which subsequently might place a lower offer. When one firm is allowed to place a second offer, two equilibria involve communication between the producers. In a separating equilibrium an information exchange ensures that agreement will always be found. In a hybrid equilibrium, the likelihood that agreement is found is less likely.
L42|Input price discrimination and upstream R&D investments|We study the welfare effects of input price discrimination when an upstream supplier that secretly contracts with two cost-asymmetric downstream firms undertakes R&D investments. We show that a ban on input price discrimination increases (decreases) the level of upstream R&D investments when downstream cost-asymmetry is relatively low (high). Nevertheless, we find that welfare always decreases after the ban. Thus, input price discrimination should be welcomed rather than prohibited even when it stifles the upstream supplier’s incentives to engage in cost-reduction activities.
L42|Upstream horizontal mergers and vertical integration|We study upstream horizontal mergers when one of the merging parties is a vertically integrated firm. Under upstream cost symmetry and observable contracting, we demonstrate that such type of horizontal mergers always harm consumers through a vertical partial foreclosure effect. Under observable contracting but upstream asymmetric costs, we show that overall consumer surplus may increase due to the merger even though input prices increase and some consumers are worse of. Under upstream cost symmetry but unobservable contracting, we find that consumers may be better off as a result of the merger even in the absence of exogenous cost-synergies between the merging firms. In all cases under consideration, the merger is always profitable for the merging parties.
L42|Uncertainty in the housing market: evidence from US states|Housing is distinct from other financial assets, since it is a durable consumer good for households. Due to the irreversible nature of housing investment, uncertainty should be an important determinant of housing investment. From a theoretical point of view, though, this impact is ambiguous. This paper extends previous empirical work by employing the techniques of bivariate Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (GARCH) models in a group of forty-eight US states. In particular, we use data on housing permits as a proxy for housing investment and the house price index for the forty-eight contiguous US states and estimate bivariate GARCH models (BEKK) for each state, in order to obtain proxies of housing investment and house price uncertainty. Moreover, we use the Economic Policy Uncertainty index as an alternative measure of uncertainty. This setup allows us to test for the impact of uncertainty on housing investment growth and house price inflation and examine whether the effects differ across the different states. In general, we find that in most states uncertainty tends to increase housing investment growth and to decrease house price inflation. The cross-state differences in results may be due to variation in the degree of speculation in housing markets.
L42|The dynamics of online hotel prices and the EU Booking.com case| This paper analyses the dynamics of hotel prices listed on Booking.com in the period 2014-16. This period is characterised by the most important antitrust decisions regarding the use of price parity clauses by online travel agencies (OTAs) in the EU. First, we document the dynamics of hotel prices on Booking.com in tourism regions of three EU member states: France, Italy, and Spain. The evidence suggests that prices decreased in 2015, the year in which the major antitrust decisions took place, whereas they bounced back in 2016. Second, we provide both a comprehensive explanation of the previous evidence and a rationalisation based on a theoretical model of the OTA sector. Overall, our overarching analysis of the price dynamics on Booking.com allows to explain both the impact of removing price parities and the possible response of the OTAs.
L42|Three Economist’s Tools for Antitrust Analysis: A Non-Technical Introduction|The importance of economics to the analysis and enforcement of competition policy and law has increased tremendously in the developed market economies in the past forty years. In younger and developing market economies, competition law itself has a history of twenty to twenty-five years at most – sometimes much less – and economic tools that have proven useful to competition law enforcement in developed market economies in focusing investigations and in assisting decision makers in distinguishing central from secondary issues are inevitably less well understood. This paper presents a non-technical introduction to three economic tools that have become widespread in competition law enforcement in general and in the analysis of proposed mergers in particular: critical loss analysis, upward pricing pressure, and the vertical arithmetic.
L42|Spatial Price Discrimination and Privatization on Vertically Related Markets|We consider a vertically structured market with two retail firms of mixed ownership competing against each other exercising spatial price discrimination. We examine the strategic behavior of downstream rivals as well as the effect of privatization on the intensity of competition and welfare in two cases; when location decisions are taken sequentially and when location decisions are taken simultaneously. We show that production cost differentials are crucial in determining the Nash equilibrium locations (hence market shares) and the impact of the degree of privatization on the level of downstream competition. Privatization leads to stiffer competition when the mixed ownership firm has the cost advantage. However, it can be welfare enhancing only when decisions are taken sequentially with the follower being the semi-public firm having a moderate production cost advantage over the market leader. The results of our model generalize to capture the case of vertical mergers.
L42|Royalty stacking in the U.S. freight railroads: Cournot vs. Coase|Monopolists selling complementary products charge a higher price in a static equilibrium than a single multiproduct monopolist would, reducing both the industry profits and consumer surplus. However, firms could instead reach a Pareto improvement by lowering prices to the single monopolist level. We analyze administrative nationally-representative pricing data of railroad coal shipping in the U.S. We compare a coal producer that needs to ship from A to C,with the route passing through B, in two cases: (1) the same railroad owning AB and BC and (2) different railroads owning AB and BC. We find no price difference between the two cases, suggesting that the complementary monopolist pricing inefficiency is absent in this market. For our main analysis, we use a specification used by previous literature; however, we confirm our findings using propensity score blocking and machine learning algorithms. Finally, we confirm the results by using a difference-in-differences analysis to gauge the impact of a merger that made two routes wholly-owned (switched from case 2 to case 1). Our results have implications for royalty stacking and patent thickets, vertical mergers, tragedy of anti-commons, and mergers of firms selling complements.
L42|Resale Price Maintenance with Strategic Customers|We consider a decentralized supply chain (DSC) under resale price maintenance (RPM) selling a limited‐lifetime product to forward‐looking customers with heterogeneous valuations. When customers do not know the inventory level, double marginalization under RPM leads to a higher profit and aggregate welfare than without RPM under a two‐part tariff contract (TT). Both RPM and TT profits are higher and aggregate welfare is lower than in a centralized supply chain (CSC). When customers know the inventory, RPM coincides with CSC. Thus, overestimation of customer awareness may lead to overcentralization of supply chains with profit loss comparable with the loss from strategic customers. The case of RPM with unknown inventory is extended to an arbitrary number of retailers with inventory‐independent and inventory‐dependent demand. In both cases, the manufacturer, by setting a higher wholesale price, mitigates the inventory‐increasing effect of competition and reaches the same profit as with a single retailer. The high viability and efficiency of RPM in using double marginalization as a strategic‐behavior‐mitigating tool may serve as another explanation of why manufacturers may prefer DSC with RPM to a vertically integrated firm.
L42|Multiproduct Intermediaries and Optimal Product Range|This paper develops a framework for studying the optimal product range choice of a multiproduct intermediary when consumers demand multiple products. In the optimal product selection, the intermediary uses exclusively stocked high-value products to increase store tra¢ c, and at the same time earns pro?t mainly from non-exclusively stocked products which are relatively cheap to buy from upstream suppliers. By doing this the intermediary can earn strictly positive pro?t, including in situations where it does not improve e¢ ciency in selling products. A linkage between product selection and product demand features such as size and shape is established. It is also shown that relative to the social optimum, the intermediary tends to be too big and stock too many products exclusively.
L42|Vertical Integration and Disruptive Cross-Market R&D|We study incentives for innovations that enable firms to enter backward into the input market. Such innovations are disruptive in that they lead to structural changes and even reversal of supply-customer relationships. We first show that Arrow's replacement effect is also present in our vertical setting which gives rise to two general results: (1) vertical integration lowers the R&D incentive of the integrated downstream firm; and (2) vertical integration raises the R&D incentive of the non-integrated downstream firm. We then identify, respectively, situations for strategic integration, which is driven by the motive to preempt R&D of the target firm, and for strategic separation, which occurs as a means to not trigger R&D by the downstream rival. An otherwise profitable raising rival's cost strategy may not be chosen for fear of counterattack by the rival in the form of disruptive R&D.
L42|Allocating essential inputs|Regulators must often allocate essential inputs, such as spectrum rights, transmission capacity or airport landing slots, which can transform the structure of the downstream market. These decisions involve a trade-off, as provisions aimed at fostering competition and lowering prices for consumers, also tend to limit the proceeds from the sale of the inputs. We first characterize the optimal allocation, from the standpoints of consumer and total welfare. We then note that standard auctions yield substantially different outcomes. Finally, we show how various regulatory instruments can be used to implement the desired allocation.
L42|Multiproduct Intermediaries and Optimal Product Range|This paper develops a framework for studying the optimal product range choice of a multiproduct intermediary when consumers demand multiple products. In the optimal product selection, the intermediary uses exclusively stocked high-value products to increase store traffic, and at the same time earns profit mainly from non-exclusively stocked products which are relatively cheap to buy from upstream suppliers. By doing this the intermediary can earn strictly positive profit, including in situations where it does not improve efficiency in selling products. A linkage between product selection and product demand features such as size and shape is established. It is also shown that relative to the social optimum, the intermediary tends to be too big and stock too many products exclusively.
L42|Vertical foreclosure and multi-segment competition|This paper analyzes a supplier’s incentives to foreclose downstream entry when entrants have stronger positions in different market segments, thus bringing added value as well as competition. We first consider the case where wholesale contracts take the form of linear tariffs, and characterize the conditions under which the competition-intensifying effect dominates, thereby leading to foreclosure. We then show that foreclosure can still occur with non-linear tariffs, even coupled with additional provisions such as resale price maintenance.
L42|Removing geo-blocking: What are the effects on innovation for vertically differentiated goods?|At present, there is a wide debate on regulating geo-blocking, an online practice that prevents consumers from buying or having access to products and services from another country. This practice is not only used by retailers, but is also of great importance in the market for digital visual broadcasting. We develop a model to identify the cases, in which firms have an incentive to include geo-blocking clauses in their licensing agreements. In addition, we analyze the effects of restricting geo-blocking on the level of innovation of two vertically differentiated goods and on the overall product variety. Our results show that the market outcome primarily depends on the level of competition between the two goods. For instance, regulatory changes do not have any impact if competition is very low or very high. However, if competition is sufficiently high, the removal of geo-blocking decreases the level of innovation of the good that is traded. The product quality of the other firm, instead, increases - as long as R&D costs are sufficiently high. Putting both effects together, it becomes evident that the quality gains do not compensate for the quality losses. In addition, the removal of geo-blocking affects the product variety as well - a lower level of competition increases the product variety and vice versa.
L42|One-stop shopping behavior, buyer power, and upstream merger incentives|We analyze how consumer preferences for one-stop shopping affect the (Nash) bargaining relationships between a retailer and its suppliers. One-stop shopping preferences create 'demand complementarities' among otherwise independent products which lead to two opposing effects on upstream merger incentives: first a standard double mark-up problem and second a bargaining effect. The former creates merger incentives while the later induces suppliers to bargain separately. When buyer power becomes large enough, then suppliers stay separated which raises final good prices. We also show that our result can be obtained when wholesale prices are determined in a non-cooperative game, under two-part tariffs and when products are substitutable.
L42|Evaluation of best price clauses in hotel booking|We analyze the best price clauses (BPCs) of online travel agents (OTAs) using meta-search price data of more than 45,000 hotels in different countries. Although OTAs apparently have not changed their standard commission rates following the partial ban of BPCs in Europe, we find that BPCs do influence the pricing and availability of hotel rooms across online sales channels. In particular, the abolition of Booking.com's narrow BPC is associated with the hotels' direct channel being the price leader more often. Moreover, hotels make rooms more often available at Booking.com when it does not use the narrow BPC.
L42|The strategic value of partial vertical integration|We investigate the strategic incentives for partial vertical integration, namely, partial ownership agreements between manufacturers and retailers, when retailers privately know their costs and engage in price competition with differentiated goods. The partial misalignment between the profit objectives within a partially integrated manufacturer–retailer hierarchy implies a higher retail price than under full integration. This ‘information vertical effect’ translates into a ‘competition horizontal effect’: the partially integrated hierarchy's commitment to a higher price induces the competitor to increase its price, which strategically relaxes competition. Our analysis provides implications for vertical merger policy and theoretical support for the recently documented empirical evidence on partial vertical acquisitions.
L42|Reputation and foreclosure with vertical integration: Experimental evidence|Building on the seminal paper of Ordover, Saloner and Salop (1990), I study the role of reputation building on foreclosure in laboratory experiments. In one-shot interactions, upstream firms can choose to build a reputation by revealing their price history to the current upstream competitor. In particular, integrated firms can establish a reputation to foreclose the input market.an outcome that would otherwise not be tenable due to a commitment problem. I get three main results: First, withdrawal from the input market is three times more common with reputation building of the integrated firm. Second, the anticompetitive effects are much stronger when the integrated firm builds a reputation. Third, integrated firms choose to build a reputation significantly more often than non-integrated firms. Markets with reputation building of the integrated firm are ten times more often monopolized than without.
L42|Discounts as a Barrier to Entry|To what extent can an incumbent manufacturer use discount contracts to foreclose efficient entry? We show that off-list-price rebates that do not commit buyers to unconditional transfers--like the rebates in EU Commission v. Michelin II, for instance--cannot be anticompetitive. This is true even in the presence of cost uncertainty, scale economies, or intense downstream competition, all three market settings where exclusion has been shown to emerge with exclusive dealing contracts. The difference stems from the fact that, unlike exclusive dealing provisions, rebates do not contractually commit retailers to exclusivity when signing the contract.
L42|Naked Exclusion and the Volatility of Innovation|The analysis shows that the volatility of a potential entrant's innovation is an important parameter that shapes an incumbent supplier's exclusivity strategy. Higher volatility encourages the incumbent supplier to adopt an accommodation strategy rather than a pure exclusion strategy. When volatility is above a threshold, the incumbent always chooses accommodation regardless of the expected size of the entrant's innovation. And since an accommodation strategy merely redistributes surplus without blocking efficient entry, it may not warrant a prohibition of exclusivity contracts by the antitrust authorities.
L42|Nonlinear pricing and exclusion:II. Must-stock products|We adapt the exclusion model of Choné and Linnemer (2014) to reflect the notion that dominant firms are unavoidable trading partners. In particular, we introduce the share of the buyer’s demand that can be addressed by the rival as a new dimension of uncertainty. Nonlinear price-quantity schedules allow the dominant firm to adjust the competitive pressure placed on the rival to the size of the contestable demand, and to distort the rival supply at both the extensive and intensive margins. When disposal costs are sufficiently large, this adjustment may yield highly nonlinear and locally decreasing schedules, such as “retroactive rebates”.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L42|Empirical Evidence on Conditional Pricing Practices|Conditional pricing practices allow the terms of sale between a producer and a downstream distributor to vary based on the ability of the downstream firm to meet a set of conditions put forward by the producer. The conditions may require a downstream firm to accept minimum quantities or multiple products, to adhere to minimum market-share requirements, or even to deal exclusively with one producer. The form of payment from the producer to the downstream firm may take the form of a rebate, marketing support, or simply the willingness to supply inventory. The use of conditional pricing practices is widespread throughout many industries, and the variety of contractual forms used in these arrangements is nearly as extensive as the number of contracts. This paper reviews empirical evidence on these arrangements.
L42|Politique tarifaire locale ou nationale : quel impact pour le contrôle des concentrations dans le secteur de la distribution ?|The food retail sector is characterized by highly localized competition among multi-market retailers.?Multi-store retailers may either price-discriminate spatially (local pricing) or adopt a uniform pricing strategy among local markets.?We analyze how this choice affects the effect of a merger on consumer surplus.?We show that when one retailer adopts uniform pricing across stores, the anticompetitive effect of the merger on consumer welfare spreads on markets non directly affected by the merger.?In addition, the effect of the merger on directly affected markets is enhanced when these markets are sufficiently more competitive than markets non directly affected by the merger.?These results lead to reconsider the definition of relevant markets in merger control when one multi-market retailer uses uniform pricing. Classification JEL?: L13, L42.
L42|Integración vertical en el sector colombiano de la salud|Este artículo presenta una revisión de la literatura relacionada con la integración vertical en sistemas de salud, con un énfasis especial en el sector colombiano de la salud. Empezamos introduciendo algunos conceptos generales acerca de la integración vertical, y presentamos algunas de sus ventajas y desventajas tradicionales. Luego, nos enfocamos en las consecuencias de la integración vertical en el sector de la salud, tomando como referencia la experiencia de Estados Unidos. A continuación, describimos el sistema de salud colombiano y algunos cambios de la regulación de la integración vertical. Finalmente, proveemos algunas recomendaciones de política pública relacionada con esta regulación. En particular, recomendamos un cambio desde un enfoque regulatorio hacia un modelo de supervisión.
L42|The Welfare Effects of Vertical Integration in Multichannel Television Markets|We investigate the welfare effects of vertical integration of regional sports networks (RSNs) with programming distributors in U.S. multichannel television markets. Vertical integration can enhance efficiency by reducing double marginalization and increasing carriage of channels, but can also harm welfare due to foreclosure and incentives to raise rivals' costs. We estimate a structural model of viewership, subscription, distributor pricing, and affiliate fee bargaining using a rich data set on the U.S. cable and satellite television industry (2000â€“2010). We use these estimates to analyze the impact of simulated vertical mergers and divestitures of RSNs on competition and welfare, and examine the efficacy of regulatory policies introduced by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission to address competition concerns in this industry.
L42|Exclusive dealing with costly rent extraction|We analyze the impact of exclusive contracts on the intensity of competition among firms that supply substitute products. Exclusive contracts would be neutral if firms priced at marginal cost and extracted buyers' rent by means of non distortionary fixed fees. We focus instead on the case in which rent extraction is costly, and hence firms distort marginal prices upwards. We show that in this case exclusive contracts are anti-competitive when the dominant firm enjoys a large enough competitive advantage over its rivals, and are pro-competitive, or neutral, when the competitive advantage is small. These effects appear as soon as marginal prices are distorted upwards, irrespective of which specific factors impede perfect rent extraction.
L42|Vertical Information Restraints: Pro- and Anti-Competitive Impacts of Minimum Advertised Price Restrictions|We consider vertical contracts where the retail market may involve search frictions. Minimum advertised price restrictions (MAP) act as a restraint on customers’ information and so can increase search frictions in the retail sector. Such restraints, thereby, soften retail competition—an impact also generated by resale price maintenance (RPM). However, by accommodating (consumer or retailer) heterogeneity, MAP can allow for higher manufacturer profits than RPM. We show that they can do so through facilitating price discrimination among consumers; encouraging service provision; and facilitating manufacturer collusion. Thus, welfare effects may be positive or negative compared to RPM or to the absence of such restrictions.
L42|Menu contracts and the division of profits in vertical relationships|The article considers the use of menu contracts in vertical relationships. By offering publicly observable menus of contracts, competing retailers (manufacturers) can capture the entire industry profit when dealing with a common manufacturer (retailer).
L42|A comment on ‘Vertical mergers and downstream spatial competition with different product varieties’|The aim of this paper is to revise and correct the results obtained in Beladi et al. (2008). Specifically, we prove that in the pre-merger case, Nash equilibrium locations are socially optimal, whereas a vertical merger will relocate downstream firms by making them move to the right of their old socially optimal positions while keeping their in-between distance intact.
L42|Interlocking relationships and quantity rationing|As shown by Rey and Vergé (2010), resale price maintenance can be used to maximize industry profit when competing manufacturers sell their brands through the same competing retailers. The present article shows how quantity rationing non-linear tariffs can be used to achieve the same outcome.
L42|Addendum to Eleftheriou and Michelacakis (2016)|Following the publication of Eleftheriou and Michelacakis (2016a), it was brought to our attention that the problem identified and corrected in Eleftheriou and Michelacakis (2016a) affects more papers than just the Beladi et al. (2008). Two such instances of published papers that we know of are the Beladi et al. (2010a) and Beladi et al. (2010b). The aim of this short addendum is to warn the reader against the validity of the results in these two papers and perhaps others using the same basic duopoly model as in Beladi et al. (2008). We look into the origins of the fallacy and make an announcement of corrected versions of some of the affected conclusions referring elsewhere for precise details.
L42|Selling customer information to competing firms|We consider a data broker that holds precise information about customer preferences. The data broker can sell this data set either exclusively to one of two differentiated competing firms, or to both of them. If a downstream firm obtains the data set, it can practice personalized pricing, else it has to offer a uniform price to customers. The first-best allocation can be achieved when data are sold non exclusively, but this never arises in equilibrium. The data broker instead sells the data set exclusively either to the high quality firm or to the low quality firm rival, according to their quality-adjusted cost differential. This leads to inefficient allocations.
L42|Discriminatory nonlinear pricing, fixed costs, and welfare in intermediate-goods markets|We investigate the welfare effects of third-degree price discrimination in input markets when nonlinear wholesale tariffs are feasible. After accepting their respective wholesale contracts, two downstream firms have to pay a fixed cost in order to become active in the downstream market. If the downstream firm with lower marginal cost has significantly higher fixed cost, uniform pricing leads to lower marginal wholesale prices for all downstream firms and thus higher quantities of the final product being produced. This in turn implies that banning price discrimination improves welfare and consumer surplus. If the downstream firm with lower marginal cost has only weakly higher (or even lower) fixed cost, banning price discrimination deteriorates welfare and consumer surplus.
L42|The determinants of dealership structure: Empirical analysis of the Chinese auto market|This paper investigates the factors that affect manufacturers’ decisions to grant local monopoly to a dealer and the factors that determine the dealer’s status of sole dealership in the Chinese automobile market. Our empirical findings suggest that manufacturer decisions depend on dealers’ retail network: manufacturers are inclined to choose a sole dealer for their brands if that dealer also has retail outlets for substitute brands in the local market and to choose multiple dealers otherwise. These findings can be explained by the theory proposed by [Mathewson, G. F., Winter, R. A., 1994. Territorial restrictions in franchise contracts. Economic Inquiry 32 (2), 181–192.], who suggest that manufacturers transfer the exclusive right of resale from themselves to dealers only if dealers’ contribution is crucial to the vertical relationship. When dealers also have extensive retail channels for other brands, their retail efforts and experience become crucial to brand success, and thus manufacturers are more likely to offer them sole resale rights. Moreover, our empirical findings suggest that manufacturers also consider product quality and market conditions when making their decisions.
L42|Manufacturer suggested retail prices, loss aversion and competition|We study a model of vertical relations with imperfect retail competition in which a fraction of the consumers display reference-dependent demand with respect to the manufacturer’s suggested retail price. We demonstrate that in equilibrium the suggestion will either be undercut or complied with by the retailers, but never surpassed: undercutting occurs if competition is fierce, the impact from consumers affected by reference-dependent preferences is significant, and high price suggestions are credible; compliance occurs otherwise. We provide comparisons, and discuss implications, for consumer surplus for the scenarios with suggested retail prices, without vertical restraints and with resale price maintenance.
L42|Article 101 TFEU and market integration|Market integration is an objective of Article 101 TFEU. As a result, agreements aimed at partitioning national markets are in principle restrictive of competition by object. The case law on this point has been consistent since Consten-Grundig. Making sense of it, however, remains a challenge. The purpose of this piece is to show, first, how the methodological approach followed by the Court of Justice changes when market integration considerations are at stake. Secondly, it explains why and when restrictions on cross-border trade have been found not to restrict competition by object within the meaning of Article 101(1) TFEU. An agreement aimed at partitioning national markets is not as such contrary to Article 101(1) TFEU if the analysis of the counterfactual reveals that it does not restrict inter-brand and/or intra-brand competition that would have existed in its absence. It is possible to think of three scenarios in this regard: (i) an agreement may be objectively necessary to achieve the aims sought by the parties; (ii) a clause may be objectively necessary for an agreement and (iii) competition is precluded by the underlying regulatory context (as is the case, in particular, when the exercise of intellectual property rights is at stake).
L42|Promotional allowances|We study a setting of repeated trade between an upstream manufacturer and two downstream retailers that can exert valuable but noncontractible sales effort. Our focus is the manufacturer’s use of relational contracts with discretionary promotional allowances – payments that reward retailers for effort provision. We show that such contracts enable a sufficiently patient manufacturer to, in equilibrium, provide retailers with the correct incentives and extract the maximal industry profit in every period, and that this outcome cannot be replicated with formal two-part tariffs. These results have implications for the policy treatment of lump-sum payments from manufacturers to retailers, as well as for resale price maintenance.
L42|Anti-Competitive Agreements in Russian Courts (2008 - 2012): Antitrust Law Implementation and Interpetation|This paper analyses antitrust enforcement practice in Russia (2008–2012), in the area of competition-restricting agreements (horizontal and vertical). The analysis is based on a court decision database of litigation with the Russian competition authority (FAS). The database contains 400 cases, including 236 horizontal agreements (HA), 164 other agreements (vertical agreements (VA), conglomerate and mixed agreements). On the basis of this database important features of the interpretation and implementation of the competition law in Russian practice and the priority areas of the enforcement were identified. Antitrust policy was analysed taking into account the risks of type 1 and 2 errors, including the problem of the flexibility of prohibitions (per se vs rule of reason (ROR)), standards of proof, the problem of consistency of enforcement
L42|Most-favored-nation clauses in commercial contracts: legal and economic analysis and proposal for a guideline|Abstract The prevalent use of “most favored nation” (MFN) clauses in commercial agreements has garnered significant attention in the economics and legal literature and by practitioners and enforcement agencies. From an antitrust standpoint, there is a strong consensus that while MFN provisions can lead to procompetitive outcomes or at least play a competitively neutral role, they may also result in competitive harm and a loss of consumer welfare. Therefore, US and EU enforcement agencies and courts have held that MFNs should be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, considering the specific characteristics of both the contractual provision and the industry. While a case-by-case approach is valid, it is not ideal from a variety of standpoints: that of the competition authorities seeking to make best use of their limited resources and that of practitioners seeking to advise their clients. Accordingly, published guidelines on the use of MFNs, containing presumptions and safe harbors, would be both efficient and useful. The paper argues that it would increase the efficiency and accuracy of antitrust enforcement if one of the leading competition authorities issued MFN guidelines. The paper suggests a set of presumptions and safe harbors that should be included in any such guidelines.
L42|Minimum resale price maintenance in EU in the aftermath of the US Leegin decision|Abstract Leegin decision of the Supreme Court in 2007 affirmed that minimum RPM was to be evaluated under the rule of reason henceforth. Conversely, minimum RPM retains its position as a hard-core restraint in EU’s BER 2010 and the De Minimis Notice. The limited amount of case law reveal that in the absence of certain factors, such as significant market power of the parties, minimum RPM is unlikely to result in the detriment of consumers. Consequently, despite the retention of the maintenance of the single market as a significant aim in EU competition policy, minimum RPM practices are entitled to a more lenient approach, if the ultimate aim is to attain consumer welfare as stated by the Commission and through most judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
L42|Exclusive contracts with private information in successive differentiated oligopolies|Abstract The purpose of this article is to analyze the incentives of manufacturers to deal exclusively with retailers in bilaterally duopolistic industries with brand differentiation by manufacturers. In contrast with the previous literature, exclusive contracts are shown to generate higher profits for manufacturers and retailers selling highly differentiated products, who thus have an incentive to insist on exclusive contracting. However, if the products are close substitutes no exclusivity will emerge in equilibrium. Furthermore, we show that exclusive contracts decrease both consumer and social welfare.
L42|Relationship-specific investment as a barrier to entry|Abstract This study constructs a model of a relationship-specific investment in a dynamic framework. Although such investment decreases operating costs and increases the current joint profits of firms in vertical relationships, its specificity reduces the ex-post flexibility to change a trading partner in the future. We demonstrate that whether the investment contract deters entry even in the absence of exclusionary terms depends on not only the specificity but also the efficiency of the investment. We also show that an increase in the investment efficiency does not necessarily improve the equilibrium social welfare.
L42|Vertical Relations in the Presence of Competitive Recycling|This paper studies the vertical relations between a manufacturer and one or more retailers over two periods in the presence of a competitive recycling sector. In a bilateral monopoly, two-part tariffs are always efficient, i.e. the manufacturer will produce the joint-profit-maximizing output. Under downstream oligopoly, instead, retailers compete to acquire the recycled good which allows the recycling sector to appropriate some of the industry profits. Under two-part tariffs, the manufacturer has an incentive to distort her output choices to reduce this rent loss: She will discriminate among her retailers, and she will either overproduce in the second period or underproduce in the first period. Vertical restraints that restore profit maximization (e.g. loyalty rebates) will harm consumers whenever the manufacturer would overproduce otherwise. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
L42|Vertical integration and upstream horizontal mergers|In this paper, we study upstream horizontal mergers in vertically related markets. A key aspect of our analysis is that one of the merging parties is a vertically integrated firm. We consider a two-tier market consisting of two competing vertical chains, with one upstream and one downstream firm in each chain. We assume that one vertical chain is vertically integrated whereas the other chain is vertically separated. We also assume that the vertically integrated chain is more cost-efficient in its downstream operations than the independent downstream firm. We show that a horizontal merger between the vertically integrated firm and the independent upstream supplier will increase the equilibrium input price and reduce both consumer and total welfare. When an upstream competitive fringe exists, however, the merger still decreases consumer surplus but it may increase total welfare. The latter finding is important since it implies that whether antitrust authorities favor a consumer or total welfare objective can lead to very different conclusions regarding the merger’s desirability.
L42|Stipulated Damages as a Rent-Extraction Mechanism: Experimental Evidence|This paper experimentally studies stipulated damages as a rent-extraction mechanism. We demonstrate that contract renegotiation induces the sellers to propose the lowest stipulated damages and the entrants to offer the highest price more frequently. We show that complete information about the entrant's cost lowers exclusion of high-cost entrants. Unanticipated findings are observed. The majority of sellers make more generous offers than expected. Rent extraction also occurs in renegotiation environments. Our findings from the dictatorial-seller and buyer-entrant communication treatments suggest the presence of social preferences.
L42|Are Market-Share Contracts a Poor Man’s Exclusive Dealing?|Contracts that reference rivals have long been a focus of antitrust law and the subject of intense scholarly debate. This paper compares two such contracts, exclusive-dealing contracts and market-share contracts, in a model of naked exclusion. We discuss the different mecha-nisms through which each works and identify the fundamental tradeoff that arises: market-share contracts are better at maximizing a seller’s benefit from foreclosure whereas exclusive dealing is better at minimizing a seller’s cost of foreclosure. We give settings in which each is the more profitable contract and show that welfare can be worse with market-share contracts.
L42|Empirical Evidence on Conditional Pricing Practices|Conditional pricing practices allow the terms of sale between a producer and a downstream distributor to vary with the ability of the downstream firm to meet a set of conditions put forward by the producer. The conditions may require a downstream firm to accept minimum quantities or multiple products, to adhere to minimum market-share requirements, or even to deal exclusively with one producer. The form of payment from the producer to the downstream firm may take the form of a rebate, marketing support, or simply the willingness to supply inventory. The use of conditional pricing practices is widespread throughout many industries, and the variety of contractual forms used in these arrangements is nearly as extensive as the number of contracts.
L42|Vertical Information Restraints: Pro- and Anti-Competitive Impacts of Minimum Advertised Price Restrictions|We consider vertical contracts where the retail market may involve search frictions. Minimum advertised price restrictions (MAP) act as a restraint on customers' information and so can increase search frictions in the retail sector. Such restraints, thereby, soften retail competition - an impact also generated by resale price maintenance (RPM). However, by accommodating (consumer or retailer) heterogeneity, MAP can allow for higher manufacturer profits than RPM. We show that they can do so through facilitating price discrimination among consumers; encouraging service provision; and facilitating manufacturer collusion. Thus, welfare effects may be positive or negative compared to RPM or to the absence of such restrictions.
L42|Platform investment and price parity clauses| Platforms use price parity clauses to prevent sellers charging lower prices when selling through other channels. Platforms justify these restraints by noting they are needed to prevent free-riding, which would undermine their incentives to invest in their platform. In this paper, we study the effect of price parity clauses on three different types of platform investment, and evaluate these restraints taking into account these investment effects. We find, that wide price parity clauses lead to excessive platform investment while without such price parity clauses there is insufficient platform investment. Even taking these investment effects into account, wide price parity clauses always lower consumer surplus and often lowers total welfare.
L42|Vertical Integration as a Source of Hold-up|While vertical integration is traditionally seen as a solution to the hold-up problem, this article highlights instead that it can generate hold-up problems—for rivals. We consider a successive duopoly where downstream firms invest and then secure support from an upstream supplier. We first show that vertical integration generates ex ante incentives to create hold-up problems: an integrated supplier is willing to pre-commit itself to appropriating or dissipating part of its customer's profits, to expose the independent rival to being held-up by the other supplier, and discourage in this way the rival's investment. We then show that, even in the absence of any pre-commitment, vertical integration also creates hold-up problems ex post when degrading the quality of the support provided to one downstream firm benefits its rival. We also provide illustrations in terms of standard industrial organization models and of antitrust cases, and discuss the robustness of the insights.
L42|Exclusive Dealing as a Barrier to Entry? Evidence from Automobiles|Exclusive dealing contracts between manufacturers and retailers force new entrants to set up their own costly dealer networks to enter the market. We ask whether such contracts may act as an entry barrier, and provide an empirical analysis of the European car market. We first estimate a demand model with product and spatial differentiation, and quantify consumers' valuations for dealer proximity and dealer exclusivity. We then perform policy counterfactuals to assess the profit incentives and possible entry-deterring effects of exclusive dealing. We find that there are no unilateral incentives to maintain exclusive dealing, but there is a collective incentive for the industry as a whole. Furthermore, a ban on exclusive dealing would raise the smaller entrants' market share. But more importantly, consumers would gain, not so much because of increased price competition, but rather because of the increased spatial availability, which compensates for the demand inefficiency from a loss of dealer exclusivity.
L42|Quantity Competition under Resale Price Maintenance when Most Favored Customers are Strategic|"Legal studies usually treat a policy of a manufacturer or retailer as socially harmful if it reduces product output and increases the price. We consider a two-period model where the first-period price is fixed by resale price maintenance (RPM) and resellers endogenously decide to use another ""collusion suspect,"" meet-the-competition clause with a most-favored-customer clause (MFC), to counteract strategic customer behavior. As a result of MFC, second-period (reduced) price increases, and resellers' inventories decrease. However, customer surplus may increase and aggregate welfare increases in the majority of market situations. MFC can not only decrease the losses in welfare and resellers' profits due to strategic customers but, under reseller competition, may even lead to higher levels of these values than with myopic customers, i.e., to gains from increased strategic behavior. MFC may create ""MFC-traps"" for resellers, where one of possible market outcomes yields a gain from increased strategic behavior while another results in a reseller profit less than the worst profit in any stable outcome without MFC. With growing competition, benefits or losses from MFC can be higher than losses from strategic customer behavior."
L42|"A Comment on ""Sequential Spatial Competition in Vertically Related Industries with Different Product Varieties"""|The aim of this paper is to revise and correct the results obtained in Beladi et al. [Beladi, H., Chakrabarti, A., Marjit, S., 2010. Sequential spatial competition in vertically related industries with different product varieties. Economics Letters 106, 112-114]. Specifically, we prove that following a vertical merger, the downstream firms will locate away from the social optimum in the following manner: to the direction of the un-integrated follower or to a direction determined by the wholesale price charged to the un-integrated leader.
L42|A comment on 'Cross-border merger, vertical structure, and spatial competition'|The aim of this paper is to revise and correct the results obtained in Beladi et al. [Beladi, H., Chakrabarti, A., Marjit, S., 2010. Cross-border merger, vertical structure, and spatial competition. Economics Letters 109, 112-114]. Specifically, we prove that the Nash equilibrium locations of the downstream firms are the same in the pre-merger free-trade case as they are following a cross-border upstream merger.
L42|Federal Antitrust Authority against Google: Economic Analysis for Special Markets<BR>[ФАС против Google: экономический анализ для особых рынков]|The forming features of markets with network effects including the software markets are essentially important for effective business models in various spheres of business activity. First of all, it is connected with understanding of network effect and reasons of its use which are key factors not only commercial success of products and services, but also forming of adequate measures of economic policy, including antitrust.The article describes the case against Google, Inc. and Google Ireland Limited company (affiliated company) on suspicion of violation of the Russian antitrust law. The market of the pre-installed applications for OC Android localized for Russia which represents the market with network effects is a subject of the economic analysis. The signs of antitrust violation include the characteristics of the multilateral markets, in particular a platform (app store of Google) on the sides of market without which very difficult to create and support directly the product at the market. Namely buidling or tying which can be considered as equivalent of excluding agreement to create barriers on the market for the potential newcomer. The description of similar cases like the case against Google, Inc. corporation and the Google Ireland Limited company, and also the case against the Microsoft company which showed all difficulties of law application in the field of monopolization constraint (in terms of USA antitrust law) or abuse of dominance (in terms of European antitrust legislation) have the opportunity to show the fact that such decisions can be justified in principle
L42|A comment on 'Cross-border merger, vertical structure, and spatial competition'|The aim of this paper is to revise and correct the results obtained in Beladi et al. [Beladi, H., Chakrabarti, A., Marjit, S., 2010. Cross-border merger, vertical structure, and spatial competition. Economics Letters 109, 112-114]. Specifically, we prove that in the pre-merger free-trade case, Nash equilibrium locations coincide with the equilibrium locations of the two downstream firms, following a cross-border upstream merger.
L42|Does Vertical Integration Decrease Prices? Evidence from the Paramount Antitrust Case of 1948|I empirically examine the impact of the 1948 Paramount antitrust case on ticket prices using a unique dataset collected from Variety magazine issues between 1945 and 1955. With information on prices, revenues, and theater ownership for an unbalanced panel of 393 theaters in 26 cities, I find that vertically integrated theaters charged lower prices and sold more admission tickets than nonintegrated theaters. I also find that the rate at which prices increased in theaters was slower while integrated than after vertical divestiture. These findings together with institutional details are consistent with the prediction that vertical integration lowers prices through the elimination of double marginalization. (JEL G34, K21, L11, L22, L42, L82)
L42|Net Neutrality, Vertical Integration, and Competition Between Content Providers|This paper investigates the effects of a net neutrality regulation on the competition between content providers and the investment incentives of the internet service provider. We consider a situation where the monopoly internet service provider is vertically integrated with one of the content providers, and content providers compete in prices. Without net neutrality the vertical integrated firm can prioritise the delivery of its own content. We find that, under prioritisation, the integrated internet service provider and consumers as a whole are unambiguously better off. The competing content providers might also be better off under prioritisation if the congestion intensity is high. From a social welfare perspective prioritisation is also desirable unless product differentiation and congestion intensity are low. Contrary to some claims by internet service providers, we find that investment incentives are not always higher under prioritisation.
L42|Optimal Production Channel for Private Labels: Too Much or Too Little Innovation?|" type=""main""> We analyze the impact of the private label production channel on innovation. A retailer may either choose to integrate backward with a small firm (insourcing) or rely on a national brand manufacturer (outsourcing) to produce its private label. The trade-off between insourcing and outsourcing strategies is a choice between too much or too little innovation (i.e., quality investment) on the private label. When insourcing, an outside-option effect leads the retailer to overinvest to increase its buyer power. When outsourcing, a hold-up effect leads to underinvestment. In addition, selecting the national brand manufacturer may create economies of scale that spur innovation."
L42|Using Forward Contracts to Reduce Regulatory Capture|A fully unbundled, regulated network firm of unknown efficiency level can untertake unobservable effort to increase the likelihood of low downstream prices, e.g. by facilitating downstream competition. To incentivize such effort, the regulator can use an incentive scheme paying transfers to the firm contingent on realized downstream prices. Alternatively, the regulator can force the firm to sell the following forward contracts: the firm pays the downstream price to the owners of a contract, but recieves the expected value of the contracts when selling them to a competivitve financial market. We compare the two regulatory tools with respect to regulatory capture: if the regulator can be bribed to suppress information on the underlying state of the world (the basic propability of high downstream prices, or the type of the firm), optimal regulation uses forward contracts only.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L42|Nonlinear pricing and exclusion: I. buyer opportunism|" type=""main""> We study the exclusionary properties of nonlinear price-quantity schedules in an Aghion-Bolton style model with elastic demand and product differentiation. We distinguish three regimes, depending on whether and how the price charged by the dominant firm depends on the quantity purchased from the rival firm. We find that the supply of rival good is distorted downward. Moreover, given the quantity supplied from the rival, the buyer may opportunistically purchase inefficiently many units from the dominant firm to pocket quantity rebates. We show that the possibility for the buyer to dispose of unconsumed units attenuates the opportunism problem and limits the exclusionary effects of nonlinear pricing."
L42|Is Amazon The Next Google?|Dominant or apparently dominant internet platform increasingly become subject to both antitrust investigations and further-reaching political calls for regulation. While Google is currently in the focus of the discussion, the next candidate is already on the horizon - the ubiquitous online trading platform Amazon. Competitors and suppliers but also famous economists like Paul Krugman unite in criticizing Amazon′s market power and alleged abuse of it. In this paper, we collect the multitude of allegations against Amazon and categorize them according to types of potential anticompetitive conduct or types of market failure. We provide an economic analysis of these allegations based upon economic theory as well as publicly available information and data. As one of our main results, we find that the most severe allegations against Amazon do not hold from an economic perspective and, consequently, do not warrant regulation or other drastic interventions (like breaking the company up). However, several areas of conduct, in particular, the use of best price clauses and the (anti-) competitive interplay of Amazon and the major publishers in the e-book market require competition policy action. The standard antitrust instruments, enriched with modern economic theory, should suffice to disincentivize the identified anticompetitive conduct for now.
L42|Pouvoir de marché, stratégies et régulation : Les contributions de Jean Tirole, Prix Nobel d’Économie 2014|This article is devoted to a perspective of the works of Jean Tirole on the topics mentioned by the Nobel Committee, namely the analysis of market power, its control mechanisms and the regulation of network activities and natural monopoly. It develops in three parts. The first explains why and how these works have contributed to a profound renewal of the Industrial Organization field by offering strong theoretical foundations. The second presents different contributions that advance our understanding of the Economics of Innovation. The third part refers to the works on the Economics of Regulation. In each part, the focus is on three aspects: i / the state of knowledge at the time of the work, ii / the analytical instruments and iii / the lessons that can be drawn. The article seeks to illustrate a common feature in many of these works, that of combining theoretical research leading to the knowledge?s enlargement in various fields of economic analysis, and a choice of questions motivated by a strong concern to find solutions to some contemporary economic problems, based on a serious prior theoretical analysis.
L42|Integración vertical en el sector de la salud colombiano|Este documento presenta una revisión de la literatura relacionada con integración vertical en sistemas de salud con un énfasis espacial en el sector de la salud Colombiano. Nosotros empezamos introduciendo algunos conceptos generales acerca de la integración vertical presentando algunas de sus ventajas y desventajas tradicionales. Luego, nosotros nos enfocamos en las consecuencias de la integración vertical en el sector de salud, tomando como referencia la experiencia de Estados Unidos. Posteriormente, describimos el sistema de salud Colombiano y algunos cambios de la regulación de la integración vertical. Finalmente, proveemos algunas recomendaciones de política pública relacionada con esta regulación. En particular, recomendamos un cambio desde un enfoque regulatorio hacia un modelo de supervisión.
L42|Exclusive contracts with complementary inputs|This study constructs a model of anticompetitive exclusive contracts in the presence of complementary inputs. A downstream firm transforms multiple complementary inputs into final products. When complementary input suppliers have market power, upstream competition within a given input market benefits not only the downstream firm, but also the complementary input suppliers, by raising complementary input prices. Thus, the downstream firm is unable to earn higher profits, even when socially efficient entry is allowed. Hence, the inefficient incumbent supplier can deter socially efficient entry by using exclusive contracts, even in the absence of scale economies, downstream competition, and relationship-specific investment.
L42|Price discrimination and sequential contracting in monopolistic input markets|This paper examines the welfare implication of banning price discrimination in the intermediate goods market in which a monopolistic supplier contracts with asymmetric downstream retailers. We demonstrate that the supplier has a strong incentive to manipulate the interdependent demand structure through sequential contracting whether price discrimination is banned or not, and allowing price discrimination improves social welfare and consumer surplus when sequential contracting is implemented by the supplier.
L42|Buyer power and exclusion in vertically related markets|Suppliers and consumer organizations have become increasingly concerned by the build-up of buyer power of retailers in many markets. A major concern is that strong retailers will abuse their power to exclude products and rival retailers from the market to be able to increase prices to consumers. As a consequence, remedies to limit buyer power are discussed and implemented in many countries. In this paper we compare the incentives for exclusion, and the effect on consumers prices, under both buyer and seller power. We study a model with a dominant upstream manufacturer and a competitive fringe of producers offering their products to two differentiated downstream retailers. We compare the equilibrium outcome of this model when i) the dominant supplier holds all the bargaining power, and (ii) the retailers have all the bargaining power. We show that full or partial exclusion of either the competitive product or downstream retailers occurs when inter and intrabrand competition are strong. This is true both under seller and buyer power. However, in contrast to the received literature, we find that buyer power weakly enhances welfare compared to seller power because buyer power will lead to both more product variety (less exclusion) and lower retail prices.
L42|Exclusion through speculation|We demonstrate how an incumbent producer of commodities can use cash-settled derivatives contracts to deter entry and extract rents from a potential competitor. By selling more derivatives than total demand, the producer commits to low prices and forces the entrant to price low upon entry. By setting a high upfront derivatives price, the producer can extract the consumer's gains from those low prices. This exclusionary scheme becomes more difficult when the buyer becomes more risk averse and with multiple buyers.
L42|Robust exclusion and market division through loyalty discounts|We show that loyalty discounts create an externality among buyers because each buyer who signs a loyalty discount contract softens competition and raises prices for all buyers. This externality can enable an incumbent to use loyalty discounts to effectively divide the market with its rival and raise prices. If loyalty discounts also include a buyer commitment to buy from the incumbent, then loyalty discounts can also deter entry under conditions in which ordinary exclusive dealing cannot. With or without buyer commitment, loyalty discounts will increase profits while reducing consumer welfare and total welfare as long as enough buyers exist and the entrant does not have too large a cost advantage. These propositions are true even if the entrant is more efficient and the loyalty discounts are above cost and cover less than half the market. We also prove that these propositions hold without assuming economies of scale, downstream competition, buyer switching costs, financial constraints, limits on rival expandability, or any intra-product bundle of contestable and incontestable demand.
L42|Do tying, bundling, and other purchase restraints increase product quality?|Tying, bundling, minimum purchase requirements, loyalty discounts, exclusive dealing, and other purchase restraints can create stronger incentives for firms to invest in product quality. In our first example, the firm sells a durable experience good and a complementary non-durable good to a representative consumer. Tying shifts profits from the durable to the non-durable good, making profits more sensitive to the consumer's experience. In our second example, the firm sells a single experience good to consumers with heterogeneous demands. Minimum purchase requirements screen out the low-volume consumers who would otherwise free ride on the superior monitoring of the high-volume consumers. The examples illustrate that purchase restraints can increase both firm profits and consumer surplus by making firm profits more sensitive to consumer experience, either directly by giving the consumer more control over the stream of profits or indirectly by constraining consumers to monitor more intensively.
L42|Buyer power through the differentiation of suppliers|This paper argues that rival retailers may choose to differentiate their supplying producers, even at the expense of downgrading the quality of the product offered to consumers, to improve their buyer power. We show that, through the differentiation of suppliers, a retailer may obtain a larger slice of a smaller pie, i.e, smaller bilateral joint profits. Thus, the “only” purpose of differentiation is to gain increasing buyer power. This result may hold (i) when retailers compete in the final market or (ii) when retailers are active in separate markets. The differentiation of suppliers, which results from a buyer power motive, may be harmful for consumer surplus and social welfare.
L42|Are cartel fines optimal? Theory and evidence from the European Union|Deterring the formation or continuation of cartels is a major objective of antitrust policy. We develop a dynamic framework to characterize the compensation and deterrence properties of fines, based on the fact that cartel stability depends on the ability to prevent deviation, which itself depends in part on fines imposed in case of detection and conviction. We show that the proper consideration of cartel dynamics plays a major role in determining optimal deterrent fines. Our results suggest that fines imposed by the European Commission in recent years meet the deterrence objective in a significant number of cases.
L42|Brand-specificity of pre-sale services and inter-brand competition with resale price maintenance|We analyze the competitive effects of resale price maintenance (RPM) in circumstances in which multiple manufacturers use RPM and distributors have incentives to free-ride on other distributors’ pre-sale services, which can be specific to a manufacturer's brand to some extent. In the antitrust literature and practices, RPM solving the free-rider problem is perceived mostly as pro-competitive, while multiple manufacturers’ RPM is perceived as anti-competitive based on their collusive incentives. In our circumstances, distributors’ services may differentiate manufacturers’ brands ex post, as is desired by manufacturers. Thus, despite solving the free-rider problem, multiple manufacturers’ RPM may harm consumers by softening inter-brand price competition.
L42|Distribución exclusiva y competencia|This note evaluates the effects on competition of exclusive dealing agreements. The economic literature identifies these agreements as an instrument to align incentives between manufacturers and distributors, and optimize sale activities. It also identifies them as a mechanism to reduce competition, but this possibility is only observed under specific market conditions. In this regards, the Mexican legislation prohibits exclusive dealing when it is undertaken by a dominant firm with the purpose or effect of displacing competitors, but it does not establish criteria to evaluate when this could happen. The above introduces uncertainty regarding the legality of exclusive dealing, and can inhibit this conduct even when it is efficient, or encourage it when it is anticompetitive. This note proposes criteria to minimize this risk based on a review of the relevant economic literature and international experience.// Este artículo evalúa el impacto en competencia de los acuerdos de distribución exclusiva. La literatura económica identifica estos acuerdos como un instrumento para alinear incentivos entre fabricantes y distribuidores, y optimizar las actividades de venta. También los identifica como un medio para reducir la competencia, pero esta posibilidad se observa sólo bajo condiciones específicas de mercado. Por su parte, la legislación mexicana prohíbe la distribución exclusiva cuando la establece una empresa dominante con el objeto o efecto de desplazar competidores, pero no señala criterios para identificar cuándo puede ocurrir. Lo anterior introduce incertidumbre de cuándo se considera ilegal y puede inhibir la conducta incluso cuando sea eficiente, o alentarla cuando sea anticompetitiva. Este artículo propone criterios para minimizar estos riesgos con base en una revisión de la literatura económica y de la experiencia internacional relevante
L42|Contrainte de capacité et développement des marques de distributeurs|In this paper, we try to explain the ambiguous impact of the Raffarin law on the relationships between manufacturers and retailers. We show that the law has two conflicting effects on the share of profit between upstream and downstream firms. We study the influence of a capacity constraint on the development of own brands by retailers. We show that, when entry is free at the retailers’ level, a restriction of the retailers’ capacity, as imposed by the Raffarin law, can improve producers’ profit. But barriers to entry on the downstream market remove this effect. Classification JEL : K21, L13, L42
L42|Contrainte de capacité et développement des marques de distributeurs|[fre] Cet article tente d'expliquer l'impact ambigu de la loi Raffarin sur les relations entre producteurs et distributeurs, en montrant qu'elle exerce deux effets opposés sur le partage du profit entre les secteurs amont et aval. Nous proposons un modèle permettant d'appréhender l'influence d'une contrainte de capacité sur les choix de référencement d'un distributeur, et notamment sur sa décision d'introduire ou non une marque propre menaçant la situation de monopole du producteur. Nous montrons que, seule, l'imposition d'une limitation de la taille des magasins peut renforcer le pouvoir des producteurs face aux distributeurs, mais qu'associée à une barrière à l'entrée en aval, elle ne permet plus d'améliorer le pouvoir de négociation des producteurs. [eng] Capacity constraint and the development of own brands. . In this paper, we try to explain the ambiguous impact of the Raffarin law on the relationships between manufacturers and retailers. We show that the law has two conflicting effects on the share of profit between upstream and downstream firms. We study the influence of a capacity constraint on the development of own brands by retailers. We show that, when entry is free at the retailers' level, a restriction of the retailers' capacity, as imposed by the Raffarin law, can improve producers' profit. But barriers to entry on the downstream market remove this effect.
