L49|Switching costs in the Finnish retail deposit market|I calibrate switching cost for the Finnish retail deposit market by using the approach developed by Oz Shy (2002). It turns out that switching costs faced by deposit customers of the main banks are high, ranging from 200 euros to nearly 1,400 euros. Over the past 20 years, switching costs have increased by roughly 50% in real terms, but in relation to average account balance, switching costs have not essentially changed. I conjecture that differences in the switching costs among the Finnish banks might be explained by differences in their loyalty programs.
L49|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
L49|The Ownership of Data|We study the effects of property rights over the use of data on market outcomes. For this, we consider a model in which a monopolistic firm offers a service to a set of heterogeneous users. Usage generates valuable data but data extraction entails a privacy cost to users. We show that both the firm and users prefer the users (the firm) to own the rights for low (high) values of data. We further discuss the robustness of our results by allowing more contracting possibilities to the data owner. We show that the main trade-off between the two ownership regimes is robust to these extensions.
L49|Multimarket Contact and Platform Competition: Reassessing the Mutual Forbearance Hypothesis|Antitrust authorities are particularly concerned with the dominant market position of tech giants such as Google, Facebook, and Amazon. These digital conglomerates are characterized by platform-based business models. However, despite their dominance, they are competing with each other to attract the same groups of users (developers, advertisers, end users, third party sellers, etc). They therefore have not only overlapping users (or sides) but also multimarket contact (MMC). In traditional one-sided markets, theory and empirical evidence show that MMC tends to relax competition. However, it is unclear whether this result holds under platform competition. This paper examines how MMC a ects pricing behaviour and pro ts of two-sided platforms. We develop a model of platform competition with two distinct markets. We assume that platforms only charge one group of users and provide free access to the other group. We argue that multimarket platforms also generate cross-market externalities that favour their users, in addition to well-known cross-group externalities. We nd that when cross-market externalities bene t the side that has free access, price competition is ercer and total welfare increases under MMC. However, when they bene t the side that pays to access the platform, the same result only holds if the cross-group externality and/or cross-market externality are suciently high. Finally, we show that a single-market platform competing with a multimarket platform may be deterred from entering the second market if cross-market or cross-group externalities are high. Our ndings contrast with the mutual forbearance hypothesis which claims that MMC relaxes competition in traditional (one-sided) industries. From a competition policy perspective, our paper provides an insight into how antitrust authorities should review conglomerate mergers and assess the e ects of diversi cation strategies of digital platforms.
L49|Do Corporate Environmental Contributions Justify the Public Interest Defence?|Corporations make significant direct contributions to environmental improvement and also indirect contributions, through expenditure on process and product innovation. We explore alternative motivations for these expenditures that look beyond the assertion that they are a consequence of business ethics. Two motives are explored: environmental improvement leading to reduced production costs, and publicized environmental expenditures boosting brand image. We analyze the equilibrium with environmental contributions and social welfare implications. These motives are then combined to determine whether environmental expenditures can justify public interest defence for the operation of a cartel. Using a variant of the Dixit-Stiglitz model we identify when reduced competition caused by a decrease in the number of active firms leads to greater environmental expenditures and higher welfare. However, allowing the operational firms to form a cartel and raise prices above Nash equilibrium levels always reduces environmental expenditures. Welfare falls, as a consequence, and the public interest defence fails.
L49|Autonomous Algorithmic Collusion: Q-Learning Under Sequantial Pricing|A recent and prominent concern within competition policy and regulation is whether autonomous machine learning algorithms may learn to collude on prices. We show in a simulated environment that when algorithmic competitors update prices sequentially, Q-learning (a simple but well-established self-learning algorithm) coordinates on high fixed-price equilibria or profitable asymmetric price cycles. This occurs even though the algorithm does not communicate and does not receive any instructions to collude. We show that results are robust to changes to the learning parameters and timing and discuss how more advanced algorithms could deal with practical limitations.
L49|Competition policy, trade and the global economy: Existing WTO elements, commitments in regional trade agreements, current challenges and issues for reflection|Competition policy, today, is an essential element of the legal and institutional framework for the global economy. Whereas decades ago, anti-competitive practices tended to be viewed mainly as a domestic phenomenon, most facets of competition law enforcement now have an important international dimension. Examples include: the investigation and prosecution of price fixing and market sharing arrangements that often spill across national borders and, in important instances, encircle the globe; multiple recent, prominent cases of abuses of a dominant position in high-tech network industries; important current cases involving transnational energy markets; and major corporate mergers that often need to be simultaneously reviewed by multiple jurisdictions. Beyond competition law enforcement per se, increasingly, major issues of competition policy (e.g., the impact on competition of the structure and scope of intellectual property rights or the role of state-owned enterprises) implicate the interests of multiple jurisdictions. [...]
L49|European Club Football after “Five Treatments” with Financial Fair Play—Time for an Assessment|UEFA’s Club Licensing and Financial Fair Play Regulations (FFP) have impacted European club football. After five distinct applications of the break-even requirement, which represents the cornerstone of these regulations, it is time for an assessment. How has the situation in European top-division football changed since the FFP regulation? The most recent financial data show that European club football is characterized by significant financial recovery and further polarization. How has the FFP regulation presumably affected this development? This article discusses plausible reasons why FFP has contributed to financial recovery but has not aggravated polarization. Understanding the drivers of polarization is essential before taking further regulatory steps.
L49|The Coordinated Effect of a Merger with Balanced Sharing of Collusive Profits|Abstract It is hard to assess the coordinated effect of mergers in solid and convincing fashion, in part because economic theory deals mainly with the sustainability of tacit collusion and generally does not explore the conditions that foster collusion in the first place. Also the most popular schemes of collusion (Joint profit maximization and Nash Bargaining) proposed by the economic literature seem at odds with the evidence recorded on cartels and with the practical attitude of entrepreneurs. In this scenario the recent version of the Horizontal Merger Guidelines contained the interesting suggestion to pay attention to the process - parallel behaviour – which leads to collusive equilibria. Working on the same intuition we propose an approach based on the idea that firms can always find a feasible collusive agreement, for every possible value of the factor which discounts future profits. Assuming that in order to collude, firms demand the fair sharing of collusive gains, we exploit the egalitarian property of grim trigger strategies when all incentive compatibility constraints are binding. This approach suggests using three indicators to determine whether and how a merger affects the probability of collusion. An application of this approach to a real-world case (the AT&T/T-Mobile merger) is provided.
L49|The deterrent effect of Russian control of mergers: An Empirical Study<BR>[Сдерживающие Эффекты Российского Контроля Слияний: Эмпирическое Исследование]|The article is devoted to identifying the deterrent effect of Russian control of mergers. Under the deterrent effect it meant a decrease of future M & A activity in connection with the strengthening of the regulatory impact of the antimonopoly body. To conduct the study were used panel data of two types: on the number of permits corrective prescriptions and prohibitions on the merger by sector for the years 2009-2014 in Russia, the economic characteristics of industries. A model showing the relationship between the amount received bans and regulations and M & A activity in the next period. The results of this study confirm the existence of a deterrent effect in the Russian merger control. At the same time permission to the regulations do not have a deterrent effect on future M & A activity, and restrictions may constrain the number of submitted applications. The study of the deterrent effect will allow a more accurate assessment of the overall benefits of the merger of Russian control since the deterrent effect of the merger is greater than the direct effect of regulations and prohibitions.
L49|A Note on Partial Merchant Internalization and MIT Threshold|In framework of Rochet and Tirole (2011), I allow for partial merchant internalization and study how MIT threshold is related to levels of inter-change fee that maximize various components of social welfare. I find that cost absorption on the side of issuers and merchant heterogeneity each bias MIT threshold upward from TUS maximizing level.
L49|Upward Pricing Pressure of Mergers Weakening Vertical Relationships|We modify the UPP test of Farrell and Shapiro (2010) to take into account the possibility that a merger weakens (or eliminates) a vertical supply relationship. After deriving a general effect of the merger, we provide an example of simple estimation strategy when only prices, costs and market shares are available as a snapshot.
L49|Does one more or one less mobile operator affect prices? A comprehensive ex-post evaluation of entries and mergers in European mobile telecommunication markets|This paper estimates the impact of entries and mergers on the price of mobile voice services in a panel database of 27 European Member States between 2003 and 2010. Our difference-in-differences econometric methodology exploits the variance in different structural changes between countries to separate the respective effects. Our results show that the effect of entry crucially depends on the number of active operators and the type of entrant, and not controlling for these differences might lead to misleading conclusions. We find no robust evidence that entry has a price-decreasing effect on markets with originally 2 operators. However, the entry of a 4th operator does have a price-decreasing effect, but with different dynamics concerning the entrant's type. When we separate entry effects for the subsequent years, we show that the significant price-decreasing effects for local operators entering occur only in the first year after entry, while the price-decreasing effects for multinational entries are significantly larger on the long-run. Last, we find no price-increasing effects of 5-to-4 mergers, but a long run price-increasing effect of a 4-to-3 merger.
L49|Access to Documents in the Competition Law in the Context of Damages Actions for Breaches of European Union Rules|Damages claims (compensation) for breaches of Articles 101 or 102 of the Treaty (direct effect) create an important sphere of private enforcement of EU competition law. The Directive seeks to ensure the effective enforcement of the EU competition rules by optimising the interaction between the public and private enforcement of competition law and ensuring obtain full compensation by victims of infringements of the EU competition rules for the harm they suffered. However, the effectiveness of filing a civil action before the national courts depends on many factors, including in particular the extent of access to documents collected in connection with the public law. Practical implementation of these rules in the interest of economically disadvantaged individuals is far from consistency. In the article the accent has been put on the problem of access barriers victims of competition breaches to the documents collected in connection administrative action. Does the Directive remove the fundamental barriers to access to information? To ensure effective private enforcement actions under civil law and effective public enforcement by competition authorities, both instruments are required to synergy to ensure maximum effectiveness of the competition rules. It is necessary to regulate, adequately, the way the two forms of enforcement are coordinated. The mutual interplay at Union level will also avoid divergence of applicable rules, which could jeopardise the proper functioning of the EU internal market.
L49|Market Design for Trading Commoditized Renewable Energy|Information and communication technology plays an important role in achieving a higher level of energy efficiency. In particular, energy efficiency can be achieved by integrating information technology into electricity networks to enable the interaction between suppliers and customers (smart grids). Power generation by renewable energy sources can also benefit from this integration of technologies. Distributed power generation, which will be the basis of renewable energy production, encourages the production of renewable energy resources and, accordingly, decreases transmission loss, increases energy saving, and enhances energy efficiency. Therefore, integrating distributed, renewable energy sources and smart grids within local marketplaces for trading renewable energy in small units can be a promising combination. In this paper, we propose a structure of a marketplace for renewable energy sources, design a market mechanism for trading in this market, and outline the requirements for such a market to function efficiently. Finally, we conclude and present recommendations to policymakers to provide incentives to generators to increase deployment of renewable energy sources and to end users to save electricity and to consume clean energy.
L49|Strategic Withholding through Production Failures|Anecdotal evidence indicates that electricity producers use production failures to disguise strategic reductions of capacity in order to influence prices, but systematic evidence is lacking. We use a quasi-experimental set up and data from the Swedish energy market to examine such behavior. In a market without strategic withholding, the decision of reporting a failure should be independent of the market price. We show that marginal producers in fact base their decision to report a failure in part on prices, which indicates that failures are a result of economic incentives as well as of technical problems.
L49|Market Design for Trading Commoditized Renewable Energy|Information and communication technology plays an important role in achieving a higher level of energy efficiency. In particular, energy efficiency can be achieved by integrating information technology into electricity networks to enable the interaction between suppliers and customers (smart grids). Power generation by renewable energy sources can also benefit from this integration of technologies. Distributed power generation, which will be the basis of renewable energy production, encourages the production of renewable energy resources and, accordingly, decreases transmission loss, increases energy saving, and enhances energy efficiency. Therefore, integrating distributed, renewable energy sources and smart grids within local marketplaces for trading renewable energy in small units can be a promising combination. In this paper, we propose a structure of a marketplace for renewable energy sources, design a market mechanism for trading in this market, and outline the requirements for such a market to function efficiently. Finally, we conclude and present recommendations to policymakers to provide incentives to generators to increase deployment of renewable energy sources and to end users to save electricity and to consume clean energy.
L49|Optimal Deterrence of Illegal Behavior Under Imperfect Corporate Governance|We study the optimal design of liability schemes (at the corporate or individual level) when the objective is to deter socially harmful corporate behavior without discouraging productivity enhancements. We assume that firms face agency problems between shareholders and managers (moral hazard) and that unlimited sanctions on individuals are not available. We show that pure corporate liability rules can induce the first-best outcome only if firms can condition compensation on detection and the enforcement system is good enough. In other circumstances, unless individual sanctions can be very high, optimal mechanisms typically impose both corporate and individual liability.
L49|Is Subsidizing Companies in Difficulties an Optimal Policy? An Empirical Study on the Effectiveness of State Aid in the European Union|Even though state aid in order to rescue or restructure ailing companies is regularly granted by European governments, it is often controversially discussed. The aims for rescuing companies are manifold and vary from social, industrial and even political considerations. Well-known examples are Austrian Airlines (Austria) or MG Rover (Great Britain). Yet, this study aims to answer the question whether state aid is used effectively and whether the initial aim why aid has been paid has been reached, i.e. the survival of the company. By using data on rescued companies in the EU and applying a survival analysis, this paper investigates the survival rates of these companies up to 15 years after the aid has been paid. In addition, the results are compared to the survival rates of non-rescued companies which have also been in difficulties. The results suggest that despite the financial support, business failure is often only post-poned; best survival rates have firms with long-term restructuring, enterprises in Eastern Europe, smaller firms and mature companies. However, non-funded companies have an even higher ratio to go bankrupt.
L49|Are Ex Ante and Ex Post Licensing Agreements Useful Instruments to Lessen Uncertainty in R&D?|In the last decades, technologies became more complex which increased the degree of uncertainty in R&D. To overcome the uncertainty, firms frequently engage in R&D collaborations, e.g., Research Joint Ventures (RJVs), and licensing agreements. While RJVs are well explored in the literature, very little is known about the use of licensing agreements. Building on a novel database which includes licensing agreements in the semiconductor industry between 1989 and 1999, we estimate a bivariate probit model with self-selection. Our estimation results highlight the fact that firms’ relatedness in technology and product markets determine their choices to engage in ex ante and ex post licensing agreements. Our study provides evidence that the decision to engage in ex ante and ex post licensing is formulated with regard to uncertainty in R&D. While ex ante licensing agreements serve as a useful mechanism to insure against uncertainty in R&D, ex post licensing agreements rather serve as an instrument to resolve uncertainty in R&D. Hence, licensing agreements are appropriate instruments to lessen R&D uncertainty.
L49|La aplicación de multas a agentes económicos en el Derecho Chileno de la libre competencia: una propuesta metodológica|The excessive discretion of Chile’s public authorities to set fines in competition matters may and should be restricted —from both a qualitative and a quantitative perspective. This work focuses on the latter aspect. Avoiding a ‘mechanical’ approach, it proposes a four-stage methodology to set fines for undertakings that engage in anticompetitive conduct, which entails (i) a base fine of 15-25% of the net sales of the product in Chile, depending on the gravity of the conduct, for each of the years of the infringement; (ii) a percentage adjustment to reflect any aggravating factors (up to a 30% increase in the base amount depending on the circumstances) and mitigating factors (up to 20% decrease in the base amount depending on the circumstances); (iii) any necessary adjustment based on the legal maximum fine allowed; and (iv) any applicable adjustments under the leniency programme. In my opinion, only the third stage requires amendments to the Competition Act. I propose changing the actual system, which caps fines based on a fix amount, to a system that imposes a 10% cap based on the net total sales of the undertaking.
L49|Standard-Essential Patents: Who Is Really Holding Up (And When)?|This article analyzes the effect of injunctions on royalty negotiations for standard-essential patents. We develop a model in which Courts grant injunctions only when they have sufficient evidence that the prospective licensee is unwilling, in line with the way we understand Courts operate in Europe. In such a framework the prospective licensee has a powerful strategic tool: the offers that he makes to the patent holder will affect the royalty rate that the Court may adopt as well as the probability of being subject to injunctions (and the liability for litigation costs). We find that despite the availability of injunctions, the holder of a sufficiently weak patent will end up accepting below FRAND rates, in particular when litigation costs are high. We also find that the prospective licensee will sometimes prefer to litigate and the holder of a sufficiently strong patent will always end up in litigation by rejecting offers below FRAND. In particular, this arises when the prospective licensee has little to fear from being found unwilling, namely when the trial takes time (so that the threat of injunctions is less powerful), and when litigation costs are low. Importantly, we thus find that hold up (royalties above the fair rate) as well as reverse hold up (royalties below the fair rate) may arise in equilibrium.
L49|Did Nongovernmental Monitoring improve Working Conditions in the case of Nike and the Footwear Industry?|This article examines working conditions in the RMG sector of Bangladesh could improve through effective monitoring system. In a significant case Nike suggested that working conditions and labour rights can be improved through a systematic approach and a comprehensive and transparent monitoring system. External pressure from NGOs and other advocacy groups motivated Nike to introduce a Code of Conduct and a monitoring system. The process is discussed in this section. Conclusion: In conclusion, the Nike case suggests that a non-governmental monitoring system could improve labour standards and the working environment. Nike made efforts to improve working conditions for its contracted workers by introducing COC and developed internal standards through specially recruited and trained professional staff. This staffs monitors the working environment and examines the Code of Conducts in order to verify products certification. As a result, working conditions in the Nike and Footwear industry have improved. In the RMG sector, a Social compliance Certification System could be offered through buyers to promote and certify lawful, humane and ethical working conditions in manufacturing processing, and the working environment.
L49|Compensating Competitors or Restoring Competition? EU Regulation of State Aid for Banks During the Financial Crisis|We contrast the theory underpinning state aid for failing banks with that for failing firms in the non-financial sector. We argue that there is little justification for measures to ‘compensate’ rivals when the bank has been saved for reasons of systemic stability. The Commission’s approach to bank restructuring aid takes insufficient notice of this. Furthermore, the use of punitive divestitures is not the best way of addressing moral hazard. Worse, such divestitures can impede competition by creating weak rivals. We provide four detailed case studies to illustrate the problems. We conclude that the Commission provided a useful constraint in the midst of a crisis of unprecedented scale and complexity, but its approach could have been improved by more systematic attention to effective competition relative to the appropriate counterfactual. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
L49|The Deterrence Effects of US Merger Policy Instruments| We estimate the deterrence effects of US merger policy instruments with respect to the composition and frequency of future merger notifications. Data from the Annual Reports by the US Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission allow industry-based measures over the 1986--99 period of the conditional probabilities for eliciting investigations, challenges, prohibitions, court wins, and court losses: Deterrence variables akin to the traditional conditional probabilities from the economics of crime literature. We find the challenge rate to robustly deter future horizontal (both relative and absolute) merger activity, and the court-loss rate to moderately affect absolute levels of horizontal-merger activity; however, the investigation rate, prohibition rate, and court-win rate do not significantly deter future horizontal mergers. Accordingly, the conditional probability of eliciting an antitrust challenge (i.e. remedies and prohibitions) is unique among the different merger policy instruments as it yields a robust deterrence effect. (JEL L40, L49, K21) The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Yale University. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.
L49|Трансформация Логистического И Маркетингового Подходов<BR>[Transformation logistical and marketing approach]|In modern conditions standard models of market coordination and price control at which each enterprise is a separate and independent production unit, are economically inexpedient. The author considers the objective necessity of the establishment of the parity relations between business and the state, however, Russia still has no a single universally accepted understanding of public-private collaboration.
L49|Die neuen Leitlinien für EU-Regionalbeihilfen 2014 bis 2020 aus ökonomischer Sicht|This article analyses the European Commission’s Guidelines on Regional State Aid for 2014–2020 that were passed in late June 2013. The author argues that some elements of these guidelines are neither in line with economic theory nor with related guidelines and communications of the Commission. Before applying the guidelines, some rules, e.g. on market delineation and foreclosure, should be defined more clearly. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
L49|Staatliche Beihilfen und Beihilfenkontrolle im Agrarsektor|In 2010, EU member states granted worth yy10.3bn aid to their agricultural sector. Given the requirement to revise the guidelines for state aid in the agricultural sector by the end of 2013, this article presents the legal rules and facts of this topic from an economic point of view. It is shown that economic methods which have been increasingly used in state aid control for non-agricultural sectors since 2005 can also be used for the analysis of state aid in the agricultural sector. Additional research is required to further develop these methods and establish the benefi ts of their application. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
L49|Does one more or one less mobile opertor affect prices? A comprehensive ex-post evaluation of entries and mergers in European mobile telecommunication markets|This paper estimates the impact of entries and mergers on the price of mobile voice services in a panel database of 27 European Member States between 2003 and 2010. Our difference-in-differences econometric methodology exploits the variance in different structural changes between countries to separate the respective effects. Our results show that the effect of entry crucially depends on the number of active operators and the type of entrant, and not controlling for these differences might lead to misleading conclusions. We find no robust evidence that entry has a price-decreasing effect on markets with originally 2 operators. However, the entry of a 4th operator does have a price-decreasing effect, but with different dynamics concerning the entrant's type. When we separate entry effects for the subsequent years, we show that the significant price-decreasing effects for local operators entering occur only in the first year after entry, while the price-decreasing effects for multinational entries are significantly larger on the long-run. Last, we find no price-increasing effects of 5-to-4 mergers, but a long run price-increasing effect of a 4-to-3 merger.
L49|Product Differentiation and the Irrelevancy of Input Prices for Make-or-Buy Decisions|Mandatory network unbundling is perhaps one of the foremost topics in regulatory economics today. The concept has crucial importance in the deregulation of many previously regulated industries including telecommunications, gas, electricity and railroads. Moreover, the topic has emerged as one of the more prominent issues associated with the implementation of the 1996 Telecommunication Act in the United States. Upon initial examination, establishing the correct costing standards and/or determining the correct input prices would seem important for sending the correct price signals to the entrants for their efficient make-or-buy decisions. However, Sappington uses a standard Hotelling location model to show that input prices are irrelevant for an entrant’s make or buy decision. In this study, we show that this result is closely related to the specific conditions of the Hotelling framework. Specifically, it is shown that input prices are irrelevant when firms produce homogeneous products, but are relevant for make-or-buy decisions when the entrant and incumbent produce differentiated products under Bertrand price competition fra-mework. These results suggest that, in general, it is important for regulators to set correct prices in order to not distort the entrants’ efficient make-or-buy decisions.
L49|Issues in the calculation of antitrust damages in the energy industry|"In recent years, the ""private enforcement"" of antitrust law, through the attempt by private parties (usually harmed competitors or consumers) to recover damages in court, has been increasingly gaining attention in Europe. This paper focuses on two particular regulated network industries (electricity and gas). The purpose of this essay is, first, to describe the types of antitrust cases that could arise in the energy industry and, second, to outline the issues that a forensic economist would face in calculating damages to competitors or other parties in these cases. The identified anti-competitive practices range from the delay or the outright denial of access to major gas transportation pipelines (or the refusal to expand their capacity), unfair tariffs for the use of gas transportation networks and capacity hoarding at regasification terminals or in other gas import infrastructure, to the delayed provision of reliable information needed for customer switching and/or to allow a new entrant to plan its electricity and gas purchases and thus minimize imbalance charges. These practices might entail actual monetary loss (damnum emergens) due, for instance, to; higher energy costs for final consumers; sunk costs incurred by competitors to start import or sales activities; noncost- reflective tariffs for access to gas import or transportation infrastructure; excessive imbalance charges and transmission fees; high costs sustained by traders to purchase electricity or gas for resale. Moreover, they may entail lost profits and foregone cash flows (lucrum cessans) due, for instance, to: definitive loss of customers; inability to serve or invoice energy consumers in a given period; lack of access to entire segments of the electricity or gas markets."
L49|GEOPOLITICAL PROCESS IN EASTERN EUROPE AFTER IRON CURTAIN – ENERGY ISSUES. A SOCIOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE (English version)|Starting from geopolitical events that influenced the emergence of the Iron Curtain and continuing with geopolitical developments that occurred after the communist period, this paper analyses, from a sociological perspective, the controversial topic of energy in Eastern Europe. I am firstly briefly reviewing some of the important events of modern history, which finally, after the Second World War, led to drawing the Iron Curtain on the geopolitical map of the world, and to the division of Eastern Europe into political spheres of influence, i.e. the Anglo- American and the Soviet one. Secondly, I believe it is relevant to mention how the concept of „Eastern Europe” appeared and developed. Then, it is worth focusing on the period from 1989 to 1991, which is important for the revolutions that took place in Eastern Europe, which actually ended the European coexistence between communism and democracy. This paper has a solid theoretical basis, which allows a theoretical convergence between sociological and geopolitical literature. Both Mackinder’s (1904) and Mahan’s (1918) geopolitical theories, with their concept of spatiality, and the theory of social constructivism are relevant to the sociological problem studied, as well as to the controversial topic of energy in Eastern Europe. The concepts of these theories allowed me to develop both a quantitative imaging modality of representation of the triangle «power- energy resources – space» in a certain period of time, through the mapping (cartographic) method, and a qualitative analysis approach, through the category patterns used in analysing the behaviour of socio-political actors, where patterns were designed based on their relevance to the reality studied. Thus, this article examines the way Russia uses the „energy weapon” to bring to terms with Eastern European states, especially with Ukraine, and the relationship of dependence of the East European states on Russian energy, within a wider frame of reciprocal interdependence.
L49|El control de Fusiones y Adquisiciones en Argentina (1999-2011): Indicadores de desempeño<BR>[Mergers and Acquisitions control in Argentina (1999-2011): Performance indicators]|This paper presents a statistical analysis of the mergers and acquisitions (M&A) evaluated by the Argentinean competition authority, from 1999 to 2011. In particular, we analyze the evolution of the quantity of cases using different classifications and cross checks in accordance with the nature of the operations (horizontal, vertical, conglomerate), the result of the evaluation (authorization, its denial or conditioning), the economic sector affected and the duration of the procedures. The latter shows a significantly growing tendency since 2006. The analysis developed allows us to obtain quantitative indicators of the merger control and produces results and conclusions useful, both from the perspective of firms planning operations in Argentina and for the performance evaluation and design of public policies.
L49|Horizontal Product Differentiation and the Irrelevancy of Input Prices for Make-or-Buy Decisions|Mandatory network unbundling is one of the most important topics in regulatory economics today. The concept has crucial importance in the deregulation of many previously regulated industries including electricity, telecommunications, gas and railroads. Upon initial examination, determining the correct input prices would seem important for sending the correct price signals to the entrants for their efficient make-or-buy decisions. However, Sappington uses a standard Hotelling location model to show that input prices are irrelevant for an entrant’s make or buy decision. In this study, it is shown that this result is closely related to the degree of product differentiation when firms are engaged in price competition. Specifically, it is shown that input prices are irrelevant when firms produce homogeneous products, but are relevant for make-or-buy decisions when the entrant and incumbent produce differentiated products. These results suggest that, in general, it is important for regulators to set correct prices in order to not distort the entrants’ efficient make-or-buy decisions.
L49|The Law and Economics of Enhancing Cartel Enforcement: Using Information From Non-Cartel Investigations to Prosecute Cartels|I present the following proposal: information revealed during non-cartel investigations by competition law enforcement authorities, such as evaluation of mergers and acquisitions (M&As) or investigation of monopolization (dominance) conduct, should be directly used to investigate and prosecute cartels. Currently, in several jurisdictions, information acquired in, for example, an M&As investigation typically cannot be directly used for a cartel case due to the underlying statutes and the legal and administrative procedures that govern information use. Reviewing the management and corporate strategy literature, I note that M&As form a vital part of firms core business strategy, with the longer-run strategic aspects being more important. These longer-run strategies could be jeopardized if the firms were engaging in collusion, as the likelihood of detection and prosecution would increase under the proposed rule change, which would punish bad (collusive) behavior. I argue that irrespective of exactly how many cartels are actually prosecuted via this channel, the proposal has the likelihood of creating a meaningful deterrent effect. I also discuss the potential downsides related to Type 1 errors and administrative costs. Overall, I argue that the proposed rule change could increase the efficiency and effectiveness of cartel enforcement, and open an additional front in the fight against hardcore cartels that operate within jurisdictions as well as internationally.
L49|Separating the ex post effects of mergers: an analysis of structural changes on the Hungarian retail gasoline market|This paper develops an empirical method to identify the price effects of simultaneous mergers and to separate the different effects on the prices of the buyer and seller firms and on the prices of their respective competitors. Our difference-in-differences approach exploits variation in the presence of merging firms across local markets to form different treatment-control group pairs in order to estimate separate effects for each type of firms affected by the mergers. We apply this method to provide an ex post evaluation of two almost simultaneous mergers in the Hungarian retail gasoline market. We show that both mergers resulted in a significantly positive but economically negligible price effect, but while the first merger affected only the prices of buyer firm's stations, the second had an effect on the prices of seller's stations and of its competitors. We also demonstrate that the results are not sensitive to the assumed dates when the mergers effectively change the firms' pricing policy.
L49|Optimal Structuring of Assessment Processes in Competition Law: A Survey of Theoretical Approaches|In competition law, the problem of the optimal design of institutional and procedural rules concerns assessment processes of the pro- and anticompetitiveness of business behaviors. This is well recognized in the discussion about the relative merits of different assessment principles such as the rule of reason and per se rules. Supported by modern industrial organization research, which applies a more differentiated analysis to the welfare effects of different business behaviors, a full-scale case-by-case assessment seems to be the prevailing idea. Even though the discussion mainly focuses on extreme solutions, different theoretical approaches do exist, which provide important determinants and allow for a sound analysis of appropriate legal directives and investigation procedures from a ‘Law and Economics’ perspective. Integrating and examining them in light of various constellations results in differentiated solutions of optimally structured assessment processes.
L49|Measuring the Extent of European State Aid Control: An Econometric Analysis of the European Commission Decisions|This paper provides an analysis of the European Commission (EC) decisions on state aid control using data on 550 state aid cases approved by the EC between 1998 and 2009. We measure the determinants of the duration of state aid, total budget of state aid and daily budget of state aid. By using these imperfect proxies, we try to identify the extent of European state aid control. Our results suggest that aid with multiple objectives to achieve has both longer durations and higher amounts of budget. We also find that for some aid objectives or industries, the EC approves cases of aid with both longer durations and higher levels of budget. On the other hand, for some class of aid objectives and industries, there is a trade-off between duration and the level of budget to counter-balance the undesired effects. The interpretation of the results implies that the European state aid control, which once was originally intended to address concerns about export subsidies and strategic trade, recently puts more emphasis on market failures mostly associated with externalities and public goods.
L49|Diversity Management als strategische Innovation des Controllings|No abstract is available for this item.
L49|Tacit collusion in the presence of cyclical demand and endogenous capacity levels|We analyze tacit collusion in an industry characterized by cyclical demand and long-run scale decisions; firms face deterministic demand cycles and choose capacity levels prior to competing in prices. Our focus is on the nature of prices. We find that two types of price wars may exist. In one, collusion can involve periods of mixed-strategy price wars. In the other, consistent with the Rotemberg and Saloner (1986) definition of price wars, we show that collusive prices can also become counter-cyclical. We also establish pricing patterns with respect to the relative prices in booms and recessions. If the marginal cost of capacity is high enough, holding current demand constant, prices in the boom are generally lower than the prices in the recession; this reverses the results of Haltiwanger and Harrington (1991). In contrast, if the marginal cost of capacity is low enough, then prices in the boom are generally higher than the prices in the recession. For costs in an intermediate range, numerical examples are calculated to show specific pricing patterns.
L49|Retailer choice and loyalty schemes—evidence from Sweden|From economic theory, it is known that consumer loyalty schemes can have lock-in effects resulting in entry barriers and higher prices. This paper concerns consumer loyalty schemes where the main issue is to test the hypothesis that loyalty scheme membership affects the choice of food retailer. This choice is modeled as a random utility maximization problem estimated with maximum likelihood. Based on a data set covering 1,551 Swedish households, we find evidence supporting this hypothesis. Further, according to the results, store characteristics and geographical distance matter for the choice of retailer while household characteristics are not found to have a significant effect.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L49|Competition, Monopoly, and Aftermarkets| Consider a durable goods producer that has the option of monopolizing an aftermarket such as repair for its own product. An important question is whether such monopolization reduces welfare? We show that the answer to this question is frequently no. In particular, we explore three models that illustrate various ways in which aftermarket monopolization can reduce inefficiencies and thus increase social welfare and frequently also consumer welfare. Our article shows that efficiency enhancing aftermarket monopolization may be much more common than previous literature suggests. (JEL K21, L12, L49) The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Yale University. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.
L49|How to Measure the Deterrence Effects of Merger Policy: Frequency or Composition?| We show that the number of merger proposals (frequency-based deterrence) is a more appropriate indicator of underlying changes in merger policy than the relative anti-competitiveness of merger proposals (composition-based deterrence). This has strong implications for the empirical analysis of the deterrence effects of merger policy enforcement, and potential implications regarding how to reduce anti-competitive merger proposals.
L49|Árak és koncentráció a magyar kiskereskedelmi üzemanyagpiacon<BR>[Prices and concentration on the Hungarian retail market for motor fuels]|A tanulmány az árak és a koncentráció közötti összefüggéseket vizsgálja a magyar kiskereskedelmi üzemanyagpiacon. Bemutatja, hogy a koncentrációs szintek lokális különbségei csak kis részben magyarázzák az egyes földrajzi területek közötti adott időpontbeli jelentős árkülönbséget. Az egyes időpontok közötti árkülönbségek ugyanakkor igen jól magyarázhatók a kiskereskedelmi árak nagykereskedelmi árváltozásokra adott reakciójával. A kiskereskedelmi ár (árrés) és a lokális piacokon - a versenyző kutak számával - mért koncentráció között szignifikánsan negatív, ugyanakkor gyakorlati értelemben gyenge kapcsolat mutatható ki. A szimmetrikus ártranszmisszió lokális szinten sem mutat eltéréseket, mértékét nem befolyásolja a lokális koncentráció. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL ) kód: D43, L13, L49.
L49|The Competitive and Welfare Effects of New Product Introduction: The Case of Crystal Pepsi| The introduction of new products is an important method of competition in many markets. Towards understanding its impact on competition and welfare, this paper estimates the effects of Crystal Pepsi being introduced by PepsiCo. Estimating a structural model of the soft drink market, the competitive effect is decomposed into two parts: the effect on the prices of existing products from increased competition, and the effect of having additional product variety. I find that firms’ profit and consumer welfare both increased in response to the introduction of Crystal Pepsi, with the price effect accounting for nearly 90% of the gain in consumer surplus. The introduction of Crystal Pepsi is also used as an experiment to test the competitiveness of the soft drink market. Evidence of price collusion is found. In comparing the welfare impact of introducing Crystal Pepsi under price collusion and price competition, I find that social welfare increases more under collusion. Under competition, rivals of PepsiCo increase prices and, consequently, a new product introduction actually harms consumers; at the same time, PepsiCo’s profit gain is smaller. This finding suggests that firms have a stronger incentive to invest in R&D when they collude in price than when they compete in price.
L49|Union-oligopoly bargaining and entry deterrence: a reassessment of limit pricing|This paper introduces wage bargaining in the framework of Milgrom and Roberts where the workers' reservation wage is the relevant information parameter critical for entry. The authors show that entry threat signi cantly distorts the wage, which in turn adversely a ects the rm's ability to signal through price. Consequently, the separating equilibrium (in price) does not always exist. Instead, the authors get a semi-separating equilibrium. Pooling equilibrium may not also exist. If, however, wage agreements can be made public, signalling occurs with or without distortions in the full information wages. Pooling equilibrium in wage also exists. The paper also examines whether wage or price is the preferred signalling device, and whether wage agreements should be made public or not. [WP no. 14].<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L49|Agent-Based Simulations for Electricity Market Regulation Advice: Procedures and an Example|This paper discusses the use of agent-based simulation models for regulatory advice in electricity market regulation. It briefly introduces the necessary procedures and the state-of-the-art of the methodology, and outlines its possible range of application. In a second part, the paper presents an agent-based simulation model developed by the authors. The model can be applied for analyzing different market designs and market structures in order to derive evidence for regulatory advice. This is exemplified through the analysis of two settlement rules in the balancing power market and of several divestiture scenarios of the German electricity sector.
L49|Ex Post Evaluation of Enforcement: A Principal-Agent Perspective|No abstract is available for this item.
L49|Does Licensing Resolve Hold Up in the Patent Thicket?|In a patent thicket licensing provides a mechanism to either avoid or resolve hold up. We study the choice between ex ante licensing to avoid hold up and ex post licensing to resolve it. Firms’ choice of licensing contract is studied in the context of a patent portfolio race. We show that high expected blocking leads to ex ante licensing while ex post licensing arises if expected blocking is low but realized blocking is high. Also, ex ante licensing reduces firms’ R&D incentives. A sample selection model of licensing is derived from the theoretical model. In this framework theoretical predictions on effects of blocking are tested with data from the semiconductor industry. We show that licensing helps firms to resolve blocking. However, licensing is not a cure all: it decreases as fragmentation of property rights increases and arises mainly between large firms with similar market shares. Using a treatment effects model we also confirm the prediction that ex ante licensing reduces the level of R&D investment.
L49|Is it Worth all the Trouble? The Costs and Benefits of Antitrust Enforcement|The paper aims at assessing the costs and benefits of antitrust enforcement. The analysis starts with an investigation of why competition is typically worth protecting followed by a collection of empirical evidence which shows that competition actually needs protection by antitrust policy in order to hinder firms to permanently abuse market power to the detriment of consumers. Subsequently, an estimation of the costs and benefits of antitrust enforcement is undertaken for the United States and the Netherlands. The analysis differentiates between an aggregate level approach which basically focuses on deadweight losses and a disaggregate level approach which estimates the benefits of antitrust enforcement in particular antitrust cases and compares these figures with estimates of the costs of antitrust enforcement. The results basically show for the United States and the Netherlands that the realised benefits overtop the realised costs by far as long as overcharges/redistribution effects and deadweight losses are considered as welfare loss. However, if only the avoidance of deadweight losses is considered as benefit of antitrust policy, the benefits estimate for cartel and merger enforcement under a disaggregate approach cannot cover the derived cost estimate for the United States and the Netherlands.
L49|The Competitive and Welfare Effects of New Product Introduction: The Case of Crystal Pepsi|The introduction of new products is an important method of competition in many markets. Towards understanding its impact on competition and welfare, this paper estimates the effects of Crystal Pepsi being introduced by PepsiCo. Estimating a structural model of the soft drink market, the competitive effect is decomposed into two parts: the effect on the prices of existing products from increased competition, and the effect of having additional product variety. I find that firms’ profit and consumer welfare both increased in response to the introduction of Crystal Pepsi, with the price effect accounting for nearly 90% of the gain in consumer surplus. The introduction of Crystal Pepsi is also used as an experiment to test the competitiveness of the soft drink market. Evidence of price collusion is found. In comparing the welfare impact of introducing Crystal Pepsi under price collusion and price competition, I find that social welfare increases more under collusion. Under competition, rivals of PepsiCo increase prices and, consequently, a new product introduction actually harms consumers; at the same time, PepsiCo’s profit gain is smaller. This finding suggests that firms have a stronger incentive to invest in R&D when they collude in price than when they compete in price.
L49|Remedy for Now but Prohibit for Tomorrow: The Deterrence Effects of Merger Policy Tools|Antitrust policy involves not just the regulation of anti-competitive behavior, but also an important deterrence effect. Neither scholars nor policymakers have fully researched the deterrence effects of merger policy tools, as they have been unable to empirically measure these effects. We consider the ability of different antitrust actions â€“ Prohibitions, Remedies, and Monitorings â€“ to deter firms from engaging in mergers. We employ cross-jurisdiction/pan-time data on merger policy to empirically estimate the impact of antitrust actions on future merger frequencies. We find merger prohibitions to lead to decreased merger notifications in subsequent periods, and remedies to weakly increase future merger notifications: in other words, prohibitions involve a deterrence effect but remedies do not.
L49|Static Efficiency of Compulsory Licensing: The Role of Limit Pricing|A common argument against compulsory licensing of intellectual property maintains that it facilitates the entry of inefficient producers, which may reduce social welfare independently of any effects on R&D incentives. We study the issue in a model where the innovative firm, under the threat of compulsory licensing, reacts strategically by choosing between quantity and price competition. We show that the risk of a reduction in static welfare due to the entry of highly inefficient firms is avoided if licensing entails a royalty per unit of output and no fixed fees. The rationale behind this result lies in the fact that compulsory licensing threat works as a disciplining device to improve static social welfare, even when the applicant is a high cost inefficient firm. JEL codes: KOO, L49, 034.
L49|Market Power versus Efficiency Effects of Mergers and Research Joint Ventures: Evidence from the Semiconductor Industry|" Merger control authorities may approve a merger based on an ""efficiency defense."" An important aspect in clearing mergers is that the efficiencies need to be merger-specific. Joint ventures, and in particular research joint ventures (RJVs), may achieve comparable efficiencies possibly without the anticompetitive (market power) effects of mergers. We empirically account for the endogenous formation of mergers and RJVs and provide evidence that at the semiconductor level, mergers and RJVs achieve dominant (net) efficiency effects. Our counterfactuals provide evidence that the efficiency gains caused by mergers would have been achieved by RJVs as well. Therefore, RJVs often represent viable alternatives to mergers from the consumer welfare point of view. At the more disaggregate level we find that the efficiency effects are larger in the microcomponents than in the memory market. This finding emphasizes the importance of market determinants (such as product differentiation and entry) having an impact on efficiency and market power effects. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."
L49|Remedy for Now but Prohibit for Tomorrow: The Deterrence Effects of Merger Policy Tools|Antitrust policy involves not just the regulation of anti-competitive behavior, but also an important deterrence effect. Neither scholars nor policymakers have fully researched the deterrence effects of merger policy tools, as they have been unable to empirically measure these effects. We consider the ability of different antitrust actions - Prohibitions, Remedies, and Monitorings - to deter firms from engaging in mergers. We employ cross-jurisdiction/pan-time data on merger policy to empirically estimate the impact of antitrust actions on future merger frequencies. We find merger prohibitions to lead to decreased merger notifications in subsequent periods, and remedies to weakly increase future merger notifications: in other words, prohibitions involve a deterrence effect but remedies do not. ZUSAMMENFASSUNG - (Auflagen heute, Untersagung morgen: Abschreckungswirkung von Wettbewerbs-intrumenten) Wettbewerbspolitik ist nicht nur Regulierung von wettbewerbsfeindlichem Verhalten, sondern hat auch eine wesentliche Abschreckungswirkung. Weder Wissenschaftler noch politische Entscheidungsträger haben die Abschreckungswirkung von Wettbewerbspolitik vollständig untersucht, da es sehr schwierig ist diese Wirkung empirisch nachzuweisen. Wir untersuchen die Wirkung verschiedener wettbewerbspolitischer Maßnahmen - Untersagung, Auflagen und Monitoring - um Unternehmen von Zusammenschlüssen abzuhalten. Wir nutzen einen Panel-Datensatz, um den Einfluss von Wettbewerbspolitik auf die künftige Anzahl von Firmenzusammenschlüssen zu bewerten. Wir zeigen, dass die Untersagung von Zusammenschlüssen die Fusionsankündigung in der Zukunft reduziert, und dass Fusionsauflagen künftige Ankündigungen schwach ansteigen lassen. Anders gesagt: Untersagungen haben eine führen zu Abschreckungswirkung, Auflagen nicht.
L49|How Licensing Resolves Hold-Up: Evidence from a Dynamic Panel Data Model with Unobserved Heterogeneity|In a patent thicket licensing provides a mechanism to either avoid or resolve hold-up. Firms' R&D incentives will differ depending on how licensing is used. In this paper we study the choice between ex ante licensing to avoid hold-up and ex post licensing to resolve it. Building on a theoretical model of a patent portfolio race, firms' choices of licensing contracts are modelled. We derive several hypotheses from the model and find support for these using data from the semiconductor industry. The empirical results show that firms' relationships in product markets and technology space jointly determine the type of licensing contract chosen. Implications for the regulation of licensing are discussed. We estimate a dynamic panel data model with unobserved heterogeneity and a lagged dependent variable. A method suggested by Wooldridge (2005) is employed to estimate a random effects probit model using conditional maximum likelihood.
L49|Jostling for Advantage: Licensing and Entry into Patent Portfolio Races|Licensing in a patent thicket allows firms to either avoid or resolve hold-up. Firms' R&D incentives depend on whether they license ex ante or ex post. We develop a model of a patent portfolio race, which allows for endogenous R&D efforts, to study firms' choice between ex ante and ex post licensing. The model shows that firms' relationships in product markets and technology space jointly determine the type of licensing contract chosen. In particular, product market competitors are more likely to avoid patent portfolio races, since the threat of hold-up increases. On the other hand, more valuable technologies are more likely to give rise to patent portfolio races. We also discuss the welfare implications of these results.
L49|How Licensing Resolves Hold-Up: Evidence from a Dynamic Panel Data Model with Unobserved Heterogeneity|This paper is a study of licensing in a patent thicket. In a patent thicket licensing allows firms to avoid hold-up. It will have different effects on firms' R&D incentives depending on whether firms license existing or future patents. Building on a model of a patent portfolio race, firms' choice between these types of licensing contracts is modelled. We find that firms' relationships in product markets and technology space jointly determine the type of licensing contract chosen. We derive several hypotheses and test these. Using data from the semiconductor industry a dynamic panel data model with unobserved heterogeneity and a lagged dependent variable is estimated. A new method suggested by Wooldridge (2005) is employed to estimate a random effects probit model using conditional ML. The hypotheses derived from the theory are confirmed. Based on our results we argue that licensing raises welfare in the patent thicket.
L49|Jostling for Advantage: Licensing and Entry into Patent Portfolio Races|Licensing in a patent thicket allows firms to either avoid or resolve hold-up. Firms’ R&D incentives depend on whether they license ex ante or ex post. We develop a model of a patent portfolio race, which allows for endogenous R&D efforts, to study firms’ choice between ex ante and ex post licensing. The model shows that firms’ relationships in product markets and technology space jointly determine the type of licensing contract chosen. In particular, product market competitors are more likely to avoid patent portfolio races, since the threat of hold-up increases. On the other hand, more valuable technologies are more likely to give rise to patent portfolio races. We also discuss the welfare implications of these results.
L49|Static Inefficiency of Compulsory Licensing: Quantity vs. Price Competition|A common argument against compulsory licensing of intellectual property maintains that it facilitates the entry of inefficient producers, which may reduce social welfare independently of any effects on R&D incentives. We study the issue in a model where the innovative firm, under the threat of compulsory licensing, react strategically by choosing between quantity and price competition. We show that the risk of a reduction in static welfare due to the entry of highly inefficient firms is avoided if licensing entails a royalty per unit of output and zero fixed fee. The rationale behind this result lies in the fact that compulsory licensing threat works as a disciplining device to improve static social welfare, even when the applicant is a high cost inefficient firm.
L49|Static inefficiency of compulsory licensing: Quantity vs. price competition|A common argument against compulsory licensing of intellectual property maintains that it facilitates the entry of inefficient producers, which may reduce social welfare independently of any effects on R and D incentives. We study the issue in a model where the innovative firm, under the threat of compulsory licensing, react strategically by choosing between quantity and price competition. We show that the risk of a reduction in static welfare due to the entry of highly inefficient firms is avoided if licensing entails a royalty per unit of output and zero fixed fee. The rationale behind this result lies in the fact that compulsory licensing threat works as a disciplining device to improve static social welfare, even when the applicant is a high cost inefficient firm.
L49|Efficiency defense: Possible mitigating effects in presence of imperfect redistribution tools|It is often argued that, first, the decision criterion of antitrust authorities should be total social welfare and that, second, mergers increasing the value of this criterion but ending with lower consumer surplus should be allowed in the name of efficiency gains realized by merging firms. This paper studies merger control by a government with, first, preferences over wealth distribution among agents (weights to put on consume surplus and firms profit) and, second, imperfect redistribution tools. It shows that in such a case merger policy can not be parted off redistribution policy.
L49|Gouvernance et responsabilité des régulateurs privés|The changes of the European regulatory space propose new questions concerning the identity and the liability of regulators. The increasing use of self-regulation, co-regulation and delegated self-regulation in different fields have empowered private regulators. They have been playing an increasing strategic role in defining the features of market regulation and integration at European and national level. To ensure effectiveness and accountability of these regulatory strategies a European coordinated regime of conflict of interest and liability becomes crucial. This essay focuses on liability of private regulators for ( 1) failure to regulate or ( 2) failure to control regulatees’ compliance and for defective regulation and control. A set of principles concerning liability of private regulators should be tailored, paying attention to field specificity. The analysis suggests that there should be a significant difference between liability regimes concerning pure private regulators and those related to private regulators acting within a coordinated framework of co-regulation and delegated self-regulation. Furthermore it is claimed that a stronger correlation between models of regulation (i.e. command and control, responsive regulation, market incentives) and models of liability is needed while today’s national legal systems mainly associate liability regimes to the organizational model of the private regulator (association, foundation, company, consortium, etc.). The design of liability regimes for private regulator should combine the regulatory model and the governance structure so as to guarantee compliance of regulatees and accountability towards third parties. The article concludes with a research agenda concerning the blurring relationship between standard setting and monitoring and its influence on the liability aspects.
L49|Discrimination against Newcomers: Impacts of the German Emission Trading Regime on the Electricity Sector|The EU Directive 2003/87/EC for the introduction of a European emission trading system has left the task of allocating the emission allowances mainly to the member states. In Germany the details of the allocation method are laid down in the Allocation Act (ZuG 2007). One central element of the Allocation Act is the so called transfer-rule, which is intended to provide incentives for the replacement of emission intensive installations and thus to achieve environmental benefits. This paper takes a closer look at the transfer-rule's ecological impacts and competitive effects in the field of electricity generation. The analysis suggests that the investment incentives provided by the transfer-rule are limited and uncertain, while at the same time the overall amount of emissions from participants of the trading scheme will not be reduced. Instead the transfer-rule causes windfall profits for incumbent generators and leads to a significant distortion of competition. This cannot be justified by environmental benefits, as has been done by the German government and the European Commission.
L49|Price Deception, Market Power and Consumer Policy|This paper presents a model in which a firm attempts to gain market power by pricing above the competitive market price and simply trying to persuade ill-informed consumers not to search for other lower priced firms. Fictitious price comparisons, or false sale signs could be used in this way to deceptively and profitably deter consumer search. A simplified model shows how this mechanism could exist when combined with moderately enforced consumer regulatory policy.
L49|Governance of securities clearing and settlement systems|In the context of securities clearing and settlement systems, the nature of governance arrangements acquires a dimension that goes beyond their traditional function in corporate law. They constitute a tool for regulators and central banks to achieve their respective policy goals relating to market operation, market integrity, and systemic stability. In the light of the analysis of this paper, and pending a further evolution in the regulation of securities clearing and settlement in the Community, the following conclusions can be drawn. Whatever the model of corporate governance used in a jurisdiction, securities clearing and settlement systems should adopt and ensure effective implementation of the highest corporate governance standards or best practices adopted or recommended for companies in the jurisdiction in which it operates as such standards or practices evolve over time. Generally, this would imply that securities clearing and settlement systems at minimum should adopt and implement the best practices recommended for listed companies. JEL Classification: G29, G34, L49, K2
L49|Infrastructure, Competition Regimes and Air Transport Costs: Cross Country Evidence|The relevance of transport costs has increased as liberalization continues to reduce artificial barriers to trade. Countries need to adopt policies to `get closer` to global markets. Can improvements in infrastructure and regulation reduce transport costs? Is it worthwhile to implement policies designed to increase competition in transport markets? Focusing on air transport, which has increased its share in US imports from 24 percent in 1990 to 35 percent in 2000, this paper quantifies the effects of infrastructure, regulatory quality and liberalization of air cargo markets on transport costs. During the 1990s, the US implemented a series of Open Skies agreements, which have provided a unique opportunity to assess the effect on prices of a change in the competition regime. We find that infrastructure, quality of regulation and competition matter. In our sample, an improvement in airport infrastructure from the 25th to 75th percentiles reduces air transport costs 15 percent. A similar improvement in the quality of regulation reduces air transport costs 14 percent. In addition, Open Skies agreements reduce air transport costs by 8 percent.
