L50|Carbon Taxes and Stranded Assets: Evidence from Washington State|The climate challenge requires ambitious climate policy. A sudden increase in carbon prices can lead to major shocks to the stock market. Some assets will lose part of their value, others all of it, and hence become “stranded”. If the markets are not ready to absorb the shock, a financial crisis could follow. How well investors anticipate, and thus how large these shocks may be, is an empirical question. We analyze stock market reactions to the rejection of two carbon tax initiatives by voters in Washington state. We build proper counterfactuals for Washington state firms and find that these modest policy proposals with limited jurisdiction caused substantial readjustments on the stock market, especially for carbon-intensive stocks. Our results reinforce concerns about “stranded assets” and the risk of financial contagion. Our policy implications support the inclusion of transition risks in macroprudential policymaking and carbon disclosure and climate stress tests as the main policy responses.
L50|Beyond the Doomsday Economics of “Proof-of-Work” in Cryptocurrencies|This paper discusses the economics of how Bitcoin achieves data immutability, and thus payment finality, via costly computations, i.e., “proof-of-work.” Further, it explores what the future might hold for cryptocurrencies modelled on this type of consensus algorithm. The conclusions are, first, that Bitcoin counterfeiting via “double-spending” attacks is inherently profitable, making payment finality based on proof-of-work extremely expensive. Second, the transaction market cannot generate an adequate level of “mining” income via fees as users free-ride on the fees of other transactions in a block and in the subsequent blockchain. Instead, newly minted bitcoins, known as block rewards, have made up the bulk of mining income to date. Looking ahead, these two limitations imply that liquidity is set to fall dramatically as these block rewards are phased out. Simple calculations suggest that once block rewards are zero, it could take months before a Bitcoin payment is final, unless new technologies are deployed to speed up payment finality. Second-layer solutions such as the Lightning Network might help, but the only fundamental remedy would be to depart from proof-of-work, which would probably require some form of social coordination or institutionalisation.
L50|Embedded supervision: how to build regulation into blockchain finance|The spread of distributed ledger technology (DLT) in finance could help to improve the efficiency and quality of supervision. This paper makes the case for embedded supervision, ie a regulatory framework that provides for compliance in tokenised markets to be automatically monitored by reading the market's ledger, thus reducing the need for firms to actively collect, verify and deliver data. After sketching out a design for such schemes, the paper explores the conditions under which distributed ledger data might be used to monitor compliance. To this end, a decentralised market is modelled that replaces today's intermediary-based verification of legal data with blockchain-enabled data credibility based on economic consensus. The key results set out the conditions under which the market's economic consensus would be strong enough to guarantee that transactions are economically final, so that supervisors can trust the distributed ledger's data. The paper concludes with a discussion of the legislative and operational requirements that would promote low-cost supervision and a level playing field for small and large firms.
L50|Benefits of Regulation vs. Competition Where Inequality Is High: The Case of Mobile Telephony in South Africa|We test for the distributional effects of regulation and entry in the mobile telecommunications sector in a highly unequal country, South Africa. Using six waves of a consumer survey of over 134,000 individuals between 2009-2014, we estimate a discrete-choice model allowing for individual-specific price-responsiveness and preferences for network operators. Next, we use a demand and supply equilibrium framework to simulate prices and the distribution of welfare without entry and mobile termination rate regulation. We find that regulation benefits consumers significantly more than entry does, and that high-income consumers and city-dwellers benefit more in terms of increased consumer surplus.
L50|Carbon Taxes and Stranded Assets: Evidence from Washington State|The climate challenge requires ambitious climate policy. A sudden increase in carbon prices can lead to major shocks to the stock market. Some assets will lose part of their value, others all of it, and hence become “stranded”. If the markets are not ready to absorb the shock, a financial crisis could follow. How well investors anticipate, and thus how large these shocks may be, is an empirical question. We analyze stock market reactions to the rejection of two carbon tax initiatives by voters in Washington state. We build proper counterfactuals for Washington state firms and find that these modest policy proposals with limited jurisdiction caused substantial readjustments on the stock market, especially for carbon-intensive stocks. Our results reinforce concerns about “stranded assets” and the risk of financial contagion. Our policy implications support the inclusion of transition risks in macroprudential policymaking and carbon disclosure and climate stress tests as the main policy responses.
L50|"Beyond the doomsday economics of ""proof-of-work"" in cryptocurrencies"|"This paper discusses the economics of how Bitcoin achieves data immutability, and thus payment finality, via costly computations, ie ""proof-of-work"". Further, it explores what the future might hold for cryptocurrencies modelled on this type of consensus algorithm. The conclusions are, first, that Bitcoin counterfeiting via ""double-spending"" attacks is inherently profitable, making payment finality based on proof-of-work extremely expensive. Second, the transaction market cannot generate an adequate level of ""mining"" income via fees as users free-ride on the fees of other transactions in a block and in the subsequent blockchain. Instead, newly minted bitcoins, known as block rewards, have made up the bulk of mining income to date. Looking ahead, these two limitations imply that liquidity is set to fall dramatically as these block rewards are phased out. Simple calculations suggest that once block rewards are zero, it could take months before a Bitcoin payment is final, unless new technologies are deployed to speed up payment finality. Second-layer solutions such as the Lightning Network might help, but the only fundamental remedy would be to depart from proof-of-work, which would probably require some form of social coordination or institutionalisation."
L50|The European Framework for Regulating Telecommunications: A 25-year Appraisal|Abstract The European telecommunications sector has been radically transformed in the past 25 years: from a group of state monopolies to a set of increasingly competitive markets. In this paper we summarize how this process has unfolded—for both fixed and mobile telecommunications—by focusing on the evolution of the regulatory framework and by drawing some parallels with the evolution of the sector in the US. Given the major strategic importance of the sector, we highlight some of the challenges that lie ahead.
L50|Employment Protection Legislation Impacts on Capital and Skills Composition|[eng] The article investigates the effects of Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) on capital and skills according to the intensity of international competition. Grounded on a panel data sample for 14 OECD countries and 18 industries from 1988 to 2007, and a difference-in-difference approach, we find that strengthening EPL: (i) leads to a capital-labour substitution in favour of non ICT non R&D capital to the detriment of employment, this effect being mitigated in industries highly exposed to international competition; (ii) lowers ICT capital and, even more severely, R&D capital relatively to other capital components; and (iii) works at the relative disadvantage of low-skilled workers. Strengthening EPL can therefore be an impediment to organizational and so technological change and risk taking on globalized markets. An illustrative simulation suggests that structural reforms weakening EPL could have a significant favorable impact on firms’ ICT and R&D investment and on hiring low-skilled workers.
L50|Rent Creation And Rent Sharing: New Measures And Impacts On Total Factor Productivity|This analysis proposes new measures of rent creation and rent sharing and assesses their impact on productivity on cross‐country‐industry panel data. We find first that: (1) anticompetitive product market regulations positively affect rent creation and (2) employment protection legislation boosts hourly wages, particularly for low‐skill workers. However, we find no significant impact of this employment legislation on rent sharing, as the hourly wage increases are offset by a negative impact on hours worked. Second, using regulation indicators as instruments, we find that rent creation and rent sharing both have a substantial negative impact on total factor productivity. (JEL E22, E24, O30, L50, O43, O47, C23)
L50|Determinants of Mobile Broadband Use in Developing Economies: Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa|Broadband is seen as a vector of economic growth and social development. In the developing world, mobile technologies are widely adopted and mobile broadband is progressively rolled-out with high expectations on its impact on the countries' development. We highlight what the determinants of mobile broadband use are in four Sub-Saharan countries. Using micro-level data coming from household surveys over 5 years, from 2013 to 2017, we show that SIM card ownership and being part of an online social community has a strong positive impact on mobile broadband use. We also highlight a positive correlation between digital inclusion and financial inclusion as mobile money users and bank account users are found to be more inclined to use mobile broadband. However, beyond apparent similarities, mobile broadband is used in different ways according to countries specificities. For instance, among the non-mobile owners in Nigeria, the unemployed are the most likely to use mobile broadband, most probably for job search practices, while it is rather used by students for information gathering in other countries. Finally we show that those excluded from mobile broadband use are the eldest, those with the lowest level of education, and women.
L50|Measuring Entrepreneurship: Do Established Metrics Capture High-Impact Schumpeterian Entrepreneurship?|Are quantitative measures driven by small business activity also valid proxies for high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship? We compile four hand-collected measures of high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship (VC-funded IPOs, self-made billionaire entrepreneurs, unicorn start-ups, and young top global firms founded by individual entrepreneurs) and six measures dominated by small business activity as well as institutional and economic variables for 64 countries. Factor analysis reveals that much of the variation is accounted for by two distinct factors: one relating to high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship and the other relating to small business activity. Except for the World Bank measure of firm registration of limited liability companies quantity-based measures tend to be inappropriate proxies for high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship.
L50|Should We Worry about the Decline of the Public Corporation? A Brief Survey of the Economics and External Effects of the Stock Market|In recent years, the number of listed companies has been declining in many countries across the world. This paper provides a selective survey of the literature on the real economic effects of the stock market to assess the potential effects of this decline and determine whether it is likely to continue. The leading economic role of the stock market’s primary market, in which firms raise capital by issuing new shares, is to help growing firms secure financing. We discuss providing and certifying information, coordinating investors, and easing the redeployment of capital as the means through which capital allocation can be achieved efficiently. The main economic role of the stock market’s secondary market, the trade in existing shares, is to provide liquidity to shareholders, to aid in price discovery, and to provide diversification opportunities. Positive external effects from an active stock market may arise on consumers, labour and private firm due to increased corporate investment, more social responsible business strategies and a more positive business climate. Negative external effects on capital allocation and productivity can arise from short-termism, market mispricing, and increased cross-ownership. Local stock markets can spur innovation and foreign direct investment (FDI) and reduce the risk of early cross-border acquisitions. Given the myriad of useful economic functions the stock market performs, a future entirely absent of public companies is difficult to imagine and the decline is therefore likely at some point to come to an end. Whether we need to worry about the decline depends on the relative importance of the positive and negative external effects, a topic we feel warrants more research.
L50|Rise of Bank Competition: Evidence from Banking Deregulation in China|Using proprietary individual level loan data, this paper explores the economic consequences of the 2009 bank entry deregulation in China. Such deregulation leads to higher screening standards, lower interest rates, and lower delinquency rates for corporate loans from entrant banks. Consequently, in deregulated cities, private firms with bank credit access increase asset investments, employment, net income, and ROA. In contrast, the performance of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) does not improve following deregulation. Deregulation also amplifies bank credit from productive private firms to inefficient SOEs due mainly to SOEs’ soft budget constraints. This adverse effect accounts for 0.31% annual GDP losses.
L50|Adapting business framework conditions to deal with disruptive technologies in Denmark|Danish firms are close to the technological frontier compared to other OECD countries,making the introduction of new – potentially disruptive – technologies key to boostproductivity growth. Despite a high level of digitalisation and good framework conditions,aggregate productivity growth in Denmark has been only average compared to otheradvanced OECD countries and lags behind in less knowledge-intensive service industries.Policy needs to embrace innovative technologies by leaning against attempts to discourageor exclude them and by tackling unintended or outmoded obstacles in legislation andregulation. Analysis based on Danish firm-level data suggests that digital adoption throughinvestment in ICT capital increases firm productivity and contributes to business dynamicsand firm growth. Improving economic incentives for such investment as well as facilitatingadoption of new business models require a shift of taxation away from capital and labourincome. Ensuring supply of the right skills and maintaining effective upskilling will helpworkers cope with disruptive changes and ensure that economic growth benefits all.
L50|The 2018 Indicators on the Governance of Sector Regulators - Part of the Product Market Regulation (PMR) Survey|Complementing the Product Market Regulation (PMR) survey, the Indicators on the Governance of Sector Regulators map the regulatory arrangements of 130 regulators across 38 countries and five network sectors: energy, e-communications, rail and air transport, and water. The indicators are structured along three components: independence, accountability and scope of action.For the 2018 update, the OECD Secretariat and delegates of the Network of Economic Regulators (NER) revised the structure and content of the survey based on new best practice principles, guidance documents and the growing body of work of the NER on the performance of regulators.The analysis shows that, while the governance arrangements of regulators vary considerably across countries and sectors, some key trends and correlations can be observed. These insights can support countries and regulators wishing to benchmark their governance practices and reform their governance arrangements.
L50|Cyber Security Framework for the Internet-of-Things in Industry 4.0|This research article reports the results of a qualitative case study that correlates academic literature with five Industry 4.0 cyber trends, seven cyber risk frameworks and two cyber risk models. While there is a strong interest in industry and academia to standardise existing cyber risk frameworks, models and methodologies, an attempt to combine these approaches has not been done until present. We apply the grounded theory approach to derive with integration criteria for the reviewed frameworks, models and methodologies. Then, we propose a new architecture for the integration of the reviewed frameworks, models and methodologies. We therefore advance the efforts of integrating standards and governance into Industry 4.0 and offer a better understanding of a holistic economic impact assessment model for IoT cyber risk.
L50|Analysing IoT cyber risk for estimating IoT cyber insurance|This paper is focused on mapping the current evolution of Internet of Things (IoT) and its associated cyber risks for the Industry 4.0 (I4.0) sector. We report the results of a qualitative empirical study that correlates academic literature with 14 - I4.0 frameworks and initiatives. We apply the grounded theory approach to synthesise the findings from our literature review, to compare the cyber security frameworks and cyber security quantitative impact assessment models, with the world leading I4.0 technological trends. From the findings, we build a new impact assessment model of IoT cyber risk in Industry 4.0. We therefore advance the efforts of integrating standards and governance into Industry 4.0 and offer a better understanding of economics impact assessment models for I4.0.
L50|Definition of Internet of Things (IoT) Cyber Risk – Discussion on a Transformation Roadmap for Standardization of Regulations, Risk Maturity, Strategy Design and Impact Assessment|Definition of Internet of Things (IoT) Cyber Risk – Discussion on a Transformation Roadmap for Standardization of Regulations, Risk Maturity, Strategy Design and Impact Assessment
L50|When Prohibiting Platform Parity Agreements Harms Consumers|We consider a three-level supply chain where a monopolistic seller distributes its product both directly through its own distribution channel and indirectly through platforms accessed by intermediaries competing for final consumers. In this setting, we examine the welfare effects of platform parity agreements, namely contractual provisions according to which the seller cannot charge different prices for the same product distributed through different platforms. We find that these agreements mitigate the marginalization problem both in a wholesale and an agency model. However, only in the former model platform parity unambiguously increases consumer surplus; in the latter, it also increases the commissions paid by the monopolist to the platforms, whereby exacerbating the marginalization problem. On the net, platform parity benefits consumers in the agency model when competition between direct and indirect distribution is sufficiently intense. Interestingly, in both models consumers' preferences are always aligned with the platforms' but not with the seller's.
L50|Determinants of Mobile Broadband Use in Developing Economies: Evidence from Nigeria|Using micro-level data coming from household surveys over 5 years, from 2013 to 2017, we analyse what are the determinants of mobile broadband adoption in developing economies. We provide empirical evidence on the presence of a learning effect stemming from mobile money use, which by providing a higher experience in using mobile phone increases mobile broadband use. The ownership of a mobile phone is also positively correlated with mobile broadband use. However, for those not owning a mobile phone the ownership of an active SIM card is a prerequisite for using mobile broadband. We highlight that the population left behind is mainly composed of poor households living in rural areas.
L50|Net neutrality regulation: Much ado about nothing?|The economics literature on Net Neutrality (NN) has been largely critical of NN regulation on the basis of theoretical findings that NN violations can be both welfare improving and welfare deteriorating, depending on the circumstances of the case in question. Thus, an ex post competition policy approach would be preferable to a strict ex ante prohibition of NN violations. In contrast, the current paper argues that NN regulation is largely ineffective, in particular, when it comes to the prohibition of fast lanes and other quality of service (QoS) differentiations, and to a lesser extent, when it comes to the zero price rule. NN regulation is effective only in preventing the blocking of specific content and in preventing the favoring of ISP owned content and in preventing some price discriminations. These are also areas where NN regulations are more likely to be welfare-enhancing. Where they are ineffective, NN regulations are likely to create inefficiencies through the cost and allocative inefficiencies caused by NN bypass. The paper ends with a call for theoretical and empirical economic analyses of NN circumvention techniques.
L50|Working Paper 303 - Industrial Policy and Late Industrialisation in Ethiopia|Ethiopia has emerged as one of the fastest-growing economies in Africa in the early twenty-first century. Despite this rapid growth, however, structural transformation of the economy remains the country’s central challenge. This paper reviews the origins of Ethiopia’s industrialization and industrial policymaking process in the 20th century. The Ethiopian government has pursued developmentalism and practiced an active industrial policy since the early 2000s. However, a review of industrial policies in various priority sectors shows that the outcome has been uneven across sectors, indicating the importance of the strong interaction between industrial structure, linkage dynamics, and politics/political economy for the evolution and effectiveness of an industrial policy. After examining the fundamental weakness in Ethiopia’s economic structure, this paper will illustrate why and how industrial policy must focus on manufacturing and exports to generate structural transformation and accelerate catch-up. The Ethiopian experience shows that an activist industrial policy goes hand in hand with an activist state.JEL classification: L16, L50, L52, 014, 025Keywords: Ethiopia, structural transformation, industrialization, industrial policy, policy learning, activist state, linkage effects, industrial parks.
L50|Energy efficiency programs in the context of increasing block tariffs: The case of residential electricity in Mexico|Increasing block pricing schemes represent difficulties for applied researchers who try to recover demand parameters, in particular, price and income elasticities. The Mexican residential electricity tariff structure is amongst the most intricate around the globe. In this paper, we estimate the residential electricity demand and use the corresponding structural parameter estimates to simulate an energy efficiency improvement scenario, as suggested by the Energy Transition Law of December 2015. The simulated program consists of a massive replacement of electric appliances (air conditioners, fans, refrigerators, washing machines, and lights) for more energy-efficient units. The main empirical findings are the following: in the main counterfactual scenario, the overall residential electricity consumption decreases 9.9% and the associated expenditure falls 11.3%. Additionally, the electricity subsidy decreases 7.5 billion of Mexican Pesos per year (i.e., 403 million of USD at the average exchange rate registered in 2017) and there is an annual cut in CO2 emissions of 3.9 million of tons.
L50|Interbank payment system architecture from a cyber security perspective|AThis paper outlines how a paradigm shift is required when approaching cyber risk management for interbank payment systems, which are affected by the growing interconnectedness of systems, the digitalization of financial services and continuously evolving cyber threats. In this scenario, cyber threats may derive from a wider number of actors, who are constantly active on the Internet and able to exploit an increasing number of vulnerabilities and attack vectors to achieve their goals. Financial institutions should therefore assume that specific cyber threats can overcome any defence. Firstly, the paper outlines the theoretical reasons for this necessary paradigm shift; secondly, it aims to highlight the importance of all the stakeholders in strengthening the cyber resilience of payment systems, in particular the central and enabling role of messaging service operators, by providing an analysis of a real case study - the recent Bangladesh Bank cyber fraud; and finally, the paper aims to encourage discussion on the new paradigm and the adequacy of current regulatory frameworks and supervisory approaches.
L50|Rent Creation and Sharing: New Measures and Impactson TFP|This analysis proposes new measures of rent creation or (notional) mark-up and workers’ share of rents on cross-country-industry panel data. While the usual measures of mark-up rate implicitly assume perfect labor markets, our approach relaxes this assumption, and takes into account that part of firms’ rent created in an industry is shared with workers to an extent which can vary with their skills. Our results are based on a cross-country-industry panel covering 14 OECD countries and 19 industries over the 1985-2005 period. In a first part of our analysis we draw on OECD indicators of product and labor market (anticompetitive) regulations to test how they are related to our new measures of mark-up and rent-sharing. We find that anti-competitive Non-Manufacturing Regulations (NMR) affect mark-up rates positively, and hence firms’ rent creation and workers’ share of rent, whereas Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) has no impact on rent creation, but boosts workers’ wages per hour. However, we observe that these wage increases are offset by a negative impact from EPL on hours worked per output unit, leading to a non-significant impact of EPL on workers’ share of rents. The effects of EPL for low-skilled workers appear to be more pronounced than those for medium-skilled workers, both being much greater than for highly-skilled workers. In the second part of our analysis, we estimate the impacts of our new measures on Total Factor Productivity (TFP) in the framework of a straightforward regression model. We use the OECD regulations indicators as relevant instrument to take care of endogeneity and to make sure that the resulting estimates assess the proper regulation impacts of rent creation and sharing without being biased by other confounding effects. We find that less competition in the product and labor markets as assessed by our measures of mark-up and workers’ share of rents have both substantial negative impacts on TFP.
L50|Competition for retail deposits between commercial banks and non-bank operators: a two-sided platform analysis|Commercial banks’ mainstream business model, which is reliant on a stable supply of retail deposits, continues to be challenged by new and innovative sources of non-bank competition. This paper examines the implications of one such source: a substitute for commercial banks’ personal and saving accounts that provides a safer money storage option thanks to access to a central bank’s balance sheet. I model competition for retail deposits between a bank and a non-bank payment service operator by adopting the two-sided platform framework to capture the payment functionality between consumers and merchants under various configurations. I show that banks’ mainstream business model is most vulnerable when consumers perceive the two service providers as close substitutes; they have the option to sign up with both service providers; their distribution of deposit is skewed; and they are not allowed to make payments across platforms.
L50|Systems Innovation, Inertia and Pliability: A mathematical exploration with implications for climate change abatement|This paper develops a stylised mathematical interpretation of innovation and inertia in economic systems, characteristics which feature in economics literature traceable back at least to Schumpeter and other economic theorists of innovation, as well as economic historians. Such characteristics are particularly important in energy systems and their potential response to climate change, where it is important to distinguish operational/fuel substitution from investment because the latter necessarily embodies both inertia and innovation, in systems as well as technologies. We argue that integrated assessments of climate abatement need to focus on investment, including the associated characteristics of both learning and inertia, and derive in detail the mathematical basis for incorporating these factors through marginal investment cost curves. From this we also introduce the concept of ‘pliability’ as an expression of the ratio between costs which are significant but transitional (including learning investments, infrastructure and overcoming inertia), as compared to the enduring costs implied by purely exogenous technology assumptions. We then incorporate these features in a global model of optimal climate mitigation and show that they can generate a very different profile and pattern of results from traditional ‘integrated assessment’ models, pinpointing the key sensitivities. We conclude that alongside all the attention devoted to evaluating climate change impacts and technology scenarios, far more effort should be devoted to understanding the structural characteristics of how the global energy system may respond to climate change mitigation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L50|Can partial horizontal ownership lessen competition more than a monopoly?|In this paper we investigate the anti-competitive effects of partial horizontal ownership in a setting where: (i) two cost-asymmetric firms compete à la Cournot; (ii) managers deal with eventual conflicting interests of the different shareholders by maximizing a weighted sum of the two firms’ operating profits; and (iii) weights result from the corporate control structure of the firm they run. Within this theoretical structure, we find that if the manager of the more efficient firm weights the operating profit of the (inefficient) rival more than its own profit, then partial ownership will lessen competition more than a monopoly when both firms produce.
L50|Follow The Money: Online Piracy and Self-Regulation in the Advertising Industry|In this paper, we study the effects of a self-regulatory effort, orchestrated by the European Commission, that aims to reduce advertising revenues for publishers of copyright infringing content. Historical data lets us follow how the third-party advertising and tracking services associated with a large number of piracy websites and a corresponding set of legitimate “placebo” websites change after the agreement to self-regulate went in place. We find that larger EU-based advertisers comply with the initiative and reduce their connections with piracy websites. We do not find reductions for other non-advertising services that track consumers, which has potentially important implications for the efficiency of targeted advertising.
L50|How Much Does Anticipation Matter? Evidence from Anticipated Regulation and Land Prices|Land prices across administrative boundaries can be useful for estimating the causal effects of local policy. Market anticipation about potential boundary changes can confound identification, so studies often avoid markets where this may arise. We develop an approach to quantify anticipation by separately identifying the causal effect of local policy and the market's subjective beliefs that administrative boundaries will change. Using land prices and changes to land use regulation boundaries, our estimates indicate that anticipation does matter quantitatively: it increases the welfare cost of the policy by one-quarter and empirical analysis that omits anticipation underestimates this cost by nearly one-half.
L50|The International Organization of Production in the Regulatory Void|In recent decades, NGOs and consumers have heavily criticized a large number of leading firms and their suppliers in a diverse set of industries for exploiting cross-country differences in regulation to cut costs at the expense of workers and the environment. In line with a wide range of examples, our explorative empirical analysis links these features of globalization to the international organization of production: a high cost advantage of ‘unethical’ production in an industry favors international outsourcing (as opposed to vertical integration) and most strongly so for sourcing from low-regulation countries. We rationalize this pattern by introducing a cost-saving ‘unethical’ technology, consumer boycotts, and advocacy NGOs into a standard property-rights model of the international organization of production. Contracts are incomplete, limiting a firm’s control over both investment and (un)ethical technology choices of integrated as well as independent suppliers. We identify and analyze a novel unethical outsourcing incentive, which - in line with the empirical findings - links outsourcing to unethical production. We also contribute to the modeling of NGO-firm interactions by providing a microfounded model of investment and pricing under incomplete contracts and monopolistic competition when the production technology is a credence attribute of the final good.
L50|Selling Strategic Information in Digital Competitive Markets|This paper investigates the strategies of a data broker in selling information to one or to two competing firms that can price-discriminate consumers. The data broker can strategically choose any segment of the consumer demand (information structure) to sell to firms that implement third-degree price-discrimination. We show that the equilibrium profits of the data broker are maximized when (1) information identifies the consumers with the highest willingness to pay; (2) consumers with a low willingness to pay remain unidentified; (3) the data broker sells two symmetrical information structures. The data broker therefore strategically sells partial information on consumers in order to soften competition between firms. Extending the baseline model, we prove that these results hold under first-degree price-discrimination.
L50|Streaming Platform and Strategic Recommendation Bias|We consider a streaming platform which carries content from various upstream content providers. Participating customers face personalized recommendations from the platform and consume a mix of content originating from each provider. We analyze when the platform uses its personalized recommendation system to steer consumers from one content provider to another. We establish the conditions under which the recommendation system allows the platform to credibly threaten upstream providers to steer consumers away from their content in order to reduce their market power. We find that the streaming platform can increase its profit by reducing the royalty rate it pays to content providers through the use of a recommendation system which is strategically biased in favor of the cheaper content.
L50|Transition from copper to fiber broadband: The role of connection speed and switching costs|We estimated a mixed logit model using data on the broadband technologies chosen by 94,388 subscribers of a single European broadband operator on a monthly basis between January and December 2014. We found that consumers have similar valuation of DSL connection speeds in the range between 1 and 8 Mbps. Moreover, in January 2014, the valuation of FttH connections with a speed of 100 Mbps was not much higher than of DSL connections with a speed of 1 to 8 Mbps, but it has increased quickly over time and became significantly higher at the end of the period in December 2014. The small initial difference in the valuation of DSL and FttH connections may be because consumers’ basic Internet requirements such as browsing, emailing, reading news, shopping, and even watching videos online could be satisfied with a connection speed below 8 Mbps. We also found that consumers face significant switching costs when changing broadband tariff plans, which are substantially higher when switching from DSL to FttH technology. According to counterfactual simulations based on our model, switching costs between technologies are the main factor which slows down consumer transition from DSL to FttH.
L50|Estimating Consumer Inertia in Repeated Choices of Smartphones|In this paper, we use a unique database on switching between mobile handsets in a sample of about 5,000 subscribers using tariffs without commitment from a single mobile operator on monthly basis between March 2012 and December 2014. We estimate discrete choice model in which we account for disutility from switching to a different operating systems and handset brands and for unobserved time-persistent preferences for operating systems and brands. Our estimation results indicate presence of significant state-dependency in the choices of operating systems and brands. We find that it is harder for consumers to switch from iOS to Android and other operating systems than from Android and other operating systems to iOS. Moreover, we find that there is significant time-persistent heterogeneity in preferences for different operating systems and brands, which also leads to state-dependent choices. We use our model to simulate market shares in the absence of switching costs and conclude that the market share of Android and smaller operating systems would increase at the expense of the market share of iOS.
L50|Talent Development and Labour Market Integration: The Case of EU Football|We analyse how the Bosman ruling changed the incentives for football clubs in the European Union (EU) to develop talents. We show that the stiffer bidding competition over star players after the Bosman ruling has spurred talent development primarily in EU countries without established top clubs. This, in turn, has had a positive impact on their junior and senior national teams’ performance. However, the stiffer bidding competition has also led to a lower competitive balance in the Champions League, as non-established clubs prefer to sell their star players instead of challenging the top clubs. We provide empirical evidence consistent with these findings.
L50|Occupational Licensing, Labor Mobility, and the Unfairness of Entry Standards|The combination of occupational licensing at the local market level often coexists with labor mobility across local markets. We empirically study a labor market in which a district-specific entry (licensing) examination is coupled with labor mobility across districts. Our analysis exploits a change in the grading procedure of the exam, from grading in the local district to grading in a randomly assigned different district. We document that licensing regulation leads to extreme heterogeneity across markets in admission outcomes (up to 50 percent differences in licensing exam pass rates), unfair (discriminatory) admission procedures (up to 49 percent unfair exam results), and inefficient mobility of workers. These findings, together with the estimated impact of the reform on exam outcomes and grading standards, provide the first evidence of regulatory competition based on strategic interaction among licensing boards.
L50|Systems Innovation, Inertia and Pliability: A mathematical exploration with implications for climate change abatement|This paper develops a stylised mathematical interpretation of innovation and inertia in economic systems, characteristics which feature in economics literature traceable back at least to Schumpeter and other economic theorists of innovation, as well as economic historians. Such characteristics are particularly important in energy systems and their potential response to climate change, where it is important to distinguish operational/fuel substitution from investment because the latter necessarily embodies both inertia and innovation, in systems as well as technologies. We argue that integrated assessments of climate abatement need to focus on investment, including the associated characteristics of both learning and inertia, and derive in detail the mathematical basis for incorporating these factors through marginal investment cost curves. From this we also introduce the concept of ‘pliability’ as an expression of the ratio between costs which are significant but transitional (including learning investments, infrastructure and overcoming inertia), as compared to the enduring costs implied by purely exogenous technology assumptions. We then incorporate these features in a global model of optimal climate mitigation and show that they can generate a very different profile and pattern of results from traditional ‘integrated assessment’ models, pinpointing the key sensitivities. We conclude that alongside all the attention devoted to evaluating climate change impacts and technology scenarios, far more effort should be devoted to understanding the structural characteristics of how the global energy system may respond to climate change mitigation.
L50|Impact Of Competition, Investment, And Regulation On Prices Of Mobile Services: Evidence From France|In this paper, we assess the impact of competition, investment, and regulation on prices of mobile services in France. We estimate hedonic price regressions using data on tariff plans offered by the main mobile telecommunications operator in France between May 2011 and December 2014. In this time period, the obtained quality‐adjusted price index decreased by about 42.8% as compared to a decline in weighted average prices without quality‐adjustment of 8.7%. In a second step, we relate the quality‐adjusted prices to a set of competition, investment, and regulation variables and find that the launch of 4G networks by mobile operators was the main driver of price reductions for classic tariffs with commitment. Low‐cost tariffs without commitment which were introduced to pre‐empt the entry of low‐cost competitor declined at the time of entry. Moreover, we find that regulation, which is approximated by the level of mobile termination charges and international roaming price caps for voice and data, has a joint significant impact on quality‐adjusted prices. In percentage terms, competition is responsible for about 23.4% of total price decline and investments in 4G for 56.1%. We conclude that the reduction in quality‐adjusted prices in the last years was largely caused by competition between operators for a new 4G technology and by entry of a fourth low‐cost operator. (JEL L13, L50, L96)
L50|Labour Market Regulations and Capital Intensity|On the basis of a country*industry unbalanced panel data sample for 14 OECD countries and 18 industries covering the years 1988 to 2007, this study proposes an econometric investigation of the effects of the OECD Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) indicator on capital intensity for four capital components, and on the share of employment for two skill components. Our results relying on a difference-in-difference approach are the following: i) positive and significant effects for non-ICT physical capital intensity and the share of high-skilled employment; ii) non-significant effects for ICT capital intensity; and (iii) negative and significant effects for R&D capital intensity and the share of low-skilled employment. These results suggest that firms consider that the strengthening of Employment Protection Legislation is equivalent to a rise in the cost of labor, resulting in capital-to-labor substitution in favor of non-ICT capital and working at the disadvantage of low-skill relatively to high-skill workers. They indicate to the contrary that structural reforms for more labor flexibility weakening this legislation could have a favorable impact on firms’ R&D investment and their hiring of low-skill workers.
L50|Corporate tax evasion and unreported wages: The effect of compulsory staff registers|One way to decrease corporate tax evasion is to introduce a reform that makes it easier for the tax authorities to detect and punish firms that evade taxes. Such a reform was implemented by the Swedish policymakers in 2007 when they launched a law that required restaurants and hairdressers to introduce staff registers with detailed information on when their employees were present at the workplace. The Swedish Tax Authority was also given the opportunity to perform unannounced control visits, and firms that had not correctly completed their staff registers had to pay a fine. To evaluate the effects of this reform on reported wages, we first identify control industries that resemble the counterfactual outcome of the treated industries using a Propensity Score Matching model. Next, we compare how wage reporting has evolved among the treated and control firms using firm-level difference-in-difference analysis. We find no statistically significant effects of staff registers on wage reporting up to three years after the reform was implemented. Our findings suggest that the staff register requirement has led to at best minor increases in wage reporting after four years. We conclude that the introduction of staff registers has been an inefficient way of addressing corporate tax evasion and reducing unreported wages, especially considering the substantial administrative costs and the increased regulatory burden for the treated firms.
L50|Varieties of entrepreneurship: exploring the institutional foundations of different entrepreneurship types through ‘Varieties-of-Capitalism’ arguments|Abstract While entrepreneurship researchers agree that institutions ‘matter’ for entrepreneurship, they also have a rather encompassing understanding of institutions as almost any external factor that influences entrepreneurship. Ultimately, this literature thus comes up with a long list of institutional factors that may explain entrepreneurial differences between countries. But which institutions are most influential? How do these institutions relate to different types of entrepreneurship? And to what extent are institutions complementary to each other in the way they sustain different entrepreneurship types? The literature on ‘Varieties-of-Capitalism’ (VoC) offers a parsimonious theoretical framework to address these questions. Based on the VoC literature, we theoretically derive a consistent set of institutional indicators that can explain differences in entrepreneurship types between countries. Based on principal component and cluster analyses, we illustrate how 21 Western developed economies cluster around four distinct institutional settings. Furthermore, we use simple OLS regressions to show how these institutional constellations are related to different types of entrepreneurship. We conclude that four different ‘Varieties of Entrepreneurship’ can be identified across the Western world. The main implication of our findings is that a ‘perfect’ institutional constellation, equally facilitating different types of entrepreneurship, does not exist. Policy-makers seeking to stimulate entrepreneurship are thus faced with the trade-off of targeting policy reforms to that entrepreneurship type they intend to promote—at the expense of other types of entrepreneurship and the broader societal consequences such reforms will have.
L50|Place-based entrepreneurship and innovation policy for industrial diversification|This paper proposes a conceptual and analytical framework for the development of place-based entrepreneurship and innovation policies aiming at industrial diversification. The starting point for this paper is the entrepreneurial ecosystem concept, which is frequently used to inform such policies. However, this concept does not specify the causal mechanisms driving industrial diversification. Furthermore, it remains questionable to what extent the concept can be applied to different regional contexts. In order to address these shortfalls, this paper i) discusses the barriers and opportunities for industrial diversification in different regional contexts, and ii) introduces a place-based policy framework for new industrial path development through entrepreneurship and innovation policies.
L50|Combining uncertainty with uncertainty to get certainty? Efficiency analysis for regulation purposes|Data envelopment analysis (DEA) and stochastic frontier analysis (SFA), as well as combinations thereof, are widely applied in incentive regulation practice, where the assessment of efficiency plays a major role in regulation design and benchmarking. Using a Monte Carlo simulation experiment, this paper compares the performance of six alternative methods commonly applied by regulators. Our results demonstrate that combination approaches, such as taking the maximum or the mean over DEA and SFA efficiency scores, have certain practical merits and might offer a useful alternative to strict reliance on a singular method. In particular, the results highlight that taking the maximum not only minimizes the risk of underestimation, but can also improve the precision of efficiency estimation. Based on our results, we give recommendations for the estimation of individual efficiencies for regulation purposes and beyond.
L50|Competition Policy and Sector-Specific Regulation in the Financial Sector|Reforms of financial regulation after the crisis of 2007-2009 raise the question of what is the relation between financial regulators and competition authorities. Should competition authorities play a role in financial regulation? Should they co-operate with financial regulators? Or should they keep at a distance? The paper gives an overview over some of the issues that are involved in the discussion. Drawing on the experience of the network industries, the first part of the paper discusses the relation between competition authorities and sector-specific regulators more generally. Whereas competition policy involves the application of legal norms involving prohibitions that are formulated in abstract terms, sector-specific regulation involves authorities actually prescribing desired modes of behavior. The ongoing nature of relations makes regulators more prone to capture than competition authorities. In the financial sector, the potential for capture is particularly great because everyone is tempted by the idea that banks should fund their pet projects. Following an overview over the evolution of regulation and competition in the financial industry, the paper discusses various issues that are relevant for competition policy: Technological and regulatory barriers to entry, distortions of competition by explicit or implicit government guarantees, distortions of competition by bailouts making for artificial barriers to exit. Guarantees and bailouts in particular pose special challenges for merger control and for state aid control.
L50|Rent creation and sharing: new measures and impacts on TFP|This analysis proposes new measures of rent creation or (notional) mark-up and workers’ share of rents on cross-country-industry panel data. While the usual measures of mark-up rate implicitly assume perfect labor markets, our approach relaxes this assumption, and takes into account that part of firms’ rent created in an industry is shared with workers to an extent which can vary with their skills. Our results are based on a cross-country-industry panel covering 14 OECD countries and 19 industries over the 1985-2005 period. In a first part of our analysis we draw on OECD indicators of product and labor market (anticompetitive) regulations to test how they are related to our new measures of mark-up and rent-sharing. We find that anti-competitive Non-Manufacturing Regulations (NMR) affect mark-up rates positively, and hence firms’ rent creation and workers’ share of rent, whereas Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) has no impact on rent creation, but boosts workers’ wages per hour. However, we observe that these wage increases are offset by a negative impact from EPL on hours worked per output unit, leading to a non-significant impact of EPL on workers’ share of rents. The effects of EPL for low-skilled workers appear to be more pronounced than those for medium-skilled workers, both being much greater than for highly-skilled workers. In the second part of our analysis, we estimate the impacts of our new measures on Total Factor Productivity (TFP) in the framework of a straightforward regression model. We use the OECD regulations indicators as relevant instrument to take care of endogeneity and to make sure that the resulting estimates assess the proper regulation impacts of rent creation and sharing without being biased by other confounding effects. We find that less competition in the product and labor markets as assessed by our measures of mark-up and workers’ share of rents have both substantial negative impacts on TFP.
L50|Enhancing governance in Thailand|The Peace pillar of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development encompasses a diverse range of issues including stability and effective governance. Reforming the public sector is high on the government’s agenda, but involves a number of challenges: the gap between planning and implementation of policy objectives remains large; insufficient public participation in policy making is undermining the efficient allocation of resources toward public needs and development goals; under-development of evidence-based regulations is hampering the creation of a business-friendly environment essential to high value-added activities; and high levels of perceived corruption are weakening business confidence and public trust in the government. Thailand’s 12th Economic and Social Development Plan emphasises the importance of public sector reform. It sets out measures to strengthen co-ordination across ministries and agencies aimed at improving implementation of policy programmes, boosting public participation in policy making, improving online access to government services and combating corruption by strengthening integrity measures. The upcoming 20-year National Strategy and the accompanying National Reform Plan are expected to pave the way for future development. However, an inclusive and consultative process will be essential to ensure the success of reform efforts. This Working Paper relates to the Initial Assessment report of the Multi-dimensional Country Review of Thailand. (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/multi-dimensional-review-thailand.htm)
L50|Subsidizing Innovation and Production|This paper studies the interaction between production subsidies and innovation subsidies. We develop a model which allows us to calculate the socially optimal subsidies (and how they vary with changes in the economic environment), and to understand how firms react to each type of subsidy. In a three-stage game, the government chooses production and innovation subsidies in the first stage to maximize welfare in the presence of a shadow cost of public funds; two firms invest in cost-reducing R&D in the second stage; and the two firms compete in quantities in the last stage. We find that production subsidies crowd out innovation, since they reduce the gain for firms from investing in R&D. On the other hand, providing a production subsidy reduces the cost of the innovation subsidy, and vice versa. The optimal production subsidy is U-shaped with respect to spillovers, while the innovation subsidy is increasing in spillovers. The production subsidy is higher for very low spillovers, while the innovation subsidy is higher for moderate/high spillovers. In equilibrium, because of the innovation subsidy, R&D increases with spillovers, and so does welfare. Optimal subsidies increase with research costs and with the slope of inverse demand, and have an inverted-U shape with respect to initial costs and demand height. We also consider the case of a financially constrained government, as well as the case of a uniform subsidy to production and innovation costs.
L50|The Impact of Compatibility on Innovation in Markets with Network Effects|This article analyses the relationship between compatibility and innovation in markets with network effects using a model of competition with endogenous R&D, commercialization and compatibility. Incumbent acquisition of an innovation or profit from entry provides entrepreneurs with an incentive for developing technological improvements. Entrepreneurs receive greater returns for the innovation if larger incumbents offer compatibility with their installed base. As a result, entrepreneurs must innovate strategically to pre-empt an incompatibility response from incumbents. Similarly, small incumbents also bid strategically to block entry or rival acquisition if it also avoids an incompatibility response from a larger incumbent. A credible threat of incompatibility reduces the entrepreneur?s reserve to sell an innovation, but can also increase offers to acquire the innovation from smaller incumbents attempting to avoid incompatibility. This leads to a complex relationship between the strength of network effects, innovation incentives, the entrepreneur?s ambition for improvement and potentially disrupting the compatibility regime. For weak to moderate network effects entrepreneurs are likely to target more substantial, but improbable innovations such that their network is sufficiently attractive for incumbents to offer compatibility. For a small range of sufficiently strong network effects, entrepreneurs target incremental innovations to avoid the incumbent threatening incompatibility.
L50|Is Trust in Companies Rooted in Social Trust, or Regulatory Quality, or Both?|While trust in the business sector is crucial for well-functioning markets, there is surprisingly little empirical work on its sources. Available research recognises social trust as a major force explaining confidence in political institutions. Regulation is frequently advocated to foster trust in companies as it is supposed to reduce scope for opportunistic behaviour. Based on individual level data from World Values Survey, European Values Studies and economic regulation data from the Economic Freedom of the World project the paper empirically investigates joint effects of social trust, intensity and quality of regulation on public trust in major companies. Our findings suggest that it is not the intensity of economic regulation per se which matters for trust in companies but that the impartiality with which rules are enforced is decisive, even when we control for social trust. Trust in business can be facilitated by an implicit guarantee of governments to fair and impartial treatment.
L50|Distributed Generation in Unbundled Electricity Markets|Electricity systems are increasingly characterized by distributed generation technologies, e.g. rooftop photovoltaic systems, which are used by end consumers to directly produce electricity. Additionally, empirical evidence suggests that electricity retailers exercise market power in many unbundled electricity markets. Against this backdrop this articles analyzes the impact of distributed generation on imperfect retail markets for electricity in a spatial competition framework. I ﬁnd that distributed generation puts competitive pressure on retailers and induces lower retail prices. Therefore even consumers, who do not use distributed generation, beneﬁt. Based on this eﬀect regulators can shift welfare to consumers by subsidizing distributed generation in order to position it as a competitor to grid based electricity. However, if only a limited share of demand can be supplied with distributed generation, there is a point at which retailers disregard the substitutable share of demand and focus on the non-substitutable consumption in order to realize higher mark-ups. As a result, increased subsidies for distributed generation can increase retail prices and harm consumers. With optimal subsidies this strategy of retailers is prevented by limiting usage of distributed generation.
L50|Optimal Allocation of Variable Renewable Energy Considering Contributions to Security of Supply|Electricity markets are increasingly inﬂuenced by variable renewable energy such as wind and solar power with a pronounced weather-induced variability and imperfect predictability. As a result, the evaluation of the capacity value of variable renewable energy, i.e. its contribution to security of supply, gains importance. This paper develops a new methodology to endogenously determine the capacity value in large-scale investment and dispatch models for electricity markets. The framework allows to account for balancing eﬀects due to the spatial distribution of generation capacities and interconnectors. The practical applicability of the methodology is shown with an application for wind power in Europe. We ﬁnd that wind power can substantially contribute to security of supply in a decarbonized European electricity system in 2050, with regional capacity values ranging from 1 - 40%. Analyses, which do not account for the temporal and spatial heterogeneity of the contribution of wind power to security of supply therefore lead to ineﬃcient levels of dispatchable back-up capacity. Applying a ﬁxed wind power capacity value of 5% results in an overestimation of ﬁrm capacity requirements in Europe by 66GW in 2050. This translates to additional ﬁrm capacity provision costs of 3.8 bn EUR per year in 2050, which represents an increase of 7%.
L50|Religiosity and Bank Asset Securitization|The global financial turmoil of 2007–2008 underlines the importance of understanding asset securitization, a process that allows banks to shed credit risk, fund their credit growth, and arbitrage capital requirements. Examining this ethically questionable activity has become crucial given its perceived long-term social impact. This paper examines the factors that motivate banks’ decisions to enter into asset securitization. In particular, we examine the influence of both organizational and geographic religiosity as important ethical parameters of economic choices on banks’ decisions to securitize their assets. We employ propensity scores using a unique database on asset securitization of banks in 22 countries during the period of 2003–2012. We find that both types of religiosity indicators are significantly associated with banks’ decisions to securitize. Banks located in countries with high religious importance scores show a lower likelihood to securitize. We also find that religiously adhered banks are likely to embark on a constrained model of securitization, which involves a high level of monitoring. In addition, our analysis suggests that religiously adhered banks are less likely to engage in asset securitization to reduce credit risk by shifting it to new investors. This conclusion is supported by their lower credit risk in the years before securitization. Alternatively, our results suggest that these banks embark on asset securitization to improve their financial and regulatory performance. Our study emphasizes the importance of considering religiosity as an important institutional factor and a monitoring mechanism in future global banking studies. Findings in this study are of importance to researchers, to local and international regulators, and to different stakeholders in the international banking sector.
L50|Asset Securitization and Risk: Does Bank Type Matter?|This study is among the first attempts to tests for the relative differences between Islamic and conventional asset securitizations on bases of bank’s capitalization and risk (credit risk and liquidity risk) during two evidential crises, financial crisis (2007-2009) and the political crisis (2011-2012). We employ GMM estimation for uniquely constructed data for global asset securitization of commercial banks in 22 countries in the years 2003 to 2012, data of 672 global banks (4889 year-observations). We find that on average, securitized banks are less capitalized but more liquid than non-securitized banks. Islamic banks (IBs) involved in securitization hold higher quality loan portfolios and are more prudent but less liquid than securitizing conventional banks (CBs). We find no relative differences between the two sectors with respect to capitalization. Results are robust during the financial crisis. Additional tests, distinguishes between retained and non-retained interests for asset securitizations to test whether the level of control of the securitizing assets affect banks’ risk and capital adequacy. We find that non-retain interests by banks over securitization indicate significantly high prudence by banks however; this is associated with lower liquidity Our results are of importance to both local and international regulators as well as different stakeholders in banks. The bank type does not matters but the relative size of retained interests to the total issuance is that matters because it shows that there is impact on credit risk. Constrained model of IBs do not improve their liquidity though but helped with loan portfolio.
L50|Asset Securitization and Bank risk: Do Religiosity or Ownership Structure Matter?|We test the impact of religiosity and ownership structure on the risk profile of banks, which issued securitisation. We employ GMM estimation using unique database on asset securitization of 672 commercial banks (4889 year-observations) in 22 countries (from 2003-2012), which have dual banking system. We find that banks with higher securitisation activity have consistently shown a riskier profile by being significantly less adequately capitalised and offering higher ratio of net loans to total assets. Controlling for bank type (Islamic and conventional banks), we find that although Islamic banks, in general, show a conservative approach towards risk by keeping higher reserves and more liquidity, banks involved in new issuance of asset securitization as still exposed to a higher risk profile . Controlling for a country religiosity shows different risk profile of banks in countries with different religiosity thresholds. Controlling for different types of bank ownership highlights an additional exposure to credit risk in addition to capital adequacy and liquidity risks. Our results emphasize the importance of identifying the impact of bank type and the religiosity / culture factors in global banking studies. Our results are of importance to both local and international regulators as well as different stakeholders in banks.
L50|Hunting the Big Five: Twenty-first Century Antitrust in Historical Perspective|Voices along the whole of the political spectrum are calling for heightened scrutiny of American information-technology companies, especially the Big Five of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft. One of the principal themes of this uprising is that present-day antitrust policy, forged in the rusty era of steel, oil, and cars, is now obsolete. We are in the age of information, which ipso facto calls for new rules. A second animating theme is that the antitrust thinking of the Chicago School, which came to prominence in the last quarter of the last century, must be completely overthrown. Proponents of this new antitrust ground their arguments by returning to the historical roots of American antitrust policy. My contention, however, is that the new antitrust gets this history wrong. It both misconceives the nature of the competitive process and deliberately refuses to confront the political economy of antitrust. In so doing, it adopts some of the worst traits of the Chicago School it criticizes while manifesting few of that school’s many virtues.
L50|Is Trust in Companies Rooted in Social Trust, or Regulatory Quality, or Both?|While trust in the business sector is crucial for well-functioning markets, there is surprisingly little empirical work on its sources. Available research recognizes social trust as a major force explaining confidence in political institutions. Regulation is frequently advocated to foster trust in companies as it is supposed to reduce scope for opportunistic behavior. Based on individual level data from World Values Survey/European Values Studies and economic regulation data from the Economic Freedom of the World-project the paper empirically investigates joint effects of social trust, intensity and quality of regulation on public trust in major companies. Our findings suggest that it is not the intensity of economic regulation per se which matters for trust in companies but that the impartiality with which rules are enforced is decisive, even when we control for social trust. Trust in business can be facilitated by an implicit guarantee of governments to fair and impartial treatment.
L50|Institutional convergence in Europe|This paper applies the statistical concepts of σ-convergence and unconditional β-convergence to institutional development within several country groups hierarchized to the degree of European integration (e.g., euro area). Two sets of indicators are employed to measure institutional development: first, the Worldwide Governance Indicators, and second, the product market regulation indicator of the OECD and the Doing Business distance to frontier indicator of the World Bank. The authors can clearly confirm institutional β-convergence within the EU and its aspirants, which is mainly driven by the new Member States and acceding, candidate, and potential candidate countries. However, euro-area countries converge only in the area of product market and business regulation- not in the area of governance. In fact, the authors show evidence for β-divergence in rule of law within the first twelve euro-area members. Concerning σ-convergence, the results are less clear. Only the EU including the EU aspirants reduced the cross-country variance in all aspects of institutional development.
L50|Estimating Consumer Inertia in Repeated Choices of Smartphones|In this paper, we use a unique dataset on switching between mobile handsets in a sample of about 8,623 subscribers using tariffs without handset subsidies from a single mobile operator on a monthly basis between July 2011 and December 2014. We estimate a discrete choice model in which we account for disutility from switching to different operating systems and handset brands and for unobserved time-persistent preferences for operating systems and brands. Our estimation results indicate the presence of significant inertia in the choices of operating systems and brands. We find that it is harder for consumers to switch from iOS to Android and other operating systems than from Android and other operating systems to iOS. Moreover, we find that there is significant time-persistent heterogeneity in preferences for different operating systems and brands, which also leads to state-dependent choices. We use our model to simulate market shares in the absence of switching costs and conclude that the market shares of Android and smaller operating systems would increase at the expense of the market share of iOS.
L50|Public Policy Targets in EU Broadband Markets: The Role of Technological Neutrality|The European Commission has recently sought to substantially revise how it regulates the telecommunication industry, with a key goal being to incentivise investment in high-speed broadband networks. Ambitious goals have been set regarding the availability and quality of broadband across the European Union, initially in the 'Digital Agenda for Europe' and more recently in its 'Gigabit strategy'. These goals reflect the view of many that there are widespread and significant socio-economic benefits associated with broadband. Our analysis explores the consequence of target setting at a European level, in terms of encouraging investment and picking which technology should be adopted within the context of technological neutrality. We demonstrate that while public policy targets favour specific technologies, especially when the target is defined with regards to fast broadband speeds, the technological choices that occur within a Member State are shaped by the complex and dynamic interaction between a series of path dependencies that may vary significantly across as well as within Member States. Furthermore, taking into account the ecosystem's tremendous evolution, the technological choices that are made within markets reflect both demand and supply uncertainties. To assist with understanding the interaction between those forces that shape, to lesser or greater extent, the choice of one technology over another, we propose a four-phase framework. This framework is not a definitive statement of the relationships that we have identified, but rather serves as a mechanism that illustrates the challenges associated with adopting and then sticking with technological neutrality in policy making.
L50|Two years later: The EU circular economy package. An update|The European Commission aims to push forward the concepts of 'recycle, repair and re-use' as well as waste avoidance. Two years after adopting the Circular Economy Package, EU institutions finally agreed on new EU waste rules. Despite lower recycling targets as originally envisaged, most countries still have to push recycling to meet the goals. A single method of determining recycling rates was also decided, but an exemption rule will continue to allow for disparate recycling rates. Only ten countries including Germany are on track with their currently reported recycling rates to achieve the first goal of 55 per cent by 2025, assuming they keep up their recycling efforts of the past decade. Germany is leading the recycling hierarchy with 66 per cent, much more than on EU average. However, according to the new calculation method, Germany's recycling rate would drop to between 47 and 52 per cent. In this case, the German recycling rate would have to rise between 0.7 and 0.9 percentage points annually until 2035 to achieve 65 per cent. Looking back, Germany only managed 0.5 percentage points annually over the past decade based on the current method. Hence, Germany would have to push recycling and focus on more high-quality recycling. Fortunately, the country is a role model not only for its long recycling tradition and modern waste management, but also for its global leadership in recycling technologies.
L50|Instrument Choice and Stranded Assets in the Transition to Clean Capital|To mitigate climate change, some governments opt for instruments focused on investment, like performance standards or feebates, instead of carbon prices. We compare these policies in a Ramsey model with clean and polluting capital, irreversible investment and a climate constraint. Alternative instruments imply different transitions to the same balanced growth path. The optimal carbon price minimizes the discounted social cost of the transition to clean capital, but imposes immediate private costs that disproportionately affect the current owners of polluting capital, in particular in the form of stranded assets. A phased-in carbon price can avoid stranded assets but still result in a drop of income for the owners of polluting capital when it is implemented. Second-best standards or feebates on new investment lead to higher total costs but avoid stranded assets, preserve the revenues of vested interests, and smooth abatement costs over individuals and time. These results suggest a trade-off between political feasibility and cost-effectiveness of environmental policies.
L50|Philippe Aghion: recipient of the 2016 Global Award for Entrepreneurship Research|Abstract Professor Philippe Aghion is the 2016 recipient of the Global Award for Entrepreneurship Research, consisting of 100,000 Euros and a statuette designed by the internationally renowned Swedish sculptor Carl Milles. He is one of the most influential researchers worldwide in economics in the last couple of decades. His research has advanced our understanding of the relationship between firm-level innovation, entry and exit on the one hand, and productivity and growth on the other. Aghion has thus accomplished to bridge theoretical macroeconomic growth models with a more complete and consistent microeconomic setting. He is one of the founding fathers of the pioneering and original contribution referred to as Schumpeterian growth theory. Philippe Aghion has not only contributed with more sophisticated theoretical models, but also provided empirical evidence regarding the importance of entrepreneurial endeavours for societal prosperity, thereby initiating a more nuanced policy discussion concerning the interdependencies between entrepreneurship, competition, wealth and growth.
L50|Economic Damage of Cookie Lifetime Restrictions| Over the past few years, regulators have begun to consider restricting a cookie’s lifetime or even banning cookies altogether as a way to protect consumer privacy. Most of this debate has taken place in the absence of any quantified cost-benefit analysis. To begin to fill this gap in the discourse, we estimate the potential economic damage of lifespan restrictions on cookies. Our analysis is based on an empirical study on cookies of 54,127 users who received about 130 million ad impressions over 2.5 years. Only 22% of all cookies increase their daily value over time but the value of that quantile represent 61% of the value of all cookies. This analysis suggests that restricting their lifetime to one year as the European Union proposes (two years as Google advocates) decreases cookie lifetime value by 14.8% (5.9%), which represents a decrease in the value of all cookies of about 7.4% (1.3%). Overall, we find that the average lifetime of a cookie is 215 days (median 68 days) and the average value of a cookie is €1.43 (median €.02).
L50|"Towards a new organization of society and economy (On the book by N. V. Smorodinskaya ""The globalized economy: From hierarchies to net structures"")"|"The paper overviews the basic ideas of the book by N. V. Smorodinskaya. It focuses on some definite as well as still not so definite changes in world pubic and economic structures. The main vector of the research is reorganization of today’s pubic and economic structures and establishing a net structure on this basis. The author follows these processes beginning with the first steps of forming a net structure. She examines the logic of changes of rigid hierarchical models of management and coordination of the free market for horizontal and net forms of organization. A new institutional space rests upon developed net interactions. Two main trends are in the focus of the author’s attention. First, collaboration phenomenon on all the levels of economy including so called ""triple helix"", i.e., collaboration of the state, science and business. Second, cluster nets, i.e., organization and management of collaboration. The cluster-net approach in industrial policy all over the world and topicality of such approach for modernization of Russian economy are presented in the monograph too."
L50|Парниковый Эффект И Рыночные Механизмы Киотского Протокола<BR>[Greenhouse Effect and Mechanisms of Kyoto Protocol]|Russian Abstract. Рассматривается проблема парниковых газов (ПГ), и сокращения их выбросов. Эмиссия ПГ считается одной из главных антропогенных причин роста концентрации углерода в атмосфере, и глобальных климатических перемен. Борьба с атмосферным загрязнением пока шла тремя путями: административное регулирование, экономические механизмы и формирование рыночных отношений. Во второй половине XX века для решения проблем были предложены многие схемы создания рыночного механизма, считающегося более подходящим во многих отношениях. Эти усилия увеличились в 1990х г., и наконец Киотский протокол поддержал гибкие механизмы: торговля квотами (квотирование и торговля), проекты совместного осуществления и механизмы чистого развития, разработаные в 2001 году. Но, несмотря на все эти усилия, в течение первого периода их применения (2008–2012) выбросы углерода в атмосферу возросли. Теперь мировой «углеродный» рынок идёт к развитию национальных, региональных и субрегиональных систем регулирования, но при сохранении международного сегмента (системы РКИК ООН). Конференция в 2012 году уточнила условия, в которых Стороны Конвенции будут выстраивать свою климатическую политику в будущем. Ведущая тенденция (акценты на региональные, субрегиональные и национальные системы регулирования) сохранилась, но сохранилась и «киотская» система, которая на новом этапе будет переходной на пути к новому ожидающемуся глобальному соглашению. English Abstract. This article considers the problem of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and its reduction. These missions are observed as one of the main anthropogenic causes of the increasing carbon concentration in the atmosphere, and the global climate change. The fight against atmosphere pollution goes in three directions: administrative regulations, economic mechanisms and market relations building. In the second half of the XX century many schemes for involving the market mechanism in solving these problems were proposed. These efforts increased in the 1990s and finally the Kyoto Protocol supported flexible mechanisms (trade of quotas – cap and trade, joint implementation projects and clean development mechanisms), as a solution to these problems, explained in 2001. In spite of all these efforts, during the first period of its implementation (2008– 2012) the emissions of carbon increased. Today, the world «carbon» market is moving to the development of national, regional and subregional regulation systems while keeping its international level (system UNFCCC). The Conference held in 2012 precised the conditions upon which the convention parties would define its climate policies in future. The leading tendency (transition to regional, subregional and national regulation systems) was maintained, as well as the «Kyoto» system, which in the new stage would play a transitional role on the road to a new expected global agreement.
L50|Региональные Схемы Рыночных Механизмов Регулирования Выбросов Парниковых Газов: Опыт И Перспективы<BR>[Regional Schemes of Market Mechanisms of Greenhouse Gases Emission: Experiences and Perspectives]|English. The article considers the problem of pollution and destruction of environment, especially the pollution of atmosphere. Within these, problems of the carbon concentration, i.e. greenhouse gases, are considered as one of the main results of the anthropogenic activities, and consequently one of the main causes of the global climate change. In the second half of the XX century many schemes for involving market mechanism in solving these problems were proposed. These efforts especially increased in the last decade of XX century and finally the Kyoto Protocol supported many flexible mechanisms, as a solution for these problems. In spite of all these efforts, during the first period of its implementation (2008–2012) the emissions of carbon were increased. Experiences with market, not only in this sector, leave the problem unresolved: is the market universal solution. Russian. В статье рассматриваются проблемы загрязнения и разрушения природной среды, особенно атмосферы. Следовательно, проблемы концентрации углерода, т.е. парниковых газов рассматриваются как одно из основных последствий антропогенной деятельности, а также одной из основных причин глобального изменения климата. Во второй половине 20-го века было предложено применение многих схем создания рыночних механизмов решения этих проблем. Несмотря на все эти усилия, в течение первого периода их осуществления (2008-2012 годы) выброс углерода вырос. Прошлый опыт, не только в этой области, оставляет открытым вопрос: является ли рынок универсальним решением.
L50|Ефекат Стакленика, Глобално Загревање И Кјотски Протокол<BR>[Greenhouse Effect, Global Warming and Kyoto Protocol]|Serbian. У раду се разматра проблем стакленичких гасова (СГ), и акције и механизми за смањење њихове емисије. Емисија таквих гасова, пре свега угљен-диоксида, сматра се за један од главних антропогених узрока раста концентрације угљеника у атмосфери, и последично глобалних климатских промена. Од времена Индустријске револуције емисија СГ у атмосферу достигла је 300 гигатона угљеника. Борба с атмосферским загађењем до сада је ишла у три правца: административно регулисање, систем економских механизама и формирање тржишних односа. У другој половини 20. века за решавање проблема предложене су многе шеме стварања тржишног механизма, који се сматра повољнијим у више праваца. Ти напори посебно су се увећали у последњој деценији 20. века, и најзад је Кјотски протокол 1997. године подржао неколико такозваних еластичних механизама: трговина квотама (квотирање и трговина), пројекти заједничког остваривања и механизми чистог развоја, који су били разрађени 2001. године у Маракешу. Али, без обзира на све те напоре, током првог периода њихове примене (2008–2012) емисије угљеника у атмосферу су порасле. Данас се светско тржиште угљеника креће ка развоју националних, регионалних и субрегионалних система регулисања, али уз очување међународног сегмента (системи ОКИК ОУН). Конференција у Дохи 2012. године допунила је и прецизирала услове у којима ће Стране Конвенције изграђивати своју климатску политику у следећим годинама. Водећа тенденција (пренос акцената на регионалне, субрегионалне и националне системе регулисања) је сачувана, али сачуван је и „кјотски” систем, који ће у новој етапи имати улогу прелазног на путу ка новом очекиваном глобалном споразуму. English. This article considers the problem of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and actions and mechanisms for its reduction. Emissions of the GHG are observed as one of the main anthropogenic causes of the increasing carbon concentration in the atmosphere, and consequently the global climate change. Until the Industrial Revolution, the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere amounted to 300 gigatonnes of carbon. The fight against atmosphere pollution goes in three directions: administrative regulations, a system of economic mechanisms and market relations building. In the second half of the XX century many schemes for involving the market mechanism in solving these problems were proposed. These efforts especially increased in the last decade of XX century and finally the Kyoto Protocol 1997 supported many flexible mechanisms (trade of quotas – cap and trade, joint implementation projects and clean development mechanisms), as a solution to these problems, which was explained in 2001 in Marrakesh. In spite of all these efforts, during the first period of its implementation (2008–2012) the emissions of carbon increased. Today, the world “carbon” market is moving to the development of national, regional and subregional regulation systems while keeping its international level (system UNFCCC). The Doha Conference held in 2012 precised the conditions upon which the convention parties would define its climate policies in the next years. The leading tendency (transition to regional, subregional and national regulation systems) was maintained, as well as the “Kyoto” system, which in the new stage would play a transitional role on the road to a new expected global agreement.
L50|Reliability in Multy-Regional Power Systems - Capacity Adequacy and the Role of Interconnectors|Based upon probabilistic reliability metrics, we develop an optimization model to determine the efficient amount and location of firm generation capacity to achieve reliability targets in multiregional electricity systems. A particular focus lies on the representation and contribution of transmission capacities as well as variable renewable resources. Calibrating our model with a comprehensive dataset for Europe, we find that there are substantial benefits from regional cooperation. The amount of firm generation capacity to meet a perfectly reliable system could be reduced by 32.4GW (i.e., 6.1 %) compared to an isolated regional approach, which translates to savings of 12.9 Bn Euro when being valued with typical investment costs of an open-cycle gas turbine. Interconnectors contribute in both directions, with capacity values up to their technical maximum of close to 200 %, while wind power contributions are in the range of 3.8 - 29.5 %. Furthermore, we find that specific reliability targets heavily impact the efficient amount and distribution of reliable capacity as well as the contribution of individual technologies, and should therefore be chosen with care.
L50|Economic Effects of Standards Harmonization between Technologically Asymmetric Countries|This paper examines the economic effects of harmonizing standards between technologically asymmetric countries, and the optimal harmonization policies. It sets up a simple three-firm, three-country model in which each country adopts different standards. The difference in standards incurs conversion costs to each firm for the foreign market access and harmonization through the FTA TBT agreement removes such costs between member countries. The paper shows that harmonization of standards with the technologically more or less advanced country always increases the consumer surplus and the social welfare. In addition, the producer surplus will increase if the harmonization partner country has a higher technology level while it may decrease if the partner has a lower technology level. The paper also shows that if most of the domestic exporting goods are in the sectors with high conversion costs, harmonizing standards with the technologically more advanced country is prioritized. If they are in the sectors with low conversion costs, harmonizing with the less advanced country is prioritized. Such strategies, moreover, should be emphasized under a higher technology asymmetry among the countries.
L50|Empirical models of firms and industries|We review important developments in empirical industrial organization (IO) over the last three decades. The paper is organized around six topics: collusion, demand, productivity, industry dynamics, interfirm contracts and auctions. We present models that are workhorses in empirical IO and describe applications. For each topic, we discuss at least one empirical application using Canadian data.
L50|Applying the Growth Identification and Facilitation Framework to Nepal|This paper analyzes opportunities for growth in Nepal by applying the policy tool of New Structural Economics â€“ Growth Identification and Facilitation Framework (GIFF). Drawing on firm level surveys, stakeholder interviews, and existing datasets it aims to contribute to policy discussions in Nepal and to demonstrate the use of the GIFF for other least developed countries. The report argues that Nepal should seek to capture industrial transfer from China to establish a foothold in global value chains, create employment and catalyze structural transformation. The report identifies product-level advantages arising from preferential market access and sector-specific binding constraints, and proposes how to use Special Economic Zones to mitigate identified constraints to set Nepal on a path of structural transformation.
L50|Renewable Energy Sources and Investment in European Power Transmission Networks|During the past decade, renewable energy sources have become an indispensable pillar in European electricity generation. This paper aims at examining if the increasing importance of renewables stimulates investment in European power transmission networks. The question of interest is addressed by an error correction investment model that builds on Neoclassical theory and is further augmented by recent literary findings. Under the proposed threefold estimation strategy, the share of renewables is not found to significantly influence investment spending when the full set of transmission system operators are considered. However, a slight and justified sample restriction leads to the conclusion that a rising share of renewable energy sources substantially increases investment in power transmission networks.
L50|Joint Use of Liability and Regulation in Environmental Law|In this paper, we argue that the joint use of ex-ante regulation and ex-post liability rules is efficient when there are uncertainty surrounding causal investigations and regulatory myopia. As these conditions are generally met in environmental cases, we provide an explanation for the frequent coexistence of these two instruments to control activities that create a risk for the environment. Moreover, we suggest that a joint use of liability and regulation should more frequently be optimal at the European (Federal) level than at the Country (State) level.
L50|Impact of competition and regulation on prices of mobile services: Evidence from France|In this paper, we assess the impact of competition and regulation on prices of mobile services in France. We estimate hedonic price regressions using data on tariff plans offered by the main mobile telecommunications operator in France between May 2011 and December 2014. In this time period, the obtained quality-adjusted price index decreased by about 51% as compared to a decline in average prices without quality adjustment of 8.9%. In a second step, we relate the quality-adjusted prices to a set of competition and regulation variables and find that the launch of 4G networks by mobile operators was the main driver of price reductions for classic tariffs with commitment. Low cost tariffs without commitment which were introduced to pre-empt the entry of low cost competitor declined at the time of entry. Moreover, we find that regulation, which is approximated by the level of mobile termination charges and international roaming price caps for voice and data, has jointly a significant impact on quality-adjusted prices. In percentage terms, competition is responsible for about 68% of total price decline. We conclude that the reduction in quality-adjusted prices in the last years was largely caused by competition between established operators and by entry of fourth low cost operator.
L50|Bundling, consumer retention and entry: evidence from fixed broadband market|This paper answers two empirical questions. First, we analyze how fixed-mobile (quadruple-play) bundling impacts retention of consumers in fixed broadband market. Second, we assess how bundling by the incumbent operator impacts the market share and number of entrants who provide broadband services using incumbent's infrastructure. To address these questions we use a complete database of about 9.5 million subscribers to incumbent fixed broadband operator in a European country between March 2014 and February 2015. This data is combined with information on the market share and number of entrants in about 36,000 municipalities in this country. We find that consumers who bundle fixed and mobile services from the same provider are less likely to churn. Without quadruple-play bundling the annual retention of fixed broadband consumers would increase from 8.4% to 9.2%. Next, we find that the share of consumers having quadruple-play bundles with the incumbent has a negative impact on the market share and number of entrants. In the absence of quadruple- play bundling, the market share of entrants would be higher by about 6.8 percentage points. Quadruple-play bundling has also negative impact on the number of LLU entrants, which is bigger in the case of small LLU operators who cannot provide bundled offers themselves. This suggests that firms which cannot sell fixed-mobile bundles are disadvantaged in competition.
L50|Impact of Very High-Speed Broadband on Local Economic Growth: Empirical Evidence|I estimate the impact of very high-speed broadband networks on some measures of local economic growth in France. I use panel data estimations with time- and municipal-fixed effects. I show that municipalities with a very high-speed broadband network tend to be more attractive for companies. I find a positive impact on the number of companies of all non-farm market sectors operating locally, along with a positive impact on company creation. In addition, municipalities with a very high-speed broadband network provide a more favorable environment for entrepreneurship, as it has a positive effect on the creation of sole proprietorships. The estimation results also show a positive impact on unemployment reduction.
L50|No Crowding Out despite Kickbacks: Competition between Gatekeeping GPs|In health service markets, patients often rely on the advice of their general practitioner (GP) to decide which treatment best fits their needs. Hospitals, in turn, influence GPs referral decisions through kickbacks. We formulate a model with competitive heterogeneous GPs who differ in the degree to which they internalize the disutility that their patients suffer from inappropriate treatments. We prove that a separable equilibrium with referring and not referring GPs exist.
L50|Macroeconomic estimates of Italy’s mark-ups in the long-run, 1861-2012|We explore three alternative methodologies drawn from economic history literature to compute macroeconomic total-economy estimates of Italy’s mark-ups since 1861, based on the new historical national accounts presented in Baffigi (2013) and Giordano and Zollino (2015). Two key features of Italy’s history stand out: a) the increase in market power under the Fascist regime and b) the strengthening of competition since 1993. We then focus on a more limited time span (1970-2012) in order to estimate sectorial mark-ups using the model developed in Bassanetti, Torrini and Zollino (2010). Employing Istat and EU-KLEMs data, we find evidence of a reduction in mark-ups after the completion of the Single Market, with an acceleration after the inception of the European Monetary Union, owing mostly to the decrease in workers’ bargaining power rather than in firms’ margins. Moreover, we find large heterogeneity in mark-ups across sectors, with regulated services displaying weaker competition than manufacturing and market services.
L50|Monopoly Without a Monopolist: An Economic Analysis of the Bitcoin Payment System|Owned by nobody and controlled by an almost immutable protocol the Bitcoin payment system is a platform with two main constituencies: users and profit seeking miners who maintain the system's infrastructure. The paper seeks to understand the economics of the system: How does the system raise revenue to pay for its infrastructure? How are usage fees determined? How much infrastructure is deployed? What are the implications of changing parameters in the protocol? A simplified economic model that captures the system's properties answers these questions. Transaction fees and infrastructure level are determined in an equilibrium of a congestion queueing game derived from the system's limited throughput. The system eliminates dead-weight loss from monopoly, but introduces other inefficiencies and requires congestion to raise revenue and fund infrastructure. We explore the future potential of such systems and provide design suggestions.
L50|Time to Stop Playing Games with Industrial Policy? What Government & Business Might Learn from Team GB|This paper investigates the degree to which the British elite sport policy model might inform a strategy for building international competiveness in UK industry. The methodology is qualitative, based on in-depth interviews with key figures in the British elite sport system, including UK Sport's CEO, Performance Directors of National Sport Governing Bodies whose athletes competed in London 2012 and Rio 2016 and Olympic athletes. The analysis also draws upon detailed case studies of sectors that are currently competing successfully in international markets – despite decades of ill-informed industrial policy, if not neglect. Areas standing out as key to the UK elite sport policy model's success include: an institutional structure to provide strategic leadership, identify talent and support the development of internationally competitive athletes and teams, whilst at the same time insulating them from interference by short-term political (and sporting) interests; an enabling competitive environment with access to a reliable source of finance; and an institutional system that encourages learning, innovation and responsiveness to opportunities and constraints. Taken together, these – if available to British businesses, clusters and sectors – would likely facilitate improvement in the UK's industrial performance. The significance of the elite sport case is that not only was it developed and successfully implemented in the British cultural, institutional and political context, in many respects elite sport can be considered a high performance industrial sector. It therefore offers a starting point for evolving strategy for building international competitiveness in comparable sectors of British industry.
L50|Commodity taxation and regulatory competition|Abstract The purpose of this paper is twofold. We first investigate whether product market regulations affect commodity taxation in open-to-trade economies, and second, we study the strategic interaction in regulatory measures between trading partner countries. We present a two-country general equilibrium model in which destination-based commodity taxes finance public goods, and product market regulation affects both the number of firms in the market and product diversity. Based on data for 21 OECD countries over the 1990–2008 period, we provide empirical evidence suggesting that product market regulations are strategic complement policies and that domestic regulations have a negative impact on domestic commodity taxation.
L50|Industrialización y desindustrialización en Venezuela. Un análisis histórico|No abstract is available for this item.
L50|Welfare effects of switching barriers through permanence clauses: Evidence from the mobiles market in Colombia|•We measure the welfare effects of switching costs through permanence clauses in the mobiles market in Colombia (2014-2016).•We find that fixed-length terms in telecommunications contracts are associated to higher markups in the mobile terminal.•Permanence clauses generate significant switching costs that derive in lower consumer surplus during the period of analysis.•Firm surplus increased due to the elimination of permanence clauses. The variation was perceived mostly by retail sales firms.•We find that in the absence of permanence clauses, consumers would substitute away from prepay to postpay plans.
L50|Monopoly without a monopolist : An economic analysis of the bitcoin payment system|Owned by nobody and controlled by an almost immutable protocol the Bitcoin payment system is a platform with two main constituencies: users and profit seeking miners who maintain the system's infrastructure. The paper seeks to understand the economics of the system: How does the system raise revenue to pay for its infrastructure? How are usage fees determined? How much infrastructure is deployed? What are the implications of changing parameters in the protocol? A simplified economic model that captures the system's properties answers these questions. Transaction fees and infrastructure level are determined in an equilibrium of a congestion queueing game derived from the system's limited throughput. The system eliminates dead-weight loss from monopoly, but introduces other inefficiencies and requires congestion to raise revenue and fund infrastructure. We explore the future potential of such systems and provide design suggestions.
L50|All in the family: State capture in Tunisia|We examine the relationship between entry regulation and the business interests of former President Ben Ali's family using firm-level data from Tunisia. Connected firms account for a disproportionate share of aggregate employment, output and profits, especially in sectors subject to authorization and restrictions on FDI. Quantile regressions show that profit and market share premia from being connected increase along the firm-size distribution, especially in highly regulated sectors. These patterns are partly explained by Ben Ali's relatives sorting into the most profitable sectors. The market shares of connected firms are positively correlated with exit and concentration rates in highly regulated sectors. Although causality is difficult to establish, the results are consistent with the hypothesis that the Ben Ali clan abused entry regulation for private gain at the expense of reduced competition.
L50|Modelling countervailing incentives in adverse selection models: A synthesis|This paper is concerned with countervailing incentives in the adverse selection problems that typically arise in principal-agent relationships when the agent has private information. These incentives are present when the agent is tempted to either overstate or understate his private information depending upon the specific realization of his type. These problems were first analyzed by Lewis and Sappington (1989) and have been characterized and extended by Maggi and Rodríguez-Clare (1995a) and Jullien (2000). In this paper we propose a simple method of characterizing countervailing incentives in which the key element is the analysis of the properties of the full information problem. Our method for solving the principal problem, once identified the presence of countervailing incentives, follows closely the Baron’s (1989) approach, which does not require using optimal control theory. The methodology we present can be easily applied to many different economic settings. For example, in health economics, an insurer (or a hospital manager) might act as a principal and a physician as an agent. In labor settings, an employer may play the role of principal and a worker may act as the agent. In regulated industries, the regulatory agency might act as a principal designing incentive schemes for firms (the agents). In environmental regulation or resource exploitation, the principal might be an international agency dealing with national governments or firms.
L50|Optimal transmission planning under the Mexican new electricity market|This paper addresses electricity transmission planning under the new industry and institutional structure of the Mexican electricity market, which has engaged in a deep reform process after decades of a state-owned-vertically-integrated-non-competitive-closed industry. Under this new structure, characterized by a nodal pricing system and an independent system operator (ISO), we analyze welfare-optimal network expansion with two modeling strategies. In a first model, we propose the use of an incentive price-cap mechanism to promote the expansion of Mexican networks. In a second model, we study centrally-planned grid expansion in Mexico by an ISO within a power-flow model. We carry out comparisons of these models which provide us with hints to evaluate the actual transmission planning process proposed by Mexican authorities (PRODESEN). We obtain that the PRODESEN plan appears to be a convergent welfare-optimal planning process.
L50|The European military helicopter industry: Trends and perspectives|This article discusses the European military helicopter market. It first recalls historical antecedents in the structural development of the main helicopter programs that helped to consolidate the industry and then reviews the industry’s current major trends. A paradoxical situation is identified: While European countries presently are able to cope with both, the growing needs in helicopter capabilities and the maintenance of ageing fleets, no large helicopter programs for the future have been launched. Some uncertainties regarding how future helicopter procurement will be organized are identified. The current situation underlines the challenges that European states will face to maintain both industrial skills in the industry and sovereignty in military helicopter capabilities. A number of industry options are discussed: more exports, more cooperation, more dual use, and more reliance on support and service sales.
L50|Towards more resilient economies: The role of well-functioning economic structures|Resilience is essential to better withstand adverse shocks and reduce the economic costs associated with them. We link resilience to the quality of countries’ economic structures. The paper finds robust evidence that sound labour and product markets and conditions for doing business increase the resilience towards adverse shocks and reduce the incidence of crises more generally. In the presence of a common shock, a country with weak economic structures can on average suffer up to twice the output loss in a given year compared to a more adaptable economy. From a policy perspective, this implies the need to push forward structural policies in countries with lower quality economic structures to increase resilience in case of future shocks. We also suggest how a monitoring process towards more resilient economic structures could look like.
L50|Taxation and privacy protection on Internet platforms|This paper studies data collection by a monopolistic Internet platform. We show that the optimal strategy of the platform is either to cover the market or to choose the highest data exploitation level, excluding users with high privacy costs from the platform. For plausible parameter values, the platform chooses an excessive level of data exploitation from the point of view of users. We study how different tax instruments can be used to reduce the level of data collection and analyze the effect of an opting‐out option, letting users access the platform with no data collection. We show that a differentiated tax, taxing access revenues and data revenues at different rates, is the most effective instrument and that the introduction of an opting‐out option may harm users as it induces the platform to raise the level of data exploitation.
L50|Institutional Reform for Innovation and Entrepreneurship: An Agenda for Europe|It is imperative that the economies of the European Union become more entrepreneurial to promote innovation and economic growth. To achieve these goals, we propose a reform strategy with respect to (i) the rule of law and the protection of property rights; (ii) the tax system; (iii) regulations governing savings, capital and finance; (iv) the organization of labor markets and social insurance systems; (v) regulations governing goods and service markets; (vi) regulations governing bankruptcy and insolvency; (vii) R&D, commercialization and knowledge spillovers; (viii) human capital investments; and (ix) informal institutions. Overall, the proposed institutional changes move in a liberalizing direction; however, one-size-fits-all policy reforms aimed at freer markets will not necessarily be successful. Instead, a successful reform strategy must consider country differences that affect the viability of reform without abandoning the long-term goal of institutional liberalization to promote entrepreneurship, innovation and growth
L50|Entrepreneurship and Institutions: A Bidirectional Relationship|The interplay between entrepreneurship and institutions is crucial for economic development; however, the view that institutions determine the extent to which entrepreneurial activity is productive is only part of the story. We argue that causality is bidirectional, in that entrepreneurship is also, for better or for worse, one of the main drivers of institutional change. Through their actions, entrepreneurs have a fundamental influence on institutions, whether they abide by them, actively try to alter them, or evade them. Particular attention is given to evasive entrepreneurship, an entrepreneurial function which, until recently, has been an underappreciated and poorly understood source of innovation and institutional change. We argue that the influence of evasive entrepreneurship on the economic trajectories of societies is likely to only grow in the future.
L50|Schumpeterian Entrepreneurship in Europe Compared to Other Industrialized Regions|Cross-country comparisons of entrepreneurship are difficult due to the lack of standard empirical definitions of entrepreneurship. Measures focusing on small business activity and self-employment suggest that Europe has the same or higher rates of entrepreneurship than the U.S. and East Asia. However, most business activity is not entrepreneurial in the Schumpeterian sense. We rely on empirical measures that more closely tally Schumpeterian entrepreneurship: self-made dollar billionaires per capita who earned their wealth by creating firms, top global firms founded in recent decades, unicorn startups, and VC investment as a share of GDP. Western Europe is shown to underperform in all four measures of high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship relative to the U.S. Once we account for Europe’s strong performance in technological innovation, an “entrepreneurship deficit” relative to East Asia also becomes apparent. This underperformance is missed by most standard measures. Finally, we also find that China performs surprisingly well in Schumpeterian entrepreneurship, especially compared to Eastern Europe.
L50|Does Voluntary Regulation Provide Regulatory Relief? A Lesson from the Responsible Care Program| We explore the relationship between voluntary and mandatory regulation to assess whether there is any evidence of regulatory relief. Specifically, we investigate whether firm participation in the Responsible Care (RC) program reduces pressure from OSHA inspections. We use two indicators of regulatory relief: (1) the overall probability of an OSHA inspection regardless of its type, and (2) the probability of a planned inspection relative to other inspection types conditional on being selected into an OSHA inspection. We apply a control function model to address the endogeneity of RC participation that is due to a potential reverse causality between participating in RC and being inspected by OSHA. Our results show that participating in RC did not lower the overall probability of an inspection, however, RC participants experienced fewer planned inspections than non-RC participants. We conclude that there is regulatory relief from OSHA inspections due to participating in RC but not enough to overwhelm the probability of an OSHA inspection due to other, unplanned triggers.
L50|Labour market regulations and capital labour substitution|On the basis of a country*industry unbalanced panel data sample for 14 OECD countries and 18 industries covering the years 1988 to 2007, this study proposes an econometric investigation of the effects of the OECD Employment Protection Legislation (EPL) indicator on four components of total capital and for two skill components of total labor. Relying on a difference-in-difference econometric approach, we find that an increase in EPL has (i) positive and significant effects on the non-ICT capital - labor ratio and the share of high-skill labor; (ii) non-significant effects on the ICT capital – labor ratio; (iii) negative and significant effects for R&D capital – labor ratio and the share of low-skilled labor. These results suggest that firms consider that the strengthening of Employment Protection Legislation is equivalent to a rise in the cost of labour, resulting in capital-to-labour substitution in favour of non-ICT capital and working at the disadvantage of low-skill relatively to high-skill workers. They indicate to the contrary that structural reforms for more labour flexibility weakening this legislation could have a favourable impact on firms’ R&D investment and their hiring of low-skill workers.
L50|Knowledge licensing in a model of R&D-driven endogenous growth|I model knowledge (patent) licensing and evaluate intellectual property regulation in an endogenous growth framework where the engine of growth is in-house R&D performed by high-tech firms. I show that high-tech firms innovate more and economic growth is higher when there is knowledge licensing, and when intellectual property regulation facilitates excludability of knowledge, than when knowledge is not excludable and there are knowledge spillovers among high-tech firms. However, the number of high-tech firms is lower, and welfare is not necessarily higher when there is knowledge licensing than when there are knowledge spillovers.
L50|Intraday Markets for Power: Discretizing the Continuous Trading?|A fundamental question regarding the design of electricity markets is whether adding auctions to the continuous intraday trading is improving the performance of the market. To approach this question, we assess the experience with the implementation of the 3 pm local auction for quarters in Germany at the European Power Exchange (EPEX SPOT) in December 2014 to assess the impact on trading volumes/liquidity, prices, as well as market depth. We discuss further opportunities and challenges that are linked with a potential implementation of an intraday auction.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L50|A Leverage Theory of Tying in Two-Sided Markets|Partly motivated by the recent antitrust investigations concerning Google, we develop a leverage theory of tying in two-sided markets. We analyze incentives for a monopolist to tie its monopolized product with another product in a two-sided market. Tying provides a mechanism to circumvent the non-negative price constraint in the tied product market without inviting an aggressive response as the rival firm faces the non-negative price constraint. We identify conditions under which tying in two-sided markets is profitable and explore its welfare implications. Our mechanism can be more widely applied to any markets in which sales to consumers in one market can generate additional revenues that cannot be competed away due to non-negative price constraints.
L50|Legal uncertainty as a welfare enhancing screen|Consider legal uncertainty as uncertainty about the legality of a specific action. In particular, suppose that the threshold of legality is uncertain. I show that this legal uncertainty raises welfare. Legal uncertainty changes deterrence in opposite directions. The probability of conviction increases for firms below the threshold, while the probability of conviction decreases for firms above the threshold. Hence, legal uncertainty acts as a welfare enhancing screen and increases welfare. Legal uncertainty discourages some actions with low private benefits, while it encourages other actions with high private benefits.
L50|Back to Basics: Basic Research Spillovers, Innovation Policy and Growth|This paper introduces endogenous technical change through basic and applied research in a growth model. Basic research differs from applied research in two significant ways. First, significant advances in technological knowledge come through basic research rather than applied research. Second, these significant advances could potentially be applicable to multiple industries. Since these applications are not immediate, the innovating firm cannot exploit all the benefits of the basic innovations for production. We analyze the impact of this appropriability problem on firmsÃƒÂ¢Ã‚Ã‚ basic research incentives in an endogenous growth framework with private firms and an academic sector. After characterizing the equilibrium, we estimate our model using micro level data on research expenditures and behavior by French firms. We then decompose the aggregate growth by the source and type of innovation. Moreover, we quantitatively document the size of the underinvestment in basic research and consider various research policies to alleviate this inefficiency. Our analysis highlights the need for devoting a larger fraction of GDP for basic academic research, as well as higher subsidy rates for private research.
L50|The Benefit of Collective Reputation|We study a model of reputation with two long-lived firms that sell their products under a collective brand or under two different individual brands. Firms face a moral hazard problem because their quality investments are not observed. Investments can only be sustained due to reputational concerns. In a collective brand, consumers cannot distinguish between the two firms. We show that in the long run, this makes it harder to establish a good reputation because of the incentives to free-ride on the other firm’s investments. But in the short run it mitigates the temptation to milk good reputation. Consequently, a collective brand can provide stronger incentives to invest in quality if firms are sufficiently impatient. We explain the connection between incentives and the type of industry in which the firms operate as captured by the underlying signal structure and consumers’ prior beliefs. We discuss the relation to country-of-origin labelling, agricultural cooperatives, and other collective brands.
L50|The Benefit of Collective Reputation|We study a model of collective reputation and use it to analyze the benefit of collective brands. Consumers form beliefs about the quality of an experience good that is produced by one firm that is part of a collective brand. Consumers’ limited ability to distinguish among firms in the collective and to monitor firms’ investment decisions creates incentives to free-ride on other firms’ investment efforts. Nevertheless, we show that collective brands induce stronger incentives to invest in quality than individual brands under two types of circumstances: if the main concern is with quality control and the baseline reputation of the collective is low, or if the main concern is with the acquisition of specialized knowledge and the baseline reputation of the collective is high. We also contrast the socially optimal information structure with the profit maximizing choice of branding if branding is endogenous. Our results can be applied to country-of-origin, agricultural appellation, and other collective brands.
L50|Operational Conditions in Regulatory Benchmarking Models: A Monte Carlo Analysis|Benchmarking methods are widely used in the regulation of firms in network industries working under heterogeneous exogenous environments. In this paper we compare three recently developed estimators, namely conditional DEA (Daraio and Simar, 2005, 2007b), latent class SFA (Orea and Kumbhakar, 2004; Greene, 2005), and the StoNEZD approach (Johnson and Kuosmanen, 2011) by means of Monte Carlo simulation focusing on their ability to identify production frontiers in the presence of environmental factors. Data generation replicates regulatory data from the energy sector in terms of sample size, sample dispersion and distribution, and correlations of variables. Although results show strengths of each of the three estimators in particular settings, latent class SFA perform best in nearly all simulations. Further, results indicate that the accuracy of the estimators is less sensitive against different distributions of environmental factors, their correlations with inputs, and their impact on the production process, but performance of all approaches deteriorates with increasing noise. For regulators this study provides orientation to adopt new benchmarking methods given industry characteristics.
L50|FTR allocations to ease transition to nodal pricing: An application to the German power system|A shift from zonal to nodal pricing improves the efficiency of system operation. However, resulting price changes also shift surplus across generation and loads at different locations. As individual actors can lose, they might oppose any reform. We explore how allocation of financial transmission rights can be used to mitigate the distributional impact. The fundamental effects with regard to reference node/hub for FTRs, the share of FTRs to be freely allocated and the metric to determine the proportion of rights allocated are explored. We test the results in a setting based on the hourly modeling of the German power system at nodal representation.
L50|FTR allocations to ease transition to nodal pricing: An application to the German power system|A shift from zonal to nodal pricing improves the efficiency of system operation. However, resulting price changes also shift surplus across generation and loads at different locations. As individual actors can lose, they might oppose any reform. We explore how allocation of financial transmission rights can be used to mitigate the distributional impact. The fundamental effects with regard to reference node/hub for FTRs, the share of FTRs to be freely allocated and the metric to determine the proportion of rights allocated are explored. We test the results in a setting based on the hourly modeling of the German power system at nodal representation.
L50|Gas-to-power market and investment incentive for enhancing generation capacity: An analysis of Ghana's electricity sector|Ghana's electricity generation capacity is currently insufficient to meet demand, making power outages and load shedding common. The resulting impact is potentially devastating for the country's growth prospects. Traditionally, lack of an affordable and reliable fuel supply for power generation, coupled with ineffective institutions and an unfavourable investment climate, have resulted in Ghana's electricity sector performing poorly. In light of the 2007 discovery of natural gas reserves in Ghanaian waters, this paper examines whether domestic gas could advance the performance of the electricity sector, and if so, how. The results of our analysis show that utilization of gas reserves in Ghana's gas-to-power market is an economically superior strategy compared to an export-oriented utilization scheme. The lack of an effective regulatory framework for investment, skill shortages, and an inefficient electricity pricing structure continue to be the main constraining factors. Our analysis also considers possible approaches to modification of the electricity tariff in order to send the right signal to potential investors in generation capacity, without compromising the affordability of power supply.
L50|A welfare analysis of electricity transmission planning in Germany|We analyze the electricity transmission planning process in Germany (Netzentwicklungsplan), which separates transmission expansion decisions from generation dispatch. We employ an economic modeling approach to analyze two different network planning settings. In the first setting, there is no trade-off between transmission network development and generation dispatch, as is currently the case in Germany. A second setting alternatively allows for such a trade-off, and thus represents a welfare superior way of transmission network planning. Applications with the two model variants are carried out for the German electricity system in 2035. The results illustrate overinvestment in transmission capacity and decreased welfare associated with the Netzentwicklungsplan.
L50|Analysis of the policy effects of downstream Feed-In Tariff on China’s solar photovoltaic industry|The Chinese government initiated the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) policy for downstream power generation in August 2013. The effectiveness of the downstream FIT policy has attracted the attention of academia and government. Using the quarterly data of listed solar PV companies between 2009 and 2015, this paper provides an empirical analysis regarding the effects of the downstream FIT policy. We find that (1) the FIT policy has significantly enhanced the inventory turnover of listed PV firms and improved their profitability; (2) the FIT policy has significant effects on the inventory turnover of midstream companies and mixed industry-chain companies mainly engaged in downstream operations; (3) FIT policy is more favorable towards increasing the inventory turnover of private enterprises. Our results indicate that the FIT policy can have substantial effects on the sustainable development of China's solar photovoltaic industry.
L50|Bundling, à la carte pricing and vertical bargaining in a two-sided model|We develop a two-sided market model with an upstream–downstream structure. More specifically, the platform consists of two rival upstream firms and a downstream monopolist. Each upstream firm negotiates the input price (license fee) with the downstream monopolist and also chooses the amount of advertising that is embedded in the good it sells to the downstream monopolist. The downstream monopolist can offer the two goods either on an à la carte basis or as a bundle. We use this model to understand the incentives to bundle and the welfare properties of bundling in a two-sided market framework. We also contribute to the ongoing debate on à la carte pricing in the TV industry, where the two upstream firms can be viewed as two rival TV networks and the downstream monopolist as a cable operator. We show that an à la carte regulation will raise consumer surplus and downstream profit, while it will decrease the profits of the upstream TV networks.
L50|Scrapping subsidies during the financial crisis — Evidence from Europe|We study the effects of car scrapping subsidies in Europe during the financial crisis. We make use of a rich data set of all car models sold in eight European countries, observed at a monthly level during 1998–2011. We employ a difference-in-differences approach, exploiting the fact that different countries adopted their programs at different points in time. We find that the scrapping schemes played a strong role in stabilizing total car sales in 2009: they prevented a total car sales reduction of 30.5% in countries with schemes targeted to low emission vehicles, and a 29.0% sales reduction in countries with non-targeted schemes. We find evidence of crowding out due to substitution from non-eligible to eligible cars in France and Spain. Because eligible cars tend to be more fuel efficient, targeted scrapping schemes had significant environmental benefits in the form of improved fuel consumption: without the schemes, the average fuel consumption of new purchased cars would have been 3.6% higher. Those benefits did not materialize under non-targeted schemes, in which the fuel consumption would have been only 0.7% higher absent the scheme. Finally, we find some evidence that domestically produced cars benefited at the expense of foreign competitors especially in countries where the schemes were not targeted.
L50|Time-to-plan lags for commercial construction projects|Gestation lags have long been understood to be an important feature of the investment process. However, previous research has focused on the time-to-build part of the gestation period and has provided little information on the earlier time-to-plan period during which key decisions are made about the project's scope and financing. We develop new estimates of time-to-plan lags for commercial construction projects in the United States, using a large project-level dataset that allows direct measurement of planning lags. We find that these time-to-plan lags are long, averaging about 16months when we aggregate the projects without regard to size and about 26months when we weight the projects by their construction cost. The full distribution of time-to-plan lags is very wide, and we relate this variation to the characteristics of the project and its location. In addition, we show that time-to-plan lags lengthened by 3 to 4months, on average, over our sample period (1999 to 2010). Regulatory factors are associated with the variation in planning lags across locations, and we present anecdotal evidence that links at least some of the lengthening over time to heightened regulatory scrutiny.
L50|Science and Technology Parks and cooperation for innovation: Empirical evidence from Spain|Science and Technology Parks (STPs) are one of the most important innovation policy initiatives. Previous studies show that location in a park promotes cooperation for innovation, but do not investigate whether this cooperation produces better results. We extend this literature by analyzing the effect of location on an STP on the results of cooperation for innovation and the mechanism facilitating this effect. We rely on a much larger sample of firms and STPs than previous studies, and, where necessary, account for selection bias and endogeneity. The results show that location in an STP increases the likelihood of cooperation for innovation, and the intangible benefits of cooperation with the main innovation partner, due mainly to a more diverse relationship.
L50|Two sides to the evasion: The Pirate Bay and the interdependencies of evasive entrepreneurship|Purpose - – Evasive entrepreneurs innovate by circumventing or disrupting existing formal institutional frameworks. Since such evasions rarely go unnoticed, they usually lead to responses from lawmakers and regulators. The paper aims to discuss this issue. Design/methodology/approach - – The authors introduce a conceptual model to illustrate and map the interdependencey between evasive entrepreneurship and the regulatory response it provokes. The authors apply this framework to the case of the file sharing platform The Pirate Bay, a venture with a number of clearly innovative and evasive features. Findings - – The platform was a radical, widely applied innovation that transformed the internet landscape, yet its founders became convicted criminals because of it. Originality/value - – Applying the evasive entrepreneurship framework to this case improves the understanding of the relationship between policymaking and entrepreneurship in the digital age, and is a first step toward exploring best responses for regulators facing evasive entrepreneurship.
L50|Intraday Markets for Power: Discretizing the Continuous Trading|A fundamental question regarding the design of electricity markets is whether adding auctions to the continuous intraday trading is improving the performance of the market. To approach this question, we assess the experience with the implementation of the 3 pm local auction for quarters in Germany at the European Power Exchange (EPEX SPOT) in December 2014 to assess the impact on trading volumes/liquidity, prices, as well as market depth. We discuss further opportunities and challenges that are linked with a potential implementation of an intraday auction.
L50|Tradable emission permits: beyond pollution abatement motives|In this paper we study how the electricity market character- istics determines the choices made by electricity generators in the U.S. market for SO2 allowances. Counterparts can be cho- sen among three alternatives: market makers, brokers or another generator. We find that the SO2 allowances market is de facto regionalized due to the regionalization of the electricity market. The national dimension only appears when there are local im- balances in the electricity market that give strong incentives to search for a better price outside of the region. Additionally, we identify the influence of the regulatory framework, i.e. the divi- sion in phases and the chosen allowance surrender date. Finally, we show that the previous results are robust to Enron's abnormal behavior during 2000-2001 and its posterior bankruptcy.
L50|Innovation, Competition and Technical Efficiency| Contradictory empirical and theoretical evidence on the relationship between innovation and competition has been reconciled in a model that yields an inverted U-shaped curve. I test whether the predictions of the model are supported by the data with an unbalanced panel of firms for 1990-2003 in a high productivity growth, high-tech industry, Finnish ICT manufacturing. In particular, I investigate how well alternative, yet rigorous measures of innovation and the technology gap, such as R&D intensity, R&D elasticity, technical change, technical efficiency and total factor productivity fare with respect to competition measured by the Lerner index. The results prove sensitive to the choice of variable. Overall, the model is not supported by the empirical evidence of the industry.
L50|Section 6. Institutional Changes|According to the Federal Property Register, the movement, over the period 2013–2015, of the number of organizations registered as holders of ownership rights and economic societies with state stakes appears to be as follows
L50|Раздел 6. Институциональные Изменения|Основными событиями минувшего года в рамках рассматриваемой проблематики стали старт второй трехлетней приватизационной программы на 2014–2016 гг., утверждение новой государственной программы по управлению федеральным имуществом до 2018 г., возврат под контроль государства компании «Башнефть» по судебным основаниям, продолжение активного строительства интегрированных структур в оборонной промышленности и смежных отраслях, отсутствие значимых сделок на рынке корпоративного контроля с участием госкомпаний, а также расширение инструментария управления субъектами государственного сектора экономики на уровне типовых документов прикладного характера.
L50|Quelle politique industrielle pour éviter le décrochage industriel ?|Ce papier examine la situation de l’industrie dans les pays développés et les raisons structurelles de son déclin. Nous présenterons les différents modèles de politique industrielle et questionnerons la compatibilité de la politique industrielle avec la politique de concurrence. L’article s’appuie sur les développements récents de la littérature académique sur ces questions. En conclusion, nous essayerons de mieux comprendre ce qui caractérise une politique industrielle qui réussit à partir de l’expérience des pays européens.
L50|Product and Labour Market Regulations, Production Prices, Wages and Productivity|This study is an attempt to evaluate the effects of product and labour market regulations on industry productivity through their various impacts on changes in production prices and wages. In a first stage, the estimation of a regression equation on an industry*country panel, with controls for country*industry and country*year fixed effects, show that multi-factor productivity is negatively and significantly influenced by both indicators of industrial prices from same industry and weighted average of industrial prices from other industries, and by indicators of country wages weighted by industry labour shares for low and high skilled workers. In a second stage, an economic policy simulation of the implications these results on the basis of their calibration by the OECD product and labour market anti-competitive regulation indicators suggests that nearly all countries could expect sizeable gains in multifactor productivity from deregulation reforms.
L50|The Diversity of Entrepreneurial Regimes in Europe|Although institutional reforms are necessary to increase rates of entrepreneurship in European countries, we argue that one-size-fits-all reform strategies are unlikely to be successful. Reform strategies must be informed by a better knowledge of the varieties of European capitalism and the institutional complementarities that drive these differences. We investigate these issues by gathering a number of potentially relevant entrepreneurial regime measurements as well as indicators of formal and informal institutions based on data available from the 2000s onward. We employ principal component analysis, factor analysis and cluster analysis to examine how 21 European countries and the United States cluster in the entrepreneurial and institutional dimensions. Our results reveal six country clusters, or entrepreneurial regimes, with a distinct bundle of entrepreneurial characteristics and institutional attributes. The main implication is that different reform strategies are appropriate to promote entrepreneurship and economic growth in European countries in different clusters.
L50|Status Quo Institutions and the Benefits of Institutional Deviations|We nuance the widely held view that well-functioning institutions are the ultimate prerequisite for innovation and entrepreneurship. This is done by putting the spotlight on the role that formal and informal institutions have in serving the economic status quo, conserving old habits and incumbent economic interests. Therefore, existing institutions often act as impediments to entrepreneurship and innovation. We argue that a common yet underappreciated source of institutional change arises when individuals deviate from the behavior stipulated by existing institutions. All types of deviations are certainly not beneficial, but when they take the form of innovations introduced by entrepreneurs, they can be a powerful source of economic and institutional change. An institutional setup should strike a balance between the need for stability that protects people’s expectations and flexibility and adaptability to innovations and the ensuing entrepreneurship.
L50|The Challenge of Public Capabilities for Successful Productive Development Policies: Hopeless Task or Pragmatic Program?|This paper discusses the organizational structure and technical, operational and political capabilities required for successful productive development policies (PDPs). It also discusses how countries can match their PDPs to existing capabilities, as well as expand their capabilities in the long run. The specific difficulties associated with PDPs are also discussed.
L50|Risk-taking behavior, earnings quality, and performance in Spanish banking: A profit frontier approach|After the financial crisis of 2007–2008 two bank performance dimensions, among others, have become partly subject to debate. One of them is bank efficiency, and the other one bank risk taking behavior. The literature on bank efficiency and productivity has expanded remarkably since almost three decades ago, and has regained momentum over the last few years in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Regarding bank risk taking behavior, whose focus has been usually on its links to monetary policy, the interest has been comparatively minor but it has also increased exponentially more recently. This paper mixes these two stems of research. Specifically, we test if more inefficient banks are riskier when selecting their borrowers, when charging interests and pledge collateral, and if these links between inefficiency and risk change depending on the type of bank. We perform this analysis on the Spanish banking system, which has been severely affected by the burst of the housing bubble and has gone through deep restructuring. In order to test our hypotheses, we build a database with information on banks and savings banks, their borrowers (non-financial firms), and the links between them. On the methodology side, we also try to contribute to the literature by considering a novel profit frontier approach. Our results suggest that more inefficient banks are riskier when selecting their borrowers, and that his high risk-taking behavior is not offset by higher interest rates.
L50|Congestion management in power systems|Abstract In liberalized power systems, generation and transmission services are unbundled, but remain tightly interlinked. Congestion management in the transmission network is of crucial importance for the efficiency of these inter-linkages. Different regulatory designs have been suggested, analyzed and followed, such as uniform zonal pricing with redispatch or nodal pricing. However, the literature has either focused on the short-term efficiency of congestion management or specific issues of timing investments. In contrast, this paper presents a generalized and flexible economic modeling framework based on a decomposed inter-temporal equilibrium model including generation, transmission, as well as their inter-linkages. The model covers short-run operation and long-run investments and hence, allows to analyze short and long-term efficiency of different congestion management designs that vary with respect to the definition of market areas, the regulation and organization of TSOs, the way of managing congestion besides grid expansion, and the type of cross-border capacity allocation. We are able to identify and isolate implicit frictions and sources of inefficiencies in the different regulatory designs, and to provide a comparative analysis including a benchmark against a first-best welfare-optimal result. To demonstrate the applicability of our framework, we calibrate and numerically solve our model for a detailed representation of the Central Western European (CWE) region, consisting of 70 nodes and 174 power lines. Analyzing six different congestion management designs until 2030, we show that compared to the first-best benchmark, i.e., nodal pricing, inefficiencies of up to 4.6% arise. Inefficiencies are mainly driven by the approach of determining cross-border capacities as well as the coordination of transmission system operators’ activities.
L50|Evasive entrepreneurship|Abstract We argue that evasive entrepreneurship is an important, although underrated, source of innovation, and provide the first systematic discussion of the concept. We define evasive entrepreneurship as profit-driven business activity in the market aimed at circumventing the existing institutional framework by using innovations to exploit contradictions in that framework. We formulate four propositions of evasive entrepreneurship and illustrate them with a number of real-life examples, ranging from a secret agreement among Chinese farmers in the 1970s to activities of rides-for-hire start-ups in the modern sharing economy. We demonstrate that while evasive entrepreneurship can either be productive, unproductive, or destructive, it may prevent economic development from being stifled by existing institutions during times of rapid economic change. Furthermore, it can spur institutional change with important welfare effects.
L50|Wladimir Andreff (Ed.), Disequilibrium Sports Economics: Competitive Imbalance and Budget Constraints|The economics of professional team sport leagues has been built on three main pillars in the US literature: economic equilibrium for the product market and labour market for talent; profit maximisation; and competitive balance between teams (sporting equilibrium). The European literature has brought a fourth pillar: win maximisation with a hard budget constraint (break-even accounting rule). These four pillars have remained little questioned until recently. This emerging literature is one of the motivations for launching a book dealing with disequilibrium. Another is the editor’s conviction that the reality in team sport leagues does not fit with general equilibrium solutions. The first chapter introduces the previous elements and more generally the book while the seven following chapters develop a specific aspect related to disequilibrium: an attempt at modelling; a dynamic non-equilibrium simulation; the metrics of competitive imbalance; gender imbalance on the sports programme market; and the last three chapters on soft budget constraints with three different focuses (comparison between European and US leagues; governance and agency problem; regulation regarding the new UEFA club licensing and Financial Fair Play). As a whole, the book provides an original and realistic view that can and perhaps even must shape the future of sports economics.
L50|Peter Murphy, Universities and Innovation Economies: The Creative Wasteland of Post-Industrial Society|This is a brilliant, indeed an indispensable book. It provides a compelling diagnosis of the decline and failure of the contemporary bureaucratic and managerially governed university, the post-industrial-bureaucratic driven economy, and the social-liberal-democratic-bureaucratic state. It deals with matters that those of us who work in universities, particularly in Australia and the United Kingdom (US universities are still far less centralized), and who know from the inside that so much of what has happened over the last thirty years or so has pretty well destroyed the university as a place for reading, reflection, discussion, dispute, deliberation, and inventive imaginative responses to what are thrown up by the spirits of the times. But what makes the book truly remarkable is the thoroughness of the diagnosis and the mountains of evidence that the book marshals to make its case. Moreover, both the diagnosis and the evidence that is summoned to confirm the diagnosis could only have been made by someone who effortlessly moves between the disciplinary compartmentalisations, which, when kept separate, only serve to dilute any diagnosis of the nature of the problems and the forces and interests that conspire not only to create the problems but, sadly, to make then insoluble. Murphy is, to use one of those buzz-words that usually smacks of ‘bureaucratise’, ‘multi-skilled’ - precisely because he exemplifies that combination that is, sadly, all too rarely to be found, let alone nurtured in universities today: he is a real scholar, a prodigious researcher, and an inventive thinker.
L50|An Index of Global Economic Policy Uncertainty|Building on Baker, Bloom and Davis (2016), I construct a monthly index of Global Economic Policy Uncertainty (GEPU) from January 1997. The GEPU Index is a GDP-weighted average of national EPU indices for 16 countries that account for two-thirds of global output. Each national EPU index reflects the relative frequency of own-country newspaper articles that contain a trio of terms pertaining to the economy, uncertainty and policy-related matters. The GEPU Index rises sharply in reaction to the Asian Financial Crisis, the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, the Global Financial Crisis in 2008-09, the European immigration crisis, concerns about the Chinese economy in late 2015, and the Brexit referendum in June 2016. It fluctuates around consistently high levels from mid 2011 to early 2013, a period characterized by recurring sovereign debt and banking crises in the Eurozone, intense partisan battles over fiscal and healthcare policies in the United States, and a generational leadership transition in China. The average value of the GEPU Index is 60 percent higher from July 2011 to August 2016 than in the previous fourteen and one-half years and 22 percent higher than in 2008-09.
L50|Regulations in services sectors and their impact on downstream industries: The OECD 2013 Regimpact Indicator|This document presents the new 2013 set of the OECD Regulatory Impact (REGIMPACT) indicator. It measures the impact of regulatory barriers to competition in non-manufacturing sectors on all industries, through intermediate inputs. The paper describes how the indicator is calculated and discusses a number of challenges and trade-offs when constructing the indicator. They relate to the composition of the indicator, how the slow-moving or time-invariant retail and professional services regulation data are integrated with the annual energy, transport and communication regulation (ETCR) indicator and what sector weights are used for the calculation of the REGIMPACT indicator. The document then compares the 2003, 2008 and 2013 vintages of the REGIMPACT indicator and the alternative (narrow and wide) definitions of the 2013 indicator. Finally, the paper uses sectoral data to illustrate the extent to which different vintages and alternative indicator definitions can possibly influence sector-level panel regression results for outcome variables such as productivity, investment and labour inputs. Réglementation dans les secteurs des services et leur impact sur les industries en aval : la version 2013 de l'indicateur REGIMPACT de l'OCDE Ce document présente une version révisée en 2013 de l'indicateur REGIMPACT de l'OCDE. Il mesure pour chaque industrie, l'impact des obstacles réglementaires à la concurrence, par le biais des intrants intermédiaires dans les secteurs non manufacturiers. Ce document décrit la méthodologie utilisée pour calculer cet indicateur et examine un certain nombre de défis et de compromis liés à sa construction. Ils se rapportent à la composition de l'indicateur, notamment l’intégration de séries avec peu de variation temporelle telles que l’indice de réglementation dans le commerce de détail ou les services professionnels avec les indicateurs annuels de réglementation dans les secteurs de l'énergie, du transport et des télécommunications (ETCR) ainsi qu’aux pondérations sectorielles utilisées pour le calcul de l’indicateur REGIMPACT. Le document compare ensuite les versions 2003, 2008 et 2013 de cet indicateur et les définitions alternatives (étroites et larges) de l'indicateur REGIMPACT. Enfin, le document utilise des données sectorielles pour illustrer dans quelle mesure les différentes versions et définitions peuvent éventuellement influencer les résultats de régression en données de panel au niveau sectoriel pour des variables telles que la productivité, l'investissement et l’emploi.
L50|Organizational Capacity, Regulatory Review, and the Limits of Political Control|Studies of administrative politics focus primarily on political control and ignore organizational capacity. We argue that political and organizational factors, as well as the interaction between the two, are necessary for explaining executive policymaking. To test this theory, we consider the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), an agency often perceived to be the president’s political instrument. Using a new dataset of over 22,000 regulations reviewed by OIRA, we demonstrate that political factors influence review lengths, but organizational factors also exhibit a significant role. We find that reviews are longer when OIRA is understaffed and over-worked. Significantly, we demonstrate that low organizational capacity inhibits the president’s ability to expedite priority rules. Overall, this study highlights the organizational limits of political control. (JEL H11, H83, K23, L50, L51, M50)
L50|Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty|We develop a new index of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) based on newspapercoverage frequency. Several types of evidence—including human readings of 12,000newspaper articles—indicate that our index proxies for movements inpolicy-related economic uncertainty. Our U.S. index spikes near tightpresidential elections, Gulf Wars I and II, the 9/11 attacks, the failure ofLehman Brothers, the 2011 debt ceiling dispute, and other major battles overfiscal policy. Using firm-level data, we find that policy uncertainty isassociated with greater stock price volatility and reduced investment andemployment in policy-sensitive sectors like defense, health care, finance, andinfrastructure construction. At the macro level, innovations in policyuncertainty foreshadow declines in investment, output, and employment in theUnited States and, in a panel vector autoregressive setting, for 12 majoreconomies. Extending our U.S. index back to 1900, EPU rose dramatically in the1930s (from late 1931) and has drifted upward since the 1960s.
L50|Optimal policies to promote efficient distributed generation of electricity|Abstract We analyze the design of policies to promote efficient distributed generation (DG) of electricity. The optimal policy varies with the set of instruments available to the regulator and with the prevailing DG production technology. DG capacity charges often play a valuable role in inducing optimal investment in DG capacity, allowing payments for DG production to induce the optimal production of electricity using non-intermittent DG technologies. Net metering can be optimal in certain settings, but often is not optimal, especially for non-intermittent DG technologies.
L50|On the role of maximum demand charges in the presence of distributed generation resources|We examine the role that maximum demand charges (MDCs) might play in ensuring the financial viability of utilities in the presence of ever-expanding distributed generation (DG) of electricity. We find that optimally-designed MDCs generally secure gains for consumers that do not undertake DG, and often secure gains for consumers that undertake DG. However, the welfare gains tend to be modest in plausible settings. Furthermore, time-of-use pricing often secures larger welfare gains than do MDCs.
L50|Congestion management in power systems - Long-term modeling framework and large-scale application|In liberalized power systems, generation and transmission services are unbundled, but remain tightly inter-linked. Congestion management in the transmission network is of crucial importance for the eﬃciency of these inter-linkages. Diﬀerent regulatory designs have been suggested, analyzed and followed, such as uniform zonal pricing with redispatch or nodal pricing. However, the literature has either focused on the short-term eﬃciency of congestion management or speciﬁc issues of timing investments. In contrast, this paper presents a generalized and ﬂexible economic modeling framework based on a decomposed inter-temporal equilibrium model including generation, transmission, as well as their inter-linkages. Short and long-term effects of diﬀerent congestion management designs can hence be analyzed. Speciﬁcally, we are able to identify and isolate implicit frictions and sources of ineﬃciencies in the diﬀerent regulatory designs, and to provide a comparative analysis including a benchmark against a ﬁrst-best welfare-optimal result. To demonstrate the applicability of our framework, we calibrate and numerically solve our model for a detailed representation of the Central Western European (CWE) region, consisting of 70 nodes and 174 power lines. Analyzing six diﬀerent congestion management designs until 2030, we show that compared to the ﬁrst-best benchmark, i.e., nodal pricing, ineﬃciencies of up to 4.6% arise. Ineﬃciencies are mainly driven by the approach of determining cross-border capacities as well as the coordination of transmission system operators' activities.
L50|Get Bold with Blockchain|Distributed ledger is a technology that offers the potential to significantly disrupt the financial services industry through a new paradigm that could ultimately result in the trade and settlement cycles across many assets shrinking from days to seconds. As with many new technologies, the hype cycle is in full effect, with many highlighting the huge potential of the technology without any references to the fact that market infrastructures evolve through decades not years, and where regulation often lags several years behind technology advances.
L50|How does multi-scalar institutional change affect localized learning processes? A case study of the med-tech sector in Southern Sweden|Co-location alone is not sufficient to ensure efficient and effective interaction between economic agents. Also, institutions at multiple scales shape the behaviour of organizations and provide incentives for interaction. However, institutions, as well as the impact of institutions on economic agents, are not static, but rather change over time. In this paper we investigate this dynamic process: How does institutional change at different geographical scales affect localized learning processes? Using an intensive case study of the medical technology sector in Southern Sweden, we trace in detail how institutions at the supra-national, national and regional scale have changed over the past 15 years and how these have affected the opportunities for localized learning between firms and hospitals. Our case makes three contributions. First, it provides a detailed empirical example of the interdependencies between institutions at the supra-national, national and regional scales. Second, as institutions shape the behaviour of organizations, we demonstrate that institutional change introduced at the extra-regional scale can have profound consequences for the establishment of local innovation linkages â€“ and thereby for the opportunities for localized learning. Third, this leads us to reconsider the ambitions of regional policies that aim to enhance localized learning.
L50|A New Strategy Within The Industrialization Of Turkey: Collaboration Of Export-Led Industrialization With Impo|Turkey had not have a sufficient industry in order to meet domestic demand when the Republic was established in 1923. Industrialization of Turkey has begun with a liberal approach. After the Great Depression, statism influenced the industrialization policy of Turkey. Two import-substitution industrialization plans adopted in 1933 and 1938. Nevertheless, the second plan could not have been implemented effectively because of the II. World War. Baker Report in 1950?s advised Turkey to industrialize in sectors in which she has a comparative advantage. Although outward-oriented growth and export-led industrialization policy had gained importance in 1950s, they could not have sustained properly because of the foreign currency deficit. Turkey began to implement import-substitution industrialization strategy in 1960s. She experienced a structural transformation within her manufacturing industry together with the start of intermediate goods production. Depending upon neo-liberal policies, Turkey embraced export-led industrialization strategy in 1980s. Along with the export-led industrialization strategy, low exchange rate and low real wage policies increased the competitiveness of the Turkish industry. Customs Union with the European Union and membership duties of the World Trade Organization affected the industrialization policy of Turkey in 1990s. As a consequence, Turkish industry sector has been integrated with the global economy. Global competition began to affect the Turkish industry sector in 2000s. The ratio of the imported raw materials and intermediate goods used in the industry sector have increased. Along with the increased competitiveness of the sector, the volume of exports has also inclined. Despite the incline within the volume of exports, external trade deficit has also increased due to the increase in the imports of the intermediate goods. The Turkish industry sector has entered into 2000s with such structural problems. Apparently, Turkey has to adjust her export-led industrialization strategy once again upon the changing circumstances. In Turkish academia, a new export-led industrialization strategy which is supported by import-substitution has been considered as an adequate industrialization policy for the 2010s. The aim of this paper is to evaluate the effectiveness of the new industrialization strategy in Turkey referring to a collaboration of export-led industrialization with import substitution. At the first part of the paper, industrialization strategies of Turkey have been examined. At the second part, structural problems of the Turkish industry sector are determined. At the final part, policies which support the new industrialization strategy are discussed.
L50|Paratransit Mesoeconomy: Control Measures From The Supply Side?|The South African Minibus Taxi industry has had to various degrees been affected by government intervention, in micro, and macroeconomic forms. Transporting on average 11.9% and 15% of education trips and 26.88% and 26.18% of working trips between 2003 and 2013 respectively, the minibus sector dominates the market second to walking (Statistics South Africa, 2014; 2003). Recent transport policies seem to discourage the dominance of private cars and minibus vehicles. Meanwhile, the Department of Trade and Industry has developed an incentive package for the production of minibus vehicles. In the microeconomy, transportation policy makers tend to focus on the travel market, whilst manufacturers focus on the demand for minibus vehicles. This study proposes and tests a framework to explore the extent to which travel and production microeconomic indicators relate to dynamic macroeconomic activity over time. This paper is an experimental exploration of statistical relationships between selected macroeconomic indicators (SMIs) and the national minibus economy measured in vehicle sales and prices. Sales data is sourced from the National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa (NAAMSA) and price data from a manufacture dominating the market. Firstly, are there statistically significant macroeconomic forces at play in the minibus economy? Secondly, do these SMIs relate to minibus sales data including sales price per seat, registered vehicle population, vehicle sales, market ejections per year and cumulative forms of this data? We investigate this through correlation (a) analysis of price data, (b) sales data, (c) vehicle population in the travel market and (d) SMI data between 2002 and 2011. This is a mesoeconomic study, bridging the policy gap between macroeconomics (i.e. CPI) and microeconomics (i.e. vehicle population in the travel market). Statistically significant relationships and path dependencies are revealed within the framework developed. Therefore mesoeconomic research in the transport economic sphere is significantly viable. One shortfall of the paper is that the microeconomic analysis is narrow because travel data and vehicle utilisation data is not included. Further quantitative research is required to inform a policy agenda that enables an understanding of macroeconomic forces (national and regional level) that filter through transport economic policy. This study lays a unique avenue to equip transit and automotive decision makers, industries and planners to better forge through changes in the macroeconomy in microeconomic contexts.
L50|Measuring the Extent of European State Aid Control: An Econometric Analysis of the European Commission Decisions|This paper provides an analysis of the European Commission (EC) decisions on state aid control using data on 550 state aid cases approved by the EC between 1998 and 2009. We measure the determinants of the duration of state aid, total budget of state aid and daily budget of state aid. By using these imperfect proxies, we try to identify the extent of European state aid control. Our results suggest that aid with multiple objectives to achieve has both longer durations and higher amounts of budget. We also find that for some aid objectives or industries, the EC approves cases of aid with both longer durations and higher levels of budget. On the other hand, for some class of aid objectives and industries, there is a trade-off between duration and the level of budget to counter-balance the undesired effects. The interpretation of the results implies that the European state aid control, which once was originally intended to address concerns about export subsidies and strategic trade, recently puts more emphasis on market failures mostly associated with externalities and public goods.
L50|The impact of doing business regulations on investments in ICT|Abstract Using industry-level data from 14 OECD countries and doing business indicators of the World Bank, we analyze how country-level regulations of business activities affect investments in information and communication technologies (ICT). We find that investments in ICT decrease with the costs of starting and operating a business and registering property. Investments increase with the strength of legal rights. We also find that investments in software increase with the ability of shareholders to sue managers for misconduct, and investments in communication technologies decline with the extent of director liability for self-dealing.
L50|Industrial policy and the future of manufacturing|Abstract The paper aims at reconstructing the industrial policy debate by focusing on a number of theoretical issues, in particular the contested nature of industrial policy—its selectivity—also in relation to manufacturing and the different rationales for industrial policy making. The paper concludes by looking ahead into the future of manufacturing and focuses on the need for rethinking our understanding of global production and emerging technologies for increased prosperity.
L50|Welfare effects of unbundling under different regulatory regimes in natural gas markets|Abstract In this paper, we develop a theoretical model that enriches the literature on the pros and cons of ownership unbundling vis-à-vis lighter unbundling frameworks in the natural gas markets. For each regulatory framework, we compute equilibrium outcomes when an incumbent firm and a new entrant compete à la Cournot in the final gas market. We find that the entrant’s contracting conditions in the upstream market and the transmission tariff are key determinants of the market structure in the downstream gas market (both with ownership and with legal unbundling). We also study how the regulator must optimally set transmission tariffs in each of the two unbundling regimes. We conclude that welfare maximizing tariffs often require free access to the transmission network (in both regulatoy regimes). However, when the regulator aims at promoting the break-even of the regulated transmission system operator, the first-best tariff is unfeasible in both regimes. Hence, we study a more realistic set-up, in which the regulator’s action is constrained by the break-even of the regulated firm (the transmission system operator). In this set-up, we find that, for a given transmission tariff, final prices in the downstream market are always higher with ownership unbundling than with legal unbundling.
L50|Wettbewerbsfreiheit oder Effizienz?<BR>[Competitive Freedom or Economic Efficiency?]|Zusammenfassung Kann eine Wettbewerbsbeschränkung Effizienzziele verfolgen? Diese Frage beantwortet der Autor mit einem deutlichen „Nein!“. Ob eine Wettbewerbsbeschränkung vorliegt, eine marktbeherrschende Stellung missbraucht wird oder der Wettbewerb im Gemeinsamen Markt im Sinne der Fusionskontrollverordnung beschränkt wird, kann nicht davon abhängen, ob die Wettbewerbsbeschränkung als im wohlfahrtsökonomischen Sinne effizient anzusehen ist. Er befürchtet, dass die EU-Kommission Effizienzgewinnen bei der kartellrechtlichen Beurteilung zu großes Gewicht beimisst.
L50|Industriepolitik 2.0<BR>[Industrial Policy 2.0]|Zusammenfassung Europa ist ein langfristiges Erfolgsmodell, weist aber seit der Finanzkrise ein niedriges Wachstum und eine erhöhte Arbeitslosigkeit auf. Die Einkommensdifferenzen sind zudem hoch. Europa hält sich auch nicht an seine geplante längerfristige Strategie. Die Notwendigkeit einer immer stärkeren Integration wird von den Bürgern nicht akzeptiert. Sezessionsbestrebungen und politische Polarisierung sind die Folgen. Karl Aiginger und Teresa Bauer beleuchten in diesem Zusammenhang die Rolle der europäischen Industrie, ihre relative Entwicklung im Verhältnis zur Gesamtwirtschaft und zu den USA. Auch Industriepolitik braucht neue Konzepte und eine stärkere Anbindung an gesellschaftliche Ziele; dies nicht zuletzt, um falsche, nur kurzfristig attraktive Ansätze zu verhindern.
L50|La politica industriale tra Stato e Mercato|Il presente lavoro intende soffermarsi sul ruolo della politica industriale, in Italia, cercando di individuarne le prospettive sia di breve che di medio-lungo periodo. Dopo avere illustrato i principali risultati di una recente ricerca sullefficacia della politica industriale, lanalisi mette a confronto due differenti approcci: il primo volto ad attribuire allo Stato un importante ruolo nel definire e impostare interventi strutturali di politica economica ed industriale; il secondo finalizzato a minimizzare lintervento statale a sostegno del sistema produttivo. Successivamente, la ricerca si sofferma sui pi recenti interventi di politica industriale adottati in Italia a favore soprattutto dellinnovazione e delle neo-imprese ad alto contenuto tecnologico; questi interventi delineano una vera e propria filosofia di politica industriale e sembrano porsi in una posizione intermedia tra i due differenti approcci. Concludono il lavoro alcune riflessioni volte a delineare le future ed auspicabili tendenze della politica industriale che dovrebbero essere collocate allinterno di un Progetto-Paese condiviso per il raggiungimento di obiettivi di medio-lungo periodo. This paper aims to analyze the role of industrial policy, in Italy, trying to identify the perspectives either in the short or in medium-long term. After having illustrated the main results of a recent research on the effectiveness of industrial policy, the analysis compares two different approaches: the first attributes to the State an important role in defining a set of structural economic and industrial measures; the second finalized to minimize the State intervention in support of the productive system. Moreover, the research focuses on the more recent measures of industrial policy adopted in Italy especially for increasing innovation and new firms with high technological content: these interventions appear to outline a real philosophy of industrial policy and can be considered in between the two different visions. In the conclusion, some thoughts are developed in order to indicate the future and desirable trends of industrial policy to be placed inside a Project-Country and shared with medium - long term objectives.
L50|Creating a National Champion: International Competition and Unbundling in Rail Transportation| This article investigates the incentives to unbundle operations and infrastructure in the railway industry in a two-country model from the viewpoint of national governments. The analysis shows that the decision to unbundle institutionally or organisationally with separated accounts depends crucially on the importance of cross-border transportation. If cross-border transportation is sufficiently important, national governments choose accounting separation. However, for low-efficiency gains within a bundled firm, national governments are stuck in a Prisoner's Dilemma and would be better off coordinating on institutional separation. This result justifies major policy initiatives of the European Union and explains the behaviour of national governments. © 2016 LSE and the University of Bath
L50|To Rebate or Not to Rebate: Fuel Economy Standards vs. Feebates?|We compare the welfare effects in equilibrium of two environmental regulations that aim at increasing the new cars fleet’s average fuel efficiency: the fuel economy standards and the feebate policies. Maintaining the same environmental benefit and tax revenue, we simulate the implementation of each policy in France and the United States. Standard-type policies have larger negative welfare effects, up to 3.2 times those from the feebate. Effects on manufacturers are heterogeneous: some are better of under the standard regulation. The addition of a market to trade levels of fuel efficiency dominates the simple standard regulation but not always the feebate. We also consider the attribute-based standard, technological improvements, and the equivalence with fuel taxes as extensions.
L50|No country for neoliberalism: a topic modeling approach to protean discourses to resist privatizations in Italy|This paper analyzes the resistance to the neoliberal discourse supporting privatizations in the Italian sociopolitical field: we address the change from a state control over economy to a situation where most of the state owned enterprises are sold and neoliberal principles are widely adopted and accepted. We focus on resistance, which builds on two frames that differ according to the period when they arise, the words they are composed of, the meanings they bear upon. The first one, which is more prevalent in the period 1984-2000, and that we called Òvalues of developmental stateÓ, opposes privatizations from a technical point of view: it is used in quotes that rationally support state intervention in economy. The second frame, that we called Òstigma privatizationsÓ, becomes prevalent starting in 2000 and appears mainly in articles that deal with societal issues, literature, movies and the wider sociocultural debate. Here influential speakers blame privatizations as something that eroded societal cohesion. To explain the transformation, we mobilize the concept of capital as described by Bourdieu: as economic capital attached to delegitimized institutions erode, discourse on resistance does not disappear but is framed within the fields that are less dependent on economic capital. As a connected contribution, the key role played by cultural capital in preserving areas of resistances revives the debate on the role of intellectuals within power dynamics as described by Antonio Gramsci. From a technical point of view, we study the evolution of the vocabulary of privatizations by analyzing almost 70.000 articles in the period 1984-2014. we use Topic Modeling, that is an automated text analysis technique that elicits topics, which are the sets of words that constitute discourses. We then reconstruct frames starting from these topics.
L50|Mobile-only consumers arise from heterogeneous valuation of fixed services|Mobile-only users are usually considered as a consequence of fixed-mobile substitution. Via a unique dataset based on a a large European country survey and consumers' invoice data, this study reveals heterogeneous preferences for fixed services among consumers. The data is fitted in a mixed logit model and willingness to pay (WTP) for fixed communications services are estimated. Results show that mobile-only consumers have a WTP for fixed services of 15 € per month, while the WTP of users of both fixed and mobile services is thrice higher. Considering that a typical monthly fee for fixed services is around 30 € the heterogeneous preferences for fixed services constitute an alternative explanation for the existence of mobile-only users, despite the complementarity of fixed and mobile broadband.
L50|Property rights and transaction costs : The role of ownership and organization in German public service provision|This paper provides evidence that ownership and organization matters for the efficiency of provision of public services. In particular, we find that pure private ownership is more efficient than pure public ownership, followed by mixed ownership. The delegation of management in different legal forms also has an impact, highlighting the importance of the design of the government-operator relation. We apply a structural approach of production function estimation ensuring precise determination of total factor productivity for a panel of German refuse collection firms in the time period between 2000-2012. We project total factor productivity estimates (TFP) on ownership and organization. Our results are in line with the trade-offs implied by the property rights literature and provide important policy implications regarding the organization of public service provision.
L50|The firm location race – Regulating incentive packages given to firms by local and regional governments|This paper analyzes the competition between jurisdictions for the relocation of firms and its implications for the various national and international subsidy control regimes (state aid control). We model the attraction of firms to jurisdictions through subsidies as a race with continuous investment over time, where local governments exert inefficiently high efforts, which increase with the number of competitors and their respective spending. This setting makes the case for better investment and subsidy controls by higher-level governments while emphasizing structural problems of implementation at the same time.
L50|Minimum quality standards and exports|This paper studies the interaction of a minimum quality standard and exports in a vertical product differentiation model when firms sell global products. If exante quality of foreign firms is lower (higher) than the quality of exporting firms, a mild minimum quality standard in the home market hinders (supports) exports. The minimum quality standard increases quality in both markets. A welfare maximizing minimum quality standard is always lower under trade than under autarky. A Minimum quality standard reduces profits for the exporting firm. It increases domestic welfare, but reduces welfare in the export market.
L50|Introducing Cattle Producer to the Hardin s World- Can Monopolies in Seed Markets Be Welfare Enhancing?|The paper investigates markets ridden by problems of common pool resources and asks how monopoly rights for inputs into those markets affect the welfare. The analysis rests upon the example of anit-pest innovations. The quintessential feature of such innovations is the possibility of them losing their effectiveness. Their application exerts evolutionary pressure on pests that eventually leads to them devoloping resistance to the innovation. The ensuing perishability of the innovation makes its common pool resource character visible. The paper develops a model of agricultural markets and discusses how monopolies, despite their underprovision of output may lead to increased welfare compared to generic industries. In this context, the optimal patent length is investigated.
L50|Minimum quality standards and non-compliance|This paper studies the effect of non-compliance with a minimum quality standard on prices, quality, and welfare in a vertical differentiation model. Non-compliance with a minimum quality standard by a low-quality firm reduces quality levels of both firms, increases the price for the high-quality product, decreases the price for the low-quality product, and shifts demand from the low-quality to the high-quality firm. Under non-compliance, an increase in the standard increases the quality difference, increases the price difference, and shifts demand from the high-quality to the low-quality firm. Stricter government enforcement decreases the quality level of the low-quality firm, increases the price of the high-quality product and shifts demand from the low-quality firm to the high-quality firm. Non-compliance of the low quality firm increases profits for both firms, reduces consumer surplus and increases or decreases welfare depending on the market size, the effect of quality levels of the externality, the detection probability, and the minimum quality level.
L50|Disentangling irregular cycles in economic time series|Cycles play an important role when analyzing market phenomena. In many markets, both overlaying (weekly, seasonal or business cycles) and time-varying cycles (e.g. asymmetric lengths of peak and off peak or variation of business cycle length) exist simultaneously. Identification of these market cycles is crucial and no standard detection procedure exists to disentangle them. We introduce and investigate an adaptation of an endogenous structural break test for detecting at the same time simultaneously overlaying as well as time-varying cycles. This is useful for growth or business cycle analysis as well as for analysis of complex strategic behavior and short-term dynamics.
L50|Is Amazon The Next Google?|Dominant or apparently dominant internet platform increasingly become subject to both antitrust investigations and further-reaching political calls for regulation. While Google is currently in the focus of the discussion, the next candidate is already on the horizon - the ubiquitous online trading platform Amazon. Competitors and suppliers but also famous economists like Paul Krugman unite in criticizing Amazon′s market power and alleged abuse of it. In this paper, we collect the multitude of allegations against Amazon and categorize them according to types of potential anticompetitive conduct or types of market failure. We provide an economic analysis of these allegations based upon economic theory as well as publicly available information and data. As one of our main results, we find that the most severe allegations against Amazon do not hold from an economic perspective and, consequently, do not warrant regulation or other drastic interventions (like breaking the company up). However, several areas of conduct, in particular, the use of best price clauses and the (anti-) competitive interplay of Amazon and the major publishers in the e-book market require competition policy action. The standard antitrust instruments, enriched with modern economic theory, should suffice to disincentivize the identified anticompetitive conduct for now.
L50|Wettbewerb und Regulierung|Wettbewerb und Regulierung werfen sowohl aus einer wirtschafts- als auch aus einer politikwissenschaftlichen Perspektive interessante Fragestellungen auf und haben daher in beiden Disziplinen umfangreiche Beachtung gefunden. Der vorliegende Beitrag gibt eine Übersicht über beide Herangehensweisen. Dabei werden zunächst die grundlegenden Unterschiede und Gemeinsamkeiten offengelegt (Abschnitt 2), bevor die disziplinären Schwerpunkte in der Analyse vorgestellt, und aus Sicht der jeweils anderen Disziplin kommentiert werden (Abschnitte 3 und 4). Wir kommen zu dem Ergebnis, dass beide Sichtweisen in erster Linie komplementär sind und sich gegenseitig befruchten können.
L50|The economics of television and online video markets|Television is the dominant entertainment medium for hundreds of millions. This chapter surveys the economic forces that determine the production and consumption of this content. It presents recent trends in television and online video markets, both in the US and internationally, and describes the state of theoretical and empirical research on these industries. A number of distinct themes emerge, including the growing importance of the pay-television sector, the role played by content providers (channels), distributors, and negotiations between them in determining market outcomes, and concerns about the effects of market power throughout this vertical structure. It also covers important but unsettled topics including the purpose for and effects of both the old (Public Service Broadcasters) and the new (online video markets). Open theoretical and empirical research questions are highlighted throughout.
L50|Role of Private Sector in Belarus: Problem of Evaluation|The development of a private sector and the expansion of its role in the economy is one of the key goals repeatedly announced by the Belarusian authorities. The reforms carried out in Belarus in 2006-2014 moved the country from 106th to 57th position in the World Bank Doing Business ranking. The official statement is that reforms boosted the rapid development of business initiatives and its impact on economic development. Unfortunately, there is no clear confirmation of this statement. The absence of a transparent and clear methodology in Belarusian statistics on how to evaluate the role of the private sector makes it difficult to evaluate the exact input of the Belarusian business in the economy and compare its role to other countries.
L50|Les effets macroéconomiques sur la productivité et les prix de vastes réformes structurelles sur les marchés des biens et du travail|La présente analyse vise à caractériser les effets « directs » et « indirects » des régulations sur le marché des biens ainsi que les effets des régulations sur le marché du travail, sur la productivité et sur les prix. L’analyse est empirique et réalisée via des estimations sur un panel de quatorze pays sur la période 1987-2007, et quand cela est possible sur des donnés sectorielles (treize secteurs manufacturiers et cinq secteurs des services et réseaux). Au terme de ces estimations, il est possible de caractériser les effets de la mise en oeuvre de réformes structurelles. Les réformes structurelles consistent ici en une baisse des indicateurs de régulations sur les marchés des biens et du travail. Cette caractérisation concerne dans un premier temps les réformes réalisées dans les différents pays entre les années 2008 et 2013, puis dans un second temps les réformes qui pourraient être réalisées près 2013 dans chaque pays s’il adoptait les « meilleures pratiques » définies comme, dans chaque domaine, le niveau moyen des régulations observées dans les trois pays où elles sont les plus basses. Ces simulations montrent que la mise en oeuvre de tels plans ambitieux de réformes structurelles serait potentiellement à même d’élever très significativement la productivité dans de très nombreux pays. Elles montrent donc tout l’intérêt de telles mises en oeuvre, notamment dans la zone euro. La méthodologie ici développée pour évaluer des programmes de réformes structurelles pourrait utilement être mobilisée pour quantifier les effets des programmes de réformes engagés ou envisagés, par exemple dans le cadre du G20 ou par les pays de la zone euro.Keywords: crédits nouveaux à l’habitat, taux d’intérêt bancaire, durée des prêts à l’habitat.
L50|Séminaire G20 sur les méthodes d’évaluation de l’impact macroéconomique des réformes structurelles (Banque de France, 1er juin 2015)|La Banque de France conjointement avec la direction générale du Trésor, le FMI et l’OCDE, sous la patronage de la présidence turque du G20, a organisé une conférence sur l’évaluation de l’impact macroéconomique des réformes structurelles. Ce thème revêt en effet une importance particulière dans le contexte actuel de croissance ralentie et de politiques budgétaires et monétaires contraintes.
L50|G20 Seminar on assessing the impact of structural reforms (Banque de France, 1 June 2015)|The Banque de France, together with the French Treasury, the OECD and the IMF, under the auspices of the G20 Turkish Presidency, organised a seminar to assess the macroeconomic impact of structural reforms. This topic is of particular importance in the current environment of subdued growth and constrained monetary and fiscal policies.
L50|Investment in ICT: Determinants and Economic Implications|This study was prepared by Nadine Fabritz while she was working at the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in the Department for Human Capital and Innovation. It was completed in June 2014 and accepted as a doctoral thesis by the Department of Economics at the University of Munich in October 2014. It consists of four distinct empirical analyses in the field of the economics of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). Three analyses address the economic effects of ICT investments, while one is concerned with determinants of investment in ICT networks. The study uses German firm-level data and regional-level data from Germany and the United Kingdom. The empirical strategies in all analyses attempt to establish causal relationships between the variables and outcomes of interest as much as possible by using panel models and controlling for unobserved, timeinvariant individual factors.
L50|Kindergeld|"Im Rahmen der vom Bundesministerium für Familie, Senioren, Frauen und Jugend (BMFSFJ) und vom Bundesministerium der Finanzen (BMF) in Auftrag gegebenen Gesamtevaluation von zentralen ehe- und familienbezogenen Leistungen wurden in der vorliegenden Studie die Auswirkungen der familienpolitischen Leistungen Kindergeld und Kinderfreibeträge auf die Zielbereiche „Vereinbarkeit von Familie und Beruf"", „Wirtschaftliche Stabilität und soziale Teilhabe von Familien"" und „Geburtenrate/Erfüllung von Kinderwünschen"" untersucht. Um die Effekte von Kindergeld und Kinderfreibeträgen auf die gewünschten Ziele zu identifizieren, wurde die Kindergeldreform von 1996 ausgenutzt, durch die das Kindergeld deutlich erhöht wurde. In der anschließenden Effizienzanalyse wurden die direkten und indirekten Kosten einer Erhöhung der Leistungen betrachtet und in Relation zu den in den Wirkungsanalysen ermittelten gesamtwirtschaftlichen Effekten gesetzt."
L50|Análisis de la actividad emprendedora de los sectores de la transformación y servicios industriales en Cartagena de Indias - Colombia|El sector de la transformación y de los servicios a la industria son los que aportan más en términos de valor agregado a la ciudad de Cartagena de Indias (Colombia). En el presente estudio se analizan estos sectores desde una perspectiva de emprendimiento, utilizando el Modelo del Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM). Los resultados son coherentes con los reportes de crecimiento del industria en la ciudad, ya que los emprendedores que están involucrados en estos sectores tienen una estructura enfocada más a la perdurabilidad, la motivación por oportunidad y la innovación. Comparativamente, los resultados muestran una mayor fortaleza de estos sectores en comparación con el sector de consumo. ****** The transformation and services sectors, in the industry, are those providing more in terms of added value to Cartagena. This research addresses an analysis of these sectors from a perspective on entrepreneurship using the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor model (GEM). Our results are consistent with the reports about the industry growth in Cartagena due to the fact that entrepreneurs, involved in these sectors, have a structure more focused on sustainability, motivation by opportunity and innovation. The results also show, comparatively, an increased strength between these sectors compared to the consumer one.
L50|Social Costs of Air Traffic Delays|The so-called buffer time or buffer delay allows airlines to control for excessive delays by introducing extra time in their schedule in addition to what is technically required. . We study the differences between unregulated markets - where airlines are free to fix their buffer times strategically - and a situation where a social planner would control for time schedules, and in particular the buffer time. To do so, we use a calibrated model of a network of three cities - one of them being a hub - served by a single airline. Welfare losses that follow from delays are relatively small as compared to the potential benefits that would follow from a decrease in ticket prices. The model thus advocates that, at least for the connections that are considered, fares rather than delays should be the focus of institutions aiming at enhancing passengers’ welfare.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L50|The Economics of Television and Online Video Markets|Television is the dominant entertainment medium for hundreds of millions. This chapter surveys the economic forces that determine the production and consumption of this content. It presents recent trends in television and online video markets, both in the US and internationally, and describes the state of theoretical and empirical research on these industries. A number of distinct themes emerge, including the growing importance of the pay-television sector, the role played by content providers (channels), distributors, and negotiations between them in determining market outcomes, and concerns about the effects of market power throughout this vertical structure. It also covers important but unsettled topics including the purpose for and effects of both the old (Public Service Broadcasters) and the new (online video markets). Open theoretical and empirical research questions are highlighted throughout.
L50|A Welfare Analysis of the Electricity Transmission Regulatory Regime in Germany|We analyze the current regulatory regime for electricity transmission in Germany, which combines network planning with both cost-plus and revenue-cap regulations. After reviewing international experiences on transmission investment, we first make a qualitative assessment of the overall German regime. The German TSOs have in general incentives to overinvest and inefficiently inflate costs. We further develop two models to analyze the transmission planning process. In the first model there is no trade-off between transmission expansion and generation dispatch. This is a modeling set-up similar to the one actually used in the German transmission planning (Netzentwicklungsplan). A second model alternatively allows for such a trade-off, and thus represents an optimal way of transmission network planning. Simulations with the two models are carried out and compared so as to illustrate the amount of excessive transmission capacity investment and welfare losses associated with the current regime.
L50|Competition and Regulation Reforms in Spain in 2013: The CNMC - An International Perspective|This paper reviews, from an applied, policy-oriented point of view, the process of the creation of the new macro regulator in Spain, the CNMC, which concluded at the end of 2013. The institutional reform merged the competition authority with practically all sector regulators (except for the financial regulator). The aim is to ascertain in which respects the Spanish reform is approaching, or deviating, from international best practices in the matter. Although there is no universally superior model in terms of specific institutional arrangements, there is enough knowledge on similar episodes of institutional reform to state that, in the Spanish case, important shortcomings remain with the proposal that has finally been adopted. The paper also deals with a non-institutional dimension of the reform: the regulatory and competition competences that, in the midst of the CNMC process, the Spanish government has recovered for itself.
L50|Estimating demand for fixed-mobile bundles and switching costs between tariffs|This paper estimates demand for fixed-mobile bundles (quadruple play tariffs) using a database of subscribers to a single mobile operator from a single town in a European country which has full coverage with both ADSL and FTTH broadband technologies. Based on the mixed logit demand estimation we find that consumer valuation of FTTH broadband in 2013 increased over time, while ADSL lost attractiveness relative to FTTH and in absolute terms, which suggests that consumers increasingly care about the speed of connection offered by FTTH. Consumer surplus increased substantially due to ongoing transition of consumers from less valued quadruple play tariffs with ADSL to more valued ones with FTTH. We also find that for quadruple play subscribers mobile data is complementary to fixed broadband access, which suggests that these consumers use Internet access via mobile data to sample online content but complete their online activity using fixed Internet access at home. On the other hand, mobile voice usage is a substitute to fixed broadband access and consumers reduce their voice consumption once they get a broadband connection. We also find that there are substantial switching costs between tariffs which, other things being equal, greatly decrease consumer surplus.
L50|Corruption and socially optimal entry|The paper investigates the effects of corruption in the entry-certifying process on market structure and social welfare for a Cournot industry with linear demand and costs. To gain entry, a firm must pay a bribe-maximizing official a fixed percentage of anticipated profit, in addition to the usual set-up cost. This would lead to a monopoly, but only in markets without pre-existing or shadow-economy firms. A benevolent social planner may preempt the harmful effects of corruption by either manipulating the number of pre-existing firms in the market, or by setting up two independent (corrupt) licensing authorities. A socially optimal number of firms in the market may be reached by choosing the right number of pre-existing firms or by having exactly two licensing authorities. These mechanisms may be seen as restoring second-best efficiency in settings characterized by two major sources of distortion: Imperfect competition and corruption. We also show in an extension that the basic insights carry over in a qualitative sense to a model with quadratic costs and first best entry regulation.
L50|Superentrepreneurship and global imbalances: closing Europe’s gap to other industrialized regions|The EU’s Role in Fighting Global Imbalances looks at the role of the European Union in addressing some of the greatest challenges of our time: poverty, protectionism, climate change, and human trafficking. Contributions from ten leading scholars in the fields of economics, law, and political science provide in-depth analyses of three key dimensions of EU foreign policy, namely: the internal challenges facing the EU, as its 28 member countries struggle to coordinate their actions; the external challenges facing the EU on the global arena, in areas where global imbalances are particularly pervasive, and where measures taken by the Union can have an important impact; and the EU´s performance on the global arena, in the eyes of other key actors. Based on a broad and interdisciplinary understanding of the concept of global imbalances, this book argues that these challenges follow from pervasive global imbalances, which at root are economic, political, and legal in character.
L50|Section 6-7. Military Economy and Military Reform in Russia|The accession of the Republic of Crimea to the Russian Federation in March 2014 was not favored by the global community and resulted in Western economic sanctions against Russia, getting even tougher throughout the entire year. The sanctions were focused chiefly on Russia’s defense sector, having a strong adverse impact on the fulfillment of the state armaments program and the military-industrial complex (MIC) development program planned by the Russian leadership. The key tit-for-tat measures included the development of import substitution plans in the military-industrial complex and the placement of the Military Industrial Commission under the supervision of President Vladimir Putin in September. The international sanctions in 2014 had no effect whatsoever on the performance of the plans of professionalization and combat training of Russia’s Armed Forces.
L50|Section 6. Institutional Changes|The main developments over the past year in the sphere under consideration were the launch of the second three-year privatization program for the years 2014–2016; the approval of the new government program Federal Property Management until 2018; the transfer, by a court ruling, of JSC Bashneft back to Russian Federation ownership; the continuation of the active process of creation of integrated structures in the defense industry and related sectors; absence of any significant deals completed on the corporate control market with the participation of state companies; and the expansion, at the level of approved model documents, of the set of available instruments to be applied in the management of entities belonging to the public sector of the national economy.
L50|Раздел 6. Институциональные Изменения|Основными событиями минувшего года в рамках рассматриваемой проблематики стали старт второй трехлетней приватизационной программы на 2014–2016 гг., утверждение новой государственной программы по управлению федеральным имуществом до 2018 г., возврат под контроль государства компании «Башнефть» по судебным основаниям, продолжение активного строительства интегрированных структур в оборонной промышленности и смежных отраслях, отсутствие значимых сделок на рынке корпоративного контроля с участием госкомпаний, а также расширение инструментария управления субъектами государственного сектора экономики на уровне типовых документов прикладного характера.
L50|The behavioral effect of Pigovian regulation: Evidence from a field experiment|Pigovian regulation provides monetary penalties/rewards to incentivize prosocial behavior, and may thereby trigger behavioral effects beyond a more standard response associated with a change in relative prices. This paper quantifies the magnitude of these behavioral effects using data from an experiment on real product choices together with a structural model of consumer behavior. First, we show that information about external effects (products' embodied carbon emissions) triggers voluntary substitution towards cleaner alternatives, and we estimate that this effect is equivalent to a change in relative prices of GBP30.69-165.15/tCO2. Second, comparing a Pigovian intervention (GBP19/tCO2) with a neutrally-framed price change of the same magnitude, we find a negative behavioral effect associated with regulation. Compensating this bias would require increasing the Pigovian price signal by up to 48.06/tCO2. Finally, based on a cross-product comparison, we show that the magnitude of behavioral effects declines with substitutability between clean and dirty product alternatives, a measure of effort to reduce emissions.
L50|Budgetary Interests and the Degree of Unbundling in Electricity Markets - An Empirical Analysis for OECD Countries|The degree of liberalization in OECD electricity markets varies considerably across countries. Commonly explained by diverging economic performances, corruption levels or government ideologies, this paper suggest another potential reason for cross-national differences in market reforms: given the high financial dependence of regulatory actors on public funding both in the past and nowadays, we expect regulators to increasingly refrain from [foster] the implementation of liberalization steps, the more such measures reduce [raise] the revenues of a tax; this prevents [aims at realizing] substantial decreases [increases] in public revenues (being a major source of regulatory funds) and thus most likely also in the regulators' budgets. Estimation results substantiate these considerations for both the corporate income tax and (in cases of a high price elasticity of power demand) the VAT on electricity.
L50|Regulatory Objectives and the Intensity of Unbundling in Electricity Markets|Despite the positive effect electricity grids separated from generation and supply by ownership are expected to have on the level of competition in the non-network activities, several EU member states still adhere to a solely legally unbundled transmission grid. This choice might be induced by regulators focusing on objectives other than the promotion of consumer interests: theoretically analyzing the decisions an authority takes on both the unbundling regime and the grid charge when it supervises a network monopolist providing a downstream Cournot duopoly with capacity, we find an agency pursuing consumer-oriented goals to always implement Ownership Unbundling. For a regulator acting in the interests of the industry or the government, though, results suggest the authority to be indifferent between Legal and Ownership Unbundling; minor potential drawbacks of a network separated by ownership for the agency or the companies might then tip the scales and cause the regulator to adhere to Legal Unbundling.
L50|Does Regulatory Independence Translate into a Higher Degree of Liberalization? - Evidence from EU Energy Regulators|Independent regulatory authorities are a basic prerequisite for a successful liberalization process. However, contrary to what is expected, both graphical analyses and OLS regressions for a small sample of electricity and gas regulators operating in 16 European countries reveal a negative relationship between the authorities' formal autonomy from politicians and the scope of market reforms. These findings might suffer from endogeneity, though, so we draw on political scientists' explanations for diverging independence levels to construct appropriate instruments. The 2SLS-IV results then confirm conventional wisdom: the higher the degree of regulatory autonomy, the higher the level of liberalization.
L50|Space Policy Strategies and Priorities in Russia|This article explores new innovation policy measures aimed at ongoing transformation of the space industry in Russia. The current implementation of a wide range of state programs and presidential decrees helps to maintain the leading position of Russia in the space industry and expanding international cooperation. The main objective of the paper is to present the principal directions of space policy development in Russia, including its priorities and the tasks to be solved in the short and mid-terms. In this paper we explore the main details of the space policy in Russia, the priorities of its development mentioned in the legal documents focusing on the innovative development of the space industry and possibilities for the public-private partnership and institutional reforms in this area
L50|An Analysis of Differences in Labour Productivity in Manufacturing. Displaying the Need for a Resurgence of Industrial Policy: Spain vs Germany, 1993-2007|The objective of this paper is to identify the determinants that hinder the continued growth of productivity in Spanish industry, when compared to Germany between 1993-2007. To this end, different methodologies based on the decomposition of gross value added have been applied. Results indicate that differences in industry structure do not totally justify the gap in productivity between both industries. It is more a problem of convergence speed of both production structures, rather than one of absence of changes. This study shows the need to implement strategic measures for boosting industrial sectors, particularly now when there is a resurgence of industrial policy.
L50|A Retrospective Look at Rescuing and Restructuring General Motors and Chrysler|The rescue of the US automobile industry amid the 2008-2009 recession and financial crisis was a consequential, controversial, and difficult decision made at a fraught moment for the US economy. Both of us were involved in the decision process at the time, but since have moved back to academia. More than five years have passed since the bailout began, and it is timely to look back at this unusual episode of economic policymaking to consider what we got right, what we got wrong, and why. In this article, we describe the events that brought two of the largest industrial companies in the world to seek a bailout from the US government, the analysis that was used to evaluate the decision (including what the alternatives were and whether a rescue would even work), the steps that were taken to rescue and restructure General Motors and Chrysler, and the performance of the US auto industry since the bailout. We close with general lessons to be learned from the episode.
L50|Short- and Long-run Effects of External Interventions on Trust|We experimentally analyze the effects of external interventions such as subsidy and targeting on investment decisions during the intervention and after. We employ a multi-period version of the trust (investment) game (Berg et al., 1995) introducing either the monetary incentives for contribution or providing a suggestion about the level of investment. The results of the experiment indicate that targeting is an effective instrument to promote trustful behavior, whereas subsidy policy is not effective both in short- and long-run. Therefore we suggest considering a targeting policy as one of the instruments that can foster trustful behavior.
L50|Institutions, economic liberalization and firm growth: evidence from European transition economies|This article investigates the determinants of firm growth using a dataset matching firm-level data with country indicators of access to external finance, governance, and economic liberalization in ten European transition countries over the period 1996–2011. We find that the quality of state rebuilding after the collapse of communism matters. First, country governance adds something above the impact of a change in variables that proxy for access the external finance. Second, the results also show that economic liberalization has no direct effect on firm growth. Instead, its impact operates through country governance. The countries that benefit the most in terms of firm growth are those with higher than average country governance indicators. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L50|Product Bans May Benefit Consumers: Implications from a New Model Of Vertical Product Differentiation|We formulate a model of vertical differentiation to evaluate the welfare effects of removing a low quality product from the market. The mechanism through which a welfare improvement might arise is simple: Once the low quality low cost alternative is banned, entry into the high quality segment becomes more likely. This in turn may lead to a significant reduction in the price of the high quality product. We find that such a ban might improve consumer as well as aggregate welfare when consumers value the higher quality more, the marginal cost of producing high quality is lower, the price of low quality is higher, and the price sensitivity for high quality is not too high. The key feature of our model is that it allows elastic demands by individual consumers. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L50|Industrial Policy for Growth|There is a large literature on the case for industrial policy and it is argued that, theoretically, industrial policy can help overcome market failures and hence can provide incentives for further industrial development. However, what type of industrial policy should actually be implemented and who should be the direct beneficiaries of industrial policy is contested. This paper presents an empirical investigation of the extent to which countries’ perceived industrial policy package is successful in stimulating economic growth. The analysis builds on a perception based database that includes 22 variables that describe industrial policy-related aspects. Using principal component analysis we distinguish between policy that stimulates industry development, ‘pro-business’ policy, and industrial policy that promotes the development of free markets, ‘pro-market’ policy. We construct indicators to represent these policy types and find that the indicators are positively correlated. The data suggests that high income countries are perceived to implement relatively more pro-business and pro-market policies than middle income countries. On the basis of fixed effects analysis we conclude that our pro-business policy indicator is positively associated with economic growth in middle income countries but not in high income countries. We find no clear evidence of a relation between pro-market policy and economic development. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L50|Public Support to the European Car Industry: The Impact of the Financial Crisis|We provide a quantification of public support for the European car industry during the past decade. First, we identify the most relevant instruments of state aid and non-state aid public support. Second, we aim to estimate the amount of public support for European car manufacturers for each instrument and investigate its dynamics. Three factors complicate the overall quantification of public support for each instrument: (i) the Commission does not scrutinize, and hence does not quantify all public support measures; (ii) the available information depends on whether the state aid is granted to individual companies, or in the form of general schemes; and (iii) the available information depends on whether the aid is granted in the form of a grant, soft loan or guarantee. Our lower bound estimate of state aid suggests that the aid declined over the pre-crisis period, but peaked at €1.2 billion as a response to the last financial and economic crisis in 2009. Perhaps even more strikingly, this state aid was combined with an unprecedented amount of other public support: scrapping schemes of at least €4.0 billion, and loans from the European Investment Bank of €2.8 billion, or an equivalent of €400 million of “aid element” . Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L50|Does social distrust always lead to a stronger support for government intervention?|The paper considers ‘trust’ as an empirical determinant of individual support for government intervention. The central notion is that the influence of generalized trust on policy attitudes is conditional on confidence in both state actors and major companies. The starting point is the idea that individuals who generally distrust other persons have a stronger taste for the regulation of economic activities, while people with high interpersonal trust are in favor of less stringent regulatory control. Yet, people who do not trust unknown others also tend to mistrust government and private companies. If mistrust in state actors dominates, we should not necessarily expect stronger interventionist preferences. Estimating the determinants of interventionist attitudes using data from the World Values Survey/European Values Study for approximately 130,000 individuals in forty OECD- and EU-countries, we find evidence that the impact of social trust on government intervention attitudes is conditional on institutional trust. Confidence in major companies appears to have a stronger effect on preference formation than trust in state actors. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L50|Testing Regulatory Regimes for Power Transmission Expansion with Fluctuating Demand and Wind Generation|Adequate extension of electricity transmission networks is required for integrating fluctuating renewable energy sources, such as wind power, into electricity systems. We study the performance of different regulatory approaches for network expansion in the context of realistic demand patterns and fluctuating wind power. In particular, we are interested in the relative performance of a combined merchant-regulatory price-cap mechanism compared to a cost-based and a non-regulated approach. We include both an hourly time resolution and fluctuating wind power. This substantially increases the real-world applicability of results compared to previous analyses. We show that a combined merchant-regulatory regulation, which draws upon a cap over the two-part tariff of the transmission company, leads to welfare outcomes superior to the other modeled alternatives. This result proves to be robust over a range of different cases, including such with large amounts of fluctuating wind power. We also evaluate the outcomes of our detailed model using the extension plans resulting from a simplified model based on average levels of load and wind power. We show that this distorts the relative performance of the different regulatory approaches.
L50|Testing regulatory regimes for power transmission expansion with fluctuating demand and wind generation|Adequate extension of electricity transmission networks is required for integrating fluctuating renewable energy sources, such as wind power, into electricity systems. We study the performance of different regulatory approaches for network expansion in the context of realistic demand patterns and fluctuating wind power. In particular, we are interested in the relative performance of a combined merchant-regulatory price-cap mechanism compared to a cost-based and a non-regulated approach. We include both an hourly time resolution and fluctuating wind power. This substantially increases the real-world applicability of results compared to previous analyses. We show that a combined merchant-regulatory regulation, which draws upon a cap over the two-part tariff of the transmission company, leads to welfare outcomes superior to the other modeled alternatives. This result proves to be robust over a range of different cases, including such with large amounts of fluctuating wind power. We also evaluate the outcomes of our detailed model using the extension plans resulting from a simplified model based on average levels of load and wind power. We show that this distorts the relative performance of the different regulatory approaches. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L50|Entrepreneurial networking capacity of cluster firms: a social network perspective on how shared resources enhance firm performance|This paper examines the entrepreneurial networking capacity of firms in leveraging shared resources in clusters to achieve market performance. Defining industrial clusters from a social network perspective and entrepreneurial networking capacity as the capacity of firms in orchestrating relational-based resources to achieve enhanced performance and build competitive advantage, this paper analysed the influences of regional shared resources derived from entrepreneurial networking capacity on firm market performance. This paper used the primary data collected from the 65 wine regions (GIs) in Australia and tested the proposed hypotheses using structural equation modeling. The results show the unique roles of different types of cluster shared resources in enhancing firm market performance. We contribute to further development of the social network theory, the resource-based view, entrepreneurship and cluster theory and provide grounds for closer examination of how the context of industrial clusters influences the resource-based competitive advantage of firms. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L50|The Value of Export Incentives|This study develops a methodology for the comparative analysis of industry-specific export incentives. The impact of different export incentives extended to the textiles sector in India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh is analyzed using industry-level data for the years 2001–11. Our findings show that Bangladesh operates a highly export-oriented regime – of the three countries, the value of its export incentives is highest. The study suggests that, in order to maintain its competitiveness in textile exports, Pakistan needs to enhance its export incentives, particularly for value-added textiles.
L50|La efectividad de los regímenes de derechos de autor y política de competencia. Implicaciones para el bienestar social/The Effectiveness of the Copyright and Competition Policy Regimes. Implications for Social Welfare|La conjunción del derecho de autor con la política de competencia supone una de las controversias clave de la economía del copyright dado el poder de mercado que la institución de los derechos de autor otorga al titular de la obra protegida. En el presente trabajo se analizan las claves de esta controversia. Mediante la aplicación de técnicas de datos de panel se constata que para la consecución de un mayor nivel de bienestar social, política de competencia y derechos de autor se han de aplicar con intensidad y de forma complementaria. The conjunction of copyright and competition policy has emerged as one of the main controversies in copyright economics given the market power which the copyright endows the owner with over the protected work. The present paper explores key aspects underlying said controversy. By applying panel data techniques is found that for achieving a higher level of social welfare, competition policy and copyrights must be applied in a strong and complementary manner.
L50|Financing the Evolution of London’s Water Services: 1582 to 1904|This paper examines the evolution of water supply as a private, for-profit business from its origins in sixteenth century London until its transfer to a public monopoly at the start of the twentieth century. From 1582 onwards, 29 private water companies operated at different times in the area which became Greater London. By 1850, these had consolidated into eight local monopolies operating within mutually-agreed boundaries. The survival of private services depended on a mix of economic, institutional and political factors. Financial sustainability was achieved through early start-up investment subsidies and a pricing policy that kept the basic charge for a household connection constant in nominal terms for two and a half centuries. As quality regulation was introduced after 1852, services were transformed from low-pressure, intermittent and untreated supply, to a treated, continuous, high-pressure service universally available and affordable to all. Over the long run, users paid for services, with wealthier households providing a cross-subsidy to poorer ones through time. The policy implication is that early public sector financial support in the form of grants, soft loans or patient equity may be necessary to launch private sector solutions for water services, and that quality and price regulation is needed to drive quality improvements, achieve universal coverage and cap excess profits.
L50|Raising the Potential of the Domestically Oriented Sector in Germany|Germany’s manufacturing sector, which plays an important role for exports, has been performing well over the past decade in terms of labour productivity growth and international competitiveness. However, the services sector has had much slower growth rates. Competition often appears to be hindered by protection of incumbents. Reforming and deregulating the domestically oriented sectors, including network industries, crafts and professional services would release hidden growth potential and prove beneficial to the economy as a whole. It could also help strengthen domestic demand and reduce dependence on exports. This Working Paper relates to the 2014 Economic Survey of Germany (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-germany.htm). Relever le potentiel des secteurs orientés sur le marché intérieur en Allemagne Au cours de la dernière décennie, le secteur manufacturier allemand, qui joue un rôle important dans les exportations, a enregistré de bons résultats, en termes de hausse de la productivité de la main-d’oeuvre comme de compétitivité internationale. Le secteur des services en revanche affiche des taux de croissance bien plus modestes. Il semble que la concurrence y ait souvent été entravée du fait de la protection des entreprises en place. Réformer et déréglementer les secteurs orientés sur le marché intérieur, notamment les industries de réseau, l’artisanat et les services professionnels, permettrait de libérer le potentiel de croissance caché et serait bénéfique pour l’économie dans son ensemble, et contribuerait en outre à renforcer la demande intérieure et à réduire la dépendance par rapport aux exportations. Ce document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de l’Allemagne, 2014 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-allemagne.htm).
L50|A Snapshot of China's Service Sector|The share of the tertiary sector in China’s value added has increased steadily, overtaking the share of the secondary sector in 2013. With increasing incomes, the share of services is expected to grow further as at higher incomes a larger share of income is spent on services. In addition to final demand, intermediate demand can be another driving force for service industries. As liberalisation leads to a greater role for the market in allocating resources, service industries are expected to become more competitive and therefore it may become cheaper to outsource services than to produce them in-house. Liberalisation will likely also lead to greater specialisation to remain competitive, thereby making specialised services available for outsourcing. This will likely spur the development of some high value-added logistics services such as warehousing or order handling. By the same token, professional services such as accounting or engineering are also likely to benefit from a greater reliance on the market and greater competition. In the envisaged transition from “made in China” to “created in China”, the service sector is expected to play a prominent role. To that end, the service sector is gradually being provided a more even playing field as privileges for manufacturing industries are being withdrawn and a more equal treatment of producers across sectors is being adopted. This paper provides a snapshot of the service sector, its size, the ownership of its firms, and productivity across types of firms depending on ownership, sector, age, size and geographical region. This Working Paper relates to the 2015 OECD Economic Survey of China www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-china.htm. Un état des lieux du secteur des services en Chine La part du secteur tertiaire dans la valeur ajoutée de la Chine n’a cessé de croître pour dépasser celle du secteur secondaire, en 2013. Compte tenu de l’augmentation des revenus, la part des services devrait continuer de progresser car plus le revenu est élevé, plus les dépenses consacrées aux services augmentent. Outre la demande finale, la consommation intermédiaire devrait constituer un autre facteur de consommation à la hausse de services. Les mesures de libéralisation laissant un plus grand rôle au marché dans l’allocation des ressources, le secteur des services devrait gagner en compétitivité et c’est pourquoi leur externalisation pourrait désormais coûter moins cher que leur production en interne. Pour préserver la compétitivité, la libéralisation entraînera également une plus grande spécialisation et des services spécialisés s’offriront ainsi à l’externalisation. Le développement de certains services logistiques à forte valeur ajoutée, comme la gestion d’entrepôts ou de commandes, devrait s’en trouver très certainement stimulé. De même, il est probable que les services de professions spécialisées comme la comptabilité et l’ingénierie bénéficieront eux aussi d’un plus large recours aux mécanismes du marché et d’une concurrence renforcée. Le secteur des services entend jouer un rôle de premier plan dans la future transition du « fabriqué en Chine » au « créé en Chine ». Dans cette optique, ce secteur voit s’instaurer peu à peu des règles de jeu plus égales, les industries manufacturières se voyant retirer certains de leurs privilèges et le principe d’égalité de traitement des producteurs entre les secteurs étant adopté. Ce document dresse un état de lieux du secteur des services et analyse sa taille, les structures de propriété de ses entreprises et la productivité de différents types d’entreprises en fonction de leur propriété, leur activité, leur ancienneté, leur taille et leur région. Ce document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de la Chine, OCDE, 2015 www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-chine.htm.
