L53|Do enterprise zones promote local business development? Evidence from Vietnam|We examined the effects of Vietnamese enterprise zones on local businesses based on different patterns of place-based policies as well as the ownership structure of the zone infrastructure developers (ZIDs). We constructed a panel of communes during 2000-2007 using a census survey of firms having more than nine employees and a census of zones and zone-based firms. We found that place-based policies led to growth in the number of jobs and firms in the communes where enterprise zones were located, even after excluding zone-based firms. Our findings also suggest that privately owned ZIDs worked best under corporate-tax incentives, while zones with a designated central government agency as the ZID had adverse spillover effects on business development in neighboring communes of the same district.
L53|Does Light Touch Cluster Policy Work? Evaluating the Tech City Programme|Despite academic scepticism, cluster policies remain popular with policymakers. This paper evaluates the causal impact of a flagship UK technology cluster programme. I build a simple framework and identify effects using difference-in-differences and synthetic controls on rich microdata. I further test for timing, cross-space variation, scaling and churn channels. The policy grew and densified the cluster, but has had more mixed effects on tech firm productivity. I also find most policy 'effects' began before rollout, raising questions about the programme's added value.
L53|Networks, Start-Up Capital and Women's Entrepreneurial Performance in Africa: Evidence from Eswatini|This paper analyzes the role of networks in access of women entrepreneurs to start-up capital and firm performance in Eswatini, a country with one of the highest female unemployment rates in Africa. The paper first shows that higher initial capital is associated with better sales performance for both men and women entrepreneurs. Women entrepreneurs start their firms with smaller start-up capital than men and are more likely to fund it from their own sources, which reduces the size of their firm and sales level. However, women with higher education start their firms with more capital than their less educated counterparts. Moreover, women who receive support from professional networks have higher initial capital, while those trained in financial literacy more often access external funding sources, including through their networks.
L53|Does Light Touch Cluster Policy Work? Evaluating the Tech City Programme|Despite academic scepticism, cluster policies remain popular with policymakers. This paper evaluates the causal impact of a flagship UK technology cluster programme. I build a simple framework and identify effects using difference-in-differences and synthetic controls on rich microdata. I further test for timing, cross-space variation, scaling and churn channels. The policy grew and densified the cluster, but has had more mixed effects on tech firm productivity. I also find most policy 'effects' began before rollout, raising questions about the programme's added value.
L53|Do enterprise zones promote local business development? Evidence from Vietnam| We examined the effects of Vietnamese enterprise zones on local businesses based on different patterns of place-based policies as well as the ownership structure of the zone infrastructure developers (ZIDs). We constructed a panel of communes during 2000–2007 using a census survey of firms having more than nine employees and a census of zones and zone-based firms.We found that place-based policies led to growth in the number of jobs and firms in the communes where enterprise zones were located, even after excluding zone-based firms. Our findings also suggest that privately owned ZIDs worked best under corporate-tax incentives, while zones with a designated central government agency as the ZID had adverse spillover effects on business development in neighboring communes of the same district.
L53|The impact of blackouts on the performance of micro and small enterprises: Evidence from Indonesia|Reliability of electricity supply is one of pressing challenges to many micro and small enterprises (MSEs) in developing countries. MSEs play a pivotal role in employment generation in these countries, but productivity of MSEs is relatively low. Little is known about how blackouts affect performance of MSEs. This paper is the first study to estimate the impact of power blackouts on productivity of manufacturing MSEs and to discuss the role of the government in addressing problem. We employ a pseudo-panel dataset covering six firm cohorts within 21 Indonesian national electricity company working areas from 2010 to 2015. Our identification strategy involves first examining blackouts determinants and then using these determinants as instruments in an IV dynamic panel fixed effects estimation while controlling for factors potentially affect productivity and correlated with blackouts. We find that electricity blackouts reduce the average labor productivity and the resultant loss amounts to approximately IDR 71.5 billion (USD 4.91 million) per year in Indonesia. Therefore, it is crucial to improve electricity supply reliability in developing countries. We find that introducing a captive generator as a way to cope with power outages, is positively associated with productivity, and MSEs that have captive generators benefit more when the power supply is poor. Our findings will assist policy makers to prioritize addressing power blackouts relative to other constraints MSEs face.
L53|Digitalization and the performance of micro and small enterprises in Yogyakarta, Indonesia|The world is going digital. Little is known about how this digitalization affects the performance of micro and small enterprises, one of the major foundations of the economy in developing countries but with relatively low productivity. This paper examines the causal impact of internet utilization, as a part of digitalization, on enterprise performance. We conducted a field survey among micro and small enterprises in Yogyakarta, the densest micro and small enterprise population province in Indonesia. The identification strategy exploits the fact that the differences in geographic topography produce conceivably exogenous variations in the strength of cellular signal that micro and small enterprises in various areas can receive to connect to the internet. We find that internet utilization has enabled micro and small enterprises to engage in the digital economy and has improved labor productivity and exports.
L53|Cyber Security Framework for the Internet-of-Things in Industry 4.0|This research article reports the results of a qualitative case study that correlates academic literature with five Industry 4.0 cyber trends, seven cyber risk frameworks and two cyber risk models. While there is a strong interest in industry and academia to standardise existing cyber risk frameworks, models and methodologies, an attempt to combine these approaches has not been done until present. We apply the grounded theory approach to derive with integration criteria for the reviewed frameworks, models and methodologies. Then, we propose a new architecture for the integration of the reviewed frameworks, models and methodologies. We therefore advance the efforts of integrating standards and governance into Industry 4.0 and offer a better understanding of a holistic economic impact assessment model for IoT cyber risk.
L53|Analysing IoT cyber risk for estimating IoT cyber insurance|This paper is focused on mapping the current evolution of Internet of Things (IoT) and its associated cyber risks for the Industry 4.0 (I4.0) sector. We report the results of a qualitative empirical study that correlates academic literature with 14 - I4.0 frameworks and initiatives. We apply the grounded theory approach to synthesise the findings from our literature review, to compare the cyber security frameworks and cyber security quantitative impact assessment models, with the world leading I4.0 technological trends. From the findings, we build a new impact assessment model of IoT cyber risk in Industry 4.0. We therefore advance the efforts of integrating standards and governance into Industry 4.0 and offer a better understanding of economics impact assessment models for I4.0.
L53|Definition of Internet of Things (IoT) Cyber Risk – Discussion on a Transformation Roadmap for Standardization of Regulations, Risk Maturity, Strategy Design and Impact Assessment|Definition of Internet of Things (IoT) Cyber Risk – Discussion on a Transformation Roadmap for Standardization of Regulations, Risk Maturity, Strategy Design and Impact Assessment
L53|Entrepreneurship, Institutions, and Economic Growth: Does the Level of Development Matter?|This study questions the assumption that entrepreneurship unequivocally leads to economic growth. Using insights from institutional theory and development economics, we reevaluate entrepreneurship’s contribution towards economic growth. Our study uses Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) data for a panel of 83 countries from 2002 to 2014 and highlights several important findings. First, our evidence suggests that entrepreneurship encourages economic growth but not in developing countries. Second, we find that a country’s institutional environment—measured by GEM’s Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFCs)—contributes to economic growth in more developed countries but not in developing countries. Lastly, we find that opportunity-motivated entrepreneurship encourages economic growth in developed countries, while necessity-motivated entrepreneurship discourages economic growth in developing countries. These findings have important policy implications. Namely, our evidence contradicts policy proposals that suggest entrepreneurship and the adoption of pro-market institutions that support it will encourage economic growth in developing countries. Our evidence suggests these policy proposals are unlikely to generate the desired economic growth.
L53|Integration into formal enterprise space: Challenges and opportunities for informal sector entrepreneurs|A vast majority of micro and small enterprises (MSEs) operate in an informal enterprise space, functioning without the required legal and regulatory approvals, notwithstanding crucial role that they play in job creation, poverty alleviation, exports, and regional economic development. Living in an informal enterprise space is not a choice, but forced reality brought on by regulatory burdens, complex compliance structures, and an inefficient and slow-moving government system. This article looks at the informal MSME sector in terms of the challenges and opportunities on its route to formalization. It highlights some of these important aspects, which facilitates the transition into formal enterprise space. IT has provided inputs resulting from interactions with entrepreneurs, associations, and NGOs working in the informal MSME space. The study was also supplemented by secondary source materials. Some of the sectors that have been evaluated are waste management and recycling, last-mile public transport connectivity operators, handloom weavers, potters and street food vendors.
L53|Triple Helix sebagai model bagi inovasi pendidikan tinggi: Analisis logika kelembagaan dalam pengembangan kewirausahaan dan ekonomi<BR>[The Triple Helix as a model for innovation of higher education: Analysis of institutional logic in entrepreneurship and economic development]|This article will describe the transformation of higher education which is undergoing an expanded mission to include economic and social development as well as competence, cultural reproduction, and research and the shift from the individual to the organizational focus. In this case, the triple helix model emphasizes the relationship between universities, industry, and government as a development strategy to meet social capital and technological gaps, so that this model can provide optimal conditions for university innovation. By analyzing the institutional theory that has four stages of development in the process of institutionalizing the model, it can be understood that the pattern of material practices that are built socially, historically, assumptions, values, beliefs and rules by which individuals produce and reproduce their material subsistence, managing time and space, and giving meaning to their social reality. This article concludes that the institutional logic that is expected to work includes trust in scientific and technological innovation as a key to growing economic prosperity, market orientation in academic graduation without leaving local culture, enhancing and protecting intellectual property rights in the industry, and the ability of institutions in market competition.
L53|Why do we need self-employed persons? Some economic reflections, mainly tax related ones|For many years, we have been hearing about the need for innovation and entrepreneurship. Successive Polish government declare their support for entrepreneurs and expand the catalog of privileges, mainly related to taxes and mandatory contributions. Not infrequently, in these discussions the self-employed are equated with entrepreneurs. In this work, we will seek an answer to the questions: Who, then, are the self-employed? Are they really entrepreneurs? Should we support their activities? And finally the fundamental question: What does the economy get from the self-employed? In this work we point out that the differences in rates of self-employment between countries may result from differences in taxation on the labor provided by self-employed and salaried workers. In the main part of the work, taking advantage of the potential of the EUROMOD tax-benefit microsimulation model, we show that in Europe there is no single model of taxation of work conducted as one’s own business. In the majority of the tax-contribution systems we examined, the profitability of employment or self-employment changes along with changes in income. In light of the regressivity of the burdens on the self-employed, as a rule it begins to be profitable only above a certain income level. In the first part of the work we define the self-employed as those who run a business, and later we distinguish within this group entrepreneurs, meaning those who take on risk and create innovations. Discussing the advantages and disadvantages of self-employment from the point of view of the self-employed and the employer, we point out that the benefits – including systemic (tax and contribution) benefits, outweigh the disadvantages. We also discuss in more detail the imposition of income tax on the self-employed. In the second part we present changes in the value of self-employment over the last 25 years. Here we use data from the World Bank and certain data points from the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC). They allow us to observe how the relationship between the self-employed and the economy is changing: The significance of services provided for other businesses is growing. Additionally, we can see that the significance of self-employment is falling. In Poland the level of (non-agricultural) self-employment is low. The dynamics of the rate of self-employment indicate that the influence of legal regulations on the scale of self-employment is secondary. It seems that in this case, technological and demographic factors are much more significant.
L53|Exportations et exonérations, les deux vont-elles de pair ? Analyse empirique sur données individuelles d’entreprises françaises|Exemptions from employers' social security contributions are by far the most important item of business subsidies. Although their direct influence on job creation, which is their primary objective, has been the subject of numerous evaluations, few researches propose to estimate their influence on competitiveness. This article sheds light on the subject by addressing the issue considering the ability of firms to access external markets through exports. To this end, this article proposes an empirical analysis of the determinants of the probability of exporting, the frequency of exports and their intensity resting on micro data for a sample French manufacturing companies over the 2004-2011 period. Our results highlight a negative effect of the exemptions on companies' export commitment. It is confirmed regardless of the indicator, period and sector selected.
L53|De la responsabilité sociale : à propos des rôles respectifs de l’entreprise et de l’État|La revendication d’une responsabilité sociale de l’entreprise va de pair avec un recul de la capacité d’intervention des États dans le contexte de mondialisation. Cela ne saurait justifier que l’entreprise taxe et dépense en lieu et place de l’État dont elle ne peut détenir ni le pouvoir juridique, ni l’information s’agissant du bien public. L’entreprise est, néanmoins, une source de droit étant, possiblement, à l’initiative d’avancées sociales et environnementales. Son action s’inscrit dans la montée en puissance d’une dualité des ordres juridiques, un ordre étatique et un ordre privé. Ce qui ne dispense en rien d’une validation des règles par l’État ne serait-ce que pour garantir une concurrence équitable et maintenir une hiérarchie des normes. Le mode de gouvernance, qui reflète l’influence des intermédiaires financiers, procède de cette validation et détermine le choix de l’entreprise entre un profit immédiat et un profit à long terme, autrement dit sa réelle responsabilité sociale. Aussi la question, dans le contexte actuel, n’est-elle pas de substituer l’entreprise à l’État, mais de concevoir l’instance publique qui est susceptible de permettre à des entreprises mondialisées de privilégier le long terme.
L53|The characteristics of family firms: exploiting information on ownership, kinship, and governance using total population data|Abstract Family firms are often considered characteristically different from non-family firms. However, our understanding of family firms suffers from an inability to identify them in total population data; information is rarely available regarding owners, their kinship, and their involvement in firm governance. We present a method for identifying domiciled family firms using register data; this method offers greater accuracy than previous methods. We apply this method to Swedish data concerning firm ownership, governance, and kinship from 2004 to 2010. We find that the family firm is a significant organizational form, contributing over one third of all employment and gross domestic product (GDP). Family firms are common in most industries and range in size. Furthermore, we find that, compared to private non-family firms, family firms have fewer total assets, employment, and sales and carry higher solidity, although family firms are more profitable. These differences diminish with firm size. We conclude that the term “family firm” includes a large variety of firms, and we call for increased attention to their heterogeneity.
L53|Political connections and firms : network dimensions|Business and politicians'interaction is pervasive but has mostly been analyzed with a binary approach, i.e. either a firm is connected to a politician or not. Yet the network dimensions of such connections are ubiquitous. This paper uses use a unique data set for seven economies that documents politically exposed persons and their links to companies, political parties, and other individuals. The data set is used to identify networks of connections, including their scale and composition. The analysis finds that all country networks are integrated having a Big Island. They also tend to be marked by small-world properties of high clustering and short path length. Matching the data to firm-level information, the paper examines the association between being connected and firm-level attributes. The originality of the analysis is to identify how location in a network, including the extent of ties and centrality, is correlated with firm scale and performance. In a binary approach, such network characteristics are omitted and the scale and economic impact of politically connected business may be significantly mis/under-estimated. By comparing the results of the binary approach with the network approach, the paper also assesses the biases that result from ignoring network attributes.
L53|Norway’s economy: Maintaining a successful business sector in a changing world|Norway’s success in maintaining high living standards, low inequality and good progress in gender balance owes much to its business sector. High-productivity business-sector jobs support high wages and profits, providing capacity to fund comprehensive public services and inclusive employment practices. Ensuring that the business sector thrives as globalisation and technologies evolve further and as the oil and gas sector enters long-term decline requires maintaining business-friendly conditions. This paper examines framework conditions, notably competition legislation and policy affecting firm entry and exit (“firm dynamics”). It evaluates how best to encourage new business models, as well the growing issue of labour supply among older cohorts. Education policy’s role in providing skills conducive to good lifetime earnings is also discussed.
L53|Structural policies to boost productivity and inclusion in Costa Rica|Owing to past structural reforms, Costa Rica has enjoyed robust GDP growth and productivity levels are gradually converging towards the OECD average. However, large GDP per capita and productivity gaps persist. In addition, not everyone has benefited from this growth. Inequality has increased and labour market conditions are a concern. Costa Rica has a lower share of employed workers in the population than almost all OECD countries, unemployment remains well above its pre-global-financial-crisis level, labour market participation has decreased and the share of informal jobs is high. Recognising these challenges, Costa Rica has accelerated its structural reform momentum recently, with policy reforms underway or planned in several areas that present win-win opportunities to boost both productivity and inclusion. These include efforts to tackle labour market informality, simplify the minimum wage structure, increase competition and reduce regulatory burdens. In addition to further reforms in these priority areas, structural policy improvements are also needed to increase outcomes and reduce inequalities in education and address significant transport infrastructure gaps.
L53|Communautes Et Developpement Local Dans Le Projet Hydroelectrique De Lom Pangar : La Responsabilite Societale Du Maitre D’Ouvrage<BR>[Lom Pangar Hydroelectric Community Development Project: Social Responsibility Of The Owner]|Local communities nowadays play an important role in the implementation of development project. This study gives room for an assessment of the societal impact of an ongoing project in the energy sector in Cameroon. It is of keen interest to international financial institutions sponsoring the project to a great extent. However, it comes out that CSR in its contribution to sustainable development goes beyond the implementation of a project.
L53|Management by Humor: A Path to a Performative Field?|At the crossroads of cultures and languages, the meaningfulness of humor is often construed subjectively such as at workplace (Merritt, 2013). Because how humor is understood often varies across organizational cultures, so does its meaning as well as its intensity (Avolio et al., 1999; Davies, 2009). It gives rise to a question of whether it could be used as an effective management tool. Weather does this difference in understanding humor have any effect on employees? performance? And, how does leader-subordinate working relationship evolve under humor use? The proposed paper examines the connection between humor use and performative influence, drawing on the theoretical construct given in ?Towards a progressive understanding of performativity in critical management studies? by Christopher Wickert and Stephan Schaefer (20014). They define Performative Effects as ?the stimulants for language in order to induce incremental, rather than radical, changes in managerial behavior?. Therefore, humor is not always so favorably viewed at workplace by all employees who could misunderstand a joke of their seniors without any fault of their own; who thus could start suspecting ulterior, sinister motives of their seniors; and who could then resultantly get oversensitive and cautious, especially when seeing how their colleagues are targeted and made a butt of joke by their seniors (see Shamir, 1995).
L53|De la responsabilité sociale : à propos des rôles respectifs de l'entreprise et de l'Etat|La revendication d’une responsabilité sociale de l’entreprise va de pair avec un recul de la capacité d’intervention des États dans le contexte de mondialisation. Cela ne saurait justifier que l’entreprise taxe et dépense en lieu et place de l’État dont elle ne peut détenir ni le pouvoir juridique, ni l’information s’agissant du bien public. L’entreprise est, néanmoins, une source de droit étant, possiblement, à l’initiative d’avancées sociales et environnementales. Son action s’inscrit dans la montée en puissance d’une dualité des ordres juridiques, un ordre étatique et un ordre privé. Ce qui ne dispense en rien d’une validation des règles par l’État ne serait-ce que pour garantir une concurrence équitable et maintenir une hiérarchie des normes. Le mode de gouvernance, qui reflète l’influence des intermédiaires financiers, procède de cette validation et détermine le choix de l’entreprise entre un profit immédiat et un profit à long terme, autrement dit sa réelle responsabilité sociale. Aussi la question, dans le contexte actuel, n’est-elle pas de substituer l’entreprise à l’État, mais de concevoir l’instance publique qui est susceptible de permettre à des entreprises mondialisées de privilégier le long terme.
L53|Political Connections and Firms: Network Dimensions|Business and politician interaction is pervasive but has mostly been analysed with a binary approach. Yet the network dimensions of such connections are ubiquitous. We use a unique dataset for seven economies that documents politically exposed persons (PEPs) and their links to companies, political parties and other individuals. With this dataset, we can identify networks of connections, including their scale and composition. We find that all country networks are integrated having a Big Island. They also tend to be marked by small-world properties of high clustering and short path length. Matching our data to firm level information, we examine the association between being connected and firm-level attributes. The originality of our analysis is to identify how location in a network, including extent of ties and centrality, are correlated with firm scale and performance. In a binary approach such network characteristics are omitted and the scale and economic impact of politically connected business may be significantly mis/under-estimated. By comparing results of the binary approach with our network approach, we can also assess the biases that result from ignoring network attributes.
L53|Skills, entrepreneurship and new business models: Ways to rejuvenate the German industrial model|New business models are at the heart of the global competitive challenge. In several areas of manufacturing and closely related services industries, new market participants, business models and technologies lead to faster change in market conditions and the competitive environment. These developments pose new challenges for the successful German industrial system. Strategic treatment of innovation, a stronger focus on disruptive technologies or business models, organ-izational experimentation such as spin-outs to retain entrepreneurial employees, less intra-cor-porate bureaucracy in such ventures and the interaction with new business partners are key elements to master the evolving challenges. Entrepreneurship, new business models and inno-vation in rapidly changing markets should be fostered by focused approaches of management and general economic policies. This includes measures to facilitate to entrepreneurship educa-tion, an entrepreurial culture and corporate training. [...]
L53|Mid Caps: der große Mittelstand. Die Wirtschaftspolitik berücksichtigt die Relevanz der Mid Caps nicht ausreichend|Die Struktur der deutschen Unternehmenslandschaft wird durch die von der Europäischen Union (EU) vorgegebene strikte Trennung zwischen kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen mit weniger als 250 Beschäftigten einerseits und Großunternehmen andererseits nur schlecht wie-dergegeben. Denn die deutsche Wirtschaft ist stark durch größere Mittelständler - so genannte Mid Caps - geprägt, die mit mehreren hundert oder sogar über 1.000 Mitarbeitern typisch mittelständische Strukturen aufweisen. Hierzu zählen größere Familienunternehmen wie auch kleinere Kapitalgesellschaften. Viele von ihnen sind international agierende Hidden Champions mit starken Exportaktivitäten, die durch zielgerichtete Innovationen führend in ihrem Marktsegment sind. In diesem Policy Paper sollen daher Strukturen und Potenziale des größeren Mittel-stands bis zu einer Schwelle von 3.000 Mitarbeitern in Deutschland näher untersucht werden. Seit 2003 ist die Anzahl der Mid Caps ebenso wie ihre Beschäftigtenzahl jeweils um mehr als ein Drittel angestiegen. Hierzu hat auch ihre starke Präsenz auf Auslandsmärkten innerhalb und au-ßerhalb Europas beigetragen. Doch es gibt auch Risiken für die zentrale Position, die sich Mid Caps und große Familienunternehmen im deutschen Wirtschaftssektor erarbeitet haben: Zwar ist ihr Forschungs- und Entwicklungsleistung beträchtlich, doch die Anzahl innovierender Unternehmen ist insgesamt rückläufig. Ohne kontinuierliche Innovationen werden jedoch die Herausforderungen der Digitalisierung und Globalisierung zukünftig nicht zu meistern sein. Die Studie schließt daher mit Empfehlungen, wie die Wirtschaftspolitik auf die große Bedeutung des größeren Mittelstands angemessen reagieren und vor allem die noch bestehenden Defizite etwa im Forschungs- und Entwicklungsbereich reduzieren kann. Besonders wichtig sind eine steuerliche Forschungsförderung auch für das Mid Cap-Segment und ein wirkungsvoller 'Bürokratie-TÜV' durch Berücksichtigung der Mid Caps im KMU-Test sowie im Mittelstandsmonitor für nationale und europäische Gesetzesvorhaben.
L53|Mid Caps in der Metall- und Elektro-Industrie: Der größere Mittelstand spielt eine entscheidende Rolle|Mittelständisch strukturierte Unternehmen, die die eng definierten Grenzen für kleine und mittlere Unternehmen (KMU) sprengen, spielen eine große Rolle in der deutschen Metall- und Elektro-Industrie (M+E-Industrie). Diese Unternehmen mit 250 bis unter 3.000 Mitarbeitern werden auch als Midrange-Unternehmen oder kurz als Mid Caps bezeichnet. Im Jahr 2016 wurden 2.464 M+E-Unternehmen in dieser Kategorie des gehobenen Mittelstands gezählt, die 1,5 Millionen Mitarbeiter beschäftigten. Mit einem Umsatz von 399 Milliarden Euro trugen sie 31 Prozent zu den Gesamtumsätzen der M+E-Industrie bei und erwirtschafteten 54 Prozent der industriellen Umsätze im Größensegment der Mid Caps. Dabei werden die Mid Caps jedoch sta-tistisch und in den EU-Richtlinien im Allgemeinen als Großunternehmen eingestuft, obwohl es sich bei ihnen ganz überwiegend um mittelständisch strukturierte Firmen mit starker Bindung an ihren jeweiligen Heimatstandort - oft außerhalb der boomenden deutschen Ballungszentren - handelt. Sehr oft sind Unternehmen dieser Größe in Deutschland familien- oder eigentümergeführt. Viele Mid Caps zählen zudem zu den export- und innovationsstarken Hidden Champions, die von hoher Relevanz für den Wirtschaftsstandort Deutschland sind. Doch rückläufige Innovatorenanteile sind ein Warnsignal, dass Forschung und Entwicklung in Deutschland keinen ausreichenden wirtschaftspolitischen Stellenwert besitzen.
L53|In with the Big, Out with the Small: Removing Small-Scale Reservations in India|An ongoing debate in employment policy is whether promoting small and medium enterprises creates jobs. We use the elimination of small-scale industry (SSI) promotion in India to address this question. For 60 years, SSI promotion in India focused on reserving certain products for manufacture by small and medium enterprises. We identify the consequences for employment growth, investment, output, productivity, and wages of dismantling India's SSI reservations. We exploit variation in the timing of de-reservation across products and also measure the long-run impact of national SSI policy changes using variation in pretreatment exposure at the district level. Districts more exposed to de-reservation experienced higher employment and output growth. Entrants into the de-reserved product spaces and incumbents that were previously constrained by the size restrictions drove the increase in growth. The results suggest that dismantling India's SSI policies encouraged overall employment growth.
L53|Financing Innovation: Evidence from R&D Grants|Governments regularly subsidize new ventures to spur innovation. This paper conducts the first large-sample, quasi-experimental evaluation of R&D subsidies. I use data on ranked applicants to the US Department of Energy's SBIR grant program. An early-stage award approximately doubles the probability that a firm receives subsequent venture capital and has large, positive impacts on patenting and revenue. These effects are stronger for more financially constrained firms. Certification, where the award contains information about firm quality, likely does not explain the grant effect. Instead, the grants are useful because they fund technology prototyping.
L53|State aid for the restructuring of the Spanish steel industry from a European perspective (1975–1988)|Given the serious crisis of the European steel industry between 1974 and 1986, the Member States of the European Economic Community allocated a large amount of public resources to avoid the bankruptcy of major steel undertakings and to facilitate restructuring of the sector. In this regard, what the Spanish government did in relation to the steel aids was no exception. The main difference between the Spanish and European Community steel policies was not so much on the amount of the public resources but rather on the use of them in the restructuring process, especially since the 1980s. So while in the EEC steel aids were granted only in exchange for the elimination of surplus capacity, in Spain not adjustment was made until its accession to the European Communities on 1 January 1986. KEY Classification-JEL: L53. L61. N64
L53|Welfare Effects of R&D Support Policies|We build a structural model of the R&D subsidy process incorporating externalities, fixed costs of R&D, and financial market imperfections. We estimate the model using project level R&D and subsidy data from Finland. We conduct a counterfactual analysis of an optimal R&D tax credit policy, the first and second best policies, and laissez-faire with no support and compare them to the subsidy policy used in Finland. We find that the optimal R&D tax credit rate is 0.24, which is lower than the observed average R&D subsidy rate (0.36). R&D participation does not vary across regimes. The R&D investments and spillovers generated by the optimal R&D tax credit and subsidy policies are significantly higher than under laissez-faire but smaller than in the first and second best. Neither tax credits nor subsidies improve welfare compared to laissez-faire.
L53|Welfare effects of R&D support policies|We conduct a welfare analysis of R&D subsidies and tax credits using a model of innovation policy in corporating externalities, limited R&D participation and finanial market imperfetions. We estimate the model using R&D projet level data from Finland. The optimal R&D tax credit rate (0.24) is lower than the average R&D subsidy rate (0.36). The intensive, not the extensive margin of R&D is important for poliy. Tax credits and subsidies inrease R&D investments and spillovers compared to laissez-faire but to levels below the first best. R&D support policies don't improve welfare.
L53|Cities and Entrepreneurs over Time: Like a Horse and Carriage?|Entrepreneurship, being largely an urban phenomenon, co-evolves over time with cities. While this relationship is like a 'horse and carriage', it is not a straightforward one, more akin to 'love and marriage'. In this paper I explore the co-evolution of entrepreneurship and cities. First, I provide a stylized model of development wherein the rise of cities (urbanisation) is the outcome of the activities of entrepreneurs. Second, I provide a stylized overview of entrepreneurship and cities from earlier to later stages of development. In young cities a challenge for establishing an entrepreneurial ecosystem is the provision of infrastructure for business' connectivity and energy. Good urban planning and management skills, including urban policing and dealing with land disputes, may be amongst the most sorely needed in the emerging world today. At more intermediate and later stages of development, cities can become entrepreneurial hotspots and even 'global startup cities'. Three main challenges during these stages, as far as the role of entrepreneurs are concerned, relates to (i) rising property prices and rents, urban congestion and fierce business competition, (ii) environmental sustainability and (iii) the impacts of technology that could make centralization in cities for business purposes unnecessary. Entrepreneurs have important roles to play as property developers and in the creation of new business models and new markets. They can be the drivers of 'smart' cities, 'circular' cities, and of sub-urbanisation and secondary city growth. Over time not all cities, and their entrepreneurs, will necessarily continue to grow and prosper. There is nothing inevitable in the rise of any particular city and the prosperity of its entrepreneurs. Cities do not only generate, they also degenerate. I conclude that the heterogeneity, serendipity and context-specificity of global urbanisation implies that there is much that is still unknown about the specifics of the relationship between cities and its entrepreneurs over time.
L53|Halal Tourism Industry in Indonesia: Potential and Prospects|This study confirms that halal tourism is a tourism industry which has contributed to economic growth in Indonesia, although the world economy slows down. In Indonesia, halal tourism has long been grown in the form of a pilgrimage undertaken by people with religious motivation. Along with the development of the global Islamic economy, then this type of tourism is undergoing a metamorphosis that requires a change in modern ranging from attractions, hotels, up to marketing. The paper combines descriptive of halal tourism industry and practices of Islamic law in Indonesia. This approach found that halal tourism industry can not be separated from the religious practices of the majority of Muslims in Indonesia, but also economically contribute to the local community, and tourist sites that display the beauty and hospitality for tourists Muslims and non-Muslims. This study concludes that halal tourism has become part of the national tourism industry to position Indonesia as a center for halal tourism in the world in the future.
L53|Industri Wisata Halal di Indonesia: Potensi dan Prospek<BR>[Halal tourism industry in Indonesia: Potential and prospects]|This study confirms that halal tourism is a tourism industry which has contributed to economic growth in Indonesia, although the world economy slows down. In Indonesia, halal tourism has long been grown in the form of a pilgrimage undertaken by people with religious motivation. Along with the development of the global Islamic economy, then this type of tourism is undergoing a metamorphosis that requires a change in modern ranging from attractions, hotels, up to marketing. With the phenomenological approach, this study concludes that halal tourism has become part of the national tourism industry to position Indonesia as a center for halal tourism in the world in the future.
L53|Regional development in the context of economic reform: The case of Limassol|Regional development occurs in the larger context of national economies. Thus, the elaboration of regional economic development strategies cannot be separated from higher-level economic policy which frames and conditions opportunities and risks for regional development. As a Southern European country undergoing a process of profound structural economic reform, Cyprus provides a case for a policy context aiming towards the emergence of a new model of economic growth. Within this context, the Limassol region as one of the country’s major economic centers with a number of comparatively strong industries can serve as an example of how to promote regional development in the framework of national reform priorities such as moving the national economy closer towards a knowledge- and innovation-driven model. The present study analyses current reform priorities on the national and supra-national level, takes stock of the regional economic structure of Limassol district, and presents some preliminary ideas that could be further explored if and when a comprehensive regional economic development strategy for Limassol were to be elaborated.
L53|Estimation of foreign MNEs spillovers in Spain| Using Spanish firm-level data, we estimate productivity effects of spillovers from foreign multinationals to domestic firms in both manufacturing and service sectors. We find evidence of a positive productivity effect from multinationals on domestic firms operating in the same industry. Analyzing inter-industry linkages, we find evidence consistent with positive productivity spillovers from forward linkages (i.e. from suppliers to buyers) and negative productivity spillovers from backward linkages (i.e. from buyers to suppliers). Our main results hold when analyzing differences between multinational and domestic firms, and for periods of economic growth and recession, although some differences arise. Interestingly, we find evidence supporting a positive role of spillovers during the last recession period.
L53|Determinants of Registration of Unincorporated Enterprises under State Value Added Tax Act in India|Unincorporated enterprises often bypass formal regulations in general and taxation in particular. Bringing unincorporated enterprises under taxation system is a challenge often faced by tax administrators and it is in this regard the present study explores the factors which influence decision of unincorporated enterprises to get registered with State Value Added Tax (VAT)/ sales tax authority. This analysis is limited to the decision regarding registration. It is not necessary that enterprises which are registered will pay taxes and/or file return- however; the process of registration does provide some information to the tax department for follow up. The study throws up some interesting results for policy makers and tax administrators.
L53|Paralel And Multilayer Economic Dualities: An Example From Hungary|Dualities in an economy may emerge for various reasons, but the general stereotype of high-tech foreign firms at odds with underdeveloped local ones seems to be an oversimplification of the problem. Building on a sample of more than 4,600 Hungarian firms, this paper investigates the parallel existence of various economic dualities. The novelty of this paper is that it concludes that not only several different dualities can be identified, but also that several layers of duality exist. For example, both locally and foreign owned entities are very deferent in efficiency when grouped on export intensity and wage level. This phenomenon makes one-size-fits-all business support programs obsolete; instead it points to the need for tailor-made development frameworks for the various subgroups of companies to aid in their catching-up to Western economies. The highly differentiated picture of companies detailed in this paper should also help economic decision makers to promote investments that truly decrease the lag between the Central and East European countries and Western countries.
L53|Legal possibilities concerning restructuring of companies in business difficulties|Since difficulties during business are an integral part of entrepreneurship, the Croatian legislative offers several restructuring models for companies who have business issues. The pre-bankruptcy agreement is available in cases when the debtor is threatened by insolvency and during this procedure, the business of the company is still managed by the existing management board. However, it is necessary that the pre-bankruptcy procedure is finished within a short deadline. The bankruptcy procedure is commenced on grounds of over-indebtedness and when in a state of incapacity to make payments, Future business is managed by the insolvency practitioner. The extraordinary administration procedure in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia is initiated in cases where large enterprises are faced with bankruptcy or pre-bankruptcy reasons. During this procedure, the business of the parent-company is conducted by the extraordinary trustee. Each of the aforementioned procedures (models) has its specifications and legal consequences for all stakeholders involved (debtor, management board and creditors). This paper will use the comparative legal research methodology to analyze the differences between them: the grounds for commencing the procedures, continuing company’s business operations, deadlines and the aftermaths for the creditors and shareholders of the company. The focus of the paper will be to demonstrate that each procedure can preserve financially positive business of the companies in problems. Several legal models should enable timely restructuring of companies, which can secure the safety of sustainable businesses and help create and maintain employment, while also can reduce the risk in the finance sector connected with converting loans to poor credits. However, the success of the negotiations with relevant stakeholders, namely creditors, and the percentage of creditor’s payment returns largely depend on early detection of business problems and prompt opening of appropriate proceedings.
L53|Determinants of Novice, Portfolio and Serial Entrepreneurship: An Occupational Choice Approach|In this paper we present an occupational choice model for entrepreneurs, in which, based on their individual skills and on the quality of their business, entrepreneurs can keep their original business, open a new business in the same or another sector along the current business (portfolio entrepreneur), shut it down to either start a new one (serial entrepreneur) or to turn to dependent employment. We test our theory using a 10-year panel dataset (2001 to 2010) of more than 4,000 Vietnamese manufacturing firms. We estimate an occupational choice model and a survival model and find that: (i) a greater endowment of human capital is associated with a higher likelihood to become a serial or a portfolio entrepreneur; (ii) A higher quality of the new business is associated to a higher likelihood of being habitual entrepreneurs. Particularly, high entrepreneurial skills together with a high-quality business positively influence the likelihood to be serial or portfolio; (iii) novice entrepreneurs with high entrepreneurial skill and a high-quality business are more likely to keep their business.
L53|Neue Ansätze für die Mittelstandspolitik: Impulse von internationalen Good-Practice-Beispielen|Die vorliegende Studie identifiziert anhand von vier internationalen Good-Practice Beispielen innovative Ansatzpunkte für die Mittelstandspolitik. Die dargestellten Maßnahmen beziehen sich auf die traditionelle Mittelstandspolitik, wie die Verankerung einer Kultur der Selbstständigkeit (Kanada/Österreich), als auch auf die Wahrnehmung von mittelstandsspezifischen Querschnittsaufgaben ohne originäre Zuständigkeit der Mittelstandspolitik: digitale Verwaltung (Estland), digitale Bildung (Niederlande/Finnland). Die analysierten Good-Practice- Beispiele machen deutlich, dass es bei komplexen, neuartigen Politikmaßnahmen hilfreich ist, eine gemeinsame Vision und Umsetzungsstrategie unter Einbindung aller relevanten Stakeholder (Ministerien, Unternehmen, Organisationen und Experten) zu entwickeln. Auch sollten die Maßnahmen in einem Trial-and-Error-Prozess mit begleitenden Unterstützungsmaßnahmen umgesetzt werden, ohne kurzfristig umfassende Erfolge zu erwarten.
L53|Research On Change Management Into Small Family Businesses|In this paper we analyse the impact of family involvement over change into Romanian small family businesses. Accordingly, we have contributed to entrepreneurship generally and family SMEs studies particularly by testing the relationship between family involvements and change. In addition we develop family business theory and entrepreneurship by testing variables as sources of change among family business. Our findings present a broader perspective of Romanian entrepreneurial landscape from family business concepts.
L53|Research on Change Management into Small Family Businesses|In this paper we analyse the impact of family involvement over change into Romanian small family businesses. Accordingly, we have contributed to entrepreneurship generally and family SMEs studies particularly by testing the relationship between family involvements and change. In addition we develop family business theory and entrepreneurship by testing variables as sources of change among family business. Our findings present a broader perspective of Romanian entrepreneurial landscape from family business concepts.
L53|Clusters of Entrepreneurship and Innovation|This paper reviews recent academic work on the spatial concentration of entrepreneurship and innovation in the United States. We discuss rationales for the agglomeration of these activities and the economic consequences of clusters. We identify and discuss policies that are being pursued in the United States to encourage local entrepreneurship and innovation. While arguments exist for and against policy support of entrepreneurial clusters, our understanding of what works and how it works is quite limited. The best path forward involves extensive experimentation and careful evaluation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L53|Employment growth from the Small Business Innovation Research program|This paper investigates employment growth in small firms funded by the U.S. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. Using data collected by the National Research Council for each of five federal agencies, our analysis shows that on average over two-fifths of all projects retained 0 employees after completion and over one-third retained only 1 or 2 employees. Thus, on average, the direct impact of SBIR funded projects on employment is small, especially when compared to the mean number of employees in the firms. However, there are substantial cross-project differences in the number of retained employees that are explained by differences in the firms and their SBIR projects. We find across funding agencies that projects with intellectual property—patents, copyrights, trademarks, or publications—retained more employees after completion of the project. Also, we find that the public funding of research by the SBIR program is more likely to stimulate employment when the government created a market for the products, processes, or services developed by the research projects.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
