L61|Spatial competition and price discrimination with capacity constraints|We characterize mixed-strategy equilibria when capacity constrained suppliers can charge location-based prices to different customers. We establish an equilibrium with prices that weakly increase in the costs of supplying a customer. Despite prices above costs and excess capacities, each supplier exclusively serves its home market in equilibrium. Competition yields volatile market shares and an inefficient allocation of customers to firms. Even ex-post cross-supplies may restore efficiency only partly. We show that consumers may benefit from price discrimination whereas the the firms make the same profits as with uniform pricing. We use our findings to discuss recent competition policy cases and provide hints for a more refined coordinated-effects analysis.
L61|Why is Productivity Correlated with Competition?|The correlation between productivity and competition is an oft–observed but ill–understood result. Some suggest that there is a treatment effect of competition on measured productivity, e.g. through a reduction of managerial slack. Others argue that greater competition makes unproductive establishments exit by reallocating demand to their productive rivals, raising observed average productivity via selection. I study the ready-mix concrete industry and offer three perspectives on this ambivalence. First, using a standard decomposition approach, I find no evidence of greater reallocation of demand to productive plants in more competitive markets. Second, I model the establishment exit decision and construct a semi-parametric selection correction to quantify the empirical significance of treatment and selection. Finally, I use a grouped IV quantile regression to test the distributional predictions of the selection hypothesis. I find no evidence for greater selection or reallocation in more competitive markets; instead, all three results suggest that measured productivity responds directly to competition. Potential channels include specialization and managerial inputs.
L61|Measuring distortions in international markets: the aluminium value chain|This report builds on the OECD’s longstanding work measuring government support in agriculture, fossil fuels, and fisheries in order to estimate support and related market distortions in the aluminium value chain. Results show that non-market forces, and government support in particular, appear to explain some of the recent increases in aluminium-smelting capacity. While government support is commonly found throughout the aluminium value chain, it is especially heavy in the People’s Republic of China and countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council. Looking across the whole value chain also shows subsidies upstream to confer significant support to downstream activities, such as the production of semi-fabricated products of aluminium. Overall, market distortions appear to be a genuine concern in the aluminium industry, and one that has implications for global competition and the design of trade rules disciplining government support.
L61|Ownership and Productivity in Vertically-Integrated Firms: Evidence from the Chinese Steel Industry|We study productivity differences in vertically-integrated Chinese steel facilities using a unique data set that provides equipment-level information on material inputs and output in physical units and equipment size for each of the three main stages in the steel value chain, i.e., sintering, pig-iron making, and steel making. We find that private vertically-integrated facilities are more productive than provincial state-owned (SOEs) facilities, followed by central SOEs. This ranking lines up with our productivity estimates in the two downstream production stages, but central SOEs outperform in sintering, most likely because of their superior access to higher quality raw materials. The productivity differential favoring private facilities declines with their size, turning negative for facilities larger than the median. These patterns are linked with equipment-level TFP in private firms as size expands, and the internal configuration of vertically-integrated facilities, which reflect the greater constraints facing private firms. Increasing returns to scale at the stage and facility-level partially offset these costs and rationalize firms' choice on larger vertically-integrated facilities.
L61|Spatial Competition and Price Discrimination with Capacity Constraints|We characterize mixed-strategy equilibria when capacity constrained suppliers can charge location-based prices to different customers. We establish an equilibrium with prices that weakly increase in the costs of supplying a customer. Despite prices above costs and excess capacities, each supplier exclusively serves its home market in equilibrium. Competition yields volatile market shares and an inefficient allocation of customers to firms. Even ex-post cross-supplies may restore efficiency only partly. We show that consumers may benefit from price discrimination whereas the the firms make the same profits as with uniform pricing. We use our findings to discuss recent competition policy cases and provide hints for a more refined coordinated-effects analysis.
L61|Secrets for sale? Innovation and the nature of knowledge in an early industrial district: the Potteries, 1750-1851|This paper investigates innovation and knowledge in the North Staffordshire Potteries during the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. It evaluates new empirical evidence of formal and informal patterns of knowledge creation and dissemination in order to highlight tensions between forms of open knowledge sharing and the appropriation of returns to innovative activity. By presenting new patent data it shows that formal protection was not a widespread strategy in the industry. It uses patent specifications to determine what specific types of knowledge were, and could be, patented in the district, and by whom. A range of sources are used to demonstrate evidence of innovation and knowledge appropriation outside of the patent system. The paper identifies distinct types of knowledge in the industry and shows how differences in these led to a range of strategies being employed by potters, with the role of secrecy highlighted as a particularly prevalent and effective strategy.
L61|El Mercado del Litio y la Revolución de las Energías Renovables|El presente documento analiza, de manera sintética, cómo la revolución de las energías renovables puede afectar en la próxima década el balance de oferta y demanda de litio a nivel mundial. Analizando la información disponible sobre el consumo y oferta del carbonato de litio, se esbozan algunos escenarios sobre la potencial evolución del mercado del litio. Finalmente, se analiza las posibilidades de desarrollar los recursos de litio en el Perú durante la próxima revolución renovable.
L61|Spatial Competition with Capacity Constraints and Subcontracting|We characterize mixed-strategy equilibria when capacity constrained suppliers can charge location-based prices to different customers. We establish an equilibrium with prices that weakly increase in the costs to supply a customer. Despite prices above costs and excess capacities, each supplier exclusively serves its home market in equilibrium. Competition yields volatile market shares and an inefficient allocation of customers to firms. Even ex-post cross-supplies may restore efficiency only partly. We use our findings to discuss recent competition policy cases and provide hints for a more refined coordinated-effects analysis.
L61|Choosing the Production Function Model for an Optimal Measurement of the Restructuring Efficiency of the Polish Metallurgical Sector in Years 2000–2015|Between 2000 and 2015, the Polish metallurgical sector was subject to serious restructuring. Presented research aimed at providing a framework for possibly most accurate measurement of efficiency of this process. The study employed: (I) Quantitative research for elaboration of production function models: power regression Cobb-Douglas function with its developments; (II) Qualitative research: Analytic Hierarchy Process for assessment of relevance of efficiency evaluation criteria in reference to various production function models in metallurgy sector: (i) sectoral added value (net production); (ii) production sold; and, (iii) steel production volume. Criteria relevance has been assessed by scientists and practitioners with specialization in metallurgy. As a result the sectoral added value function has been chosen as the one that optimally reflects sector’s restructuring efficiency. This, in turn, constitutes a qualitative confirmation of previous research result, which has been verified with a quantitative method. Practical outcome is a more precise modelling of efficiency of restructuring processes in the metallurgical sector, both for scientific and business needs. The main research limitations originate from the sector itself—in order to make our tool more universal, further research should be led in parallel branches of industry.
L61|Loss Minimization through the Allocation of DGs Considering the Stochastic Nature of Units|Smart grid as the cleaner alternative to the legacy power system can improve technical, economical, and environmental aspects of the system up to a considerable degree. In smart grids, Distributed Generation (DG) units; which play an important role, should be optimally allocated. In this paper, DG placement is conducted with the goal of loss minimization of the grid considering the technical limitations associated with the voltage profile of the buses as well as the stochastic nature of the DGs. In this paper, three different kinds of DGs are included which are wind turbines, solar panels, and biomass generators. The results related to the case study which is IEEE standard 33 bus system reveals that the costs can be dramatically decreased.
L61|Application of Artificial Neural Networks in Cold Rolling Process|Rolling is one of the most complicated processes in metal forming. Knowing the exact amount of basic parameters, especially inter-stand tensions can be effective in controlling other parameters in this process. Inter-stand tensions affect rolling pressure, rolling force, forward and backward slips and neutral angle. Calculating this effect is an important step in continuous rolling design and control. Since inter-stand tensions cannot be calculated analytically, attempt is made to describes an approach based on artificial neural network (ANN) in order to identify the applied parameters in a cold tandem rolling mill. Due to the limited experimental data, in this subject a five stand tandem cold rolling mill is simulated through finite element method. The outputs of the FE simulation are applied in training the network and then, the network is employed for prediction of tensions in a tandem cold rolling mill. Here, after changing and checking the different designs of the network, the 11-42-4 structure by one hidden layer is selected as the best network. The verification factor of ANN results according to experimental data are over R=0.9586 for training and testing the data sets. The experimental results obtained from the five stands tandem cold rolling mill. This paper proposed new ANN for prediction of inter-stand tensions. Also, this ANN method shows a fuzzy control algorithm for investigating the effect of front and back tensions on reducing the thickness deviations of hot rolled steel strips. The average of the training and testing data sets is mentioned 0.9586. It means they have variable values which are discussed in details in section 4. According to Table 7, this proposed ANN model has the correlation coefficients of 0.9586, 0.9798, 0.9762 and 0.9742, respectively for training data sets and 0.9905, 0.9798, 0.9762 and 0.9803, respectively for the testing data sets. These obtained numbers indicate the acceptable accuracy of the ANN method in predicting the inter-stand tensions of the rolling tandem mill. This method provides a highly accurate solution with reduced computational time and is suitable for on-line control or optimization in tandem cold rolling mills. Due to the limited experimental data, for data extraction for the ANN simulation, a 2D tandem cold rolling process is simulated using ABAQUS 6.9 software. For designing a network for this rolling problem, various structures of neural networks are studied in MATLAB 7.8 software.
L61|Competition, collusion and spatial sales patterns: Theory and evidence|We study competition in markets with significant transport costs and capacity constraints. We compare the cases of price competition and coordination in a theoretical model and find that when firms compete, they more often serve more distant customers that are closer to plants of competitors. By means of a rich micro-level data set of the cement industry in Germany, we provide empirical evidence in support of this result. Controlling for other potentially confounding factors, such as the number of production plants and demand, we find that the transport distances between suppliers and customers were on average significantly lower in cartel years than in non-cartel years.
L61|State aid for the restructuring of the Spanish steel industry from a European perspective (1975–1988)|Given the serious crisis of the European steel industry between 1974 and 1986, the Member States of the European Economic Community allocated a large amount of public resources to avoid the bankruptcy of major steel undertakings and to facilitate restructuring of the sector. In this regard, what the Spanish government did in relation to the steel aids was no exception. The main difference between the Spanish and European Community steel policies was not so much on the amount of the public resources but rather on the use of them in the restructuring process, especially since the 1980s. So while in the EEC steel aids were granted only in exchange for the elimination of surplus capacity, in Spain not adjustment was made until its accession to the European Communities on 1 January 1986. KEY Classification-JEL: L53. L61. N64
L61|Competition in the International Niobium Market: An Econometric Study|Niobium is a highly strategic mineral, in which Brazil holds almost all of the world’s reserves followed by Canada. Niobium has an important role in steel alloys for the aerospace industry and future potential for the industry’s superconductors. The present paper investigates the prevailing market power in niobium at the country level by referencing the residual demand approach advanced by Goldberg and Knetter (1999). The empirical evidence for the American destination market indicates a significant market power for Brazil. However, despite Brazil’s strong dominance in the supply of ferroniobium in comparison to Canada, it has moderate market power, which may suggest that other metals can have a relevant role in composing high performance alloys in terms of complementarity or substitution relationships.
L61|Zone Pricing in Retail Oligopoly|We quantify the welfare effects of zone pricing, or setting common prices across distinct markets, in retail oligopoly. Although monopolists can only increase profits by price discriminating, this need not be true when firms face competition. With novel data covering the retail home-improvement industry, we find that Home Depot would benefit from finer pricing but that Lowe's would prefer coarser pricing. Zone pricing softens competition in markets where firms compete, but it shields consumers from higher prices in rural markets, where firms might otherwise exercise market power. Overall, zone pricing produces higher consumer surplus than finer price discrimination does.
L61|Benchmarks for emissions trading – general principles for emissions scope|Greenhouse gas emission benchmarks are widely implemented as a policy tool, as more countries move to implement carbon pricing mechanisms for industrial emissions. In particular, benchmarks are used to determine the level of free allowance allocation in emission trading schemes, which are distributed as a measure to prevent carbon leakage. This paper analyses how benchmark designs impact firms’ production and business model decisions, particularly focusing on the coverage of direct and indirect emissions in the benchmark scope. We develop an analytical model and use the example of a steel mill to analyze and quantify how scope of indirect emissions coverage affect incentives. We seek to clarify generalized principles for efficient benchmark design, that provide a predictable policy framework for innovation and investment to decarbonize energy intensive industry.
L61|Relation between Environmental Impact and Financial Structure of Cement Industry|This study aims to investigate financial structure of cement firms, which facing environmental regulations and impacts. In this study financial ratio of 16 cement firms that are listed in Istanbul stock exchange analyzed for the years 2011-2013. The key concept of this research is related to which debt ratios and financial structure are mainly affected by environmental data at cement firms on an emerging market. We developed two equations in order to analyze the relation between environment and financial structure. We found that there is a significant relation on emission levels while there is no significant relation on carbon dioxide levels with financial ratios. Sales, gross profit margins, current ratios have positive impact on industry emission levels. Moreover, earnings before interest and tax, liquidity ratio, financial leverage ratio and accounts receivable turnover ratios have negative impact on industry emission levels.
L61|Range-based and GARCH volatility estimation: Evidence from the French asset market|This paper aims to measure and compare French stock and bond market volatilities using various range-based volatility estimators and conditional heteroskedasticity models. Particularly, we measure volatility for stock returns related to five major companies operating in different sectors and four French bonds with different maturity dates and different reference indices.
L61|The global iron and steel industry: from a bilateral oligopoly to a thwarted monopsony|China’s growing urbanization and the speed of its manufacturing industry development led to a shock in steel demand at the beginning of the 2000’s and consequently to a shock across the iron and steel industry. In this paper, we carry out descriptive analysis of the evolution in the market structure and the related power market shifting. From a steady situation where few steelmakers negotiated with few mining firms in order to set up the annual price, the market evolved to a new price fixing process resulting from a supply-demand confrontation, like the move seen for most of the other materials a few decades ago. Moreover, the shock and the related events that occurred years after, led to a new composition of stakeholders in the iron and steel sectors, both on the demand and supply sides. In this new context, China has become an essential actor, modifying the industrial structure from a bilateral oligopoly to a thwarted monopsony.
L61|Recycling of a Primary Resource and Market Power: The Alcoa Case|The purpose of this paper is threefold. First, it investigates the influence of the prospect of recycling on the per-period market power of an extractor, which can be associated with Alcoa when the recycling sector it faces is competitive. Second, it analyzes whether or not the extractor’s first period market power is affected when it is capacity constrained. Third, it explores whether the structure of the recycling sector affects the extractor’s per-period market power or not. Toward these ends, we study a two-period Cournot framework where the extractor produces aluminum over two consecutive periods. In the second period, it engages in competition with a recycling sector that can be competitive or not. Our results run as follows. (1) When the recycling sector is not competitive, recycling does not affect the extractor’s first period market power but increases its second period market power. (2) When the recycling sector is competitive, the extractor’s second period market power increases with the recycled output but becomes lower (compared to the non-competitive case), while its first period market power can be lower or higher (compared to the non-competitive case). Then, it can increase or decrease with the recycled output. (3) In either case, the extractor’s first period market power further increases when the primary resource constraint is binding. (4) We also show that the extractor’s market power can increase or decrease over time.
L61|Volatility Dynamics of Precious Metals: Evidence from Russia|This paper examines the volatility dynamics of four precious metals (gold, silver, platinum, and palladium) that are traded in Russia from 2000 to 2014. More specifically, it focuses on the following issues: (i) Presence of long memory property and structural breaks in returns and volatility series of precious metals by deploying semi-parametric methods and modified ICSS algorithm; and (ii) Correlation levels among precious metals by using DCC-MGARCH approach. The findings show that there is strong evidence of long memory property in the conditional volatility of all precious metals. Concerning the dynamic constant correlation, precious metals are highly correlated with each other. Although gold is the least volatile metal, the correlation increases significantly when it is paired with other precious metals. The findings further suggest that silver can be a good diversifier investment due to its low correlation with other precious metals.
L61|The Schneider company as a key actor of the industrial war in 1914-1918|At the heart of the economic war and as leverage to the military war, some companies asserted themselves as essential suppliers of the armies. They constituted poles of investment, innovation, and production, that complied to the ever growing orders of the state. Schneider reinforced therefore its equipments in Le Creusot, in Normandy and in Gironde, supported by the banks, in particular for its purchases in the United-States. It also the head of a cluster, of a group of companies cooperating for the main orders. As a hub-firm, it mobilised thus dozens of suppliers and sub-contractors. It earmarked it portfolios of skills to the arts of steel-working, metal-working, and mechanics (artillery, tanks, etc.). Throughout these developments it had to reinvent its management and follow new tracks for efficiency.
L61|Macroeconomic implications of switching to process-emission-free iron and steel production in Europe| Options to significantly reduce global greenhouse gas emissions in line with long-term political targets include switches in production technologies to those free of industrial process emissions. Exemplifying this transition, we analyse such a switch of the European iron and steel industry and its sectoral, macroeconomic and social implications. We employ a recursive-dynamic multi-region multi-sector computable general equilibrium approach in order to cover feedback effects originating from the integration of European sectors in a globally embedded context. Against the backdrop of a globally implemented CO2 price trajectory, we investigate how the range of macroeconomic implications depends on (i) the timing of the switch (either starting early in 2020 or late in 2035) and (ii) the investment and operating cost of two promising low-carbon technologies. We distinguish between high-cost and low-cost technological specifications, though both face cost disadvantages relative to conventional iron and steel production for current intermediate inputs and primary factors. An early implementation of a `high-cost' technological alternative further reduces long-term GDP in 2050 among EU regions (-2.3% to -0.5% as compared to -1.4% to -0.3% for a late implementation starting in 2035). By contrast, GDP implications in 2050 seem to be unconstrained by early or late implementation of a `low-cost' technology (regional range of -0.3% to 0.9% for both). However, welfare is reduced, particularly during the initial implementation phase since additional investment to build up new facilities reduces output available for other consumption needs. This `build-up' might represent a barrier to such transitions, as the generation to decide on implementation and potentially bearing (macro)economic costs might not be the generation benefitting from it.
L61|Non-ferrous Metals Manufacturing: Vision for 2050 and Actions Needed|The European non-ferrous metals manufacturing industry is a strategic sector directly employing 500,000 people and supplying products for numerous crucial downstream industrial sectors. As a capital intensive industry, its investment horizon spans over decades and is thus particularly in need of adopting a long-term strategic perspective. This foresight study applied a highly participatory, qualitative methodology that gathered representatives of the non-ferrous metals industry, research institutions, policymakers, trade unions and stakeholders from upstream and downstream sectors. This methodology allowed: (1) to define a long-term (2050) vision for the non-ferrous metals manufacturing industry and (2) to propose concrete actions for the industry itself, policymakers, and other stakeholders, to address the challenges faced by the sector (trade and competition, innovation, resources, business integrity and skills) on its path towards the vision.
L61|Benchmarks for Emissions Trading – General Principles for Emissions Scope|Greenhouse gas emission benchmarks are widely implemented as a policy tool, as more countries move to implement carbon pricing mechanisms for industrial emissions. In particular, benchmarks are used to determine the level of free allowance allocation in emission trading schemes, which are distributed as a measure to prevent carbon leakage. This paper analyses how benchmark designs impact firms’ production and business model decisions, particularly focusing on the coverage of direct and indirect emissions in the benchmark scope. We develop an analytical model and use the example of a steel mill to analyze and quantify how scope of indirect emissions coverage affect incentives. We seek to clarify generalized principles for efficient benchmark design, that provide a predictable policy framework for innovation and investment to decarbonize energy intensive industry.
L61|Insight into the Hungarian Automotive Industry in International Comparison|The paper examines the features of the Hungarian automotive industry1 in international comparison, in the form of a descriptive analysis. The comparison focuses primarily on the automotive industry of the Visegrád region, Germany and Austria, as well as on processes in the EU. The analysis reviews the academic background of the sector, and then provides an insight into the history of the automotive industry of the Visegrád region, focusing on the socialist past of the automotive industry and the consequences thereof. In the last part of the analysis, we compare contemporary Hungarian industry trends with the features of it in the Visegrád countries and Europe, based on the statistics of Eurostat, by company size and ownership structure, as well as on the corporate income tax return database of the Hungarian tax authority (NAV). The main conclusion of the paper is that the automotive industry shows outstanding productivity within the Hungarian national economy, but on the other hand, the SMEs of the sector are less productive than large enterprises and this difference is the highest in Hungary within the region. In order to change the situation, large foreign enterprises should outsource their higher value added activity in the region and raise wages accordingly, and on the other hand, it would be necessary to strengthen and advance Hungarianowned SMEs within the value chain.
L61|Copper Theft in the United States|Using monthly data for three proxies of copper theft, this article uses multivariate regression models to examine the relationship between copper prices and copper theft in the United States from 2006 through mid-2013. The findings indicate that copper thefts, as proxied by insurance claims for copper theft, newspaper articles in LexisNexis mentioning copper theft, and Google searches, are positively related to copper prices with the former two reflecting a constant elasticity not statistically different from unity. There is some evidence that copper thefts are related to the general pattern of property crime but there is no evidence that copper thefts are related to unemployment or foreclosures.
L61|Analyzing investment strategies under changing energy and climate policies: an interdisciplinary bottom-up approach regarding German metal industries|Abstract German metal producers face an intense international competition. The comparably high domestic energy and production costs additionally challenge the producers. Beside this, German energy intensive industries (GEII) are embedded in a complex regulatory framework induced by energy and climate policies. These policies consist of different economic political instruments which are regularly changed to incentivize greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. Therefore, future investment decisions in energy efficiency increasing technologies (EEIT) have to be evaluated dependent on these changing political conditions. Thus, actors in the metal industry need decision support in developing sustainable investment strategies which withstand different political developments. Given these circumstances, we develop an actor-oriented simulation model which simulates the optimal future investment decisions of all German iron, steel and aluminum producing plants under different political conditions based on a detailed plant-specific technical process description. Thereby, economic and engineering parameters are combined in an interdisciplinary approach to derive future investment strategies for the metal producing plants facing probable political changes. This approach closes the scientific gap between top-down oriented studies which usually are not capable of representing detailed plant-specific aspects and solely technical oriented studies which are often limited to a single plant or facility.
L61|Crucial Materials? How Export Restrictions Upstream Boost Manufacturing Exports Downstream|This paper shows both theoretically and empirically how raw material rich countries use export restrictions upstream to give manufacturing sectors downstream a competitive advantage. For young and relatively small industries this can be seen as a type of infant industry protection that takes advantage of the global value chain. Estimating a fixed effect model, I provide evidence that export restrictions on industrial raw materials upstream help promote manufacturing exports downstream.
L61|Spatial Competition with Capacity Constraints and Subcontracting|We characterize mixed-strategy equilibria when capacity constrained suppliers can charge location-based prices to different customers. We establish an equilibrium with prices that weakly increase in the costs to supply a customer. Despite prices above costs and excess capacities, each supplier exclusively serves its home market in equilibrium. Competition yields volatile market shares and an inefficient allocation of customers to firms. Even ex-post cross-supplies may restore efficiency only partly. We use our findings to discuss recent competition policy cases and provide hints for a more refined coordinated-effects analysis.
L61|A Klímapolitikai Intézkedések És A Zöld Innováció Hatása Az Európai Unió Iparára – Esettanulmány Az Acéliparból| Napjaink egyik legnagyobb klímapolitikai kihívása a szén-szivárgás. A koncepció lényege, hogy a szigorú környezeti – főként klímapolitikai – szabályozás eredményeként a termelők más országokba költöznek, ahol nem kell komoly elvárásoknak megfelelniük. Ennek eredménye egy olyan aranyközépút keresése, amely tulajdonképpen azért nem működik, mert egyik véglet felé sem képes elhatárolódni. Az Európai Uniónak egyik oldalról tartania kell magát a klímaváltozás megelőzéséért kialakított politikájához. Másik oldalról viszont – felismerve az általa generált gazdasági nyomást – támogatnia kell a szén-szivárgás által veszélyeztetett iparágakat annak érdekében, hogy helyben tudja tartani a termelést. Jelen tanulmány célja az, hogy az EU klímapolitikájának általános elemzésén túl egy iparági esettanulmány segítségével betekintést nyújtson egy konkrét szektor működésébe klímapolitikai aspektusból. Tanulmányunkban bemutatásra kerülnek az Európai Unió acéliparának közelmúltbeli tendenciái, majd azon fejlesztési pontok is, amelyek mentén képes lehet klímabarát módon operálni a fennmaradása érdekében. A folyamatos piaci akadályokba ütköző környezetvédelmi koncepcióknak szüksége van arra, hogy korunk gazdasági berendezkedése mellett is értelmezhetőek legyenek. A szén-szivárgás visszaszorításához elengedhetetlen a megfelelő finanszírozási környezet megteremtése, amely csak a piaci szereplők bevonásával érhető el. ----------------------------- Carbon leakage is one of the greatest challenges the climate policy must face nowadays. It occurs whenever the environmental – mostly climate – regulation turns to be so rigorous, it forces producers to outsource their production to certain countries where the legislation framework is not that strict. Eventually, it results in seeking a middle path which cannot properly function since policy makers are not able to commit themselves to an extreme. In the first place the European Union has to cling to it’s climate change mitigation policy. On the other hand – realizing the economic pressure of it – the EU is also obligated to support the industries endangered by carbon leakage in order to keep the production within the borders. The aim of the present research is to go beyond the regular examination of the European climate policy and provide with a practical case study regarding an industrial sector. The study is going to introduce the trends of the European steel industry and highlight the possible improvement points toward a climate friendly operation. The environmental concepts of our age frequently fail to face the obstacles of the market so they need to be interpreted based on the present economic framework. The fight against the carbon leakage requires an appropriate financing environment which can only be achieved with the involvement of the operators.
L61|The place of gold in the cross-market dependencies|This paper investigates the inter-relationships between the gold price on the one hand, other precious metals (e.g. silver, palladium, platinum) and asset markets (e.g. stocks, bonds, crude oil) on the other hand. The econometric methodology relies on the Markov-switching BEKK model by Haas and Mittnik (2008) that captures time-varying correlations and bull-bear regimes for bivariate specifications. The model is applied to daily data from 1988 to 2013. The main results indicate that gold’s influence, through return and/or volatility spillovers, seems almost intact whatever the economic regime. Robustness checks of the statement that gold occupies a special place among commodities are provided under the form of a multi-asset portfolio management exercise.
L61|Die nordrhein-westfälische Metall- und Elektroindustrie im Jahr 2015|Mit ihren rund 3,8 Millionen Beschäftigten ist die Metall- und Elektroindustrie (M+E-Industrie) die größte Industriebranche in Deutschland. Davon waren 2015 allein mehr als 700 000 Personen in mehr als 5 700 Betrieben in Nordrhein-Westfalen tätig. Die Produktion in der nordrhein-westfälischen M+E-Industrie ist im vergangenen Jahr um 1,3% zurückgegangen. Insgesamt war die Produktion in den Betrieben der Metall- und Elektroindustrie in drei der vergangenen vier Jahre rückläufig. Insgesamt deuten die Ergebnisse aus dem ersten Quartal 2016 auch nicht darauf hin, dass sich der Konjunkturverlauf im laufenden Jahr für die M+E-Industrie in Nordrhein-Westfalen deutlich verbessern wird. Ein Verharren auf dem Niveau des Vorjahres wäre im Lauf dieses Jahres bereits ein kleiner Erfolg. Die weitere Entwicklung wird dabei von verschiedenen Unsicherheitsfaktoren beeinflusst, die vor allem die stark vom Außenhandel abhängige M+E-Industrie betreffen. Dazu zählen die ungewisse Entwicklung Chinas und anderer Schwellenländer ebenso wie die Entwicklung der Preise für Öl und andere Rohstoffe. Einflussfaktoren sind auch politische Prozesse, insbesondere die Entwicklung in der EU, infolge des Referendums in Großbritannien, sowie in den Krisenregionen im Nahen und Mittleren Osten.
L61|Non-Ferrous Exports Concentration And Global Investments|In the context of high-tech and telecommunication, non-ferrous sector has a crucial role in industries development. Cooper, nickel, aluminum, zinc, lead and tin are used, directly or indirectly, in most of the technologies, especially in high-tech production. The paper present a short index of the global investments for the non-ferrous transnational corporations listed on London Metal Exchange. The non-ferrous investment index presented in the paper refers to the most profitable corporation exports on world, European Union (EU28) and Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) level. The export concentration, estimated through Herfindahl-Hirschmann index on world, EU28, CEE and Romanian level, show that the non-ferrous industry is in full process of releasing. The cases presented in the article show that the non-ferrous companies invest intensively in equipment and technologies with superior production capacities, which combat pollution given by non-ferrous processes, research and development for the non-ferrous innovative technologies, and creating new markets. Sustainable and intelligent development is the inflexion point of the non-ferrous transnational corporation investments. The research is predominant in exploration of the transnational corporations’ internet pages and reports, and statistical calculus from international trade websites.
L61|Renewable Energy Investments During 2004-2015 Period|"The article presents important considerations on the renewable energy investments from world and European level. The paper points out Europe's position in the current world context. Research is an exploratory one, being supported by statistical interpretations made by the author based on analysis of the ""Global Trends in the renewable energy sector"" report (2016), United Nations Environment Programme in collaboration with Bloomberg under the auspices of the School of Finance and Management in Frankfurt. Conceptually, the paper presents the most important points of the oscillation investments in the renewable energy sector worldwide. The level of investment in the renewable energy sector offers an accurate picture of the extent of decarbonisation."
L61|Correlation Between Public Funding And Non-Ferrous Industry. Evidence From Cee And Romania|The paper aims at presenting important approaches of the influence of the public funding to industry, especially non-ferrous, in the Countries from Eastern Europe (CEE) and Romania. Studies presented in the paper show that the industry funding had been sustained by the European Commission in the community area, but particularly in CEE area. The impact of industry funding will never be exactly measured, but important data can be presented in order to foresee the future development of the European industry. Specific for non-ferrous industry, in the article there are presented important items, as turnover, value added cost, exports, production, which are correlated to EU funds absorption in order to measure the efficiency of the public funding for 2007-2013 period (national and EU funds) and the welfare of the CEE and Romanian non-ferrous sector.
L61|Le ferriere genovesi in età preindustriale: aspetti tecnici, innovazioni e declino [Genoese ironworks in preindustrial age: techniques, innovations and decline]|"These pages take up very briefly, the results of a series of research on ""The steel industry of the Ligurian ancient regime (sec. XV-XIX): technical, settlement, language"", one of the first activities developed by the Centre for Study of History Technology (CSST) of CNR of Genoa, since the early seventies. The study on the local production of iron in the pre-industrial age, has identified a number of production sites in particular settled Ligurian Apennines, the detecting method of reduction of iron ore - direct method of low fire - and technical innovations adopted in the production process, from bellows to idroeholic machine, the change in the composition of the charge: iron ore, scrap iron in different percentages and fluxes. They did not miss, in the course of research, comparisons with other steel settlements that used the same method of the low fire, particularly the ironworks Catalan and also references to other production sites that operated differently, with the indirect method or blast furnace, just in the neighboring Tuscan area. Research has achieved a sufficiently clear activity practiced by the genoese steel industry ironworks of old regime, considering all the technical-scientific difficulties accompanying historical aspects.Therefore, this paper highlights some moments, especially economic and technical, of a very broad research and aims to point out some possible interpretations that have emerged during that long period of investigation. However, the interpretation of the low fire Genoese as technical back, compared to the blast furnace ""at the Brescian way"" and that has been given by researchers from the CSST - while trying appreciation historic - a recent article that we point out in the course of these pages, provides useful information for the genoese technical not considering it outdated compared to contemporary blast furnace ""at the Brescian way""; in fact, the Genoese being linked to the elbano mineral could not operate differently, demonstrating among other things, most suitable technique. Therefore, suggestions and criticisms in the historical re-reading of one of the oldest and main activity are welcomed, and all that requires further study, in view of the fact that the old genoese ironworks also lost the memory, in favor of more recent term ""Catalan"".Finally, to investigate historical technique of ancient genoese ironworks we also give here a small push to observe and investigate historically the subsequent to the current complex technical steel works (when it was possible to give more toughness to the steel using the alloys) in consideration that the steel industry and metallurgy, despite the increasing scientific knowledge of metal properties, is still today an essentially empirical activity in which the production of new alloys stimulates the search and, substantially, takes place proceeding by trial and error."
L61|Inclusion of Consumption into Emissions Trading Systems: Legal Design and Practical Administration|A world of unequal carbon prices requires measures aimed at preventing carbon leakage. Climate policy imperatives demand that such measures must be compatible with the goal of sending a carbon price signal down the value chain. For carbon intensive materials, the combination of dynamic free allocation combined with Inclusion of Consumption (IoC) into emissions trading systems such as the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) arguably fulfils both the aims of preventing carbon leakage and of sending the price signal. The paper presents concrete proposals regarding the legal design and practical administration of this mechanism. It argues that the IoC is, provided appropriate choices are made, ripe for implementation.
L61|The impact of downward/upward oil price movements on metal prices|We examine the impact of large upward/downward oil price movements on metal prices and the asymmetric response of metal prices to large oil price movements. We use copulas to characterize dependence between oil and metal price returns and we quantify spillover effects by computing the unconditional and conditional value-at-risk. Taking price data for ten metals – six industrial (aluminium, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc) and four precious (gold, silver, palladium and platinum) – widely traded on the London Metal Exchange for the period 2000 to 2015, our empirical evidence indicates that large downward and upward oil price movements had spillover effects on all these metals both before and after the outbreak of the global financial crisis. The fact that spillovers for upward oil price movements were larger than for downward oil price movements provides evidence of asymmetric spillover effects. Our results have implications for downside and upside risk management for investors and manufacturers.
L61|Analisys Of Learning Development Three Levels: Individual, Group And Organizational And Its Relationship With The Percieved Competitive Advantage Of The Company, Analisis Del Desarrollo Del Aprendizaje En Sus Tres Niveles: Individual, Grupal Y Organizacional Y Su Relacion Con La Ventaja Competitiva Percibida De La Empresa|The development of organizational learning is essential, because when it is superior to competitors, it can be used strategically to influence the competitive advantage of firms. This study analyses the relationship between organizational learning within its three different levels: individual, group and organizational. We also examine how these levels impact the competitive advantage perceived in eight big manufacturing companies of the central region of the state of Coahuila, Mexico. The methodology is a quantitative approach consisting of applying a structured questionnaire to a non-probabilistic sample of 391 workers and employees. The results show that organizational learning, at the three levels, it is related to perceived competitive advantage
L61|Cartelization, Cartel Breakdown, and Price Behavior: Evidence from the German Cement Industry|We use a unique dataset of about 340,000 market transactions from 36 smaller and larger customers of German cement producers to study the price behavior before and after the breakdown of a German cement cartel. We find that, first, while the cartel agreement was active, cartel members set higher list prices than non-cartel members; however, larger rebates granted by the cartel members led to similar transaction prices. Second, after the cartel breakdown, both cartel- and non-cartel members reduced transaction prices to a far larger extent than list prices. We build on these results and discuss implications for competition policy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
L61|Impact of Global Financial Crisis and Implied Volatility in the Equity Market on Gold Futures Traded on Multi Commodity Exchange, India|Gold is one of the most highly traded commodities in the Indian Commodity Market. It can be traded either in the spot market or the futures market, options contracts are not permitted in the Indian commodity market. In this study, the price behaviour of Gold futures traded on Multi Commodity Exchange are analysed from the year 2007 to year 2013. The issue of the introduction of option contracts on Gold in the Indian commodity market has been addressed through: (a) Presence of short term persistence in return volatility (b) Impact of recent Global Financial Crisis on daily return volatility (c) Impact of implied volatility of equity market on return and weekly return volatility. The study indicates the presence of short term persistence in return volatility of gold as well as the influence of the recent Global financial crisis on return volatility of the metal. It is also observed that that the implied volatility of equity market affects the weekly returns as well as weekly return volatility of a futures contract of Gold.
L61|Linkages between Gold Futures Traded in Indian Commodity Futures Market and International Commodity Futures Market|Given that gold futures contracts are one of the most actively traded commodity futures in the Indian Commodity market, it is of crucial importance to study the price, return and volatility spillover behaviour of gold traded in the Indian commodity market with respect to the International commodity market. The current study tries to study the linkages in Gold futures which are traded on Indian commodity exchange – Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX) and International commodity exchange – New York Mercantile Exchange are analysed. The study attempts to demonstrate the linkages in price, return and volatility across the two markets for the precious metal through three models: (a) Price – Co-integration methodology and Error Correction Mechanism Model (ECM); (b) Return and Volatility – Modified GARCH model; (c) Return and Volatility – ARMA-GARCH in Mean model – Innovations Model. Empirical analysis indicates that there is a presence of a long run relationship between prices of Gold futures contracts traded in MCX and NYMEX. Apart from cointegration in prices, return and volatility spillovers between MCX and NYMEX are found to be significant and bi-directional.
L61|Interdependence between the steel castings and manufacture of machines and equipment|Starting from the fact that the metallurgical industry is the main supplier of raw material both for the equipment and machines industry, as well as for the car industry, this paper analyses, by means of the regression function, to what extent the quantity of casting of steel was influenced, on the one hand by the manufacture of machines and equipment, and on the other hand, by the manufacture of car body. Data subject to the study were related to the period January 2002 – June 2016 (174 months) and was conducted both at the level of the European Union, as well as at the level of the main countries manufacturing steel at its level, namely: Germany, Italy, France and Spain.
L61|Interdependence between iron ore production and maritime transport|The maritime industry plays an important role in international trade, transporting a total of 10,1 billion tons of merchandise in 2015, representing over 80% of all global trade, with dry cargo estimated to account for over two thirds of the total seaborne trade. Bulk carriers supply the raw materials needed by the steel industry and container ships transport the steel products. Demand and supply for seaborne transport is influenced by trends in global economy and worldwide demand for commodities. The paper analyzes the most important economic determinants in the supply of metallurgical raw materials, highlighting the importance of the shipping sector.
L61|Financial Performance Evaluation of Turkish Energy Companies with Fuzzy AHP and Fuzzy TOPSIS Methods|Turkey’s economy has expanded in recent years with the increase in energy consumption. Energy is a key input in production and plays a crucial role in the development of an economy. Energy sector interacts with other sectors hence the performances of energy firms are inevitable to follow-up. In the study thirteen energy firms are evaluated with 5 main and 15 sub-criteria for the period of 2008-2013. The 15 sub-criteria are classified in the following main criteria: liquidity, activity, financial leverage, profitability and growth ratios. The weights of the ratios are determined by Fuzzy AHP and then Fuzzy TOPSIS method is used for the rankings of the energy firms. Traditional multi-criteria decision making methods are not used in this study, due to the fact that they are insufficient under uncertainty. After 2008 global financial crisis, the uncertainty has increased all over the world hence the usage of fuzzy methods can provide better results under these conditions. Findings show that Avrasya Oil, Turcas and Aksu have the highest ranking.
L61|Empirical Estimation Of The Multiplicative Effects Of Steel Industry In Macedonia By Using Input-Output Model|The main goal of the paper is quantitative and scientifically based economic assessment of basic metal industry and its importance for the national economy. The empirical assessment involves exploring the direct effects (the contribution of the steel industry to GDP and economic growth, export, employment, taxes and corporate – social responsibility) and more important estimating the multiplicative effects (indirect through the chain of suppliers and induced by the effect of final household’s consumption) that the industry generates in the national economy by the reproduction processes. The economic impact methodology based on input-output model is applied to estimate the multiplicative effects. Furthemore, the empirical analysis of economic and financial indicators is done to capture the performance of steel industry in Republic of Macedonia. This type of studies based on scientific and methodological foundation is very usefull tool in creation the national industrial policy
L61|A GRASP heuristic for the hot strip mill scheduling problem under consideration of energy consumption|Abstract Hot strip mill rolling is an energy intensive production process in the steel industry. It converts steel slabs at high temperatures into steel strips. In this paper we address the related planning problem, i.e. the hot strip mill scheduling problem. The task is to determine the production sequence of production orders within a schedule. The involved energy consumption for heating individual slabs is explicitly considered in a new mixed integer problem formulation. The model is solved using a greedy randomized adaptive search procedure. In a numerical case study based on real world data the applicability and performance of the proposed heuristic is analyzed. The solution approach is able to find optimal solutions for small problem instances. Moreover, it solves industry size problem instances within reasonable time and outperforms the rule based planning approach prevalent in praxis.
L61|Reallocation and Technology: Evidence from the US Steel Industry|We measure the impact of a drastic new technology for producing steel--the minimill--on industry-wide productivity in the US steel industry, using unique plant-level data between 1963 and 2002. The sharp increase in the industry's productivity is linked to this new technology through two distinct mechanisms: (i) the mere displacement of the older technology (vertically integrated producers) was responsible for a third of the increase in the industry's productivity, and (ii) increased competition, due the minimill expansion, drove a productivity resurgence at the surviving vertical integrated producers and, consequently, the productivity of the industry as a whole. (JEL D24, L13, L23, L61, M11, O31, O33)
L61|Implications of the 2030 EU Resource Efficiency Target on Sustainable Development| The paper explores the implications of achieving the EU27 Resource Efficiency target by 2030 for the future sustainability of the area. The target involves increasing by well over 30% within 2030 EU27 Resource Productivity, which would correspond to nearly double the annual growth rate of the pre-crisis period. The analysis uses a model-based index (FEEM Sustainability Index, FEEM SI) conceived to assess sustainability across time and countries. FEEM SI builds on the recursive-dynamic computable general equilibrium (CGE) model ICES-SI, which considers jointly variables belonging to the three sustainability dimensions (economy, society, and environment). The indicators produced in this framework are first normalized and then aggregated by using some elicited weights and a non-linear methodology. The 30% increase of EU27 Resource Efficiency by 2030 is achieved by applying an ad-valorem tax to the use of mining resources, and offsets the negative effects on the economy (slightly lower GDP and Investment rate) with considerable benefits for the environment. This implies a +1.02% increase in overall EU sustainability with respect to the reference “no policy” scenario.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L61|State Aids for restructuring Spanish Steel Industry in European Perspective|The aim of this article is to make a comparison of public assistance provided during the restructuring of the steel industry in Spain and in the European Community of Coal and Steel from 1975 to 1988. We have used both primary and printed sources from different institutions: steel Spanish companies, Spanish steel organization (Unesid), European Community and Spanish agencies and public bodies and reports from the European Commission. The work concludes that the main difference between the Spanish and European Community steel policies was not so much on the amount of the public resources but rather on the use of them in the restructuring process, especially since the 1980s. So while in the EEC steel aids were granted only in exchange for the elimination of surplus capacity, in Spain not adjustment was made until its accession to the European Communities on 1 January 1986.
L61|Towards solution based thinking: characteristics of servitization at Hungarian manufacturing companies|The main purpose of the article is to describe the servitization process of Hungarian manufacturing companies based on data of the Hungarian Competitiveness research. Servitization aims at supplying a bundle of products and services that offers complete solutions for customers. In this paper we analyze to what extent characteristics of ser-vitization in developed countries are also applicable in a developing macro-environment, i.e. in Hungary. Results of our analysis show that, generally, Hungarian manufacturing companies do not place strategic emphasis on services. Nevertheless, our sample contains a number of manufacturing companies that have taken actions to servitize both on strategic and operational level. However, in case of these companies financial benefits attributable to higher levels of servitization do not yet seem to materialize.
L61|Price discrimination and market power in export markets: The case of the ceramic tile industry|This paper combines the pricing-to-market equation and the residual demand elasticity equation to measure the extent of competition in the export markets of ceramic tiles, which has been dominated by Italian and Spanish producers since the late eighties. The findings show that the tile exporters enjoyed substantial market power over the period 1988-1998, and limited evidence that the export market has become more competitive over time.
