L65|The Impact of New Drug Launches on Hospitalization in 2015 for 67 Medical Conditions in 15 OECD Countries: A Two-Way Fixed-Effects Analysis|There are two types of prescription drug cost offsets. The first type of cost offset – from prescription drug use – is primarily about the effect of changes in drug quantity (e.g. due to changes in out-of-pocket drug costs) on other medical costs. Previous studies indicate that the cost offsets from prescription drug use may slightly exceed the cost of the drugs themselves. The second type of cost offset – the cost offset from prescription drug innovation – is primarily about the effect of prescription drug quality on other medical costs. Two previous studies (of a single disease or a single country) found that pharmaceutical innovation reduced hospitalization, and that the reduction in hospital cost from the use of newer drugs was considerably greater than the innovation-induced increase in pharmaceutical expenditure. In this study, we reexamine the impact that pharmaceutical innovation has had on hospitalization, employing a different type of 2-way fixed effects research design. In lieu of analyzing different countries over time for a single disease, or different diseases over time for a single country, we estimate the impact that new drug launches that occurred during the period 1982–2015 had on hospitalization in 2015 for 67 diseases in 15 OECD countries. Our models include both country fixed effects and disease fixed effects, which control for the average propensity of people to be hospitalized in each country and from each disease. The number of hospital discharges and days of care in 2015 is significantly inversely related to the number of drugs launched during 1982–2005, but not significantly related to the number of drugs launched after 2005. (Utilization of drugs during the first few years after they are launched is relatively low, and drugs for chronic conditions may have to be consumed for several years to achieve full effectiveness.) The estimates imply that, if no new drugs had been launched after 1981, total days of care in 2015 would have been 163% higher than it actually was. The estimated reduction in 2015 hospital expenditure that may be attributable to post-1981 drug launches was 5.3 times as large as 2015 expenditure on those drugs.
L65|Success Factors of Crowdfunding Campaigns in Medical Research: Perceptions and Reality|Crowdfunding in medical research is becoming more popular due to the shrinking and increasingly competitive government funding. In order to inform researchers applying for this complementary source of research funding, we investigate the determinants of successful crowdfunding campaigns in medical research. We find that establishing and maintaining professional contacts through social media is of major importance for successful crowdfunding campaigns; an additional tweet or retweet significantly increases the success of crowdfunding campaigns. In contrast to the stated preferences of prospective donors, we document that crowdfunding campaigns might achieve their fundraising goal regardless of the disease characteristics. Scientists thus may ask funding for any kind of project, including therapies for rare diseases and diseases with lower mortality rate.
L65|A new approach to estimating state dependence in consumers’ brand choices applied to 762 pharmaceutical markets|This article shows how state dependence effects can be estimated for many markets and with few assumptions by using data on how the shares buying specific products differ between those who bought the same product on their latest purchase occasion and other consumers. Using as instrument information regarding which product was cheapest when consumers made their last purchase, I estimate that state dependence increases the probability that consumers will buy the product they bought the last time by 8 percentage points. This effect is larger for women and the elderly than for men and younger consumers. The state dependence effect is also larger for brand-names than for generic products, but not significantly related to number of previous purchases.
L65|The Price to Consumers of Generic Pharmaceuticals: Beyond the Headlines|"Generic drug prices have been the focus of much attention in recent years, with Congressional committees, executive agencies and private organizations all conducting investigations into the pricing patterns for generic drugs. Price spikes for selected old, off-patent drugs have also been widely reported in the media. To place these generic price increases into context, we construct two chained Laspeyres consumer price indexes (CPIs), using the 2007-2016 IBM MarketScan Commercial Claims and Encounters Research Database. The first (""direct out-of-pocket CPI"") measures consumers' direct out-of-pocket payments to the dispensing pharmacy, while the second (""total CPI"") represents the total revenues received by the dispensing pharmacy – the consumers' direct out-of-pocket payments plus the amount paid to the pharmacy by the insurer on behalf of the consumer. We find the chained direct-out-of-pocket CPI for generic prescription drugs declines by about 50% between 2007 and 2016, while the total CPI falls by nearly 80% over the same time period. The smaller decline in the direct out-of-pocket CPI than in the total CPI is due in part to consumers' increasingly moving away from fixed copayment benefit plans to pure coinsurance or a mixed package of coinsurance and copayments. While consumers are experiencing more cost sharing that in fact shifts more of the drug cost burden on to them, on balance in the US consumers have experienced substantial price declines for generic drugs."
L65|Four Facts Concerning Competition in U.S. Generic Prescription Drug Markets|We establish four facts concerning competition among U.S. generic drug suppliers, using IQVIA’s National Sales Perspective™ 2004Q4 – 2016Q3 data. We define a unique product market (“molform”), consisting of the combination of a molecule active ingredient and a route of administration formulation, aggregated over different dosages and strengths. We find: (i) supply exhibits substantial churning in entrants and exits; (ii) volume-weighted use concentrates in older generic molform cohorts; (iii) the extent of competition is greatest for the oldest molform cohorts and is smallest for the youngest molform cohorts. With a median of one competitor, the extent of competition in the youngest molform cohort is very limited; and (iv) supplier-molform annual revenues are typically small, are largest for relatively young drugs, but are heavily right skewed. These four facts provide an empirical platform on which to construct and empirically evaluate hypotheses regarding generic drug market structure, performance, and possible policy reforms.
L65|Launch of a product and patents: evidence from the US cardiovascular pharmaceutical sector|Recent literature on the role of patents in shaping competition between incumbents and new entrants shows mixed evidence, as patents can discourage entry into markets but may also encourage potential entrants by increasing profitability from research and development. The increasing use of patents as strategic weapons motivates this investigation of the impact of innovation on competition. In a case study of US pharmaceutical cardiovascular submarkets over the period 1988-1998, we use a panel probit model to study the impact of a firm’s patents and rivals’ patents in the firm’s decision to launch new products. Our results show that the number of a firm’s lagged patents encourages the firm’s entry with new products, while rivals’ initial stock of patents discourages entry, but more recent patents promote entry by opening new technological opportunities.
L65|The Pollution Release and Transfer Register System in the U.S. and Japan: An Analysis of Productivity|This study analyzes productivity in the context of environmental regulations on the provision and dissemination of environmental information. Our study measures total factor productivity (TFP) by considering the emission of toxic chemical substances in the U.S. and Japan and the two countries’ corresponding policies. We apply the directional distance function to measure the Luenberger productivity indicator to estimate TFP. The data for U.S. and Japanese manufacturing firms include 386 firms over 1999 and 2007 and 466 firms over 2001 to 2008, respectively. This paper focuses on nine industries with highest pollution intensity: rubber and plastic, chemicals and allied products, paper and pulp, steel and non-ferrous metal, fabricated metal, industrial machinery, electric products, transportation equipment, and precision instruments. These nine sectors are categorized into two industry groups: the basic materials group and the processing and assembly group. The results show that productivity improved in all industrial sectors in the U.S. and Japan from 2001 to 2007. In particular, the electric product industry improved rapidly after 2002 for both countries. The enforcement of RoHS and the REACH directive in Europe might be one of the reasons for these increases. These stringent restrictions on toxic chemical substances give U.S. companies that export to the European market a strong incentive to treat their toxic chemical substances.
L65|Patents, Data Exclusivity, and the Development of New Drugs|Pharmaceutical firms typically enjoy market exclusivity for new drugs from concurrent protection of the underlying invention (through patents) and the clinical trials data submitted for market approval (through data exclusivity). Patent invalidation during drug development renders data exclusivity the sole source of protection and shifts the period of market exclusivity at the project level. In instrumental variables regressions we quantify the effect of a one-year reduction in expected market exclusivity on the likelihood of drug commercialization. The effect is largely driven by patent invalidations early in the drug development process and by the responses of large originators. We hereby provide first estimates of the responsiveness of R&D investments to market exclusivity expectations.
L65|Synthesis and characterization of a new magnetic material join to graphene oxide as sorbent|The synthesis and characterization of new adsorbents is addressed in this work. This material is based on the coupling of magnetic nanoparticles and graphene oxide (MNPs@GO). Graphene oxide (GO) presents a high surface area to volume ratio, and high rate of diffusion in water. However it is tedious and difficult to separate GO from the aqueous solution. The coupling with magnetic nanoparticles provides an easy magnetic separation. Thus, MNPs@GO has demonstrated to be an excellent adsorbent material towards to organic compounds but not to ionic metals. For this reason, a chelating group is attached to the material surface: [1,5-bis(2-pyridyl)-3-methylene] thiocarbonohydrazide (DPTH) in order to increase the selectivity for metal ions. To establish which is the best route of synthesis, two different strategies were designed (method 1 and method 2). The two new materials obtained, called DPTH(1) and DPTH(2), were characterized and their properties as extractants were studied. Several analytical techniques were used to characterize them; TEM, XPS, CNHS elemental analysis and FT IR. To conclude, the DPTH(2) showed better properties as extractant, even at trace levels.
L65|Extra costs of integrity: Pharmacy markups and generic substitution in Finland|I evaluate how the probability of substitution of a prescribed drug in a pharmacy depends on the pharmacists' profits and patients' out of pocket costs. I use Finnish population-wide data covering all prescriptions of three popular antidepressants. I find that one euro increase in the total markup difference between the prescribed drug and its cheapest available substitute is associated with 1.7 percentage points decrease in the probability of substitution. This result is driven by brand-name drugs. An increase in the patients' out of pocket cost differential yields a 0.6 percentage points increase in the probability of accepting the substitution. My findings offer novel evidence that pharmacists' incentives are instrumental for prescription drug cost savings and overall cost effectiveness of the health care system.
L65|Catching Up in Economic Transition: Innovation in the People’s Republic of China and India|We examine how the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and India, two of the largest transitional economies in Asia, have improved their innovation capability during economic transition. First, we measure and compare innovation capability of both countries by using not only various input and output indicators of innovation systems but also the contribution of technological progress to economic development at different periods of their economic transition. Then we compare how both countries developed their innovation capabilities by focusing on the transformation of their national innovation systems since the economic reform and evolving technology policies. Then we provide a brief view on how the emerging innovative cities in both countries became dominated by the innovation activities of their respective countries.
L65|The Economics Behind the Epidemic: Afghan Opium Price and Prescription Opioids in the US|We investigate the effect of variations in the price of opium in Afghanistan on per capita dispensation of prescription opioids in the US. Quarterly county-level data for 2003-2016 indicate that reductions in opium prices significantly increase the quantity of opioids prescribed, and that the magnitude of the effect increases with the county's ex-ante demand for opioids. Most of the increase involves natural and semi-synthetic but not fully synthetic opioids. We further find that both opioid-related deaths and drug-related crimes increase following a decline in the opium price. Finally, firm-level analysis reveals that the stock prices and profits of opioid producers react significantly to opium price shocks. Overall, the findings suggest that supply-side economic incentives have played an important role in the opioid epidemic.
L65|Derivatization of Commercial Vitamin A to Develop the Bio-based Anti-aging cosmetic materials|A vitamin A such as retinol is a well-known source material for the anti-aging cosmetics due to its superior effects on the anti-wrinkle and anti-skin aging, and lots of cosmetic manufacturers have used it for the high-priced anti-aging products. However it mostly synthesized by the chemical process and it should be a demerit as a cosmetic material. Thus a bioprocess of the vitamin A should be developed to strengthen the competitiveness of the vitamin A based anti-aging products.The vitamin A is also easily oxidized in the air and the oxidation causes the side effects like the skin irritation and a poor delivery of the active ingredients into the skin. The stability improvement of the bio-vitamin A must be required to minimize its side effects and enhance the absorbability and moisturizing property of the final products.In this study, the derivatization of the retinol was performed to enhance the stability and the low-priced commercial retinol was used as a substitute material for the bio-based retinol with impurities.A commercial Retinol 50C (BASF) was separated from the additives and others by the column chromatography for the purification and the retinol purified would be applied to the derivatization. The retinyl acetate would be synthesized through the esterification with the acetyl chloride and the derivatives were finally recovered as the crystal through the crystallizing purification. Their structural and physicochemical properties were analyzed by 1H-NMR and FT-IR and it was confirmed that the purification of the low-priced retinol and the derivatization of the retinol purified were performed successfully.
L65|Fluoroalkyl-Modified Polysilazanes for Omniphobic Coatings|Organic polysilazanes belong to a family of organosilicone polymers containing Si-N linkages. These materials have been used for hydrophobic coatings but fluoroalkyl chains are required for oleophobic surfaces. We herein suggest that fluoroalkyl-modified polysilazanes to provide omniphobic nature to solid surfaces. First CF3(CF2)7CH2CH2SiCH3Cl2 was synthesized with 1H,1H,2H-perfluoro-1-decene and Me2SiCl2 by hydrosilylation in the presence of Karstedt catalyst. CF3(CH2)2SiMeCl2, CF3(CF2)7CH2CH2SiMeCl2 or CF3(CF2)7CH2CH2SiMeCl2 was reacted with MeSiHCl2 in the presence of NH3 and pyridine by co-ammonolysis. Final products were examined by 1H-NMR, FT-IR and TGA. Water and oil (hexadecane) contact angles were measured with dip-coated samples on glass slides. The best omniphobic sample is the copolymer between CF3(CF2)7CH2CH2SiMeCl2 and MeSiHCl2 (7:3 weight ratio). The coated glass exhibited 110 degree and 48 degree of water and oil contact angles, respectively.
L65|Common Ownership and Market Entry: Evidence from the Pharmaceutical Industry|Common ownership - where two firms are at least partially owned by the same investor - and its impact on product market outcomes has recently drawn a lot of attention from scholars and practitioners alike. Theoretical and empirical research suggests that common ownership can lead to higher prices. This paper focuses on implications for market entry. To estimate the effect of common ownership on entry decisions, we focus on the pharmaceutical industry. In particular, we consider the entry decisions of generic pharmaceutical firms into drug markets opened up by the end of regulatory protection in the US. We first provide a theoretical framework that shows that a higher level of common ownership between the brand firm (incumbent) and potential generic entrant reduces the generic's incentives to entry. We provide robust evidence for this prediction. The effect is large: a one-standard-deviation increase in common ownership decreases the probability of generic entry by 9-13%. We extend our basic theoretical framework and allow for multiple entrants. Our model shows that for sufficiently high levels of common ownership, the classical idea of entry decisions being strategic substitutes can be reversed into being strategic complements. Our empirical results provide some support for these predictions.
L65|Circular economy measures to keep plastics and their value in the economy, avoid waste and reduce marine litter|"We live in the plastic age (the ""plasticene""), producing over 300 million tonnes (mt) of plastic every year globally, 5-15 mt of which flow into already polluted oceans. Plastic remains a key material in the global economy, but low rates of collection, reuse and recycling, emissions of microplastic from product wear and tear, and often insufficient disposal measures are leading to far-reaching environmental, health, social and economic impacts. The costs of inaction are unacceptably high. Globally there is a growing recognition of the need to address marine litter and rethink our approach to plastics and plastic packaging within the economy. Measures that enable a transition to a circular economy can avoid waste and reduce marine litter, and contribute to keeping plastics and their value in the economy."
L65|Turbulentes Jahr 2017, gedämpfte Aussichten für 2018: Deutschlands Pharmaindustrie 2017/2018|Die deutsche Pharmaindustrie blickt auf ein turbulentes Jahr 2017 zurück. Dieses war geprägt durch drohende Handelskonflikte und politische Unsicherheiten - bei einer gleichzeitig weitgehenden Stabilisierung des Welthandels. Es zeichnete sich durch die Bundestagswahl und eine schwierige Regierungsbildung in Deutschland aus - und einer zunehmenden Belebung der Binnennachfrage. Neben diesen Einflussfaktoren auf dem inländischen und auf dem ausländischen Absatzmarkt der Pharmaindustrie gelten die Fundamentaltrends wie der demografische Wandel und die positive Wohlstandsentwicklung auch weiterhin. Im Ergebnis zeigte sich im Jahr 2017 der allgemeine konjunkturelle Aufschwung des Verarbeitenden Gewerbes auch in der Pharmaindustrie - wobei die treibenden Impulse für die ökonomische Entwicklung der Branche aus dem Ausland kamen, gleichwohl aber auch der Inlandsmarkt nach schwachen Vorjahren moderat zulegen konnte. Das laufende Jahr 2018 startete für die Pharmaindustrie mit Schwung - aber die Aussichten trübten sich im Verlauf des ersten Halbjahres aufgrund erneuter politischer Unwägbarkeiten und eines gedämpften globalen Umfelds wieder ein. Ein möglicher Handelskrieg mit den USA, die Gefahren eines ungeordneten Brexit, die Entwicklung der Rohstoffpreise ebenso wie die beständigen Uneinigkeiten der neuen Bundesregierung in zentralen Fragen hinterließen auch in der Pharmaindustrie ihre Spuren.
L65|Cadena Productiva de Pinturas, Masillas, Pigmentos, Tintas y Removedores Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando el concepto de cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que producen Pinturas, Masillas, Pigmentos, Tintas y Removedores para el período 2001 – 2017. Utilizando la Matriz Insumo – Producto del Sector Industrial, el documento identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo y presenta el flujograma de la cadena productiva. El documento presenta también un conjunto de indicadores que caracterizan la cadena productiva: número de empresas; distribución geográfica y por tamaño empresarial; valor de la producción; concentración geográfica de la producción; nivel de encadenamiento de los eslabones intermedios; exportaciones e importaciones; concentración de las exportaciones e importaciones por socio comercial y eslabones finales; creación y desviación de comercio derivada de los acuerdos comerciales firmados por Colombia; tasa de protección efectiva y nominal; y prospectiva de las exportaciones en mercados estratégicos.
L65|Preventives Versus Treatments Redux: Tighter Bounds on Distortions in Innovation Incentives with an Application to the Global Demand for HIV Pharmaceuticals|Abstract Kremer and Snyder (Q J Econ 130:1167–1239, 2015) show that demand curves for a preventive and treatment may have different shapes though they target the same disease, biasing the pharmaceutical manufacturer toward developing the lucrative rather than the socially desirable product. This paper tightens the theoretical bounds on the potential deadweight loss from such biases. Using a calibration of the global demand for HIV pharmaceuticals, we demonstrate the dramatically sharper analysis achievable with the new bounds, allowing us to pinpoint potential deadweight loss at 62% of the global gain from curing HIV. We use the calibration to perform policy counterfactuals, assessing welfare effects of government policies such as a subsidy, reference pricing, and price-discrimination ban. The fit of our calibration is good: we find that a hypothetical drug monopolist would price an HIV drug so high that only 4% of the infected population worldwide would purchase, matching actual drug prices and quantities in the early 2000s before subsidies in low-income countries ramped up.
L65|Common ownership and market entry: Evidence from the pharmaceutical industry|Common ownership - where two firms are at least partially owned by the same investor - and its impact on product market outcomes has recently drawn a lot of attention from scholars and practitioners alike. Theoretical and empirical research suggests that common ownership can lead to higher prices. This paper focuses on implications for market entry. To estimate the effect of common ownership on entry decisions, we focus on the pharmaceutical industry. In particular, we consider the entry decisions of generic pharmaceutical firms into drug markets opened up by the end of regulatory protection in the US. We first provide a theoretical framework that shows that a higher level of common ownership between the brand firm (incumbent) and potential generic entrant reduces the generic's incentives to entry. We provide robust evidence for this prediction. The effect is large: a one-standard-deviation increase in common ownership decreases the probability of generic entry by 9-13%. We extend our basic theoretical framework and allow for multiple entrants. Our model shows that for sufficiently high levels of common ownership, the classical idea of entry decisions being strategic substitutes can be reversed into being strategic complements. Our empirical results provide some support for these predictions.
L65|The Impact of New Drug Launch on Life-Years Lost in 2015 from 19 Types of Cancer in 36 Countries|This study employs a two-way fixed effects research design to measure the mortality impact and cost-effectiveness of cancer drugs: It analyzes the correlation across 36 countries between the relative mortality from 19 types of cancer in 2015 and the relative number of drugs previously launched in that country to treat that type of cancer, controlling for relative incidence. The sample size (both in terms of number of observations and population covered) of this study is considerably larger than the sample sizes of previous studies; a new and improved method of analyzing the lag structure of the relationship between drug launches and life-years lost is used; and a larger set of measures of the burden of cancer is analyzed. The number of DALYs and life-years lost are unrelated to drug launches 0–4 years earlier. This is not surprising, since utilization of a drug tends to be quite low during the first few post-launch years. Moreover, there is likely to be a lag of several years between utilization of a drug and its impact on mortality. However, mortality is significantly inversely related to the number of drug launches at least 5 years earlier, especially to drug launches 5–9 years earlier. One additional drug for a cancer site launched during 2006–2010 is estimated to have reduced the number of 2015 DALYs due to cancer at that site by 5.8%;; one additional drug launched during 1982–2005 is estimated to have reduced the number of 2015 DALYs by about 2.6%. Lower quality (or effectiveness) of earlier vintage drugs may account for their smaller estimated effect. We estimate that drugs launched during the entire 1982–2010 period reduced the number of cancer DALYs in 2015 by about 23.0%, and that, in the absence of new drug launches during 1982–2010, there would have been 26.3 million additional DALYs in 2015. Also, the nine countries with the largest number of drug launches during 1982–2010 are estimated to have had 14% fewer cancer DALYs (controlling for incidence) in 2015 than the nine countries with the smallest number of drug launches during 1982–2010. Estimates of the cost per life-year gained in 2015 from drugs launched during 2006–2010 range between $1,635 (life-years gained at all ages) and $2,820 (life-years gained before age 65). These estimates are similar to those obtained in previous country-specific studies of Belgium, Canada, and Mexico, and are well below the estimate obtained in one study of Switzerland. Mortality in 2015 is strongly inversely related to the number of drug launches in 2006–2010. If the relationship between mortality in 2020 and the number of drug launches in 2011–2015 is similar, drug launches 5–9 years earlier will reduce mortality even more (by 9.9%) between 2015 and 2020 than they did (by 8.4%) between 2010 and 2015.
L65|Quality Regulation and Competition: Evidence from Pharmaceutical Markets|We study the effects of quality regulation on market outcomes by exploiting the staggered phase-in of bioequivalence requirements for generic drugs in Chile. We estimate that the number of drugs in the market decreased by 25%, average paid prices increased by 10%, and total sales decreased by 20%. These adverse effects were concentrated among small markets. Our results suggest that the intended effects of quality regulation on price competition through increased (perceived) quality of generics—and therefore reduced vertical differentiation—were overturned by adverse competitive effects arising from the costs of complying with the regulation.
L65|Risker och kostnader för prissamordningar på den svenska generikamarknaden|Företag som ofta möter varandra på en eller flera marknader kan ibland genom att observera varandras tidigare priser lyckas samordna sina priser. Konkurrensen sätts då ur spel och priserna blir högre än de annars skulle ha varit. I denna rapport visar vi att den svenska generikamarknaden har många egenskaper som underlättar prissamordning, exempelvis att priserna kan ändras varje månad, att företagen lätt kan observera varandras priser, och att konkurrensen främst sker i en variabel, priser. Vi redogör även för empiriska resultat som indikerar att prissamordningar ibland förekommer på marknaden, samt att dessa då orsakar läkemedelsförmånen och konsumenterna betydande merkostnader. Dessa uppskatter vi till i storleksordningen 50 till 200 miljoner kronor per år. Ett sätt att minska risken för prissamordning är att förlänga tiden mellan att företag kan observera konkurrenters priser och att de kan ändra sina egna priser. Det är sedan länge välkänt inom nationalekonomin att denna tid har en avgörande betydelse för risken för prissamordning. Tiden kan förlängas genom att priserna endast tillåts ändras exempelvis kvartalsvis eller halvårsvis och/eller genom att kräva att företagen meddelar sina priser längre tid i förväg innan prisperioderna börjar. En förlängning av prisperioderna till 3-6 månader skulle troligen ha mycket små oönskade effekter samtidigt som det skulle minska möjligheterna för företag att samordna sina priser. Sammantaget skulle därför en sådan förändring troligen minska läkemedelsförmånens och konsumenternas kostnader. Ett annat sätt att minska risken för att företag samordnar sina priser är att sänka marknadsandelen för periodens vara genom att minska kraven att de förskrivna varorna byts ut på apoteken. Detta skulle öka betydelsen av andra faktorer än priset och göra det svårare för företag att över tid dela försäljningen lika, vilket minskar risken för prissamordning. En tidigare studie visar också att detta skulle leda till fler konkurrerande företag på marknaden, vilket även det minskar risken för att företag samordnar sina priser. En lägre marknadsandel för periodens vara skulle dock kunna leda till svagare konkurrens och ökade kostnader för läkemedel på marknader som inte påverkas av prissamordningar. För hela generikamarknaden skulle en liten sänkning av marknadsandelen för periodens vara kunna bli kostnadsneutral, men det är inte säkert att detta resultat håller om prisperioderna förlängs.
L65|Brain-Circulation Network: The Global Mobility of the Life Scientists|Global mobility and migration of scientists is an important modern phenomenon with economic and political implications. As scientists become ever more footloose it is important to identify general patterns and regularities at a global scale. At the same time cities, and especially global cities, have become impor- tant loci of economic and scientific activity. Limiting research to international migration, would disregard the importance of local innovation systems. The analysis of the mobility and brain circulation patterns at global scale remains challenging, due to difficulties in obtaining individual level mobility data. In this work we propose a methodology to trace intercity and international mobility through bibliographic records. We reconstruct the intercity and international mobility network of 3.7 Million Life Scientists moving between 9,745 cities. We present several features of the extracted network, offer evidence that the international innovation system is marked by national borders and linguistic similarity and show that international mo- bility largely contributes to the scientific output of national research systems. Moreover we find evidence to suggest that global cities attract highly productive scientist early in their careers.
L65|The Development of Firm Size and Innovativeness in the Pharmaceutical industry between 1989 and 2010|Within the last decades, there have been many technological and regulatory changes in the pharmaceutical industry. Some of these developments facilitate the innovative activities of large firms, while others foster small firms. It is therefore surprising that the implications of these changes in the pharmaceutical industry have not often been studied empirically. We contribute to the question of firm size and innovativeness in the pharmaceutical industry in presenting a brief review of the literature on innovative activities with a focus on the relation of different firm sizes in the pharmaceutical industry and present own empirical findings. Our results with project data from a broad range of firms show that the innovative activities of small firms measured by the share of their projects on all research projects have been rising strongly between 1989 and 2010. Further, the share of small firms on new drugs has been constantly increasing in this period. On the other hand, project success rates are lowest for small firms, while the rate of projects already discontinued in the preclinical phase is highest for them. We discuss these results and find that the reasons behind these developments are crucial to understand the innovative performance of the industry within the last 20 years.
L65|An Evaluation of the CPI Indexes for Prescription Drugs|The prescription drug component of the Consumer Price Index (CPI measures recent and past drug price changes, and provides the basis for projecting future price trends and health care expenditures. However, there are concerns about the adequacy of the price data because of recent changes in the structure of the market for prescription drugs. We compare the prescription drug data of the CPI with a large alternative data set from the IQVIA Institute for Human Data Science. We analyze the overall consistency if the data from the two sources, and examine the influence of the large shift from brand to generic drug sales and the increased reliance on third party insurance plans that are excluded from the CPI sampling frame.
L65|Revealed Growth: A Method for Bounding the Elasticity of Demand with an Application to Assessing the Antitrust Remedy in the Du Pont Decision|We propose a method for bounding the demand elasticity in growing, homogeneous-product markets that requires only minimal data—market price and quantity over a time span as short as two periods. Reminiscent of revealed-preference arguments using choices over time to bound the shape of indifference curves, we use shifts in the equilibrium over time to bound the shape of the demand curve under the assumption that growing demand curves do not cross. We apply the method to assess the effectiveness of the antitrust remedy in the 1952 Du Pont decision, ordering the incumbent manufacturers to license their patents for commercial plastics. Commentators have suggested that the incumbents may have preserved the monopoly outcome by gaming the licensing contracts. The upper bounds on demand elasticities that we compute are significantly less than 1 in many post-remedy years. Such inelastic demand is inconsistent with monopoly, suggesting the remedy may have been effective.
L65|Market Effects of Adverse Regulatory Events: Evidence from Drug Relabeling|We provide causal evidence that regulatory shocks associated with drug safety label changes lead to aggregate demand declines of 16.9 percent within two years of a relabeling event. After accounting for all plausible substitution patterns by physicians along with competitor actions, aggregate demand declines by 4.7 percent; this decline represents consumers that prematurely leave the market. Results are robust to variation across types of relabeling, market sizes, and levels of competition. Our findings complement recent work that shows negative upstream innovation impacts from these downstream regulatory shocks. Importantly, drugs receiving expedited FDA review are more likely to incur serious safety label changes. Thus, it appears we may be trading off quicker access to new drugs today for less innovation tomorrow. Implications for welfare and policy are discussed.
L65|Moving Beyond the Valley of Death: Regulation and Venture Capital Investments in Early-Stage Biopharmaceutical Firms|Can regulation reduce risks associated with investing in early-stage firms? Using the passage of the European Orphan Drug Act (EU-ODA), we examine this question in the biopharmaceutical industry. We provide causal evidence that venture capitalists (VCs) are more likely to invest in early-stage firms operating in sub-fields disproportionately affected by EU-ODA. The switch to early-stage investments appears strongest among VCs that previously faced greater levels of information asymmetry. We also find that the level of syndication declined for early-stage investments and exit performance improved. We conclude discussing the implications of our findings for public policy, entrepreneurship and innovation.
L65|The impact of submarket concentration in the US pharmaceutical industry in 1987-1998|Global market concentration is the result of the interplay of different sub-markets. According to this view, empirical analysis on the role of concentration as an incentive or as a barrier to entry must be conducted on a sub-market level, where the sub-markets are identified as specific technological trajectories. In this paper we investigate the role of 3-digit submarket concentration in the US pharmaceutical sector in 1987-1998. We take into account several sources of potential entry deterrence including the relative company size to the largest incumbent firm and the number of competing products in each submarket. The estimates of a panel logit model show that a concentrated industry at submarket level seems to act like a barrier to entry. The relative company size is not significant while the number of competing products is significantly positive.
L65|A Structural Model of the Retail Market for Illicit Drugs|We estimate a model of illicit drugs markets using data on purchases of crack cocaine. Buyers are searching for high-quality drugs, but they determine drugs' quality (i.e., their purity) only after consuming them. Hence, sellers can rip off first-time buyers or can offer higher-quality drugs to induce buyers to purchase from them again. In equilibrium, a distribution of qualities persists. The estimated model implies that if drugs were legalized, in which case purity could be regulated and hence observable, the average purity of drugs would increase by approximately 20 percent and the dispersion would decrease by approximately 80 percent. Moreover, increasing penalties may raise the purity and affordability of the drugs traded by increasing sellers' relative profitability of targeting loyal buyers versus first-time buyers.
L65|Bargaining over Entry with a Compulsory License Deadline: Price Spillovers and Surplus Expansion|We analyze bargaining between a developing country (South) and a multinational firm over the local price of its patented product. We use an alternating offers bargaining game in which the South can resort to compulsory licensing (CL) if the two parties fail to reach agreement by a certain deadline. The presence of international price spillovers introduces two novel features into the standard bargaining problem: the surplus from entry prior to the CL deadline may be negative, and CL can yield higher surplus than entry. We establish conditions under which equilibrium may exhibit immediate entry, preemptive entry just prior to the CL deadline, or the occurrence of CL. The South necessarily gains from the threat of CL if the joint payoff under entry is higher relative to CL but can lose if it is lower.
L65|Technological Change and Risk Adjustment: Benefit Design Incentives in Medicare Part D|Subsidized health insurance markets use diagnosis-based risk adjustment to induce insurers to offer an equitable benefit to individuals of varying expected cost. I demonstrate that technological change after risk adjustment calibration--new drug entry and the onset of generic competition--made certain diagnoses profitable or unprofitable in Medicare Part D. I then exploit variation in diagnoses' profitability driven by technological change to show insurers designed more favorable benefits for drugs that treat profitable diagnoses as compared to unprofitable diagnoses. In the presence of technological change, risk adjustment may not fully neutralize insurers' incentives to select through benefit designs.
L65|L’industrie pharmaceutique française dans les chaînes de valeur mondiales|Les entreprises s’insèrent de plus en plus dans des « chaînes de valeur mondiales » : l’ensemble de leurs activités, depuis la conception jusqu’à la mise sur le marché du produit, sont réparties entre plusieurs intervenants, locaux ou étrangers. À partir de l’exemple de l’industrie pharmaceutique française, les indicateurs de commerce en valeur ajoutée permettent d’analyser cette insertion. Au cours de la période 2000-2014, l’industrie pharmaceutique française s’ouvre aux chaînes de valeur mondiales (CVM), comme en témoignent l’augmentation de la part de la valeur ajoutée importée dans ses exportations (+ 392 %) et celle de la valeur ajoutée nationale exportée (+ 185 %). Toutefois, ce processus d’intégration, particulièrement marqué entre 2007 et 2010, décélère depuis 2012 : la part de la valeur ajoutée étrangère dans les exportations étant plus faible en 2014 qu’en 2012. Le degré de participation aux CVM est hétérogène selon les entreprises : celles qui exportent utilisent davantage d’intrants importés et sont donc plus intégrées que celles produisant pour le marché national. Les entreprises multinationales étrangères présentes en France prennent davantage part aux CVM que les entreprises multinationales françaises produisant en France. L’ouverture de l’industrie pharmaceutique aux CVM s’accompagne d’une diversification des partenaires commerciaux et d’une intensification du partage de la production avec des zones en dehors des frontières européennes. Aujourd’hui, le partage international de la production de l’industrie s’effectue aussi bien avec les grands pays de la zone euro qu’avec le Royaume-Uni, la Suisse et les États-Unis ou la Pologne, qu’avec de grandes économies asiatiques comme la Chine. L’insertion de l’industrie pharmaceutique française dans les CVM va de pair avec une hausse des investissements directs, d’entreprises françaises à l’étranger et vice versa, et des revenus perçus par l’économie française dans le cadre de l’organisation de la production à l’étranger.
L65|Cadena de Productos Lácteos Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando la metáfora de la cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología que permite describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que elaboran Productos Lácteos para el período 2002 – 2015. Para ello el documento presenta el número de empresas que pertenecen a la cadena, la forma como ellas se distribuyen geográficamente y por tamaño empresarial, e identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo. El flujograma de la cadena productiva es construido a partir del proceso productivo identificado y de la Matriz Insumo – Producto del sector industrial. En las secciones finales se presentan diferentes indicadores: producción y ventas; concentración empresarial de la producción y las ventas, consumo intermedio; exportaciones e importaciones; índice HERFINDAHL-HIRSCHMAN (IHH); índice de BALASSA; índice de especialización de KRUGMAN; comercio intraindustrial; y tasa de protección efectiva.
L65|Drug approval decision times, international reference pricing and strategic launches of new drugs|This paper analyzes how drug approval procedures influence the incentives of pharmaceutical firms to launch new drugs in the presence of international reference pricing. First, we show that the set of countries in which a firm commercializes a new drug is larger when countries do not approve this new drug simultaneously. We also show that a firm's best response to international reference pricing is to never launch a new drug sequentially as long as the difference in drug approval times between countries is small enough. Furthermore, we show that a firm's incentives to launch a new drug in one or another country are the same if the drug approval times are identical across countries or if the difference between approval times are small enough. However, we show that these incentives can change if the approval times differences across countries are large enough.
L65|Price competition in pharmaceuticals – evidence from 1303 Swedish markets|We study the short- and long-term price effects of the number of competing firms, using panel-data on 1303 distinct pharmaceutical markets for 78 months. We use actual transaction prices in an institutional setting with little scope for non-price competition and where simultaneity problems can be addressed effectively. In the long term, the price of generics is found to decrease by 81% when the number of firms selling generics with the same strength, form and similar package size is increased from 1 to 10. Nearly only competition at this fine-grained level matters; the price effect of firms selling other products with the same active substance, but with different package size, form, or strength, is only a tenth as large. Half of the price reductions take place immediately and 70% within three months. Also, prices of originals are found to react to competition, but far less and much slower.
L65|Communicating Company Innovation Culture: Assessment Through Job Advertisements Analysis|"The paper explores the composition of researchers' skillsets in an innovation-driven environment from the perspective of employers. The authors analyze the relation between skills requirements described in job advertisements for researchers and the presumed innovation culture of companies. The study is based on job advertisements content analysis and in-depth interviews with chiefs of research and development companies. It uses biotechnology industry as an example as it is one of the fastest-growing and innovation-driven sectors globally. Authors used data from Russian, as well as Canadian, UK and USA job search engines to consider international context. Empirical findings demonstrated that skills composition stress on hard skills more frequently and detailed, while soft skills are often a ""must have without saying"". The same is for digital skills that are assumed to be essential in high-tech companies globally and therefore not fully specified in job ads. There is a certain mismatch between skills presented in the ads and articulated in the interviews as employers tend to demonstrate innovation-friendly company culture for possible applicants. The present paper enriches literature on skills assessment, giving comprehensive lists of biotech skills in-demand divided into soft and hard categories. In addition, it provides the new insight into employee skills articulated by the companies as a strong element of organizational innovation climate"
L65|Have Pharmaceutical R&D Project Success Rates Decreased? A Critical Review and New Empirical Results|In the context of the ongoing debate about an innovation crisis in the pharmaceutical industry, we study the success rates of pharmaceutical R&D projects as a measure of innovative productivity. The empirical literature suggests success rates have been decreasing during recent decades. We critically review this literature and only find few studies with a focus on the development of success rates over time. Further, the empirical analysis of success rates imposes difficulties with respect to methodological aspects like data censoring, the definition of success, and the range of firms included in the samples. These difficulties are generally not discussed by the literature. We therefore discuss these issues when critically reviewing the empirical studies and complement this discussion with own empirical results. While most other studies use samples containing a small number of firms and cover just a short time period, we use a broad sample containing firms of different sizes over an observation period of more than 20 years (1989-2010). Descriptive results suggest a declining success rate of pharmaceutical projects during recent years. Correcting for censored observations shows there has been a stabilization of success rates, but at a lower level than before. The main underlying reason for a lower success rate is the start of many more projects in more recent time periods. Results from hazard rate models even suggest there has only been a temporary drop in the success rate for projects between 1995 and 2002.
L65|Determinants of firm-level domestic sales and exports with spillovers: Evidence from China|This paper studies the determinants of firm-level revenues, as a measure of the performance of firms in China’s domestic and export markets. The analysis of the determinants of the aforementioned outcomes calls for a mixed linear–nonlinear econometric approach. The paper proposes specifying a system of equations which is inspired by Basmann’s work and recent theoretical work in international economics and conducts comparative static analyses regarding the role of exogenous shocks to the system to flesh out the relative importance of transmissions across outcomes.
L65|A Deeper Analysis on Pharmaceutical Submarket Concentration: the US market in 1987-1998|We investigate the impact of submarket concentration on launches of new products in the US pharmaceutical 3 digit submarkets during the period 1987-1998. In addition to the typical specification of entry- exit standard reduced form models, we introduce additional decision drivers from data on submarkets, including concentration, company size relative to incumbent firms and the number of competing products. The estimates of a logit model, based on company panel data for various submarkets measured yearly, show that a concentrated industry at submarket level is a barrier to entry.
L65|Entry and Patents: Evidence from the US Cardiovascular Pharmaceutical Sector|The goal of this study is to analyze the impact of innovation on entry, that is, the launch of a new product, for some specific three digit cardiovascular sector in the US pharmaceutical market, for the period 1988-1998. We have a panel data obtained by crossing-check IMS Health Data on sales with data on patents for companies selling products into those submarkets. We estimate a logit panel model by controlling for endogeneity, adopting submarket and firm specific variables. Our results show that own patents don’t clearly encourage entry, while patent holdings by incumbents have contrasting effects: on one hand the initial stock act as a barrier to entry, on the other hand they promote entry through the opening of new technological opportunities.
L65|Sharing R&D Risk in Healthcare via FDA Hedges|The high cost of capital for firms conducting medical research and development (R&D) has been partly attributed to the government risk facing investors in medical innovation. This risk slows down medical innovation because investors must be compensated for it. We analyze new and simple financial instruments, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) hedges, to allow medical R&D investors to better share the pipeline risk associated with FDA approval with broader capital markets. Using historical FDA approval data, we discuss the pricing of FDA hedges and mechanisms under which they can be traded and estimate issuer returns from offering them. Using various unique data sources, we find that FDA approval risk has a low correlation across drug classes as well as with other assets and the overall market. We argue that this zero-beta property of scientific FDA risk could be a main source of gains from trade between issuers of FDA hedges looking for diversified investments and developers looking to offload the FDA approval risk. We offer proof of concept of the feasibility of trading this type of pipeline risk by examining related securities issued around mergers and acquisitions activity in the drug industry. Overall, our argument is that, by allowing better risk sharing between those investing in medical innovation and capital markets more generally, FDA hedges could ultimately spur medical innovation and improve the health of patients.
L65|Therapeutic Translation of Genomic Science: Opportunities and limitations of GWAS|Many scientists predicted a swift revolution in human therapeutics after the completion of the Human Genome Project (“HGP”). This revolution, however, has been slow to materialize in spite of the scientific advances. We investigate the role of biological complexity in slowing down this revolution. Our test relies on a disease-specific measure of biological complexity, constructed by drawing on insights from Network Medicine (Barabási et al., 2011). According to our measure, more complex diseases are associated with a larger number of genetic mutations—higher centrality in the Human Disease Network (Goh et al., 2007). With this measure in hand, we estimate the rate of translation of new science into early-stage drug innovation by focusing on a leading type of genetic epidemiological knowledge (Genome-Wide Association Studies), and employing standard methods for the measurement of R&D productivity. For less complex diseases, we find a strong and positive association between cumulative knowledge and the amount of innovation. This association weakens as complexity increases, becoming statistically insignificant at the extreme. Our results suggest that biological complexity is, in part, responsible for the slower-than-expected unfolding of the therapeutical revolution set in motion by the HGP.
L65|The Information Pharms Race and Competitive Dynamics of Precision Medicine: Insights from Game Theory|"Precision medicines inherently fragment treatment populations, generating small-population markets, creating high-priced ""niche busters"" rather than broadly prescribed ""blockbusters"". It is plausible to expect that small markets will attract limited entry in which a small number of interdependent differentiated product oligopolists will compete, each possessing market power. Multiple precision medicine market situations now resemble game theory constructs such as the prisoners' dilemma and Bertrand competition. The examples often involve drug developer choices created by setting the cut-off value for the companion diagnostics to define the precision medicine market niches and their payoffs. Precision medicine game situations may also involve payers and patients who attempt to change the game to their advantage or whose induced behaviors alter the payoffs for the developers. The variety of games may predictably array themselves across the lifecycle of each precision medicine indication niche and so may become linked into a sequentially evolving meta-game. We hypothesize that certain precision medicine areas such as inflammatory diseases are becoming complex simultaneous multi-games in which distinct precision medicine niches compete. Those players that learn the most rapidly and apply those learnings the most asymmetrically will be advantaged in this ongoing information pharms race."
L65|Orphan Drug Designations as Valuable Intangible Assets for IPO Investors in Pharma-Biotech Companies|Orphan Drug (OD) legislation has been implemented with regulatory and financial incentives to encourage drug innovation in order to treat rare diseases. This study aims to test whether OD Designations (ODD) granted by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to pharmaceutical and biotechnology start-up companies may be considered as relevant signals in attracting entrepreneurial finance and increasing the amount invested at the time of the Initial Public Offering (IPO) in the US stock markets. We found that the signaling power of ODD is positively and statistically significant for IPO investors in stock markets. Regression results also suggest that ODDs are stronger than patent applications in attracting IPO investors. Scholarly and policy implications are discussed in the light of the signaling theory and drug development policies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Demand for Narcotics in Thailand, with Policy Implications|The paper examines the demand for narcotic drugs, based on Becker (1968), as purported rational behavior of human beings. The results from sampling surveys in eight provinces in Thailand in 2014, representing nationwide drug users/addicts, show that the demand for narcotics (amphetamines, ice drug, and marijuana) are price inelastic (between -0.533 and -0.701), as well as normal goods. The key econometric coefficients in models A and B are 0.192 and 0.0467, respectively, and an increase in income will lead to an increase in the demand for narcotics. In addition, factors affecting the demand for narcotics are the age and age squared of the user, friendship, family member relationship, social relationship, reasons for drug use, risk behavior, and expected punishment. Public policy implications are also proposed and analysed.
L65|Modeling interregional research collaborations in German biotechnology using industry directory data: A quantitative social network analysis|We use industry directory data as a novel source of information to model the strength of interregional research collaboration in German biotechnology. Specifically, we gather data on the number of research collaborations for biotech actors listed in the BIOCOM Year and Address book and aggregate this information to the level of German NUTS3 regions. This allows us to set up a modeling framework that treats individual regions as nodes of the biotech research network. We then specify the collaboration activity between regional nodes as a function of research and economic capacities at the regional level, the geographical proximity between regions, and policy variables. Our results show that the strength of interregional research collaboration can be related to both node properties and the relationship between nodes. As such, we find that modern locational factors are positively correlated with the extent of interregional research collaboration, while geographical distance is found to be an impediment to collaboration. The results further show that the pursuit of network and cluster policies in the biotech sector, particularly through collaborative R&D funding, is positively related to the strength of the interregional collaboration activity.
L65|Numerical Investigation of Head Frontal Velocity of nonconservative Dense Flows in Small Inclined Beds|Non-conservative dense flow frontal velocity has been simulated two dimensionally by fluent numerical code. The outcomes have been compared with experimental results. Numerical simulation was conducted as two-phase through Euler-Lagrange method. Reynolds-Stress Turbulent Model (RSM) with non-uniform grid and shredding mesh on the channel floor. The results obtained from numerical model of head frontal velocity show a good compliance with experiment results and greatly help analyzing the pattern of fluid movement in different scales.
L65|Intangibles and the Market Value of Biopharmaceutical Startups|his paper investigates the relationship between various measures of intangible capital and the market valuation of young biopharmaceutical firms. We employ a non-linear model to measure the impact of R&D, patents, alliances, organizational capital, and mergers on the value of 349 newly-incorporated firms between 1980 and 2006. We find that, with the exception of mergers, our measures of intangible capital havepositive and significant effects on market values; the impact of R&D declines as firms mature; and the omission of either alliances or organizational capital leads to a significant overstatement of the influence of R&D.
L65|Gold nanoparticles on the development of fluorescent biosensors for the detection of pathogenic bacteria in water and foods|Actually the use of biosensors for the diagnostic of infectious diseases has attracted considerably the attention due to the feasibility that offer by their qualities such as the time of response, specificity and sensitivity, as well as low cost. In particular the biosensors made from gold nanoparticles could offer these advantages, for the detection of a large number of analytes. This research show a simple methodology to prepare fluorescent biosensors for the rapid detection of pathogens in foods and water using a bioconjugate based on gold nanoparticles. The efficiency on the detection of the bacteria Salmonella sp. and Staphylococcus aureus in samples of water and contaminated milk was proved. The proposed methodology could represent a viable alternative for applications in the field of rapid diagnosis of infectious diseases.
L65|Geringe Dynamik im Inlandsgeschäft: Deutschlands Pharmaindustrie 2016/2017|Die pharmazeutische Industrie in Deutschland ist von spezifischen, institutionellen und regulatorischen Rahmenbedingungen geprägt, welche den Handlungs- und Entwicklungsspielraum der Unternehmen vor Ort definieren. Im Gegensatz zu anderen industriellen Branchen wie dem Fahrzeug- oder Maschinenbau ist die ökonomische Entwicklung der Pharmaindustrie weniger vom allgemeinen Konjunkturverlauf abhängig, auch wenn länger andauernde Abschwungphasen durchaus negativ auf die Preisentwicklung der Branchenerzeugnisse wirken können und vice versa. [...]
L65|Exportschlager Gesundheit: Wachstumstreiber Schwellenländer?|Die pharmazeutische Industrie und die Medizintechnik tragen als Branchen der industriellen Gesundheitswirtschaft mit ihren Gütern nicht nur auf dem inländischen Gesundheitsmarkt zur medizinischen Versorgung bei, sondern Arzneimittel und medizintechnische Produkte aus Deutschland sind auch weltweit gefragt. Mit ihrem Auslandsgeschäft schaffen die Unternehmen der industriellen Gesundheitswirtschaft zusätzlich Arbeitsplätze und Wertschöpfung am Standort Deutschland. Aktuell erwirtschaften die pharmazeutische Industrie und die Medizintechnik jeweils rund zwei Drittel ihres Umsatzes im Ausland - im Durchschnitt des Verarbeitenden Gewerbes liegt die Exportquote nur bei knapp der Hälfte.
L65|A tecnologia empresarial Odebrecht como filosofia de projeto organizacional – um estudo de caso na Braskem S.A<BR>[Odebrecht entrepreneurial technology as organisational project philosophy – a case study in Braskem S.A]|r e s u m o Este estudo analisa a aplicac¸ão da tecnologia empresarial Odebrecht (TEO) na Braskem S.A, de acordo com os critérios do modelo estrela de Jay Galbraith, apresentando como os conceitos e princípios da TEO se relacionam aos critérios do projeto organizacional de uma empresa do grupo Odebrecht. A escassez de estudos que abordam a TEO enquanto modelo para a arquitetura organizacional é o problema central que motivou esta pesquisa, que se justifica pelas dificuldades enfrentadas por organizac¸ões no Brasil, além da relevância da TEO no ambiente empresarial brasileiro. O trabalho foi desenvolvido utilizando como base a técnica de análise de conteúdo, proposta por Lawrence Bardin para analisar uma série de entrevistas realizadas na Braskem S.A., verificando a coerência entre a teoria e a prática organizacional. A partir dos resultados obtidos, foi possível elaborar um diagrama que incorpora a TEO ao modelo de Galbraith. O desfecho do estudo propõe uma maneira de a TEO ser utilizada no projeto de uma organizac¸ão, de acordo com a proposta de Galbraith. Assim, foi possível concluir que a TEO pode ser utilizada para orientar o projeto de novas organizac¸ões ou o redesenho das existentes tanto no Brasil, quanto no mundo. a b s t r a c t This study analyses the application of the Odebrecht entrepreneurial technology (TEO) in Braskem SA, according to the criteria of Star Model of Galbraith. It aims are to show how the concepts and principles of TEO are applied in the organisational design of an Odebrecht group company. The few studies that deal with TEO as a model for the organisational architecture is the main reason for presenting this study, which is justified by the difficulties faced by organisations in Brazil and the relevance of TEO in the Brazilian business environment. The work makes use of the Bardin technique to analyse a series of interviews in Braskem SA, checking the consistency between theory and organisational practice. As a result, a diagram is drawn up that embodies the TEO to Galbraith model. The outcome of the study proposes a way for TEO be used in the design of an organisation. Thus, it was concluded that TEO can be applied in new or redesigned project organisations in Brazil or in the world.
L65|'You’ll (n)ever walk alone'. Innovative Wissensarbeit zwischen individualistischem Leistungsregime und kommunitaerer Teamkultur ('You’ll (n)ever walk alone'. Innovative knowledge work: Individual performance systems as opposed to communitarian team culture)|Im Fokus des Beitrages steht die Arbeitsregulation in wissensbasierten Unternehmen. Interessenvertretungen werden hier nicht nur damit konfrontiert, dass hochqualifizierte Beschaeftigte – Wissensarbeiter/innen – zur Selbstvertretung tendieren, sondern auch mit neuen integrativen Human Resource Strategien, in denen Commitment und Empowerment eine grosse Rolle spielen. Ob das Spannungsverhaeltnis zwischen individualistischer Leistungsorientierung und kommunitaerer Teamkultur – das Paradox der Wissensarbeit – hierdurch jedoch geloest werden kann, ist die Frage; ebenso wie die Vereinbarkeit mit traditionellen Institutionen der Interessenvertretung. Zur Analyse wird das Theoriekonzept der „institutionellen Logiken“ herangezogen, das uns Aufschluss ueber die in wissensbasierten Unternehmen vorherrschenden Spannungen und Interessenskonflikte geben soll. Am Beispiel von Pharma- und Biotech-Unternehmen wird gezeigt, wie widerspruechliche institutionelle Logiken entstehen und bearbeitet werden. Diskutiert werden mit Blick auf die empirischen Befunde auch die Chancen fuer eine Rekonfiguration kollektiver Formen der Arbeitsregulation. (This article examines the role of work regulation in knowledge-based firms. Collective interest representation is faced with a preference of knowledge workers for self-representation as well as the need to counteract integrative human resource strategies which support commitment and empowerment. Could these management strategies resolve the tension between an individualistic performance orientation and a communitarian team culture – the paradox of knowledge work? Or, does knowledge work fit well with traditional models of collective interest representation? Our analysis is based on the theory of institutional logics that offers a framework for investigating tensions and conflicting interests within knowledge-based firms. With reference to the example of pharmaceutical and biotech companies, the article describes how contradictory institutional logics develop and how they are applied. Our empirical findings provide a further discussion of possibilities for reconfiguring the collective representation of interests.)
L65|Mergers And Acquisit?ons In Pharmaceutical Industry As A Growth Strategy: An Investigation Upon Practice|Until the begining of 1990s, firms had been looking ways to attain the competitive advantage and increase their profitabilites depending on it by realizing economies of scale or benefiting from market failure. Nowadays, with the impact of globalization, particularly great companies have started to purchase other firms or merge with them as a growth strategy. Pharmaceutical industry has the first place where the mergers and acquisitions occur mostly. Among the drives that leads pharmaceutical firms to mergers or acquisitions; high costs of research and development, economies of scale, motivation for new markets, efforts to improve the existing marketing possibilities, trying to keep up with competition can be counted. The aim of this study is to discuss mergers and acqusisitions in pharmaceutical sector and to evaluate global pharmaceutical industry in this terms.
L65|Mergers And Acquisit?ons In Pharmaceutical Industry As A Growth Strategy: An Investigation Upon Practice|Until the begining of 1990s, firms had been looking ways to attain the competitive advantage and increase their profitabilites depending on it by realizing economies of scale or benefiting from market failure. Nowadays, with the impact of globalization, particularly great companies have started to purchase other firms or merge with them as a growth strategy. Pharmaceutical industry has the first place where the mergers and acquisitions occur mostly. Among the drives that leads pharmaceutical firms to mergers or acquisitions; high costs of research and development, economies of scale, motivation for new markets, efforts to improve the existing marketing possibilities, trying to keep up with competition can be counted. The aim of this study is to discuss mergers and acqusisitions in pharmaceutical sector and to evaluate global pharmaceutical industry in this terms.
L65|Entry time effects and follow-on drug competition|Pharmaceutical firms have been criticized for concentrating efforts of R&D on the so-called me-too or follow-on drugs. There have been many comments for and against the dissemination of these incremental innovations but few papers have broached the subject from an econometric point of view, possibly because identification of me-too or follow-on drugs is not so obvious. This paper focuses on the impact of entry order on follow-on drug competition in the French market between the years 2001 and 2007. More precisely, this study examines the effects on market share of first entrants in the follow-on drug market and how this possible competitive advantage changes over time. First results are coherent with theoretical microeconomic issues concerning the importance of being first. We find evidence that first movers in the follow-on drug market have the ability to capture and maintain greater market share for a long period of time. The hierarchical market position of follow-on drugs does not seem to be affected by generic drug emergence. From a dynamic perspective, our analysis shows that market share is positively correlated with the ability of follow-on drugs to set prices higher than the average follow-on drug prices in a specific therapeutic class, which means that market power remains considerably important for first movers. Moreover, we found that the optimum level of innovation to maximize market share is the highest one. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
L65|Using simulation experiments to test historical explanations: the development of the German dye industry 1857-1913|Abstract In a simulation experiment, building on the abductive simulation approach of Brenner and Werker (2007), we test historical explanations for why German firms came to surpass British and France firms and to dominate the global synthetic dye industry for three decades before World War 1 while the U.S. never achieved large market share despite large home demand. Murmann and Homburg (J Evol Econ 11(2):177–205, 2001) and Murmann (2003) argued that German firms came to dominate the global industry because of (1) the high initial number of chemists in Germany at the start of the industry in 1857, (2) the high responsiveness of the German university system and (3) the late (1877) introduction of a patent regime in Germany as well as the more narrow construction of this regime compared to Britain, France and the U.S. We test the validity of these three potential explanations with the help of simulation experiments. The experiments show that the 2nd explanation—the high responsiveness of the German university system— is the most compelling one because unlike the other two it is true for virtually all plausible historical settings.
L65|Same place, same knowledge -- same people? The geography of non-patent citations in Dutch polymer patents| It has long been argued that geographic co-location supports knowledge spillovers. More recently, this argument has been challenged by showing that knowledge spillovers mainly flow through social networks, which may or may not be localized at various geographic scales. We further scrutinize the conjecture of geographically bounded knowledge spillovers by focusing on knowledge flows between academia and industry. Looking into citations to non-patent literature (NPL) in 2385 Dutch polymer patents, we find that citation lags are shorter on average if Dutch rather than foreign NPLs are cited. However, when excluding individual and organizational self-citations, geographically proximate NPLs no longer diffuse faster than foreign NPLs. This suggests that knowledge is not ‘in the air’ but transferred by mobile individuals and/or direct university--industry collaboration. Our findings moreover suggest an important role of international conferences in the diffusion of recent scientific knowledge.
L65|Alliances and the innovation performance of corporate and public research spin-off firms|Abstract We explore the innovation performance benefits of alliances for spin-off firms, in particular spin-offs either from other firms or from public research organizations. During the early years of the emerging combinatorial chemistry industry, the industry on which our empirical analysis focuses, spin-offs engaged in alliances with large and established partners, partners of similar type and size, and with public research organizations, often for different reasons. We seek to understand to what extent alliances of spin-offs with other firms (either large- or small- and medium-sized firms) affected their innovation performance and also how this performance may have been affected by their corporate or public research background. We find evidence that in general alliances of spin-offs with other firms, in particular alliances with large firms, increased their innovation performance. Corporate spin-offs that formed alliances with other firms outperformed public research spin-offs with such alliances. This suggests that, in terms of their innovation performance, corporate spin-offs that engaged in alliances with other firms seemed to have benefitted from their prior corporate background. Interestingly, it turns out that the negative impact of alliances on the innovation performance of public research spin-offs was largely affected by their alliances with small- and medium-sized firms.
L65|Firm‐Level Productivity Spillovers in China's Chemical Industry: A Spatial Hausman‐Taylor Approach|This paper assesses the role of intra-sectoral spillovers in total factor productivity across Chinese producers in the chemical industry. We use a rich panel data-set of 12,552 firms observed over the period 2004-2006 and model output by the firm as a function of skilled and unskilled labor, capital, materials, and total factor productivity, which is broadly defined. The latter is a composite of observable factors such as export market participation, foreign as well as public ownership, the extent of accumulated intangible assets, and unobservable total factor productivity. Despite the richness of our data-set, it suffers from the lack of time variation in the number of skilled workers as well as in the variable indicating public ownership. We introduce spatial spillovers in total factor productivity through contextual effects of observable variables as well as spatial dependence of the disturbances. We extend the Hausman and Taylor (1981) estimator to account for spatial correlation in the error term. This approach permits estimating the effect of time-invariant variables which are wiped out by the fixed effects estimator. While the original Hausman and Taylor (1981) estimator assumes homoskedastic error components, we provide spatial variants that allow for both homoskedasticity and heteroskedasticity. Monte Carlo results show, that our estimation procedure performs well in small samples. We find evidence of positive spillovers across chemical manufacturers and a large and significant detrimental effect of public ownership on total factor productivity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Patents and the Global Diffusion of New Drugs|Analysis of the timing of launches of 642 new drugs in 76 countries during 1983-2002 shows that patent and price regulation regimes strongly affect how quickly new drugs become commercially available in different countries. Price regulation delays launch, while longer and more extensive patent rights accelerate it. Health policy institutions and economic and demographic factors that make markets more profitable also speed up diffusion. The estimated effects are generally robust to controlling for endogeneity of policy regimes with country fixed effects and instrumental variables. The results highlight the important role of policy choices in driving the diffusion of new innovations. (JEL I18, L11, L51, L65, O31, O33, O34)
L65|The Market Impacts of Pharmaceutical Product Patents in Developing Countries: Evidence from India|In 2005, as the result of a World Trade Organization mandate, India implemented a patent reform for pharmaceuticals that was intended to comply with the 1995 Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). Exploiting variation in the timing of patent decisions, we estimate that a molecule receiving a patent experienced an average price increase of just 3-6 percent, with larger increases for more recently developed molecules and for those produced by just one firm when the patent system began. Our results also show little impact on quantities sold or on the number of pharmaceutical firms operating in the market. (JEL K33, L11, L13, L65, O14, O34, O38)
L65|Does Merger Simulation Work? Evidence from the Swedish Analgesics Market|We analyze a large merger in the Swedish market for analgesics (painkillers). The merging firms raised prices by 40 percent, and some outsiders raised prices by more than 10 percent. We confront these changes with predictions from a merger simulation model. With basic supply side assumptions, the models correctly or moderately underpredict the merging firms' price increase. However, they predict a larger price increase for the smaller firm, which was not the case in practice, and they underpredict the outsiders' responses. We consider several supply side explanations: a plausible cost increase after the merger and the possibility of partial collusion.
L65|Patents as a Spur to Subsequent Innovation? Evidence from Pharmaceuticals|This paper examines how an incumbent's patent protection acts as an implicit subsidy toward non-infringing substitutes. I analyze whether classes of pharmaceuticals whose first entrant has a longer period of market exclusivity (time between approval and generic entry) see more subsequent entry. Instrumenting for exclusivity using plausibly exogenous delays in the development process, I find that a one-year increase in the first entrant's market exclusivity increases subsequent entry by 0.2 drugs. The effect is stronger for subsequent entrants that are lesser clinical advances, suggesting it is driven primarily by imitation.
L65|Innovation Led Alliances: Theory and application to the GM Plant Industry| The objective of the present paper is to identify the determinants of the form of collaboration initiated between an upstream innovator and a downstream producer in order to incorporate a new input and commercialize an innovation consisting of a quality enhanced final product, with an empirical application to the GM plant industry. The choice of upstream firm between license, joint venture, merger or a subsidiary is modeled as a function of three parameters: degree of quality improvement engendered by the new input, the market share of the downstream producer and the capability of the downstream producer to incorporate the new input and commercialize it successfully. We also discuss the case where the downstream firm is a cooperative.
L65|Innovation Led Alliances: Theory and application to the GM Plant Industry| The objective of the present paper is to identify the determinants of the form of collaboration initiated between an upstream innovator and a downstream producer in order to incorporate a new input and commercialize an innovation consisting of a quality enhanced final product, with an empirical application to the GM plant industry. The choice of upstream firm between license, joint venture, merger or a subsidiary is modeled as a function of three parameters: degree of quality improvement engendered by the new input, the market share of the downstream producer and the capability of the downstream producer to incorporate the new input and commercialize it successfully. We also discuss the case where the downstream firm is a cooperative.
L65|University–Industry Linkages in the Support of Biotechnology Discoveries|This review summarizes the theoretical and empirical literature on the importance of linkages between universities and industries in the development of commercial applications of biotechnology. These linkages range from formal agreements, such as patent licenses and research alliances, to informal collaborations, such as joint research, copublication, and consulting. Because biotechnology involves a new research method, the tacit knowledge embedded in it became critical to its commercialization. Specifically, it requires the direct involvement of star scientists who have this tacit knowledge and are well remunerated for it. This process is facilitated by the passage of the Bayh–Dole Act, which allows universities to retain ownership of crucial patents and provides incentives to the star scientists to cooperate in development and commercialization. Over time, a complex web of collaborations and alliances has evolved in therapeutic, diagnostic, and pharmaceutical biotechnology, whereas extensive consolidation has occurred in agricultural biotechnology.
L65|France’s pharmaceutical industry in global value chains|Companies are increasingly engaged in global value chains (GVCs). All of their activities, from design to bringing products to market, are spread across a variety of domestic and foreign participants. Taking the example of the French pharmaceutical industry, we use trade in value added indicators to examine this phenomenon. Over the 2000-2014 period, the French pharmaceutical industry opened up to GVCs, as reflected in the 392% increase in the share of imported value added in its exports and the 185% increase in the share of exported domestic value added. After being especially pronounced between 2007 and 2010, however, this integration process has slowed since 2012: the share of foreign value added in exports was smaller in 2014 than in 2012. The degree to which companies participate in GVCs is heterogeneous: exporting firms make greater use of imported inputs and are thus more integrated than those that produce for the domestic market. Foreign multinational businesses operating in France participate to a larger extent in GVCs than French multinationals producing in France. The opening up of the pharmaceutical industry to GVCs has been accompanied by greater diversification in trade partners and increased production sharing with zones outside Europe’s borders. Today, international production sharing within the industry involves the major euro area countries but also the UK, Switzerland, the USA, Poland, as well as the large Asian economies such as China. Integration of the French pharmaceutical industry in GVCs has gone hand in hand with rising direct investment, both outward by French firms and inward by foreign firms in France, and an increase in income earned by the French economy within the framework of the international organisation of production.
L65|Strukturwandel in der Europäischen Union am Beispiel ausgewählter Leitmärkte mit besonderem Bezug auf die Innovationstätigkeit der Mitgliedsländer|The present study examines the position of the EU28 member states and the comparative advantage of each vis-à-vis the other states in the EU28 market using four particular chosen leading markets; Renewable Energies, Biotechnology, Information and Communication Technologies and the Recycling sector. Within the framework of this study, two modified versions of a Revealed Comarative Advantage Indicator are employed, both of which are derived herein. It can be shown that ICT and Recycling are already established sectors, for which there is evidence of only a low level of structural dynamics within the EU28. On the contrary, for Renewable Energies and Biotechnology a different picture emerges: Established centers of production and innovation are indeed established, however the transformation process for these two sectors has not been completed and they better fulfil their function as leading markets than ICT or Recycling.
L65|Análisis de la variación de la eficiencia en la producción de biocombustibles en América Latina|Este artículo de investigación tiene como objetivo realizar la medición de las variaciones de eficiencia de los países productores de biocombustibles en Latinoamérica. Se utilizó la metodología no paramétrica de análisis envolvente de datos (DEA), que permitió calcular la frontera de eficiencia de Brasil, Colombia, Argentina, Ecuador, México, Paraguay, Perú, Bolivia y Uruguay. La información analizada se obtuvo de la base de datos FAOSTAT año 2010. Los resultados mostraron el liderazgo de Perú y Brasil, con eficiencias igual a 1 en la producción de biodiésel y bioetanol. De los 9 países analizados, 7 presentaron bajos niveles de eficiencia en la producción de biocombustibles y solo uno (Paraguay) mostró tener eficiencia media en la fabricación de bioetanol.
L65|The specifics of supply chain of medical kits product group in the context of using Enterprise Resource Planning class systems|Motivation: The article contains proposals of IT solutions supporting the management of selected links in the supply chain of Disposable Medical Kits product group. Aim: The aim of the article is the analysis of the distinctive features of the supply chain of Disposable Medical Kits product group (later referred to as DMK) in the context of managing such chain by means of IT solutions. Results: The first part of the article identifies distinctive features of the supply chain for this product group, which are of importance in the context of realizing the goals of social logistics of medical products supplies, as well as from the point of view of optimizing the management of the chain’s individual links. The second part of the article is devoted to presenting proposals of IT solutions supporting the management of supply chain, whose functionality are implied by the analysis conducted in the first part.
L65|Cross-Border Co-opetition through Market Co-creation|No abstract is available for this item.
L65|Vertical Specialization, Global Value Chains And International Trade: The Rubber And Plastics Industry In Portugal And Comparison With Northern And Southern Eu Countries|The growing fragmentation of production in the last decades has changed the geography, and dynamics, of trade. It is very important, especially for small and open economies, a good position in regional and global value chains (GVC). The necessary increase in imports, namely of intermediate inputs, that this positioning implies must be accompanied by an adequate increase of exports, generating a substantial amount of domestic value added. In this paper, an empirical analysis is made of the changes in the geography of imports and exports of Portuguese rubber and plastics industry, as well as the growing vertical specialization of this sector, both with direct and total measures, in the period 1995-2011. To put the main trends in perspective, a comparison will be made with some northern and southern EU countries, the main trade partners of Portugal in this industry, and in fact in all the others. The rubber and plastics industry is a good case study in the context of GVC analysis, given the strong proportion of intermediate inputs in its output and trade.
L65|Innovation in the pharmaceutical industry: New estimates of R&D costs|The research and development costs of 106 randomly selected new drugs were obtained from a survey of 10 pharmaceutical firms. These data were used to estimate the average pre-tax cost of new drug and biologics development. The costs of compounds abandoned during testing were linked to the costs of compounds that obtained marketing approval. The estimated average out-of-pocket cost per approved new compound is $1395 million (2013 dollars). Capitalizing out-of-pocket costs to the point of marketing approval at a real discount rate of 10.5% yields a total pre-approval cost estimate of $2558 million (2013 dollars). When compared to the results of the previous study in this series, total capitalized costs were shown to have increased at an annual rate of 8.5% above general price inflation. Adding an estimate of post-approval R&D costs increases the cost estimate to $2870 million (2013 dollars).
L65|The role of diversification profiles and dyadic characteristics in the formation of technological alliances: Differences between exploitation and exploration in a low-tech industry|This paper posits that corporate and technological diversification of firms and their relatedness in terms of products and technologies will impact their propensity to form technological alliances. It argues that both higher levels of diversification and greater relatedness signal superior capabilities and available resources to prospective partners that will facilitate exploration and exploitation of technological assets in an alliance. These theoretical conjectures are tested using a dataset of all tire producers worldwide between 1985 and 1996 that combines detailed firm data on establishment, patenting, and alliance activities. The results indicate that complementarity in terms of corporate and technological diversification strategies, as well as partner characteristics (e.g., size, age, and technological capabilities) drive exploitation alliances. Moreover, firms with similar product portfolios are more likely to engage in exploitative interactions. In contrast, exploration alliances exhibit strong partner similarity across all firm characteristics. Both corporate and technological diversification have positive effects on firms’ propensity to engage in exploration, while technological distance has a negative nonlinear one.
L65|The Analysis of Industrial Sickness with Reference to the FCIL|"""Objective – The growth and magnitude of industrial sickness is a dangerous issue, not only for the present situation but also for the near future. There are many reasons that could have caused a company to become sick and the reasons could be internal or external or a combination of both. In that regard, this paper aims to analyse the presence of industrial sickness by reviewing the revival policy measures of the Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited (FCIL), particularly the Ramagundam unit. Methodology/Technique – Data for this paper are extracted from sources such as the Indian Economy reports, the Department of Fertilizers Government of India reports and personal interviews with the employees of the Fertilizers Corporation of India Limited, Ramagundam unit. Findings – The results showed that the FCIL unit became sick mainly because of poor management decisions, feeble human resource management, use of outdated technology, power-cut problems, non-availability of raw materials and wrong government policies. Novelty – This paper highlights why the FCIL has been declared as a sick company and what sort of government policies and preventive actions should be taken for revival or to rehabilitate the company."""
L65|Squeezing the last drop out of your suppliers: an empirical study of market-based purchasing policies for generic pharmaceuticals|We study the effect of the degree of exclusivity for the lowest bidder on the average price of generic pharmaceuticals in the short and long terms. Our results indicate that a 1-percentage-point gain in market share of the lowest bidder reduces average costs by 0.3% in the short term and 0.8% in the long term, but also reduces the number of firms by 1%. We find that reducing the number of firms has a strong positive (and hence counteracting) effect on average prices, i.e., a 1% reduction raises prices by approximately 1%.
L65|Squeezing the last drop out of your suppliers: an empirical study of market-based purchasing policies for generic pharmaceuticals|We study the effect of the degree of exclusivity for the lowest bidder on the average price of generic pharmaceuticals in the short and long terms. Our results indicate that a 1-percentage-point gain in market share of the lowest bidder reduces average costs by 0.3% in the short term and 0.8% in the long term, but also reduces the number of firms by 1%. We find that reducing the number of firms has a strong positive (and hence counteracting) effect on average prices, i.e., a 1% reduction raises prices by approximately 1%.
L65|Access to Medicines and European Market Integration|In this paper we document a process of price convergence in the European market for pharmaceuticals and relate it to access to innovative medicines in individual countries. The EU is a peculiar case study, where free circulation of goods exists, but pricing policies are designed and implemented by Member States. Thanks to a unique census database on product sales and launches for Â…fifteen EU countries, we detect a process of price convergence, both in nominal and in real terms. Therefore, we Â…nd that a faster rate of price convergence and a lower income per capita are associated with stronger delays in launches of new medicines. Moreover, country delays tend to be higher for innovative and Â…first in class chemical compounds. Our results suggest that inefficiencies arise from drugs regulation, when countries widely differ in income per capita, public Â…finance sustainability conditions, and regulatory frameworks. Policies of external reference pricing tend to exacerbate welfare losses. A policy of differential pricing is suggested, in order to take into account both therapeutic value and willingness to pay.
L65|Proposal Of Base Business Model For Biotechnology Companies In Mexico, Propuesta De Modelo De Negocio Base Para Las Empresas De Biotecnologia En Mexico|The biotechnology industry in Mexico is emergent. While countries like Singapore and South Korea have established their industries rapidly, Mexico still does not have specific programs for the biotechnology development. For over two decades, this country has tried to exploit everything that the biotechnology industry has to offer. However, the results have not been very impressive. Therefore, Mexico requires changes in terms of the development mechanism of the biotechnology industry. One of the key pillars of changes required in Mexico is the business model used by the industry. Based on the above, the target of this work was to develop a base business model for the biotechnology companies. To make this proposal, a mixed method was applied to conduct the research and the variables of canvas methodology, were used to analyze the companies that were selected. The results showed that successful biotech companies have certain patterns in their business models. Also, they allowed us to understand how companies interact with their environment and carry out a proposal of business model most likely to have a future development
L65|Impacto De La Mujer Directiva En La Salida A Bolsa De Empresas De Alta Tecnología: El Efecto Mediador De Las Patentes Y El Desarrollo De Productos / Impact Of Female Managers On High-Technology Firms Going Public: The Mediating Effect Of Patents And Product Development|Este trabajo examina la relación entre la presencia de la mujer en los equipos de alta dirección y el éxito de las empresas de alta tecnología en su salida a bolsa. Asimismo, analiza cómo indicadores específicos de capacidad de innovación pueden mediar dicha relación. La investigación empírica de una muestra de empresas biotecnológicas que salieron a bolsa en el mercado de valores estadounidense indica un efecto negativo y significativo de la proporción de mujeres en la dirección ejecutiva, aunque confirma la influencia positiva de los indicadores de innovación que además median y hacen no significativo el efecto de la diversidad de género. / This paper examines the relationship between the representation of women on top management teams and the success of high-technology firms going public. Also, it analyzes how specific indicators of innovation capability can mediate such a relationship. The empirical research of a sample of dedicated biotechnology firms that completed an initial public offering in the stock market of the United States shows a negative and significant effect of the proportion of female executive managers; however, it demonstrates that the indicators of innovation have a positive influence as well as mediate and cause no significant effect of gender diversity.
L65|The Growth Prospects for the World Tire Market in the Short and Medium-Term|The paper addresses the main aspects of the short and medium-term developments in the world market for motor vehicles tires, an industry which is related to the machine building industry, with the latter being seen as a barometer for the health of an economy. It analyzes the main trends in motor vehicles production worldwide during the years 2011-2014, and highlights the ranking of the ten largest tire manufacturing companies, as well as the outlook until 2025. The article contains also forecasts on the growth of this industry by regions.
L65|The Effects of Publicity on Demand: The Case of Anti-Cholesterol Drugs|Over the past 10 years there has been increased recognition of the importance of publicity as a means of generating product awareness. Despite this, previous research has seldom investigated the impact of publicity on demand. We contribute to the literature by (i) proposing a new method for the interpretation of publicity data, one that maps the information in news articles (or broadcasts) to a multidimensional attribute space; (ii) investigating how different types of publicity affect demand; and (iii) investigating how different types of publicity interact with firms’ own marketing communication efforts. We study these issues for statins. We find that publicity plays an important role both for expanding the market for statins and for determining which statins patients or physicians choose. We also find evidence that publicity can serve as either a substitute or a complement for traditional marketing channels depending on the complexity of the information type. We argue that the interaction results are driven by the relative strengths of the corroborative and rational inattention functions in publicity. These results suggest that managers should be aware of the interactions between publicity and traditional marketing channels to better determine how to allocate their marketing expenditures.
L65|On compensation schemes for data sharing within the European REACH legislation|Article 30 of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 concerns the sharing of data between users of a chemical substance. We study this bargaining problem by means of a special class of games in coalitional form called data games (Dehez and Tellone in J Public Econ Theory 15:654–673, 2013 ). For such problems, compensation schemes specify how the data owners should be compensated by the agents in needs of data. On the class of data games, the Core, the Nucleolus and the Shapley value provide relevant compensation schemes. We provide four comparable axiomatic characterizations of the set of all (additive) compensation schemes belonging to the Core, of the Nucleolus, of the Shapley value and of the Full compensation mechanism, a compensation scheme exclusively designed for data sharing problems. The axioms reflects principles of various theories of justice. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
L65|Reforming the Swedish pharmaceuticals market: consequences for costs per defined daily dose|Abstract In 2009 and 2010, the Swedish pharmaceuticals market was reformed. One of the stated policy goals was to achieve low costs for pharmaceutical products dispensed in Sweden. We use price and sales data for off-patent brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals to estimate a log-linear regression model, allowing us to assess how the policy changes affected the cost per defined daily dose. The estimated effect is an 18 % cost reduction per defined daily dose at the retail level and a 34 % reduction in the prices at the wholesale level (pharmacies’ purchase prices). The empirical results suggest that the cost reductions were caused by the introduction of a price cap, an obligation to dispense the lowest-cost generic substitute available in the whole Swedish market, and the introduction of well-defined exchange groups. The reforms thus reduced the cost per defined daily dose for consumers while being advantageous also for the pharmacies, who saw their retail margins increase. However, pharmaceutical firms supplying off-patent pharmaceuticals experienced a clear reduction in the price received for their products.
L65|“Effective regulatory stringency” and firms’ profitability: the effects of effluent limits and government monitoring|Abstract The Porter hypothesis asserts that properly designed environmental regulation motivates firms to innovate, which ultimately improves profitability. Specifically, the Porter hypothesis posits that more stringent environmental regulation, i.e., greater regulatory stringency, leads to greater profitability. In contrast, the conventional “costly regulation” hypothesis posits that greater regulatory stringency weakens profitability mostly by driving up abatement costs. This study empirically tests these two hypotheses. Of course, regulatory stringency is difficult to measure. More important, regulatory stringency as codified in legislated acts and promulgated rules does not necessarily reflect regulatory stringency in practice, which we deem as “effective regulatory stringency”. Measurement of “effective regulatory stringency” is even more challenging. With this challenge in mind, we divide “effective regulatory stringency” into its two constituent components—(1) legal requirements and (2) regulatory scrutiny—the latter representing government efforts to ensure compliance with the legal requirements. For our analysis, we examine legal requirements in the form of facility-specific effluent limits and regulatory scrutiny in the form of government monitoring inspections. For our empirical analysis, we analyze the U.S. Clean Water Act under which the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency imposes numeric wastewater discharge limits on permitted facilities and conducts wastewater-related inspections. As its primary contribution, our study separately examines the effects of legal requirements and regulatory scrutiny on firm-level profitability in order to appreciate the influence of “effective regulatory stringency”.
L65|Entry and Patenting in the Pharmaceutical Industry|We study the impact of incumbents' and own patents on entry in pharmaceutical submarkets in the USA for the period 1988-1998. We relate the variation in the effect of patents on entry to some observable market and firm characteristics and find a negative impact of incumbents' patents on entry, which confirms the role of patents as a barrier to entry.
L65|Specialty Drug Prices and Utilization after Loss of U.S. Patent Exclusivity, 2001–2007|No abstract is available for this item.
L65|A Ricardian-Demand Explanation for Changing Pharmaceutical R&D Productivity|This paper examines trends in the aggregate productivity of the pharmaceutical sector over the past three decades. We incorporate Ricardo’s insight about demand-driven productivity in settings of variable scarce resources, and estimate the industry’s responsiveness to changes in demand over this timeframe using therapeutic class-specific data. In contrast to many analyses, our empirical estimates indicate that the industry has “met demand” with remarkable consistency since the late-1980s. The growth in total R&D spending, and therefore R&D costs per new drug, appear to have been profitable and productive investments. While we identify a significant increase in the industry’s fixed costs - the intercept of the production function - we find no decline in the marginal productivity of industry investments that might suggest significant supply-side frictions. While we cannot diagnose in detail why average, but not marginal, productivity declined, the data suggests that firms have finally begun to compete down returns from the supranormal levels of decades past.
L65|When Discounts Raise Costs: The Effect of Copay Coupons on Generic Utilization|"Branded pharmaceutical manufacturers frequently offer ""copay coupons"" that insulate consumers from cost-sharing, thereby undermining insurers' ability to influence drug utilization. We study the impact of copay coupons on branded drugs first facing generic entry between 2007 and 2010. To overcome endogeneity concerns, we exploit cross-state and cross-consumer variation in coupon legality. We find that coupons increase branded sales by 60+ percent, entirely by reducing the sales of bioequivalent generics. During the five years following generic entry, we estimate that coupons increase total spending by $30 to $120 million per drug, or $700 million to $2.7 billion for our sample alone."
L65|Do Firms Underinvest in Long-Term Research? Evidence from Cancer Clinical Trials|We investigate whether private research investments are distorted away from long-term projects. Our theoretical model highlights two potential sources of this distortion: short-termism and the fixed patent term. Our empirical context is cancer research, where clinical trials—and hence, project durations—are shorter for late-stage cancer treatments relative to early-stage treatments or cancer prevention. Using newly constructed data, we document several sources of evidence that together show private research investments are distorted away from long-term projects. The value of life-years at stake appears large. We analyze three potential policy responses: surrogate (non-mortality) clinical-trial endpoints, targeted R&D subsidies, and patent design. (JEL D92, G31, I11, L65, O31, O34)
L65|Pricing in the Market for Anticancer Drugs|"In 2011, Bristol-Myers Squibb set the price of its newly approved melanoma drug ipilimumab—brand name Yervoy—at $120,000 for a course of therapy. The drug was associated with an incremental increase in life expectancy of four months. Drugs like ipilimumab have fueled the perception that the launch prices of new anticancer drugs and other drugs in the so-called ""specialty"" pharmaceutical market have been increasing over time and that increases are unrelated to the magnitude of the expected health benefits. In this paper, we discuss the unique features of the market for anticancer drugs and assess trends in the launch prices for 58 anticancer drugs approved between 1995 and 2013 in the United States. We restrict attention to anticancer drugs because the use of median survival time as a primary outcome measure provides a common, objective scale for quantifying the incremental benefit of new products. We find that the average launch price of anticancer drugs, adjusted for inflation and health benefits, increased by 10 percent annually—or an average of $8,500 per year—from 1995 to 2013. We argue that the institutional features of the market for anticancer drugs enable manufacturers to set the prices of new products at or slightly above the prices of existing therapies, giving rise to an upward trend in launch prices. Government-mandated price discounts for certain classes of buyers may have also contributed to launch price increases as firms sought to offset the growth in the discount segment by setting higher prices for the remainder of the market."
L65|To mobilize or not: political attention and the regulation of GMOs|No abstract is available for this item.
L65|Field cross-fertilization between GM and non-GM maize in Mallorca: a Mediterranean insular approach|No abstract is available for this item.
L65|Market size and pharmaceutical innovation|" type=""main""> This article quantifies the relationship between market size and innovation in the pharmaceutical industry using improved, and newer, methods and data. We find significant elasticities of innovation to expected market size with a point estimate under our preferred specification of 0.23. This suggests that, on average, $2.5 billion is required in additional revenue to support the invention of one new chemical entity. This magnitude is plausible given recent accounting estimates of the cost of innovation of $800 million to $1 billion per drug, and marginal costs of manufacture and distribution near 50%."
L65|Pharmaceutical Innovation, Longevity, and Medical Expenditure in Greece, 1995-2010| Longitudinal, disease-level data are used to analyze the impact of pharmaceutical innovation on longevity (mean age at death), hospital utilization, and medical expenditure in Greece during the period 1995-2010. The estimates indicate that pharmaceutical innovation increased mean age at death by 0.87 years (10.4 months) - about 44% of the total increase in longevity - and that diseases with larger increases in the cumulative number of drugs launched one to four years earlier had smaller increases in the number of hospital days. Real per capita pharmaceutical expenditure increased rapidly during this period, but 62% of the increase in pharmaceutical expenditure was offset by a reduction in hospital expenditure attributable to pharmaceutical innovation. The baseline estimate of the cost per life-year gained from pharmaceutical innovation in Greece is $17,117, which is a very small fraction of leading economists' estimates of the value of (or consumers' willingness to pay for) a one-year increase in life expectancy.
L65|Push-me pull-you: comparative advertising in the OTC analgesics industry|We model comparative advertising as brands pushing up own brand perception and pulling down the brand image of targeted rivals. We watched all TV advertisements for OTC analgesics 2001-2005 to construct matrices of rival targeting and estimate the structural model. These attack matrices identify diversion ratios and hence comparative advertising damage measures. We find that outgoing comparative advertising attacks are half as powerful as self-promotion in raising own perceived quality and cause more damage to the targeted rival than benefit to the advertiser. Comparative advertising causes most damage through the pull-down effect and has substantial benefits to other rivals.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Price regulation and parallel imports of pharmaceuticals|This paper studies the effects of price regulation and parallel imports in the on-patent pharmaceutical market. In a theory model where the producer price is subject to bargaining between the brand-name producer and a distributor, we show that the effects of stricter price regulation crucially depend on whether the producer faces competition from parallel imports. While parallel imports improve the bargaining position of the distributor, price regulation counteracts this effect and may even be profitable for the producer. We test the implications of our model on a unique dataset with information on sales and prices at both producer and retail level for 165 substances over 4years (2004–2007). We show that stricter price regulation reduces competition from parallel imports, and has no (strictly negative) effect on producer profits in the presence (absence) of parallel imports. Our results suggest that price regulation might improve static efficiency without being harmful for dynamic efficiency in the presence of parallel imports.
L65|La calidad desde el diseño: principios y oportunidades para la industria farmacéutica|La calidad desde el diseño ofrece ventajas sobre modelos previos de aseguramiento de la calidad, siendo útil en sectores donde la calidad signifique diferenciación y la flexibilización de los procesos estimule el mejoramiento continuo y la innovación. Como una contribución para facilitar su implementación en la industria farmacéutica en Colombia, en el presente artículo se analizan las circunstancias que la originaron. Igualmente, partiendo de un estudio de literatura especializada, se explica su importancia en el desarrollo de productos y se proponen algunos aspectos metodológicos para su puesta en práctica. La evidencia reportada sugiere que esta nueva visión de la calidad es una estrategia que genera confianza en clientes, industria y organismos reguladores, respecto a la calidad de los productos farmacéuticos.
L65|A quantitative analysis of the retail market for illicit drugs|We develop a theoretical framework to study illicit drugs markets, and we estimate it using data on drug purchases. Buyers are searching for high-quality drugs, but they can determine drugs' quality (i.e., their purity) only after consuming them. Hence, sellers can rip-off first-time buyers, or can offer higher-quality drugs to induce buyers to purchase again from them. In equilibrium, a distribution of qualities persists. The estimated model implies that increasing penalties may increase the purity and the affordability of drugs traded, because it increases sellers' relative profitability of targeting loyal buyers versus first-time buyers.
L65|Substitutability Between Drugs, Innovation, and Fiscal Policy in the Pharmaceutical Industry|A theoretical model is developed in order to examine and explain the growth and welfare effects of fiscal policies in the pharmaceutical industry. When the fiscal instrument is a tax over pharmaceutical firmsâ€™ profits, R&D by firms in the pharmaceutical sector results in growth if there is a generic market. Otherwise, a subsidy over pharmaceutical firmsâ€™ profits should be considered to generate innovation in medicines. In terms of policy implications, our empirical results suggest that stimulating generic competition in the pharmaceutical sector is a main instrument to contain costs and promote welfare.
L65|Integration von Industrie- und Innovationspolitik: Beispiele aus den USA und Israel und Ansätze der neuen EU-Industriepolitik|In this article, we analyze the role of innovation and technology policy in concepts of modern industrial policy and present current insights about its successful integration. The systemic innovation policy contributes substantially to the conception of a modern industrial policy. This is reflected by a modification of the role of policy, the provision of key design principles for public policy and the higher diversification of policy tools. Past examples of biotechnology in the US and the software industry illustrate the combination of innovation policy and industrial policy measures in conjunction led to the successful development of the innovation system and thus the industry. In selected recent examples of the policy in the European Union, we observe a combination of industrial strength/innovation policy with competition and educational policy as well as demand-side measures. A deeper understanding of them can help to address new developments such as advanced manufacturing, which are also of high importance for the German industry. Im vorliegenden Beitrag wird untersucht, welche Rolle die Innovations- und Technologiepolitik im Rahmen einer modernen Industriepolitik spielen kann und welche Erkenntnisse über eine erfolgreiche Integration vorliegen. Die systemische Innovationspolitik ist wesentlicher Bestandteil einer modernen Industriepolitik. Dies zeigt sich durch eine Modifizierung der Rolle der Politik, der Aufstellung zentraler Designprinzipien bei der Ausgestaltung von Programmen und einer Vergrößerung der Instrumenten-Toolbox. Historische Beispiele für die Biotechnologie in den USA und der Software-Industrie in Israel verdeutlichen, dass die Kombination von innovations- und industriepolitischen Maßnahmen zu einer erfolgreichen Entwicklung des Innovationssystems beigetragen hat. In den hier gewählten Beispielen aus der europäischen Förderpolitik finden sich eine Verknüpfung von Industrie- und Innovationspolitik mit Wettbewerbs- und Bildungspolitik sowie der Einsatz von nachfrageorientierten Maßnahmen. Deren Verständnis kann helfen, neue Entwicklungen (wie Industrie 4.0) zu adressieren, die auch für die deutsche Industrie sehr relevant sind.
L65|Policy induced price volatility transmission: Linking the U.S. crude oil, corn and plastics markets|Policy changes and the evolution of green technology have induced new linkages in commodity markets. In this research, we study a representative market system, the U.S. crude oil, corn and plastics markets affected by policies promoting corn-based energy and corn-based bioplastics production. A vector error correction model (VECM) is estimated to study price transmission among markets in the United States, especially price volatility spillover effects. We find that plastics prices and corn futures prices move together in the long run, but that the crude oil futures prices are weakly exogenous to this system. We identify significant bidirectional volatility transmission between the corn futures and plastics markets, which brings new challenges to stakeholders in both markets. Moreover, we demonstrate that EISA 2007 has strengthened linkages between the corn futures and crude oil futures markets. In addition, changes in the linkages across the three markets are associated with the fuel ethanol–gasoline consumption ratio. The potential application of these findings for policy makers and risk managers is discussed.
L65|Location choice of academic entrepreneurs: Evidence from the US biotechnology industry|Where knowledge-based firms are located is important because entrepreneurship, firm creation and innovation are typically associated with regional economic development, wealth creation and increased employment. In this paper we examine where academic entrepreneurs locate their firms. We begin by developing a theoretical model that examines the location choice of the academic entrepreneur within the standard utility maximization theory. Academic entrepreneurs are assumed to maximize their utility by allocating their efforts between academic and entrepreneurial pursuits which, in turn, determine their future streams of income and end-period wealth. Optimal allocation turns out to be a function of both personal and external factors that condition the relevant payoffs and such factors can be empirically observed. We then use several candidate explanatory variables to examine those factors that may influence the firm location choice for 187 biopharmaceutical firms started by 275 academic entrepreneurs in the US. From our empirical analysis we find that location-specific factors such as proximity to certain knowledge assets and to the funding venture capital firms, affect the firm location choice of academic entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, entrepreneur-specific characteristics, such as their age, seem to dominate the choice of firm location.
L65|The impact of recent chemotherapy innovation on the longevity of myeloma patients: US and international evidence|The longevity of multiple myeloma patients increased sharply since the late 1990s. This increase coincided with the introduction of several important innovations in chemotherapy for myeloma. In this study, we aim to quantify the impact of recent chemotherapy innovation on the longevity of myeloma patients using both time-series US data and longitudinal data on 38 countries.
L65|Determinants of generic vs. brand drug choice: Evidence from population-wide Danish data|We investigate if demand for branded prescription medications in post-patent markets is patient- or doctor driven. When drugs go off-patent the brand medication often maintains non-negligible market shares. We use population-wide Danish data including all prescriptions for seven blockbuster drugs from 1998 to 2008, which amounts to 13,415,012 prescriptions. At the outset, descriptive statistics suggest large variation in drug choice over doctors. Nonetheless, using a two-way fixed effects model we find that the primary determinants of brand drug use are unobserved patient characteristics and price effects.
L65|Pharmaceutical Sector In Serbia In The Period 1990-2013|In this paper authors give an overview of the development of the pharmaceutical industry in former Yugoslavia and Serbia in the period 1990-2013. The aim is to examine whether pharmaceutical industry, which was largely fragmented at the beginning of 90’s, after a decade of privatization and restructuring had come to consolidation. In this paper we review the essentials of the pharmaceutical industry as well as key trends in that industry. In addition, there has been analyzed the privatization process in the pharmaceutical sector, as well as the outcomes of these privatizations. There was also presented the market distribution with market shares of the largest manufacturers of drugs and medical products, and trends that have shaped the market structure of the pharmaceutical industry in the analyzed period. In conclusion we can say that foreign owned pharmaceutical companies, as compared to domestic companies record higher and above average levels of profitability indicators. This indicates that there is a need for another round of restructuring in public owned companies in Serbia.
L65|Developing Countries in the World Economy|Differences in the choices of trade and macro policies, both by developing countries and by developed countries towards developing countries, have been critical in determining the overall performance of developing countries. All too often, the performance of developing countries has not been assessed using appropriately conducted studies. The papers in this book are chosen to bridge this gap and show how a quantitative approach to policy evaluation can help resolve controversies and explain the choice of observed policies. The book brings together carefully selected papers that assess the impacts of various trade and macro policies, by quantifying the policies of developing countries at the macro level (exchange rate, investment, savings) and at the sector level (trade and industrial policies), in addition to policies of developed countries towards developing countries (trade preferences, quotas, VERs and migration policies). Facets of the political economy of trade, migration, and climate policies are explored (such as the enlargement of the EU, the rise of regionalism and how it can ease the pains of adjustment to trade liberalization, openness and inequality). Growing tensions between trade and the environment are also investigated. In short, this book covers a wide area of events ranging from external and internal shocks to external and internal policies, showing how the consequences of these events can be brought to rigorous quantitative analysis.
L65|Resilience, creativity and innovation. The case of Chemical innovations after the 1966 Flood in Florence|Over the last decade, the debate on Evolutionary Economic Geography has been enriched thanks to the ecological approach and its application to the concept of resilience to social systems. Resilience is not only the capacity to absorb shocks and maintain functions, but also includes the capacity for renewal, reorganisation and development. This “adaptive capacity” may be consider in creative approaches as a “creative capacity” able to generate ideas and innovations after a shock, in a creative milieu such a creative city. This paper aims to contribute to the still under-researched debate on resilience and innovation, integrating the resilience approach with the creative one, and developing the still neglected idea of a creative and resilient city. We focus on the city of Florence and on the innovations in conservation sciences developed after the 1966 flood. Combining these perspectives, we consider the city of art as a creative and resilient system, not only to absorb shocks, but also to transform ad renew itself through a “creative adaptive capacity”, where the cultural and art heritage may be both a source for innovation and a source for resilience. We investigate lateral and transversal innovations developed from cross-fertilisation processes in the scientific and humanistic knowledge embedded in the territory. In particular, we focus on the innovations in chemistry in conservation sciences of cultural heritage developed by a scientific network rooted in Florence. The flood was the starting point for the rise of a new innovative trajectory, forming a new scientific niche in modern conservation sciences.
L65|Comparative versus Noncomparative Sales Pitches: Impact on New Product Buying Behaviors and Moderating Role of Buyer-Seller Relationship|The purpose of this research is to explore the effectiveness of Comparative Sales Pitches (CSPs) vs. NonComparative Sales Pitches [NCSPs] in terms of actual buying behavior of a new product. Using a wholesalers telephone sales campaign, we performed a quasi-experimental study focusing on the actual ordering behavior for a new product of more than 4,200 pharmacists in response to a CSP (vs. an NCSP). The research shows that a CSP is more likely to generate a new product sales order than an equivalent NCSP. This positive effect manifests only when a relationship exists between the buyer and the seller. In addition, the results support the relational advantage of a regular buyerseller relationship regardless of the type of sales pitch used. The findings should encourage managers and salespeople to consider CSPs as an effective selling tool for launching a new product, especially when a relationship with the buyer exists. This research provides a starting point for further research into CSP effects -an area in which limited research exists to date- to gain a better understanding of their boundary selling effectiveness.
L65|La construction des catégories diagnostiques de maladie mentale|Dans le cadre d’une approche d’économie politique, l’article propose une analyse de la construction sociale des maladies et des marchés dans le champ de la santé mentale, en lien avec les débats récents sur la classification des maladies mentales relancés autour de la publication du DSM-5. En prenant l’exemple du trouble du déficit de l’attention et de l’hyperactivité (TDAH), l’analyse du travail politique des différents acteurs (firmes pharmaceutiques, associations de familles de patients, assurances sociales, école, État, système de santé, etc.) permet de préciser leurs rôles à travers l’analyse comparative de la France et des États-Unis. L’étude de la production du discours scientifique sur la maladie précise qu’au-delà des questions éthiques, c’est une économie du financement de la recherche et de la publication scientifique qui participe au jeu des acteurs.
L65|Does Reference Pricing Drive Out Generic Competition in Pharmaceutical Markets? Evidence from a Policy Reform|In this paper we study the impact of reference pricing (RP) on entry of generic firms in the pharmaceutical market. For given prices, RP increases generic firms' expected profit, but since RP also stimulates price competition, the impact on generic entry is theoretically ambiguous. In order to empirically test the effects of RP, we exploit a policy reform in Norway in 2005 that exposed a subset of drugs to RP. Having detailed product-level data for a wide set of substances from 2003 to 2013, we find that RP increased the number of generic drugs. We also find that RP increased market shares of generic drugs, reduced the prices of both branded and generic drugs, and led to a (weakly significant) decrease in total drug expenditures. The reduction in total expenditures was relatively smaller than the reduction in average prices, reflecting the fact that lower prices stimulated total demand.
L65|Initial public offering and financing of biotechnology start-ups: Evidence from Japan|This study explores the initial public offering (IPO) and financing of biotechnology start-ups in Japan. Using a unique data set, we find that biotechnology start-ups initially backed by venture capital (VC) firms and those originating from universities are more likely to go public within a shorter period. Moreover, we find that neither staged financing nor syndication by VC firms is associated with higher IPO value relative to investment. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the timing of IPOs does not depend on equity market conditions in the biotechnology industry, whereas IPO value tends to depend on equity market conditions. We discuss the factors that explain these findings, which contradict findings in previous studies of VC investments.
L65|In vitro alteration of some taxoni in danger of extinction from protected areas from Bihor country (drosera rotundifolia huds.)|"The study highlighted the conservation of the species Drosera rotundifolia Huds. ""dew of heaven"", with vitro propagation, geoelement with poor populations, critically endangered (CR), seen in Romania only in Transylvania. This species is considered a rarity, beeing of science-academic importance, (carnivora) and decorative. The juvenile bud explant of drosera was inoculated onto Murashige and Skoog environment, 1962 (MS), with four variants. Development in vitro is favored by the presence of cytokinins in the environment, for this experiment benzylaminopurine (BA) and zeatin (Z) being recommended in moderate doses (1 mg / l BA or Z) combined with an auxin in small doses (0.5mg / l ANA)"
L65|Vertical Specialization, Global Value Chains and the changing Geography of Trade: the Portuguese Rubber and Plastics Industry Case|The growing fragmentation of production in the last decades has changed the geography, and dynamics, of trade. It is very important, especially for small and open economies, a good position in regional and global value chains (GVC). The necessary increase in imports, namely of intermediate inputs, that this positioning implies must be accompanied by an adequate increase of exports, generating a substantial amount of domestic value added. In this paper, an empirical analysis is made of the changes in the geography of imports and exports of Portuguese rubber and plastics industry, as well as the growing vertical specialization of this sector, both with direct and total measures, in the period 1995-2011. To put the main trends in perspective, a comparison will be made with some northern and southern EU countries, the main trade partners of Portugal in this industry, and in fact in all the others. The rubber and plastics industry is a good case study in the context of GVC analysis, given the strong proportion of intermediate inputs in its output and trade.
L65|Market Structure, Government Shareholding and Cost Efficiency in Taiwan's Biotech Industry|Based on the two-step stochastic Meta frontier model developed by Huang et al. (2011), this study establishes translog cost functions. Our purpose is to estimate the performance of firms in terms of cost efficiency in Taiwan’s biotech and pharmaceutical industry, and to analyze group-specific and firm-specific environmental variables. The empirical results show that the value of the Meta frontier cost efficiency (MCE) indicator of the industry is 0.7241, indicating that it is basically 27.59% cost inefficient. The value of MCE in the pharmaceutical industry (0.7496) is higher than that in the medical equipment industry (0.7002). The empirical results also show that the cost efficiency of Taiwan’s biotech firms can positively benefit from the government’s contributions. In considering the differences between sub-industries, R&D activities are found to promote the growth of cost efficiency in both the pharmaceutical industry and medical equipment industry. As for the relationship between agency issues and cost efficiency, support is found for the Convergence-of-Interest Hypothesis in the pharmaceutical industry.
L65|Longitudinal Analysis of Generic Substitution|Using an extensive longitudinal dataset extracted from the Norwegian Prescription Database (NorPD), Norwegian title: Reseptregisteret, from the Norwegian Institute of Public Health ( NIPH ) containing all prescriptions written in the period May 2004 to June 2007, we selected two particular drugs (chemical substances) used against cholesterol. The two brand-name products on the Norwegian markets are Provachol (Anatomic Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) classification code C10AA03) and Zocor (ATC code C10AA01). The generics are Provastatine and Simastatine. We find that prices have a negative impact on transitions in the sense that an increase in the brand price will reduce the transition from generics to brand and likewise an increase in the generic price will reduce the transition from brand to generics. Moreover, we find that the older a male doctor is, the more likely it is that he continues to prescribe the brand-name product. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
L65|Comparing Domestic and Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions in the Pharmaceutical Industry|This paper considers the determinants and effects of domestic versus cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&As) in the pharmaceutical industry. Results show that companies that have had large research and development (R&D) expenditures as a percentage of sales in the past, but which have not had a significant number of drug approvals in the previous five years, tend to merge with foreign firms. Domestic mergers are formed between two firms within the same country, which typically have lower R&D expenditures as a percentage of sales and drug approvals in the previous five years. In addition, results show that domestic mergers increase drug approvals in the short run, but the effect diminishes three years after an M&A is finalized. However, cross-border mergers, which occur between two companies from different countries, largely have long-lasting (five years or more) positive effects on new drug approvals. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
L65|The impact of pharmaceutical innovation on premature cancer mortality in Canada, 2000–2011|The premature cancer mortality rate has been declining in Canada, but there has been considerable variation in the rate of decline across cancer sites. I analyze the effect that pharmaceutical innovation had on premature cancer mortality in Canada during the period 2000–2011, by investigating whether the cancer sites that experienced more pharmaceutical innovation had larger declines in the premature mortality rate, controlling for changes in the incidence rate. Premature mortality before age 75 is significantly inversely related to the cumulative number of drugs registered at least 10 years earlier. Since mean utilization of drugs that have been marketed for less than 10 years is only one-sixth as great as mean utilization of drugs that have been marketed for at least a decade, it is not surprising that premature mortality is strongly inversely related only to the cumulative number of drugs that had been registered at least ten years earlier. Premature mortality before age 65 and 55 is also strongly inversely related to the cumulative number of drugs that had been registered at least ten years earlier. None of the estimates of the effect of incidence on mortality are statistically significant. Controlling for the cumulative number of drugs, the cumulative number of chemical subgroups does not have a statistically significant effect on premature mortality. This suggests that drugs (chemical substances) within the same class (chemical subgroup) are not therapeutically equivalent. During the period 2000–2011, the premature (before age 75) cancer mortality rate declined by about 9 %. The estimates imply that, in the absence of pharmaceutical innovation during the period 1985–1996, the premature cancer mortality rate would have increased about 12 % during the period 2000–2011. A substantial decline in the “competing risk” of death from cardiovascular disease could account for this. The estimates imply that pharmaceutical innovation during the period 1985–1996 reduced the number of years of potential life lost to cancer before age 75 in 2011 by 105,366. The cost per life-year before age 75 gained from previous pharmaceutical innovation is estimated to have been 2730 USD. Most of the previously-registered drugs were off-patent by 2011, but evidence suggests that, even if these drugs had been sold at branded rather than generic prices, the cost per life-year gained would have been below 11,000 USD, a figure well below even the lowest estimates of the value of a life-year gained. The largest reductions in premature mortality occur at least a decade after drugs are registered, when their utilization increases significantly. This suggests that, if Canada is to obtain substantial additional reductions in premature cancer mortality in the future (a decade or more from now) at a modest cost, pharmaceutical innovation (registration of new drugs) is needed today. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
L65|Sources of productivity spillovers: panel data evidence from China|This paper assesses sources of productivity spillovers in China’s electric and electronic manufacturing industry using a rich panel data-set of 25,360 firms observed over the period 2004–2007. This industry is characterized by its important reliance on technology. In particular, the paper focuses on the role of other firms’ productivity as well as productivity shifters in affecting own firm-level total factor productivity. In addition, this paper examines the possible difference between spillovers from foreign-owned units and from units which participate at global markets through exporting in comparison to domestically-owned and non-exporting units. We find evidence of stronger spillovers from exporting firms than from non-exporting firms. This is true for foreign-owned as well as domestic exporters. The strength of the spillover effects differ across subsectors. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L65|Basic science as a prescription for breakthrough inventions in the pharmaceutical industry|This analysis contributes to the understanding of the role of basic science in generating breakthrough inventions in the pharmaceutical industry. Recognizing the within-firm heterogeneity of inventive activities, we look not only at the firm level, but also at the firm-technology level for characteristics determining breakthroughs. A key finding is that firms pursuing basic science are more likely to produce breakthrough inventions. At the same time, doing more basic science in science disciplines that are closely linked to a given technology domain does not increase the likelihood of BTs in that particular technology. The insignificance of basic science intensity at the technology level, coupled to the significance at the firm level, suggests that the breakthrough rewards from science capacity are not reaped in the technology areas immediately involved in basic science, but in other areas of the technology portfolio of the firm. Our findings are consistent with the view of science as a map to span processes of local search and the wider applicability of scientific insights. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L65|Mergers and Acquisitions in the Indian Pharmaceutical Sector|Mergers and acquisitions (M and A) are common strategies of firms to increase its performance. Although, the motives of M and A are different however, the determinants are discreet. This study tries to determine the factors affecting M and A activities in the Indian pharmaceutical sector. The empirical findings suggest; export intensity, import intensity, firm size and research and development intensity as the major determinants of M and A in the Indian pharmaceutical sector. In the context of acquisition, there is a riskiness associated with any business strategy, for to which a firm may choose to finance the deal either via cash, stock or assets. This study further looks at the firm’s decision on the types of acquisitions and arrives at the determinants of such decisions. The factors such as capital intensity was found more important when acquisition by share was undertaken compared to others. The success of the M and A is observed by considering the financial performance of the firm measured in terms of profit margin at firm level. Using propensity score matching technique, this study concludes that M and A have positive effect on the profit margin in the post M and A scenario.
L65|Competition and R&D Financing Decisions: Theory and Evidence from the Biopharmaceutical Industry|How does competition affect innovation and how it is financed in R&D-intensive firms? We study the interaction between competition, R&D investments, and the financing choices of such firms using data on biopharmaceutical firms. To motivate the empirical hypotheses, we develop a model for such firms in which their capital structure and amounts invested in R&D as well as existing assets are all determined in response to the degree of competition in the industry. The key predictions are that, as competition increases, such firms will: (1) increase R&D investment relative to investment in assets-in-place that support existing products; (2) carry more cash and maintain less net debt; and (3) experience declining betas but greater total stock return volatility due to higher idiosyncratic risk. While the focus is on the biopharmaceutical industry, the results are broadly applicable to other R&Dintensive industries as well. We provide empirical support for these predictions. In order to deal with the endogeneity issue introduced by the fact that a firm's R&D investments and the product-market competition it faces influence each other, we provide further evidence through a differences-in-differences analysis.
L65|An Empirical Analysis of Primary and Secondary Pharmaceutical Patents in Chile|We analyze the patent filing strategies of foreign pharmaceutical companies in Chile distinguishing between “primary” (active ingredient) and “secondary” patents (patents on modified compounds, formulations, dosages, particular medical uses etc.). There is prior evidence that secondary patents are used by pharmaceutical originator companies in the U.S. and Europe to extend patent protection on drugs in length and breadth. Using a novel dataset that comprises all drugs registered in Chile between 1991 and 2010 as well as the corresponding patents and trademarks, we find evidence that foreign originator companies pursue similar strategies in Chile. We find a primary to secondary patents ratio of 1:4 at the drug-level which is comparable to the available evidence for Europe; most secondary patents are filed over several years following the original primary patent and after the protected active ingredient has obtained market approval in Chile. This points toward effective patent term extensions through secondary patents. Secondary patents dominate “older” therapeutic classes like anti-ulcer and anti-depressants. In contrast, newer areas like anti-virals and anti-neoplastics (anti-cancer) have a much larger share of primary patents.
L65|"Assets with ""Warts"": How Reliable is the Market for Technology?"|Existing research has focused on why and when firms may choose to access the external technology market. Surprisingly, however, less is known about the reliability of the patents attached to these external technologies in the face of litigation. “Weak” external patents expose a firm to the potential loss of downstream revenues. To address this question we construct a novel dataset of patent litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. We exploit a change in U.S. patent law as a natural experiment to test whether external patents are more reliable than those developed internally. We find that acquired patents are more likely to fall during litigation; they are less reliable then internal technologies. Losses lead to an average reduction in market capitalization of $450 million. Overall, our results demonstrate the critical importance of the underlying reliability of external patents and provides a cautionary note to the potential benefits of accessing external technology markets.
L65|An Overview of the Stratified Economics of Stratified Medicine|The economics of stratified medicine depend critically on setting the cut-off score of the companion diagnostic (CDx). This action integrates scientific, clinical, ethical and commercial considerations, and simultaneously determines the value of the stratified medicine to developers, providers, payers and patient. Setting a high cut-off ensures a larger response by excluding more non-responders but also denies treatment to patients who would respond. This creates ethical and clinical concerns, and limits market size. Setting a low cut-off includes more patients who can benefit but includes more non-responders with commensurate costs, side effects and lost time. CDx’s capture little value under current reimbursement and exclusivity protections. Combined with low CDx investment incentives for generic drug manufacturers, little CDx development occurs for older legacy drugs. Therefore payers face an asymmetric situation of novel stratified medicines raising public health and payers’ costs, but no CDx’s for legacy treatments to reduce costs. It would be in payers’ interests to rediscover their heritage of direct investment in diagnostic development.
L65|Corporate venture capital as a real option in the markets for technology|Research Summary: We apply real options (RO) theory to understand the role of corporate venture capital (CVC) investments and its relationship with internal R&D capabilities in supporting the acquisition of external technologies. We formulate hypotheses about key drivers of the option value of CVC and the decision to exercise the RO using a dyadic dataset of global pharmaceutical firms and their biotech partners. Our findings suggest that the option value of CVC is higher for investors with weaker scientific capabilities; engaging the markets for technology in distant technological fields; and, when their innovation pipeline is tilted toward the late‐stage development process. Finally, the licensing of high‐value technologies is the most likely form of option exercise when technological uncertainty is reduced post‐CVC. Managerial Summary: Despite the fact that one of the main goals of corporate venture capital (CVC) investments in high‐tech industries is to gain a window on future technologies, the relationship between CVC and other strategies used to acquire external technologies, such as licensing, has not been adequately explored. To address this gap, we formulate hypotheses about key drivers of the decision to make CVC investments as a wait‐and‐see strategy in the markets for technology (MFT) using a longitudinal dataset of global pharmaceutical firms and their biotech partners. We find that investors' scientific capabilities, technological domains, and research pipelines impact investors' decisions to make CVC investments prior to other MFT transactions. In our research setting, investors typically acquire high‐value technologies via licensing when technological uncertainty is reduced post‐CVC.
L65|Does Reference Pricing Drive Out Generic Competition in Pharmaceutical Markets? Evidence from a Policy Reform|In this paper we study the impact of reference pricing (RP) on entry of generic firms in the pharmaceutical market. For given prices, RP increases generic firms expected profit, but since RP also stimulates price competition, the impact on generic entry is theoretically ambiguous. In order to empirically test the effects of RP, we exploit a policy reform in Norway in 2005 that exposed a subset of drugs to RP. Having detailed product-level data for a wide set of substances from 2003 to 2013, we find that RP increased the number of generic drugs. We also find that RP increased market shares of generic drugs, reduced the prices of both branded and generic drugs, and led to a (weakly significant) decrease in total drug expenditures. The reduction in total expenditures was relatively smaller than the reduction in average prices, reflecting the fact that lower prices stimulated total demand.
L65|The technological resilience of US cities|We study the resilience of cities by analysing the relative capacity to sustain their production of technological knowledge in the face of adverse events. Using patent applications in 366 Metropolitan Statistical Areas in the USA from 1975 to 2002, we analyse the vulnerability and response of cities to technological crises, defined as periods of sustained negative growth in patenting activity. We find that the frequency, intensity and duration of technological crises vary considerably across American cities. Econometric analysis suggests that cities with knowledge bases that are diverse, flexible and proximate to technologies in which they do not currently possess comparative advantage tend to avoid technological crises, have limited downturns in patent production and recover faster from crisis events.
L65|Relatedness and technological change in cities: the rise and fall of technological knowledge in US metropolitan areas from 1981 to 2010|This article investigates by means of US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) patent data whether technological relatedness at the city level was a crucial driving force behind technological change in 366 US cities from 1981 to 2010. Based on a three-way fixed-effects model, we find that the entry probability of a new technology in a city increases by 30% if the level of relatedness with existing technologies in the city increases by 10%, while the exit probability of an existing technology decreases by 8%.
L65|How the Distribution System and the Granting of Drug Discounts, is an Influencing Factor for a Pharmaceutical Units’ Financial Performance|The study aims to analyze how the economic and financial indicators of pharmaceutical entities are influenced by the discounts granted by distributors of pharmaceuticals. The work is based on the analysis of economic and financial performance indicators accomplished by a community pharmacy in Prahova. Thus, the analyzed discounts, granted by distributors of drugs related to pharmaceutical entities, registered separate values for each distributor and product groups and their share in turnover.
L65|A novel application of grey principal component analysis to determine stockholder’s approach towards financial ratios|In this paper, we try to determine the stockholder’s desire approach to financial ratios using a combination of principal component analysis and grey theory.Grey Principal Component Analysis (GPCA)handles poor information reduces dimensions of variables and gives an appropriate score to each company. Here we employ GPCA to identify more appropriate strategies of normalizing data curves to reduce the discrepancy between the GPCA-ranking and return-ranking, hence determining the approaches of stockholders of listed pharmaceutical firms of Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE) regarding financial ratios.
L65|Internationalisation of R&D: New insights into multinational enterprises’ R&D strategies in emerging markets|Multinational enterprises’ research and development (R&D) activities are increasingly internationalised and organised into new types of network, as part of their global innovation networks. In this article, we investigate the dynamics and strategies of R&D reorganisation through an in-depth case study of a global firm from the most globalised industry in terms of R&D, biotechnology. The article investigates dynamics of internationalisation of R&D in global networks by looking at: 1) the strategic drivers of location, either as a large potential market or as a pool of competencies; and 2) the evolution of the company and its R&D activities into emerging market locations: India, China and Brazil. Together, these two dimensions constitute the drivers of R&D internationalisation and contribute to the construction of global innovation networks through knowledge augmenting and exploiting strategies. The article shows how multinational enterprises can use a combination of augmenting and exploiting strategies in emerging markets and hence demonstrates that international R&D activities not always evolve in a sequential and ordered trajectory.
L65|Unpacking performance benefits of innovation ambidexterity: Evidence from the pharmaceutical industry|Scholars argue that there is a positive relationship between organizational performance and simultaneous pursuit of exploitation and exploration, or organizational ambidexterity. However, prior work on performance benefits enabled by organizational ambidexterity does not separately examine two distinct mechanisms underlying this positive relationship. Our manuscript advances the literature on organizational ambidexterity by explicating the difference across alternative complementary relationships between exploitative innovation and exploratory innovation, namely a mutually compensatory relationship and a mutually enabling relationship. Our empirical analysis of 50 pharmaceutical firms’ degree of innovation ambidexterity and subsequent firm performance supports the argument. Our findings provide us a more detailed anatomy of mechanisms in which ambidexterity enables favorable organizational performance.
L65|Les innovations de produits dans la chimie du végétal comme substituts aux plastiques<BR>[Products innovation in bio-based chemistry as a subtitute to plastics]|La chimie du végétal se définit par l'utilisation de ressources renouvelables au lieu des ressources pétrolières. La chimie du végétal présente une dimension environnementale et est porteuse d'innovations dans les différents domaines de l'industrie chimique. Le polyacide lactique est l'innovation de produit la plus mature et la plus répandue sous diverses applications dans la plasturgie. Cependant, la substituabilité des plastiques pétrosourcés usuels par le polyacide lactique doit être évaluée par la comparaison fiabilité technologique/faisabilité économique de chaque produit.
L65|The dynamics of total factor productivity and its components: Russian plastic production|In this paper we research changes of total factor productivity (TFP) and its components in Russian plastic production sector in 2006–2012 by using DEA. We decompose TFP change into technical change, technical efficiency, scale efficiency, and mix efficiency changes. The dynamics of TFP and its components are slightly different for various quantile groups of firms. Anyway there is a significant fall for almost all indices in 2009. The results’ robustness is checked by comparison of technical efficiency estimates obtained with DEA and SFA methods.
L65|Harnessing stem cell potential for regenerative medicine and cell-based therapy|Stem cells have an interesting history, hugely replete with varied discourse, debate and controversy. Researchers, in mid 1800s, discovered that cells were basically the building blocks of life, and that some cells had the ability to produce other cells. Later on, owing to several years of relentless thinking and efforts, mammalian eggs could be fertilised outside of the human body. In the early 1900s, cells with remarkable ability to generate blood cells were identified. After a gap of 8-9 decades, researchers discovered blood producing stem cells, called as hematopoietic stem cells, followed by another resident of bone marrow stem cells, named as mesenchymal stem cells. Furthermore, during the first decade of 21st century, scientists successfully programmed differentiated somatic cells into stem cell-like cell that was called as induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). The greatest advantages of the iPSCs, apart from being a potential prospective candidate for cell therapy, is the lack of any ethical concerns like other category of stem cells, such as embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Besides, stem cells are also being used to generate multiple functional organs in vitro to study, and explicitly decipher the structural organisation and concerted working of these vital organs in the human body, which will further help in deepening the insight, understanding and designing new therapeutic strategy to ameliorate and cure the multiple diseases. Recent findings have proved that the stem cells may offer shining rays of hope, and be explored for treatment of deadly degenerative and incurable diseases in years to come.
L65|Vertical Specialization, Global Value Chains and the changing Geography of Trade: the Portuguese Rubber and Plastics Industry Case|The growing fragmentation of production in the last decades has changed the geography, and dynamics, of trade. It is very important, especially for small and open economies, a good position in regional and global value chains (GVC). The necessary increase in imports, namely of intermediate inputs, that this positioning implies must be accompanied by an adequate increase of exports, generating a substantial amount of domestic value added. In this paper, an empirical analysis is made of the changes in the geography of imports and exports of Portuguese rubber and plastics industry, as well as the growing vertical specialization of this sector, both with direct and total measures, in the period 1995-2011. To put the main trends in perspective, a comparison will be made with some northern and southern EU countries, the main trade partners of Portugal in this industry, and in fact in all the others. The rubber and plastics industry is a good case study in the context of GVC analysis, given the strong proportion of intermediate inputs in its output and trade.
L65|Competitive pricing within pharmaceutical classes: evidence on “follow-on” drugs in Germany 1993–2008|This study contributes to assessments of competition in pharmaceutical markets focusing on price strategies of new market entrants. After an initial phase of market building, further follow-on products induce price competition. Largely unchanged prices after 4 years may be interpreted as quality competition and can be attributed to prices in Germany being anchor points for international price referencing. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
L65|Parallel imports and a mandatory substitution reform: a kick or a muff for price competition in pharmaceuticals?|What has been the effect of competition from parallel imports on prices of locally sourced on-patent drugs? Did the 2002 Swedish mandatory substitution reform increase this competition? To answer these questions, we carried out difference-in-differences estimation on monthly data for a panel of all locally sourced on-patent prescription drugs sold in Sweden during the 40 months from January 2001 to April 2004. On average, facing competition from parallel imports caused a 15–17 % fall in price. While the reform increased the effect of competition from parallel imports, it was only by 0.9 %. The reform, however, did increase the effect of therapeutic competition by 1.6 %. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
L65|The impact of patent protection on US pharmaceutical exports to developing countries| This article provides evidence that patent protection can have a positive effect on trade, by analysing the impact of the implementation of intellectual property rights (IPR) in developing countries on the US exports of pharmaceutical products, following intense lobbying efforts from the US pharmaceutical industry to have the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement included in the creation of the World Trade Organization (WTO). A gravity model using panel data from 1995 to 2010 suggests that the implementation of minimum standards of patent protection has increased US exports of pharmaceuticals to 108 nonadvanced countries.
L65|Explorative versus exploitative alliances: evidence from the glass industry in China| How do firms learn from their alliance partners? Do alliance learning outcomes vary among different types of alliances? Are the learning differentials contingent upon contextual factors in an emerging economy? To address these important questions, this study empirically delineates the nature of explorative and exploitative alliances, examines how they affect product and process innovations, and investigates how such effects vary in different contexts. Using a sample of 220 Chinese firms in the glass industry, we use the structural equation modeling procedure to analyze the data. We find that explorative alliances have a stronger impact on both product and process innovations than do exploitative alliances, product, and process innovations are positively related to both market and efficiency performance, and environmental turbulence enhances the impact of product and process innovations. Our findings provide implications for choosing between explorative and exploitative alliances in line with alliance objectives and firms’ resources, and environmental contexts.
L65|Research Collaboration in Co-inventor Networks: Combining Closure, Bridging and Proximities| C assi L. and P lunket A. Research collaboration in co-inventor networks: combining closure, bridging and proximities, Regional Studies . This paper investigates the determinants of co-inventor tie formation using micro-data on genomic patents from 1990 to 2006 in France. In a single analysis, it considers the relational and proximity perspectives that are usually treated separately. In order to do so, it analyses various forms of proximity as alternative driving forces behind network ties that occur within existing components (that is, closure ties) as well as those between two distinct components (that is, bridging ties). Thus, the paper investigates not only the respective impacts of network and proximity determinants, but also how they overlap, interact and possibly act as substitutes or complements.
L65|Drug Launch Timing and International Reference Pricing|This paper analyzes the timing decisions of pharmaceutical firms to launch a new drug in countries involved in international reference pricing. We show three important features of launch timing when all countries reference the prices in all other countries and in all previous periods of time. First, there is no withdrawal of drugs in any country and in any period of time. Second, there is no strict incentive to delay the launch of a drug in any country. Third, whenever the drug is sold in a country, it is also sold in all countries with larger willingness to pay. We then show that the three results do not hold when the countries only reference a subset of all countries. The first two results do not hold when the reference is on the last period prices only.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Pharmaceutical Regulation and Innovative Performance: A Decision‐theoretic Model| In this paper, we develop a model of the impact of the drug approval process on the terms of a contract between a pharmaceutical company that requires the services of a contract research organization (CRO) to carry out testing of new drug molecules. Results show that if the equilibrium contract includes a variable payment (royalty), the more effort the CRO gives to create a more accurate result, the more strict the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval process. We also find that given the royalty shares in the contract, if the FDA demands more accuracy in results as a condition of approval, then the CRO will generate more accurate results from late‐stage tests. However, greater FDA stringency in the approval process benefits pharmaceutical companies because the greater is FDA stringency, the less is the risk of a drug recall. We also find that in order to employ a CRO in the testing process, the pharmaceutical company's prior probability that the drug is of high quality must be very high. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
L65|Effective Technology Transfer in Biotechnology:Best Practice Case Studies in Europe|Biotechnology is referred to as one of the key enabling technologies of the 21st century. It has the potential to offer solutions for a number of health and resource-based problems the world is facing, such as unmet medical needs and fossil fuel dependency. Considerable effort and investment has been expended in recent years to try and improve the outcomes of technology transfer in order to fulfill this potential. This book presents seventeen best-practice case studies on the topic of effective technology transfer in biotechnology. The selected case studies focus on technology transfer offices, funding models, incubators, education and clusters. Each presents an overview of an initiative that was deployed in Europe with the aim of supporting and stimulating the transfer of biotechnology discoveries and technologies from research laboratories to society. Readers are provided with a critical assessment of each initiative and policy makers, entrepreneurs, cluster managers and research institute managers will find inspiring lessons they can draw on when developing and implementing similar initiatives elsewhere. These cases are the product of research undertaken as part of the ETTBio (Effective Technology Transfer in Biotechnology) project, co-financed by the European Union (ERDF ¡ª European Regional Development Fund) and made possible by the INTERREG IVC Programme. ETTBio commenced in January 2012 and concluded in December 2014.
L65|What Went Wrong with the Recent Reforms in the Southern Cone|The following sections are included:IntroductionThe Reforms and Their IntentStylized OutcomesWhat Went WrongConclusions
L65|What Went Wrong with the Recent Reforms in the Southern Cone|The following sections are included:IntroductionThe Reforms and Their IntentStylized OutcomesWhat Went WrongConclusions<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|The Effects of Financial Liberalization on Savings and Investment in Uruguay|The following sections are included:IntroductionFinancial Reforms, Financial Deepening and Financial CrisisStylized Outcomes: Savings, Investment and GrowthFinancial Liberalization, Savings and InvestmentFinancial Resource Allocation at the Micro LevelConclusions
L65|The Effects of Financial Liberalization on Savings and Investment in Uruguay|The following sections are included:IntroductionFinancial Reforms, Financial Deepening and Financial CrisisStylized Outcomes: Savings, Investment and GrowthFinancial Liberalization, Savings and InvestmentFinancial Resource Allocation at the Micro LevelConclusions<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Adjustment with a Fixed Exchange Rate: Cameroon, Côte d'Ivoire, and Senegal|Like most developing countries, Cameroon, Côte d'Ivoire, and Senegal were subjected to the external shocks of commodity booms and oil price hikes in the 1970s. As members of the Communauté Financière Africaine (CFA) (a monetary union with France), however, these countries could not devalue their nominal exchange rate to adjust to the macroeconomic imbalances that followed. The purpose of this article is to interpret the adjustment experiences of these three countries in light of this and other institutional constraints.
L65|Adjustment with a Fixed Exchange Rate: Cameroon, Cote d'Ivoire, and Senegal|Like most developing countries, Cameroon, Côte d'Ivoire, and Senegal were subjected to the external shocks of commodity booms and oil price hikes in the 1970s. As members of the Communauté Financière Africaine (CFA) (a monetary union with France), however, these countries could not devalue their nominal exchange rate to adjust to the macroeconomic imbalances that followed. The purpose of this article is to interpret the adjustment experiences of these three countries in light of this and other institutional constraints.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Growth-Oriented Adjustment Programs: A Statistical Analysis|This paper gives a statistical analysis of economic performance under International Monetary Fund (IMF) — World Bank (WB) growth-oriented adjustment programs, The evaluation is based on a sample of 93 countries and makes a comparison of the average values of economic indicators during 1982–86 with the corresponding values during 1978–81. The methodology controls for the external environment and for initial conditions. The paper finds no evidence of a statistically better (or worse) growth performance for loan recipient countries.The paper then examines the investment-output relationship for a group of 14 countries that received a large number of growth-oriented adjustment loans. An estimate is provided of the foregone growth because of lower aggregate investment !'luring the period of adjustment. The paper concludes that the desired signs of a sustainable recovery through higher investment were not evident, at least through 1986.
L65|Growth-oriented adjustment programs: A statistical analysis|After the fall in average per capita GDP growth that took place in the 1980s, adjustment lending programs supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank (WB) were launched in response to the deteriorating external environment. The purpose of this paper is to evaluate and to assess statistically the extent to which adjustment programs supported by the IMF and the WB have restored growth. The evaluation relied on a large sample of countries (93) and controls for some of the statistical difficulties associated with measuring the effectiveness of adjustment programs. The paper reviews the environment under which IMF-WB lending took place, the rationale for adjustment lending, and the distribution of adjustment loans through time. The results of the statistical evaluation suggest that, after controlling for external factors and for initial conditions, growth is not higher in countries that receive IMF-WB funds, but that investment was significantly lower than for non-recipient countries. The paper also examines further long-term growth prospects.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Adjustment, Investment and the Real Exchange Rate in Developing Countries|The following sections are included:IntroductionThe controversyExternal adjustment and the real exchange rateInvestment, the real exchange rate and the debt overhangLooking aheadAppendix A: forward-looking model of investment
L65|Fiscal Spending and Economic Growth: Some Stylized Facts|"Using an ""event analysis"", this paper complements the cross-country approach to the study of fiscal correlates of growth. Data on fiscal expenditures and growth for a database of 140 countries (118 developing countries) over 1972–2005 are reorganized around turning points providing a summary but encompassing description of ""what is in the data"". For this sample, the probability of occurrence of a fiscal event is about 10%, and, the probability of a growth event once a fiscal event had occurred is around 26%. For developing countries, fiscal events followed by growth events occur under situations of (i) significantly lesser deficit, (ii) fewer resources devoted to non-interest general public services and (iii) shift in primary expenditures toward transport & communication. After controlling for the growth-inducing effects of positive terms-of-trade shocks and of trade liberalization reform, probit estimates indicate that a growth event is more likely to occur in a developing country when surrounded by a fiscal event. Moreover, the probability of occurrence of a growth event in the years following a fiscal event is greater the lower is the associated fiscal deficit, confirming that success of a growth-oriented fiscal expenditure reform is associate with a stabilized macroeconomic environment (through limited primary fiscal deficit)."
L65|Fiscal Spending and Economic Growth: Some Stylized Facts|Using an “event analysis”, this paper complements the cross-country approach to the study of fiscal correlates of growth. Data on fiscal expenditures and growth for a database of 140 countries (118 developing countries) over 1972–2005 are reorganized around turning points providing a summary but encompassing description of “what is in the data”. For this sample, the probability of occurrence of a fiscal event is about 10%, and, the probability of a growth event once a fiscal event had occurred is around 26%. For developing countries, fiscal events followed by growth events occur under situations of (i) significantly lesser deficit, (ii) fewer resources devoted to non-interest general public services and (iii) shift in primary expenditures toward transport & communication. After controlling for the growth-inducing effects of positive terms-of-trade shocks and of trade liberalization reform, probit estimates indicate that a growth event is more likely to occur in a developing country when surrounded by a fiscal event. Moreover, the probability of occurrence of a growth event in the years following a fiscal event is greater the lower is the associated fiscal deficit, confirming that success of a growth-oriented fiscal expenditure reform is associate with a stabilized macroeconomic environment (through limited primary fiscal deficit).
L65|Pricing Policy Under Double Market Power: Madagascar and the International Vanilla Market|This paper uses a price-leadership model of the international vanilla market to study the welfare consequences of alternative pricing policies for Madagascar, the leader, that also controls domestic production through a single-channel marketing system. Econometric estimates of the model are used for simulations of welfare and revenue changes and internal redistribution of income. Results indicate that Madagascar could have gained between 0.9% and 2.6% of GDP per year on average over the period 1981–91 by following optimal pricing policies, and that producers were overtaxed suggesting that political economy considerations played a role in the pricing decisions.
L65|Pricing Policy under Double Market Power: Madagascar and the International Vanilla Market| This paper uses a price-leadership model of the international vanilla market to study the welfare consequences of alternative pricing policies for Madagascar, the leader, that also controls domestic production through a single-channel marketing system. Econometric estimates of the model are used for simulations of welfare and revenue changes and internal redistribution of income. Results indicate that Madagascar could have gained between 0.9% and 2.6% of GDP per year on average over the period 1981-91 by following optimal pricing policies, and that producers were overtaxed suggesting that political economy considerations played a role in the pricing decisions. Copyright 2000 by Blackwell Publishing Ltd
L65|The Influence of Increased Foreign Competition on Industrial Concentration and Profitability|This paper uses the Chilean manufacturing censuses of 1967 and 1979 to examine the effects of the Chilean reforms in the mid~1970s on market structure and performance. The reforms substantially increased the concentration in industry and substantially reduced profitability. These outcomes are interpreted in the light of hypotheses about the effect of potential entrants on market structure and on the pricing behavior of incumbents. Next, a cross-sectoral simultaneous equations model of structure and performance is estimated to isolate the contribution of import and export shares to cross-sectoral variations in concentration and profitability and to test for structural change between the two censuses. The analysis confirms that the liberalization of trade changed the way import and export shares determined profitability and supports the import discipline hypothesis.
L65|The influence of increased foreign competition on industrial concentration and profitability|This paper uses the Chilean manufacturing censuses of 1967 and 1979 to examine the effects of the Chilean reforms in the mid~1970s on market structure and performance. The reforms substantially increased the concentration in industry and substantially reduced profitability. These outcomes are interpreted in the light of hypotheses about the effect of potential entrants on market structure and on the pricing behavior of incumbents. Next, a cross-sectoral simultaneous equations model of structure and performance is estimated to isolate the contribution of import and export shares to cross-sectoral variations in concentration and profitability and to test for structural change between the two censuses. The analysis confirms that the liberalization of trade changed the way import and export shares determined profitability and supports the import discipline hypothesis.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|The Effects of Trade Reforms on Scale and Technical Efficiency|This paper analyzes the changes in industrial sector performance that accompanied Chile's dramatic trade liberalization of the 1970s. Comparisons of pre- and post-liberalization manufacturing census data reveal little productivity improvement overall. However, adverse macro conditions may have masked the positive effects of trade reforms: industries undergoing relatively large reductions in protection experienced relatively large improvements in average efficiency levels, and relatively large reductions in cross-plant efficiency dispersion. These conclusions are based on maximum likelihood technology estimators that deal with measurement error and incomplete observations.
L65|Do exporters gain from VERs?|Previous literature has concentrated on the rent transfer accruing to exporting countries when a voluntary export restraint (VER) is binding. This paper studies the efficiency and distributional effects arising when VERs force factors out of industries in which they are most productive. A theoretical model of the industry under the VER is developed to establish qualitative conditions under which a VER will result in: Spillovers of exports to unrestricted markets; industry contraction; and loss in national welfare. Key parameters of demand and supply are estimated for leather footwear exports from Taiwan subject to the U.S. Orderly Marketing Agreement, and their implications explored in a calibrated simulation exercise. The results make a strong indictment of VERs. For most plausible parameter values, VERs distort exports, reduce industry size and cause overall economic losses, especially if the affected industry is large.
L65|Do exporters gain from VERs?|Previous literature has concentrated on the rent transfer accruing to exporting countries when a voluntary export restraint (VER) is binding. This paper studies the efficiency and distributional effects arising when VERs force factors out of industries in which they are most productive. A theoretical model of the industry under the VER is developed to establish qualitative conditions under which a VER will result in: Spillovers of exports to unrestricted markets; industry contraction; and loss in national welfare. Key parameters of demand and supply are estimated for leather footwear exports from Taiwan subject to the U.S. Orderly Marketing Agreement, and their implications explored in a calibrated simulation exercise. The results make a strong indictment of VERs. For most plausible parameter values, VERs distort exports, reduce industry size and cause overall economic losses, especially if the affected industry is large.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Do Exporters Gain from VERs?|Previous literature has concentrated on the rent transfer accruing to exporting countries when a voluntary export restraint (VER) is binding. This paper studies the efficiency and distributional effects arising when VERs force factors out of industries in which they are most productive. A theoretical model of the industry under the VER is developed to establish qualitative conditions under which a VER will result in: Spillovers of exports to unrestricted markets; industry contraction; and loss in national welfare. Key parameters of demand and supply are estimated for leather footwear exports from Taiwan subject to the U.S. Orderly Marketing Agreement, and their implications explored in a calibrated simulation exercise. The results make a strong indictment of VERso For most plausible parameter values, VERs distort exports, reduce industry size and cause overall economic losses, especially if the atTected industry is large.
L65|Are Different Rules of Origin Equally Costly? Estimates from NAFTA|The following sections are included:IntroductionNAFTA RoO map, and non-parametric cost estimatesA simple modelCost estimates by type of RoO and category of activitiesEvaluating Estevadeordal's synthetic indexValue content restrictionsConclusionsAppendix: The model
L65|Has Distance Died? Evidence from a Panel Gravity Model|"The estimated coefficient of distance on the volume of trade is generally found to increase rather than decrease through time using the traditional gravity model of trade. This distance puzzle proved robust to several ad hoc versions of the model using data for 1962-96 for a large sample of 130 countries. The introduction of an ""augmented"" barrier to trade function removes the paradox, yielding a decline in the estimate of the elasticity of trade to distance of about 11 percent over the 35-year period for the whole sample. However, the ""death of distance"" is shown to be largely confined to bilateral trade between rich countries, with poor countries becoming marginalized."
L65|Has Distance Died? Evidence from a Panel Gravity Model|" The estimated coefficient of distance on the volume of trade is generally found to increase rather than decrease through time using the traditional gravity model of trade. This distance puzzle proved robust to several ad hoc versions of the model using data for 1962--96 for a large sample of 130 countries. The introduction of an ""augmented"" barrier to trade function removes the paradox, yielding a decline in the estimate of the elasticity of trade to distance of about 11 percent over the 35-year period for the whole sample. However, the ""death of distance"" is shown to be largely confined to bilateral trade between rich countries, with poor countries becoming marginalized. Copyright 2005, Oxford University Press."
L65|The New Regionalism: A Country Perspective|The following sections are included:IntroductionWelfare economics of FTAsInstitutional dimensions of RIGrowth effects of RI schemesConclusions
L65|The Protectionist Bias of Duty Drawbacks: Evidence from Mercosur|In a political-economy setting where tariffs and duty drawbacks are endogenously chosen through industry lobbying, it is shown that full duty-drawbacks are granted to exporters who use imported intermediates in their production. This in turn decreases their incentives to counter-lobby against high tariffs on their inputs. In equilibrium, higher tariffs will be observed on these goods. The creation of a regional block will change the political equilibrium. Duty-drawbacks will be eliminated on intra-regional exports, which in tum will lead to lower tariffs for goods used as inputs by intra-regional exporters. Evidence from Mercosur suggests that the elimination of duty-drawbacks for intra-regional exports led to increased counter-lobbying by users of intermediate products. In its absence the common external tariff would have been on average 3.5 percentage points (25 percent) higher.
L65|The protectionist bias of duty drawbacks: evidence from Mercosur|In a political-economy setting where tariffs and duty drawbacks are endogenously chosen through industry lobbying, it is shown that full duty-drawbacks are granted to exporters who use imported intermediates in their production. This in turn decreases their incentives to counter-lobby against high tariffs on their inputs. In equilibrium, higher tariffs will be observed on these goods. The creation of a regional block will change the political equilibrium. Duty-drawbacks will be eliminated on intra-regional exports, which in tum will lead to lower tariffs for goods used as inputs by intra-regional exporters. Evidence from Mercosur suggests that the elimination of duty-drawbacks for intra-regional exports led to increased counter-lobbying by users of intermediate products. In its absence the common external tariff would have been on average 3.5 percentage points (25 percent) higher.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L65|Why OECD Countries Should Reform Rules of Origin|"With preferential trade agreements on the rise worldwide rules of origin—which are necessary to prevent trade deflection—are attracting increasing attention. At the same time. preference erosion for Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) recipients is increasing resistance to further multilateral negotiations. Drawing on different approaches, this article shows that the current system of rules of origin that is used by the European Union and the United States in preferential trade agreements (including the GSP) and that is similar to systems used by other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries should be drastically simplified if developed economies really want to help developing economies integrate into the world trading system. In addition to diverting resources for administrative tasks, current rules of origin carry significant compliance costs. More fundamentally, it is becoming increasingly clear that they are often been designed to force developing economies to buy inefficient intermediate products from developed economies to ""pay for"" preferential access for the final product. The evidence also suggests that a significant share of the rents associated with market access (net of rules of origin compliance costs) is captured by developed economies. Finally, the restrictiveness of rules of origin is found to be beyond the levels that would be justified to prevent trade deflection, suggesting a capture by special interest groups. The article outlines some alternative paths to reforms."
L65|Why OECD Countries Should Reform Rules of Origin|" With preferential trade agreements on the rise worldwide rules of origin--which are necessary to prevent trade deflection--are attracting increasing attention. At the same time, preference erosion for Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) recipients is increasing resistance to further multilateral negotiations. Drawing on different approaches, this article shows that the current system of rules of origin that is used by the European Union and the United States in preferential trade agreements (including the GSP) and that is similar to systems used by other Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries should be drastically simplified if developed economies really want to help developing economies integrate into the world trading system. In addition to diverting resources for administrative tasks, current rules of origin carry significant compliance costs. More fundamentally, it is becoming increasingly clear that they are often been designed to force developing economies to buy inefficient intermediate products from developed economies to ""pay for"" preferential access for the final product. The evidence also suggests that a significant share of the rents associated with market access (net of rules of origin compliance costs) is captured by developed economies. Finally, the restrictiveness of rules of origin is found to be beyond the levels that would be justified to prevent trade deflection, suggesting a capture by special interest groups. The article outlines some alternative paths to reforms. Copyright The Author 2007. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press."
L65|The Political Economy of International Migration in a Ricardo–Viner Model|The following sections are included:IntroductionIs there an immigration surplus?Determinants of individual preferences over immigration policyWhy illegal migrants?Dual labor markets and ‘guest-worker’ migrationConclusions
L65|Attitudes Towards Immigration: A Trade Theoretic Approach|The paper uses a three-factor (capital, low- and high-skill labor), two-household (low- and high-skill individuals), two-sector trade model to analyze the determinants of voter attitudes towards immigration under direct democracy, and to identify factors that would be coherent with hoth the observed increase in the skilled-unskilled wage differential and the stiffening attitudes towards low-skill capital-poor immigration. If the import-competing sector is intensive in the use of low-skill labor. and capital is the middle factor, an improvement in the terms of trade or neutral technical progress in the exporting sector leads nationals to oppose immigration of capital-poor low-skill households. An increase in income inequality is also likely to stiffen attitudes towards this type of capital-poor, low-skill immigration prevalent in Europe until recently.
L65|Attitudes Towards Immigration: a Trade-Theoretic Approach| The paper uses a three-factor (capital, low- and high-skill labor), two-household (low- and high-skill individuals), two-sector trade model to analyze the determinants of voter attitudes towards immigration under direct democracy, and to identify factors that would be coherent with both the observed increase in the skilled-unskilled wage differential and the stiffening attitudes towards low-skill capital-poor immigration. If the import-competing sector is intensive in the use of low-skill labor, and capital is the middle factor, an improvement in the terms of trade or neutral technical progress in the exporting sector leads nationals to oppose immigration of capital-poor low-skill households. An increase in income inequality is also likely to stiffen attitudes towards this type of capital-poor, low-skill immigration prevalent in Europe until recently. Copyright Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2003..
L65|The Political Economy of Migration and EU Enlargement: Lessons from Switzerland|The following sections are included:IntroductionThe Political Economy of Immigration PolicyThe Shaping of Switzerland's Immigration PolicyDeterminants of Attitudes and Voting BehaviorConclusions
L65|Openness, Inequality and Poverty: Endowments Matter|Using tariffs as a measure of openness, this paper finds consistent evidence that the conditional effects of trade liberalization on inequality are correlated with relative factor endowments. Trade liberalization, measured by changes in tariff revenues, is associated with increases in inequality in countries well-endowed with highly skilled workers and capital or with workers that have very low education levels. Similar, although less robust, results are also obtained when decile data are used instead of the usual Gini coefficients. Taken together, the results are strongly supportive of the factor-proportions theory of trade and suggest that trade liberalization in poor countries where the share of the labor force with little education is high raises inequality. Simulation results also suggest that relatively small changes in inequality as measured by aggregate measures of inequality, like the Gini coefficient, are magnified when estimates are carried out using decile data.
L65|Openness, inequality and poverty: Endowments matter| Using tariffs as a measure of openness, this paper finds consistent evidence that the conditional effects of trade liberalization on inequality are correlated with relative factor endowments. Trade liberalization, measured by changes in tariff revenues, is associated with increases in inequality in countries well-endowed with highly skilled workers and capital or with workers that have very low education levels. Similar, although less robust, results are also obtained when decile data are used instead of the usual Gini coefficients. Taken together, the results are strongly supportive of the factor-proportions theory of trade and suggest that trade liberalization in poor countries where the share of the labor force with little education is high raises inequality. Simulation results also suggest that relatively small changes in inequality as measured by aggregate measures of inequality, like the Gini coefficient, are magnified when estimates are carried out using decile data.
L65|FDI, the Brain Drain and Trade: Channels and Evidence|This paper explores the links between the patterns of migration (high vs. low-skill), trade policy, and foreign direct investment (FOI) from the standpoint of sending countries. A skeleton general equilibrium model with a non-traded good and sector-specific labour is used to explore the effects of the skill-composition of exports on FOI. The model suggests that if exports are low-skill intensive, emigration of high-skill labour leads to positive FOI, suggesting that migration and FOI are complements. Cross-sectional analysis using FDI and emigration data for 102 migration-sending countries over the period 1990-2000 finds some support for this conjecture
L65|FDI, the Brain Drain and Trade: Channels and Evidence|This paper explores the links between the patterns of migration (high vs. low-skill), trade policy, and foreign direct investment (FDI) from the standpoint of sending countries. A skeleton general equilibrium model with a non-traded good and sector-specific labour is used to explore the effects of the skill-composition of exports on FDI. The model suggests that if exports are low-skill intensive, emigration of high-skill labour leads to positive FDI, suggesting that migration and FDI are complements. Cross-sectional analysis using FDI and emigration data for 102 migration-sending countries over the period 1990-2000 finds some support for this conjecture
L65|Unravelling the Worldwide Pollution Haven Effect|This paper tackles the 'pollution haven' argument by estimating the pollution content of imports (PCl). The PCl is then decomposed into three components: (i) a 'deep' component (i.e. traditional variables unrelated to the environmental debate); (ii) a factor endowment component and (iii) a 'pollution haven' component reflecting the impact of differences in environmental policies. The estimation is carried out for 1987 for an extensive data set covering 10 pollutants, 48 countries and 79 lSIC four-digit sectors. Decompositions based on cross-section econometric estimates suggest a significant pollution haven effect, which increases the PCl of the North because of stricter environmental regulations in the North. At the same time, the factor endowment effect lowers the PCl of the North, as the North is relatively well-endowed in capital and pollution-intensive activities are capital intensive. On a global scale, because the bulk of trade is intra-regional with a high North-North share, these effects are small relative to the 'deep' determinants of the worldwide PCl. Robustness checks performed on a more recent dataset, but limited to sulphur dioxide, confirm these results. In sum, differences in factor endowments and environmental policies only marginally affected the PCl of world trade at the end of the 1980s.
L65|Unravelling the worldwide pollution haven effect| This paper tackles the ‘pollution haven’ argument by estimating the pollution content of imports (PCI). The PCI is then decomposed into three components: (i) a ‘deep’ component (i.e. traditional variables unrelated to the environmental debate); (ii) a factor endowment component and (iii) a ‘pollution haven’ component reflecting the impact of differences in environmental policies. The estimation is carried out for 1987 for an extensive data set covering 10 pollutants, 48 countries and 79 ISIC four-digit sectors. Decompositions based on cross-section econometric estimates suggest a significant pollution haven effect, which increases the PCI of the North because of stricter environmental regulations in the North. At the same time, the factor endowment effect lowers the PCI of the North, as the North is relatively well-endowed in capital and pollution-intensive activities are capital intensive. On a global scale, because the bulk of trade is intra-regional with a high North-North share, these effects are small relative to the ‘deep’ determinants of the worldwide PCI. Robustness checks performed on a more recent dataset, but limited to sulphur dioxide, confirm these results. In sum, differences in factor endowments and environmental policies only marginally affected the PCI of world trade at the end of the 1980s.
L65|Porto Marghera and the Industrial Ecology Challenge: Why it did not become an Eco-Industrial Park|A set of factors facilitate the role of Eco-Industrial Parks in addressing the many environmental challenges arising with economic development: among such factors the local context in which the EIP is embedded, i.e. the cohesion of the community, the cooperation among actors, the proximity and the adaptability, as well as the global context and economic phase play a major role. EIPs’ evolution process is path-dependent, hence also history and choices made in the past as well as the context of the industrial sector are very important in determining their success. We study the industrial area of Venice, namely Porto Marghera, as a showcase, in order to understand how history can twist the evolution of an industrial area and determine its destiny. The analysis covers Industrial Symbiosis leverage factors, as well as the local, national and international context drivers that, over time, promoted or hindered the development and evolution of the area. We show how, due to the action of such multiple factors, such large and major Italian industrial area presenting just few years ago characteristics that could have favoured its development as an EIP, resulted eventually in a failure and the closing down of the most relevant economic activities supporting the functioning of the EIP itself. Context factors and single specific shocks, related to local issues as well as to the global, regional, and national scale, shifted the evolutionary path of a well-integrated EIP, even though the technical and internal characteristics of the industrial area were in place.
L65|Productivity spillovers in the Russian Federation: the case of the chemical market|На протяжении последних десятилетий большое внимание уделяется вопросу колебаний производительности в межстрановом аспекте. Различия в уровне производительности можно объяснить внешними и внутренними инновациями. Чтобы оценить влияние внешних инноваций, необходимо рассмотреть вопрос международной передачи технологий. Предполагается, что прямые иностранные инвестиции (ПИИ) и международная торговля в наибольшей степени способствуют международной передаче технологий. Настоящая работа призвана расширить эмпирические знания путем определения эффектаи источников переливов капитала в России на примере химического рынка. Мы применили методологии, разработанные Эриксоном и Пейксом (1995), а также Олли и Пейксом (1996), чтобы выявить присутствие переливов капитала, вызванных как ПИИ, так и международной торговлей. Эконометрическая модель была протестирована на данных компаний химической отрасли за 2007-2012 гг. Эмпирические результаты демонстрируют, что в российской химической промышленности присутствуют переливы капитала, вызванные как ПИИ, так и международной торговлей. Эффект от переливов капитала, вызванных ПИИ, имеет большее экономическое значение. Основываясь на результатах эмпирического исследования, можно предположить, что вступление России в ВТО в 2012 г., вероятно, приведет к росту производительности. Однако дальнейшее изучение данного вопроса будет возможно, как только станут доступны статистические данные за последующие годы после присоединения.
L65|Montedison. Il dinosauro nel MEC|In light of his original theory of oligopoly, the author discusses the proposed merger of Montecatini and Edison, two major utilities in the chemical sector. The author analyses the potential public and private advantages of the new conglomerate, discussing financial, operational and cost synergies.
L65|A Quantitative Analysis of the Retail Market for Illicit Drugs|We develop a theoretical framework to study illicit drugs markets and we estimate it using data on purchases of crack cocaine. Buyers are searching for high-quality drugs, but they determine drugs' quality (i.e., their purity) only after consuming them. Hence, sellers can rip off first-time buyers or can offer higher-quality drugs to induce buyers to purchase from them again. In equilibrium, a distribution of qualities persists. The estimated model implies that sellers' moral hazard reduces the average and increases the dispersion of drug purity. Moreover, increasing penalties may increase the purity and affordability of the drugs traded because doing so increases sellers' relative profitability of targeting loyal buyers versus first-time buyers.
L65|HR Issues and Challenges in Pharmaceuticals with special reference to India|According to PricewaterhouseCoopers report India‘s Pharmaceutical sector is estimated to touch US$ 74 billion in sales by 2020, from the current US$ 11 billion. Now, India is among the top five pharmaceutical emerging markets. Despite rising attention on development of pharmaceutical sector in India, little attention has been paid to the role of human resource management which can serve as a vital factor for the growth of pharmaceuticals. At present there are several HR issues and challenges that are being experienced by the pharmaceutical sector. In this paper, I have analyzed several research data (i.e. collected and processed information by some other person or organizations) and case studies pertaining to pharmaceutical industry in India and found that talent management, rate of attrition, gender inequality, stress at workplace, and changing talent expectations are some of the key issues and challenges that are to be focused at. Different HR strategies should be framed to tackle this situation.
L65|Proximity, network formation and inventive performance: in search of the proximity paradox|Based on patent data in the field of genomics between 1990 and 2010, we investigate how social network relationships, various proximity dimensions (geographical, organizational, technological) and their interplay affect the likelihood of forming technological collaborations and their inventive performance. We show that the network and proximity characteristics of co-inventors enable them to access different sources of knowledge, in different geographical and organizational contexts, and finally affect the quality of inventive collaboration. Based on econometric estimations, our results enable to address the proximity paradox argument that proximity acts differently on the formation of collaborations and innovative performance. Our results partly support this paradox. Although all types of proximity positively impact on the formation of new collaborations, only organizational and technological proximities directly impact performance. Moreover, the optimal level of technological proximity critically varies given the organizational and social network context. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
L65|An empirical analysis of the multimarket contact theory in pharmaceutical markets|Multimarket contact theory predicts that firms will optimally reduce prices in markets where collusive prices are sustainable and allocate the slack of the corresponding incentive compatibility to increase prices in markets where collusion is not sustainable. Binding price caps in collusive markets will have different effects over the multimarket contact mechanism depending on the severity of the cap. Setting a price cap close to the unregulated case will increase the size of the redistribution of market power whereas stronger regulation will even reduce prices in unregulated markets. Therefore, price regulations aiming at capping prices in a specific market will also affect markets that are not subject to specific mandatory price regulations. We find evidence of the theory predictions using information for nine OECD countries for pharmaceutical markets. Unregulated US markets are shown to respond to the redistribution effect; Canadian markets, known to be subject to soft price regulations, with respect to the former, are shown to be consistent with a stronger redistribution effect. EU markets and Japan are either consistent with the effect of a medium regulation or strong regulation. In this last case multimarket contact cannot explain prices, and these are expected to be lower compared to the unregulated benchmark. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
L65|The impact of pharmaceutical innovation on longevity and medical expenditure in Sweden, 1997-2010: evidence from longitudinal, disease-level data| We use longitudinal, disease-level data to analyze the impact of pharmaceutical innovation on longevity and medical expenditure in Sweden, where mean age at death increased by 1.88 years during the period 1997-2010. Pharmaceutical innovation is estimated to have increased mean age at death by 0.60 years during the period. The estimates indicate that longevity depends on the number of drugs to treat a disease, not the number of drug classes. Pharmaceutical innovation also reduced hospital utilization; the estimates indicate that an increase in the number of drugs commercialized for a disease reduces the number of hospital days due to the disease 8 years later, primarily due to its effect on the number of hospital discharges. The cost per life-year gained from the introduction of new drugs is estimated to be a small fraction of leading economists' estimates of the value of a 1-year increase in life expectancy.
L65|Entry Threats and Pricing in the Generic Drug Industry| We use the unique regulatory environment of the pharmaceutical industry to examine how potential competition affects generic drug pricing. Our identification strategy exploits a provision of the Hatch-Waxman Act that awards 180 days of marketing exclusivity to the first valid generic drug applicant against the holder of a branded drug patent. In smaller drug markets, we find that price falls in response to an increase in potential competition. We also find that few manufacturers enter these markets, indicating this price reduction is an effective deterrent. In contrast, we find that generic incumbents accommodate entry in larger drug markets. © No rights reserved. This work was authored as part of the Contributor's official duties as an Employee of the United States Government and is therefore a work of the United States Government. In accordance with 17 U.S.C. 105, no copyright protection is available for such works under U.S. law.
L65|Biotechnological firms in Uruguay 2010-2012|Biotechnology has been identified as one of the strategic areas in the current innovation and productive policies of Uruguay. In line with what happens worldwide, policy documents highlight the growing importance of these technologies and their potential transversal impact in several productive areas. There are indicators and systematic data sources about research skills in biotech - research groups, number of researchers, institutions and infrastructure - accumulated in several research institutes and universities. However there is scarce information about biotechnology in firms, which are a key agent of any innovation system. This paper presents evidence about biotechnology activities in Uruguayan firm between 2010 and 2012, surveyed through methodologies that allow international comparison. Based on the results of this survey this paper discusses the growth path of biotech firms in Uruguay. The conclusions show that the gathered evidence, offers good indications about an ongoing process of resource based growth path. However, it is not possible to conclude if it is a critical mass building process or a set of encapsulated individual firms' paths.
