L66|From Local to Global Competitors on the Beer Market|Liberalization of trade has been high on the political agenda after the Second World War. First through the international corporation in GATT and WTO and later the creation of the internal market in Western Europe and the opening up of Eastern Europe and China. The breweries respond to these changes in institution by a global M&A strategy and the following concentration of ownership among breweries increased the large breweries’ global market share dramatically. Why does this concentration in ownership take place, and was there some pay off to the breweries of this strategy? We will examine the market power hypothesis, how the increasing concentration has affected the growth of global brands and the beer prices. First, we examine where the increasing global concentration is reflected in a concentration of ownership in local markets. Next, we examine the effects of ownership concentration on the level of beer prices. Finally, we examine the effects of the global ownership on the market share of the global beer brand.
L66|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886‒1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
L66|Cadena Productiva de Azúcar, Confitería y Chocolatería Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando el concepto de cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que producen Azúcar, Confitería y Chocolatería para el período 2002 – 2017. Utilizando la Matriz Insumo – Producto del Sector Industrial, el documento identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo y presenta el flujograma de la cadena productiva. El documento presenta también un conjunto de indicadores que caracterizan la cadena productiva: número de empresas; distribución geográfica y por tamaño empresarial; valor de la producción; concentración geográfica de la producción; nivel de encadenamiento de los eslabones intermedios; exportaciones e importaciones; concentración de las exportaciones e importaciones por socio comercial y eslabones finales; creación y desviación de comercio derivada de los acuerdos comerciales firmados por Colombia; tasa de protección efectiva y nominal; y prospectiva de las exportaciones en mercados estratégicos.
L66|Hump-shaped cross-price effects and the extensive margin in cross-border shopping|This paper examines the effect of cross-border shopping on grocery demand in Norway using monthly store*category sales data from Norway's largest grocery chain 2011-2016. The sensitivity of demand to foreign price is hump-shaped and greatest 30-60 minutes' driving distance from the closest foreign store. Combining continuous demand, fixed costs of cross-border shopping and linear transport costs `a la Hotelling we show how this hump-shape can arise through a combination of intensive and extensive margins of cross-border shopping. Our conclusions are further supported by novel survey evidence and cross-border traffic data.
L66|Where Does the Fairtrade Money Go? How Much Consumers Pay Extra for Fairtrade Coffee and How This Value Is Split along the Value Chain|Fairtrade certification aims at transferring wealth from the consumer to the farmer; however, coffee passes through many hands before reaching final consumers. Bringing together retail, wholesale, and stock market data, this study estimates how much more consumers are paying for Fairtrade-certified coffee in US supermarkets and finds estimates around $1 per lb. I then assess how this price premium is split between the different stages of the value chain: most of the premium goes to the roaster's profit margin, while the retailer surprisingly makes smaller absolute profits on Fairtrade-certified coffee, compared to conventional coffee. The coffee farmer receives about a fifth of the price premium paid by the consumer, but it is unclear how much of this (quantity-dependent) benefit goes toward the payment of (quantity-independent) license fees.
L66|Demand and supply of infrequent payments as a commitment device: evidence from Kenya|Despite extensive evidence that preferences are often time-inconsistent, there is only scarce evidence of willingness to pay for commitment. Infrequent payments for frequently provided goods and services are a common feature of many markets and they may naturally provide commitment to save for lumpy expenses. Multiple experiments in the Kenyan dairy sector show that: (i) farmers are willing to incur sizable costs to receive infrequent payments as a commitment device, (ii) poor contract enforcement, however, limits competition among buyers in the supply of infrequent payments. We then present a model of demand and supply of infrequent payments and test its additional predictions.
L66|Experts, Reputation and Umbrella Effects: Empirical Evidence from Wine Prices|We investigate the relationship between external quality evaluation via experts, firm reputation and product prices and extend the existing empirical literature in three dimensions. First, we empirically account for endogenous reputation effects. An increase in quality has an immediate positive impact on product prices but also improves the reputation of a firm, which contributes to higher prices in the future. Secondly, we analyse umbrella effects of reputation: investments in product quality of the ’top product‘ are particularly profitable as they also generate a ’ reputational dividend‘ for other products with lower quality. And finally, we investigate selection effects in expert evaluations. Experts typically evaluate a selection of products only and we find endogenous selection effects to be important for analysing product quality empirically.
L66|Dining Out as Cultural Trade|Perceptions of Anglo-American dominance in movie and music trade motivate restrictions on cultural trade. Yet, the market for another cultural good, food at restaurants, is roughly ten times larger than the markets for music and film. Using TripAdvisor data on restaurant cuisines, along with Euromonitor data on overall and fast food expenditure, this paper calculates implicit trade patterns in global cuisines for 52 destination countries. We obtain three major results. First, the pattern of cuisine trade resembles the “gravity” patterns in physically traded products. Second, after accounting gravity factors, the most popular cuisines are Italian, Japanese, Chinese, Indian, and American. Third, excluding fast food, the largest net exporters of their cuisines are the Italians and the Japanese, while the largest net importers are the US – with a 2017 deficit of over $130 billion – followed by Brazil, China, and the UK. With fast food included, the US deficit shrinks to $55 billion but remains the largest net importer along with China and, to a lesser extent, the UK and Brazil. Cuisine trade patterns appear to run starkly counter to the audiovisual patterns that have motivated concern about Anglo-American cultural dominance.
L66|State-Dependent Demand Estimation with Initial Conditions Correction|We analyze the initial conditions bias in the estimation of brand choice models with structural state dependence. Using a combination of Monte Carlo simulations and empirical case studies of shopping panels, we show that popular, simple solutions that mis-specify the initial conditions are likely to lead to bias even in relatively long panel datasets. The magnitude of the bias in the state dependence parameter can be as large as a factor of 2 to 2.5. We propose a solution to the initial conditions problem that samples the initial states as auxiliary variables in an MCMC procedure. The approach assumes that the joint distribution of prices and consumer choices, and hence the distribution of initial states, is in equilibrium. This assumption is plausible for the mature consumer packaged goods products used in this and the majority of prior empirical applications. In Monte Carlo simulations, we show that the approach recovers the true parameter values even in relatively short panels. Finally, we propose a diagnostic tool that uses common, biased approaches to bound the values of the state dependence and construct a computationally light test for state dependence.
L66|Collective Reputation in Trade: Evidence from the Chinese Dairy Industry|Collective reputation implies an important externality. Among firms trading internationally, quality shocks about one firm’s products could affect the demand of other firms from the same origin country. We study this issue in the context of a large-scale scandal that affected the Chinese dairy industry in 2008. Leveraging rich firm-product level administrative data and official quality inspection reports, we find that the export revenue of contaminated firms dropped by 84% after the scandal, relative to the national industrial trend, and the spillover effect on non-contaminated firms is measured at 64% of the direct effect. Notably, firms deemed innocent by government inspections did not fare any better than noninspected firms. These findings highlight the importance of collective reputation in international trade and the challenges governments might face in signaling quality and restoring trust. Finally, we investigate potential mechanisms that could mediate the strength of the reputation spillover. We find that the spillover effects are smaller in destinations where people have better information about parties involved in the scandal. New firms are more vulnerable to the collective reputation damage than established firms. Supply chain structure matters especially in settings where firms are less vertically integrated and exhibit fragmented upstream-downstream relationships.
L66|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886?1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
L66|Advertising and Markups: The Case of the German Brewing Industry|The beer market in Germany may be described as a monopolistic competition with many breweries supplying a very large variety of different beer styles and brands. Advertising is one means of differentiating a product and increasing prices over marginal costs. Based on production data obtained from a sample of 197 German breweries and thirteen years of observation, we derive firm-specific markups, profit ratios and prices in each year and relate those to their advertising expenditures and firm size. We are able to show that advertising expenditures are positively correlated to a brewery’s markup, profit ratio and price while firm size is negatively correlated.
L66|"""Yogurt Cartel"" of Private Label Providers in France: impact on prices and welfare"|"During the period 2006 to 2012, French competition authorities pressed charges against the country’s top 11 firms for engaging in a price-fixing cartel in the fresh dairy store brand segment. Using an empirical vertical bargaining model, this paper studies the effects of the ""yogurt cartel"" on the price of store brand and national brand products, on the profit sharing between dairy dessert companies and retailers, and consumer welfare. We find that data supports collusive behavior in the dairy dessert market. The cartel leads to price effects for store brands varying from 7.3% for other dairy desserts to 11.3% for yogurts, and those price effects would even be stronger if the cartel also affects the ability of retailers to negotiate with manufacturers. We also show that in a hypothetical situation without the collusion of private label providers, the prices of national brands would have been higher and manufacturers’ profits for the sales of their national brand products would have been lower. The cartel thus benefits manufacturers both in the national brand and private label markets. We show that the national brand dairy dessert market should be taken into account when evaluating the damages to the private label dairy dessert market, which the French competition authorities failed to do."
L66|Convergencia de precios en el largo plazo en Uruguay. Evidencia empírica para 4 bienes|En el presente documento se estudia si durante el período comprendido entre enero de 2008 y mayo de 2017 se produjo en Uruguay un proceso de convergencia de precios a nivel de establecimientos de venta. Se utiliza un panel de datos conformado por precios diarios de 4 bienes fijados por 386 supermercados, con cobertura nacional. Los bienes fueron seleccionados buscando representar categorías de productos para las cuales los hogares suelen realizar compras en un supermercado con alta frecuencia. El análisis de convergencia se realiza a partir del estudio de la evolución de la dispersión de precios en el tiempo. Se encuentra que esta se redujo en el período solamente 0,88 % a nivel de todo el país, por lo que no parece suciente como para concluir que los precios hayan convergido. Este resultado era esperable debido a que las posibles fuentes de diferenciales de precios no registraron cambios signicativos durante el período. Por lo tanto, la reducción en la dispersión de precios estimada no parece suficiente como para afirmar que la Ley de un Solo Precio en su versión absoluta se cumple en el largo plazo en el país. Como parte del análisis de robustez, se realizan estimaciones para diversas desagregaciones territoriales, así como para diferentes momentos de ingreso de los establecimientos a la muestra y para distintos niveles inflacionarios. El resultado encontrado es robusto para diferentes desagregaciones territoriales.
L66|The Value of Terroir. A historical analysis of Bordeaux and Champagne geographical indications|Previous studies on the value of terroir, or more generally geographical indications (GI), used hedonic techniques. We use historical data and exploit temporal and geographical variations in the introduction of wine GIs in early twentieth century France to study the impact on the price of specific wines in the years and decades following their introduction. We find large effects of GIs on prices of some Champagne wines, but no significant impact on Bordeaux or other Champagne wines.
L66|Microeconometric Models of Consumer Demand|A long literature has developed econometric methods for estimating individual-consumer-level demand systems that accommodate corner solutions. The increasing access to transaction-level customer purchase histories across a wide array of markets and industries vastly expands the prospect for improved customer insight, more targeted marketing policies and individualized welfare analysis. A descriptive analysis of a broad, CPG database indicates that most consumer brand categories offer a wide variety of differentiated offerings for consumers. However, consumers typically purchase only a limited scope of the available variety, leading to a very high incidence of corner solutions which poses computational challenges for demand modeling. Historically, these computational challenges have limited the applicability of microeconometric models of demand in practice, except for the special case of pure discrete choice (e.g., logit and probit). Recent advances in computing power along with methods for numerical and simulation-based integration have been instrumental in facilitating the broader use of these models in practice. We survey herein the extant literature on the neoclassical derivation of microeconometric demand models that allow for corner solutions and differentiated products. We summarize the key developments in the literature, including the role of consumers’ price expectations, and point towards opportunities for future research.
L66|How Much Wine Is Really Produced and Consumed in China, Hong Kong, and Japan?|Statistics on the wine market in countries where it is not traditionally produced or consumed are estimates using simple methods. In northeast Asia those statistics are exaggerated for a combination of several reasons. One is a labelling issue: imported bulk wine is able to be added to domestically produced wine without the front label having to declare the bottle may contain foreign product. Similar freedom applies to wine made from imported grape juice concentrate. A second (particularly in China) is a double-counting issue: domestic wine produced in one region of the country may be blended with wine produced in and packaged for final sale from another region, with both regions claiming it as their contribution to national wine output. A third possibility is a smuggling issue: some wine imports are unrecorded. These possibilities of the wine market being exaggerated are significant for firms seeking to sell in such countries, especially in the fast-growing ones of northeast Asia. This paper shows the extent to which estimates for the region could change for such indicators as per capita wine consumption, wine self-sufficiency and the region’s share of global wine consumption, when alternative assumptions are made in response to these issues.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L66|Australian wine industry competitiveness: why so slow to emerge?|Despite favourable growing conditions, Australia's production or exports of wine did not become significant until the 1890s. Both grew in the 1920s, but only because of government support. Once that support was removed in the late 1940s, production plateaued and exports diminished: only two per cent of wine production was exported during 1975–1985. Yet over the next two decades, Australia's wine production quadrupled and the share exported rose to two‐thirds – before falling somewhat in the next 10 years. This paper explains why it took so long for Australia's production and competitive advantage in wine to emerge, why it took off spectacularly after the mid‐1980s and why it fell in the 10 years to 2016. It concludes that despite the recent downturn in the industry's fortunes, the country's international competitiveness is now firmly established and commensurate with its ideal wine‐growing climate, notwithstanding the likelihood of further boom‐slump cycles in the decades ahead.
L66|Relationship between dimensions of Brand Equity and 4Ps of Marketing Mix - Place, Product, Promotion, & Price: Coca Cola - Consumer Based Qualitative Survey|The relationship between dimensions of brand equity (brand association, brand awareness, perceived quality, and customer's loyalty) and 4Ps of marketing mix (product, place, price, and promotion) are examined in this paper. Cross sectional research design while following inductive approach I have explore the relationship between research variables from consumer's perspective. Total 129 participants took part in this survey. Respondents were identified and approached through convenience sampling technique. Survey questionnaire contained 16 total questions (4 demographic and 12 attitudinal and behavioural) questions with matrix based 5-Points LIKERT SCALE. Questionnaire was self designed and administered personally. Findings showed that there is significant relationship between dimensions of brand equity and 4Ps of marketing mix. The most significant dimension in terms of Coca Cola is brand association and least effective dimension has been customer's loyalty. Furthermore, most effective marketing mix tools for Coca Cola has been its product and pricing strategies while least effective has been promotional strategies. It is also found that despite being brand image with high dependability and reliability image, there is low customer's loyalty towards Coca Cola. The paper is significant because it explores the relationship from consumer's perspective. Further, it examines the association between all dimensions of brand equity and considered marketing mix feature from qualitative perspective. The limitations of research are discussed at the end of research paper.
L66|A model of the dynamics of household vegetarian and vegan rates in the U.K|Although there are many studies of determinants of vegetarianism and veganism, there have been no previous studies of how their rates in a population jointly change over time. In this paper, we present a flexible model of vegetarian and vegan dietary choices, and derive the joint dynamics of rates of consumption. We fit our model to a pseudo-panel with 23 years of U.K. household data, and find that while vegetarian rates are largely determined by current household characteristics, vegan rates are additionally influenced by their own lagged value. We solve for equilibrium rates of vegetarianism and veganism, show that rates of consumption return to their equilibrium levels following a temporary event which changes those rates, and estimate the effects of campaigns to promote non-meat diets. We find that a persistent vegetarian campaign has a significantly positive effect on the rate of vegan consumption, in answer to an active debate among vegan campaigners.
L66|Do Agricultural Raw Materials Imports Cause Agricultural Growth? Empirical Analysis from North Africa|The aim of this paper is to study empirically the impact of agricultural raw materials imports on agricultural growth since it never done before. We have made this study in the context of three countries from North Africa (Tunisia, Morocco and Egypt) for the period 1965 – 2016. By using cointegration analysis and vector error correction model, empirical analysis proves that agricultural raw materials imports produce a positive effect on agricultural growth in the long run for all the three countries and cause agricultural growth in the short run in the case of Tunisia and Egypt. It is seen that agricultural raw materials imports are a source of economic growth in the agricultural sector. For this reason, countries of North Africa should adopt to integrate foreign technology imports and not technological innovation to stimulate agricultural sector.
L66|Do Agricultural Raw Materials Imports Cause Agricultural Growth? Empirical Analysis from North Africa|The aim of this paper is to study empirically the impact of agricultural raw materials imports on agricultural growth since it never done before. We have made this study in the context of three countries from North Africa (Tunisia, Morocco and Egypt) for the period 1965 – 2016. By using cointegration analysis and vector error correction model, empirical analysis proves that agricultural raw materials imports produce a positive effect on agricultural growth in the long run for all the three countries and cause agricultural growth in the short run in the case of Tunisia and Egypt. It is seen that agricultural raw materials imports are a source of economic growth in the agricultural sector. For this reason, countries of North Africa should adopt to integrate foreign technology imports and not technological innovation to stimulate agricultural sector.
L66|A stochastic frontier analysis approach for estimating market power in the major U.S. meat export markets|The present study estimates the degree of market power in the major U.S. beef and pork export destinations. The recently developed stochastic frontier (SF) estimator is used. Estimations of market and time specific Lerner indices are provided. Balanced panel data between 1980-2011 were employed. The average Lerner index is 39% for the U.S. beef exports and is the highest in the markets of ASEAN, Hong Kong/China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. For the U.S. pork exports, the average Lerner index is 16% and is the highest in the markets of Mexico and Taiwan.
L66|Tobacco spending in Georgia: Machine learning approach|The purpose of this study is to analyze tobacco spending in Georgia using various machine learning methods applied to a sample of 10,757 households from Integrated Household Survey collected by GeoStat in 2016. Previous research has shown that smoking is the leading cause of death for 35-69 year olds. In addition, tobacco expenditures may constitute as much as 17% of the household budget. Five different algorithms (ordinary least squares, random forest, two gradient boosting methods and deep learning) were applied to 8,173 households (or 76.0%) in the train set. Out-of-sample predictions were then obtained for 2,584 remaining households in the test set. Under the default settings random forest algorithm showed the best performance with more than 10% improvement in terms of root-mean-square error (RMSE). Improved accuracy and availability of machine learning tools in R calls for active use of these methods by policy makers and scientists in health economics, public health and related fields.
L66|One Markup to Rule Them All: Taxation by Liquor Pricing Regulation|Government often chooses simple rules to regulate industry even when firms and consumers are heterogeneous. We evaluate the implications of this practice in the context of alcohol pricing where the regulator uses a single markup rule that does not vary across products. We estimate an equilibrium model of wholesale pricing and retail demand for horizontally differentiated spirits that allows for heterogeneity in consumer preferences based on observable demographics. We show that the single markup increases market power among upstream firms, particularly small firms whose portfolios are better positioned to take advantage of the policy. For consumers, the single markup acts as a progressive tax by overpricing products favored by the rich. It also decreases aggregate consumer welfare though 16.7% of consumers are better off under the policy. These consumers tend to be older, less wealthy or educated, and minorities. Simple policies therefore generate significant cross-subsidies and may be an effective tool for government to garner favor of key constituencies.
L66|How Hard Is It to Maximise Profit? Evidence from a 19-th Century Italian State Monopoly|In this paper we study the ability of the 19-th century Italian government to choose profit maximising prices for a multiproduct monopolist. We use very detailed historical data on the tobacco consumption in 62 Italian provinces from 1871 to 1888 to estimate a differentiated product demand system. The demand conditions and the legal environment of the period made this market as close to a textbook monopoly as is practically possible. The government's stated aim for this industry was profit maximisation: since at the time tobacco revenues constituted between 10 and 15 percent of the revenues for the cash-strapped government, the stated aim was very likely the true one. Cost data for the nine products suggest that the government was not wide off the mark: the tobacco prices were ``not far'' from those dictated by the standard monopoly formulae for profit maximisation with interdependent demand functions.
L66|The Implicit Price for Fair Trade Coffee: Does Social Capital Matter?|This study aims to ascertain whether the implicit price paid for Fair Trade coffee in regular supermarkets is influenced by the stock of social capital in the territory where consumers live. A hedonic regression set-up is adopted, based on Italian scanner data taken at NUTS3 level. Regressors include attributes described on the label, which contain separate certifications for Fair Trade and organic/eco-label status, plus various indicators of social capital and their interactions with the Fair Trade and organic/eco-label attributes. The consumers’ implicit price paid for the Fair Trade attribute is significantly and positively affected by a social capital proxy, which is the percentage of co-op members over total employment.
L66|Derivatization of Commercial Vitamin A to Develop the Bio-based Anti-aging cosmetic materials|A vitamin A such as retinol is a well-known source material for the anti-aging cosmetics due to its superior effects on the anti-wrinkle and anti-skin aging, and lots of cosmetic manufacturers have used it for the high-priced anti-aging products. However it mostly synthesized by the chemical process and it should be a demerit as a cosmetic material. Thus a bioprocess of the vitamin A should be developed to strengthen the competitiveness of the vitamin A based anti-aging products.The vitamin A is also easily oxidized in the air and the oxidation causes the side effects like the skin irritation and a poor delivery of the active ingredients into the skin. The stability improvement of the bio-vitamin A must be required to minimize its side effects and enhance the absorbability and moisturizing property of the final products.In this study, the derivatization of the retinol was performed to enhance the stability and the low-priced commercial retinol was used as a substitute material for the bio-based retinol with impurities.A commercial Retinol 50C (BASF) was separated from the additives and others by the column chromatography for the purification and the retinol purified would be applied to the derivatization. The retinyl acetate would be synthesized through the esterification with the acetyl chloride and the derivatives were finally recovered as the crystal through the crystallizing purification. Their structural and physicochemical properties were analyzed by 1H-NMR and FT-IR and it was confirmed that the purification of the low-priced retinol and the derivatization of the retinol purified were performed successfully.
L66|Competitiveness of the Polish meat industry against selected European Union countries within the framework of transatlantic trade|The aim of the paper was to assess the competitive capacity of the Polish meat industry in trade with the US in relation to major EU producers of meat and meat preparations. Referring both to the growth and trade theories in research on international competitiveness and based on the methodological approach proposed by Wijnands, van der Meulen and Poppe (2006) to estimate the competitive capacity of the meat industry in the analysed countries the study used a set of economic and trade indicators appropriately adapted to the requirements of the analysis of bilateral relations. The indexes based on the market and trade shares included shares in exports to the target market and indexes of relative trade advantage, while the applied economic indexes included the real value added and its share in the total value added of the food industry and real labour productivity. The time frame for the analyses covered the years 2007-2016. The study is based on data from the European Statistical Office (Eurostat). Summing up the analyses it may be stated that in the years 2007-2016 the competitive position of the Polish meat industry in trade with the US in comparison to the leading EU producers of meat and meat preparations was strengthened both thanks to an improved trade position (measured by the share in the EU exports to the US market and relative trade advantages) as well as economic indicators connected with an increase importance of the analysed sector in the generation of real value added of the food industry and labour productivity.
L66|Economics of obesity ? case studies|"The paper deals with the economics of obesity and consumer decision-making. This paper aims to suggest measures to reduce obesity. The author links economics and some other scientific disciplines, for example, physiology, endocrinology, genetics, etc. Three economic case studies show how all these disciplines play a crucial role in the causes of obesity. Based on the economic case studies, the author suggests the ""treatment"" of obesity. It includes 1) the tax on unhealthy food (artificial sugar or fructose syrup); 2) sports subsidies or support of sport by public health insurance; and 3) restriction on the use of antibiotics. A secondary result of the paper is that individual preferences are not stable due to the changeable set of body and processes inside."
L66|Spatial distribution of the international food prices: unexpected randomness and heterogeneity|"Global food prices are typically analysed in a times series framework to assess the causes of volatility and to highlight spikes, that are interpreted as a signal of food crises. We address the spatial dimension of the issue at hand by focusing on the spatial food price dispersion, at the country-scale, in the international food trade network (IFTN) for ten relevant commodities. We base our study on bilateral trade by focusing on both the ""internal"" variance, which indicates that an exporter sets di erent prices to different importers for the same commodity, and the ""external"" variance, that is a measure of market price competitiveness. We nd that spatial price dispersion is remarkable and persistent over time and that there exists a strict correlation between price spikes (in level) and peaks in spatial price variability. This entails that during price crises the market is more fragmented and a higher spatial price dispersion is found. Moreover, we implement a randomness test on the country-scale price distributions to test whether they can be replicated through a random process of extraction. It results that the actual distribution of prices of several commodities is well described by a random distribution. It follows that the process of data aggregation is not neutral because, in several cases, the information at the micro-level scale (firms' decision) is lost at the macro-scale due to the complexity of the international food trade network (IFTN). We suggest some possible economic explanations of this occurrence and we discuss the main methodological consequences."
L66|Socioeconomic Inequality in Tobacco use in Kenya: A Concentration Analysis|Tobacco use is one of the four major risk factors for non-communicable diseases and its effect on health is well documented. Despite several policies adopted to curb tobacco use, African countries are experiencing the highest growth of tobacco use amongst developing countries. There is ample evidence in the literature about the factors influencing tobacco use among adults and youths in Africa. However, in Africa there is yawning evidence gap on the socioeconomic inequalities in tobacco use. This paper attempts to fill this gap by assessing and exploring socioeconomic inequalities in tobacco use in Kenya. Using the theory of fundamental causes, a rich data set-Global Adult Tobacco Survey, and concentration index, we investigate the determinants of tobacco use in Kenya, and whether tobacco use evenly affect the poor and rich. Our results suggest that there is a strong link between tobacco use and socioeconomic inequality. Overall, the poorer households are more affected by tobacco use than richer households and this socioeconomic inequality is more evident among poorer Kenyan men, and poorer Kenyan households living in urban areas. The decomposition of the concentration index indicates that the overall socioeconomic inequality for current tobacco smokers is explained by 40.317% of the household income. This confinement of tobacco use among the poorest in Kenya could be reduced by increasing taxes on tobacco products.
L66|Cost and Cost-Effectiveness of a Pre-Primary School Program in Kenya|We analyze the cost and cost-effectiveness of an early childhood development and education (ECDE) program in Kenya which aimed at preparing pre-primary children for primary school. A cluster randomized controlled trial design was used. Enrolled schools were provided with three different treatment packages that aimed at improving the instructional quality of ECDE centres complemented with a health component. We find that for every additional US$ 1 spent on the second treatment package, the intervention yields 0.16 extra percentage points in public ECDE centres over two years of participation. This translates to a cost of US$ 14.83 per child. Similarly, in private ECDE centres, results suggest that the yield of extra learning score per US$ 1 spent on the second treatment package is 0.36 percentage points, which translates to a cost of US$ 17.01 per child. Our findings indicate that combining the training of teachers, supervision staff, teacher support, books and teachers’ guides may be cost-effective. Hence, this pre-primary program could be scaled-up in different counties of Kenya.
L66|Unilateral effects screens for partial horizontal acquisitions: The generalized HHI and GUPPI|Recent years have witnessed an increased interest, by competition agencies, in assessing the competitive effects of partial acquisitions. We propose a generalization of the two most traditional indicators used to screen unilateral anti-competitive effects - the Herfindahl–Hirschman Index and the Gross Upward Price Pressure Index - to partial horizontal acquisition settings. The proposed generalized indicators are endogenously derived under a probabilistic voting model in which the manager of each firm is elected in a shareholder assembly between two potential candidates who seek to obtain utility from an exogenous rent associated with corporate office. The model (i) can cope with settings involving all types of owners and rights: owners that can be internal to the industry (rival firms) and external to the industry; and rights that can capture financial and corporate control interests, can be direct and indirect, can be partial or full, (ii) yields an endogenous measure of the owners ultimate corporate control rights, and (iii) can also be used - in case the potential acquisition is inferred to likely enhance market power - to devise divestiture structural remedies. We also provide an empirical application of the two proposed generalized indicators to several acquisitions in the wet shaving industry, with the objective of providing practitioners with a step-by-step illustration of how to compute them in antitrust cases.
L66|Uncorking Expert Reviews with Social Media: A Case Study Served with Wine|The growth of social media outlets in which individuals post opinions on publicly consumed goods provides an interesting and relatively unexplored area for examination of the role of crowd sourcing amateur opinions in areas traditionally relegated to experts. In this paper we use wine as an illustrative example to investigate the interaction between social media and expert reviews in the market for high end consumer goods. In particular, we exploit a novel data set constructed from the social media website CellarTracker, which is composed of the averaged individual reviews for 355 distinct wines on a quarterly basis from 2004 through 2017, and pair this with a similarly dimensioned panel of average auction prices for these wines as well as the reviews from three leading experts. We develop a signal extraction model to motivate the interaction between amateurs and experts in revealing a measure of the quality of the wine. The model is then used to motivate the adaptation of an empirical panel structural VAR approach based on Pedroni (2013) by embedding the expert reviews as an event analysis within the panel VAR, which is used to decompose information into components that signal the quality of the liquid in the bottle versus other aspects of the wine that are valued by the market. The approach also allows us to decompose the influence of the expert reviews into components associated with what we define as the quality of the wine versus the pure reputation effect of the expert. The results on expert reviews are consistent with the idea that experts can substantially impact prices through channels other than their signals of quality.
L66|Local market structure and consumer prices: Evidence from a retail merger|This paper analyzes the effects of a merger between a German supermarket chain and a soft discounter on consumer prices. We exploit geographic variation in prices within retail chains and brands and use a difference-in-differences estimator to compare regional markets with a change in market structure to a control group in unaffected markets. Our results indicate that both insiders and outsiders raised average prices after the merger, particularly in regions with high expected change in retail concentration. In contrast, we estimate price declines in regions that did not experience a rise in concentration but were potentially affected by cost savings within the merged entity. We also provide evidence that remedies imposed by competition authorities were not sufficient to o set anti-competitive effects.
L66|Why the first cooperative wineries produced poor quality wine, why they were so scarce and why they were set up: evidence from Spain|Since the 1950s a substantial part of all European wine has come from cooperative wineries, which since their appearance around the year 1900 have mostly produced cheap, poor quality wine. This paper discusses whether this has been a consequence of their inability to solve a collective action problem. After showing that this is not so, it examines why cooperatives concentrated on the production of bad wine and studies why their market share was small before the 1950s. Lastly, it uses data from Spain to analyse the factors determining the creation of cooperative wineries in the early twentieth century.
L66|Testing Rational Addiction: When Lifetime is Uncertain, One Lag is Enough|The rational addiction model is usually tested by estimating a linear second-order difference Euler equation, which may produce unreliable estimates. We show that a linear first-order difference equation is a better alternative. This empirical specification is appropriate under the reasonable assumption that people are uncertain about the time of their death, it is based on the same structural assumptions used in the literature, and it retains all policy implications of the deterministic rational addiction model. It is also empirically convenient because it is simple, it allows using efficient estimation strategies that do not require instrumental variables, and it is robust to the possible non-stationarity of the data. As an application we estimate the demand for smoking in the US from 1970 to 2016, and we show that it is consistent with the rational addiction model.
L66|Platform competition : who benefits from multihoming?|Competition between two-sided platforms is shaped by the possibility of multihoming. If users on both sides singlehome, each platform provides users on either side exclusive access to its users on the other side. In contrast, if users on one side can multihome, platforms exert monopoly power on that side and compete on the singlehoming side. This paper explores the allocative effects of such a change from single- to multihoming. Our results challenge the conventional wisdom, according to which the possibility of multihoming hurts the side that can multihome, while benefiting the other side. This is not always true: the opposite may happen or both sides may benefit.
L66|Price Dispersion and Informational Frictions: Evidence from Supermarket Purchases|Traditional demand models assume that consumers are perfectly informed about product characteristics, including price. However, this assumption may be too strong. Unannounced sales are a common supermarket practice. As we show, retailers frequently change position in the price rankings, thus making it unlikely that consumers are aware of all deals offered in each period. Further empirical evidence on consumer behavior is also consistent with a model with price information frictions. We develop such a model for horizontally differentiated products and structurally estimate the search cost distribution. The results show that in equilibrium, consumers observe a very limited number of prices before making a purchase decision, which implies that imperfect information is indeed important and that local market power is potentially high. We also show that a full information demand model yields severely biased price elasticities.
L66|The Effects of Mandatory Disclosure of Supermarket Prices|We study how mandatory online disclosure of supermarket prices affects prices and price dispersion in brick-and-mortar stores. Using data collected before and after a transparency regulation went into effect in the Israeli food retail market, multiple complementary control groups and relying on a differences-in-differences research design, we document a sharp decline in price dispersion and a 4% to 5% drop in prices following the transparency regulation. The price drop varied across stores and products; it was smaller among private-label products than among branded products, and it was smaller among stores and products that were likely to have been associated with more intense search patterns even before prices became transparent (e.g., products in heavy-discount chains; popular products; products that meet stringent kosher requirements). Finally, we show that prices declined as more consumers used price-comparison websites, and we highlight the role of media coverage in encouraging retailers to set lower prices.
L66|Price or Variety? An Evaluation of Mergers Effects in Grocery Retailing|Assortment decisions are key strategic instruments for firms responding to local market conditions. We assess this claim by studying the effect of a national merger between two large Dutch supermarket chains on prices and on the depth as well as composition of assortment. We adopt a difference-in-differences strategy that exploits local variation in the merger’s effects, controlling for selection on observables when defining our control group through a matching procedure. We show that the local change in competitive conditions due to the merger did not affect individual products’ prices but it led the merging parties to reposition their assortment and increase average category prices. While the low-variety and low-price target’s stores reduced the depth of their assortment when in direct competition with the acquirer’s stores, the latter increased their product variety. By analyzing the effect of the merger on category prices, we find that the target most likely dropped high priced products, while the acquirer added more of them. Thus, the merging firms reposition their product offerings in order to avoid cannibalization and lessen local competition. Further, we show that other dimensions of heterogeneity, such as market concentration, whether a divestiture was imposed by the Dutch competition authority, and the re-branding strategy of the target stores, are important for explaining the post-merger dynamics. A simple theoretical model of local-market variety competition explains most of our findings.
L66|Cadena Productiva de productos Hortofrutícolas Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando el concepto de cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que elaboran Productos Hortofrutícolas para el período 2001 – 2017. Utilizando la Matriz Insumo – Producto del Sector Industrial, el documento identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo y presenta el flujograma de la cadena productiva. El documento presenta también un conjunto de indicadores que caracterizan la cadena productiva: número de empresas; distribución geográfica y por tamaño empresarial; valor de la producción; concentración geográfica de la producción; nivel de encadenamiento de los eslabones intermedios; exportaciones e importaciones; concentración de las exportaciones e importaciones por socio comercial y eslabones finales; creación y desviación de comercio derivada de los acuerdos comerciales firmados por Colombia; tasa de protección efectiva y nominal; y prospectiva de las exportaciones en mercados estratégicos.
L66|Contribución de la Operación de Bavaria S.A. a la Economía Colombiana|El estudio cuantifica la contribución de la operación de Bavaria S.A. a la economía colombiana de una manera integral a través de la metodología insumo-producto. El análisis considera no sólo los efectos directos de la producción de Bavaria S.A. sino también los impactos indirectos, e inducidos de forma tal que pueda capturarse el aporte a la economía a nivel agregado. Para esto, el análisis tiene en cuenta las interrelaciones económicas de Bavaria S.A. con el resto de sectores de la economía, así como con otros agentes como los hogares y el Gobierno plasmadas en una Matriz de Contabilidad Social (SAM). Se encuentra que los efectos indirectos en producción, valor agregado, empleo, salarios y pago de impuestos son importantes, incluso en muchos casos superiores a la contribución directa de la compañía.
L66|How long do healthy habits last? The role of prices|When a policy gives temporary incentives for healthy behaviors, how long does the impact last? I study the U.S. Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children, which gives vouchers for healthy foods. Using household-level scanner data, I find that the effect of the program diminishes when households become ineligible. Demand model estimates show that price differences between healthy and unhealthy foods play a large role in the decrease of the program's impact. The estimates imply that the program has a persistent effect, in that it increases the impact of subsequent policies like subsidies on healthy foods.
L66|How Hard Is It to Maximise Profit? Evidence from a 19-th Century Italian State Monopoly|In this paper we study the ability of the 19-th century Italian government to choose profit maximising prices for a multiproduct monopolist. We use very detailed historical data on the tobacco consumption in 62 Italian provinces from 1871 to 1888 to estimate a differentiated product demand system. The demand conditions and the legal environment of the period made this market as close to a textbook monopoly as is practically possible. The government’s stated aim for this industry was profit maximisation: since at the time tobacco revenues constituted between 10 and 15 percent of the revenues for the cash-strapped government, the stated aim was very likely the true one. Cost data for the nine products suggest that the government was not wide off the mark: the tobacco prices were “not far” from those dictated by the standard monopoly formulae for profit maximisation with interdependent demand functions.
L66|Price or Variety? An Evaluation of Mergers Effects in Grocery Retailing|Assortment decisions are key strategic instruments for firms responding to local market conditions. We assess this claim by studying the effect of a national merger between two large Dutch supermarket chains on prices and on the depth as well as composition of assortment. We adopt a difference-in-differences strategy that exploits local variation in the merger’s effects, controlling for selection on observables when defining our control group through a matching procedure. We show that the local change in competitive conditions due to the merger did not affect individual products’ prices but it led the merging parties to reposition their assortment and increase average category prices. While the low-variety and low-price target’s stores reduced the depth of their assortment when in direct competition with the acquirer’s stores, the latter increased their product variety. By analyzing the effect of the merger on category prices, we find that the target most likely dropped high priced products, while the acquirer added more of them. Thus, the merging firms reposition their product offerings in order to avoid cannibalization and lessen local competition. Further, we show that other dimensions of heterogeneity, such as market concentration, whether a divestiture was imposed by the Dutch competition authority, and the re-branding strategy of the target stores, are important for explaining the post-merger dynamics. A simple theoretical model of local-market variety competition explains most of our findings.
L66|The Roles of Institutional Frameworks in Enforcing Food Safety in Malaysia|Objective - Food is one of the basic elements of survival. Nevertheless, the advancement of science and technology has made food safety a complex issue. Chemical additives that are harmful to health are constantly added into our food products. Food safety involves the health of the society at large and the productivity of individuals in our country. There needs to be a tightening of laws to ensure that the food safety of our products is always protected. The objective of this paper is to examine the roles of various enforcement agencies - both governmental and non-governmental - and to conduct a comparative study with the Food Standard Agency in the United Kingdom. Methodology/Technique - The governmental agency involved in this study is the Food and Quality Division under the Ministry of Health Malaysia. The paper also examines the role of non-governmental agencies, namely, the Consumer Association of Penang and the National Consumer Complaints Centre, in channeling and documenting complaints from consumers to relevant enforcement agencies. A qualitative methodology is adopted to analyze the relevant documents. Findings - The results of the research identifies that the enforcement of the laws by governmental bodies needs to be improved. On the other hand, non-governmental bodies are found to be effectively executing their duties. Therefore, it is suggested that government agencies should increase transparency in reporting their cases to the consumers, particularly through their website. It is also suggested that they report irresponsible food manufacturers in newspapers and seek to prosecute those manufacturers in courts. Novelty - It is hoped that this paper will act to advise food manufacturers of the governmental and non-governmental regulatory bodies in place. The paper also proposes that the Food Safety and Quality Division work together with non-governmental bodies, namely the Consumer Association of Penang and the National Consumer Complaint Centre, to combat food safety and quality, to increase transparency and enforce the laws on food safety more rigorously.
L66|Manufacturing doubt|In their efforts to affect regulations, firms have developed specific strategies to exploit scientific uncertainty. They have manufactured doubt by hiring and funding dissenting scientists, by producing and publicizing favorable scientific findings and by generally concealing their involvement in biased research. We propose a new model to study the interplay between scientific uncertainty, firms' miscommunication and public policies. The government is benevolent but populist, and maximizes social welfare as perceived by citizens. The industry can produce costly reports showing that its activity is not harmful. Citizens are unaware of the industry's miscommunication. We first characterize the industry's optimal miscommunication policy. The industry notably ceases miscommunicating abruptly when scientists' belief reaches a critical threshold. We identify a natural condition under which miscommunication is stronger under a tax on emissions than under command and control. We then analyze research funding. A populist government may support research to enable firms to falsely reassure citizens. Establishing an independent research agency helps limit the welfare losses induced by populist policies.
L66|Forecasting Bordeaux wine prices using state-space methods| Generic Bordeaux red wine (basic claret) can be regarded as being similar to an agricultural commodity. Production volumes are substantial, they are traded at high frequency and the quality of the product is relatively homogeneous. Unlike other commodities and the top-end wines (which represent only 3% of the traded volume), there is no futures market for generic Bordeaux wine. Reliable forecasts of prices can to large extent replace this information deficiency and improve the functioning of the market. We use state-space methods with monthly data to obtain a univariate forecasting model for the average price. The estimates highlight the stochastic trend and the seasonality present in the evolution of the price over the period 1999 to 2016. The model predicts the path of wine prices out of sample reasonably well, suggesting that this approach is useful for making reasonably accurate forecasts of future price movements.
L66|Hump-shaped cross-price effects and the extensive margin in cross-border shopping|This paper examines the effect of cross-border shopping on grocery demand in Norway using monthly store×category sales data from Norway’s largest grocery chain 2011-2016. The sensitivity of demand to foreign price is hump-shaped and greatest 30-60 minutes’ driving distance from the closest foreign store. Combining continuous demand, fixed costs of cross-border shopping and linear transport costs `a la Hotelling we show how this hump-shape can arise through a combination of intensive and extensive margins of cross-border shopping. Our conclusions are further supported by novel survey evidence and cross-border traffic data.
L66|The impact of private R&D on the performance of food-processing firms: Evidence from Europe, Japan and North America|This report investigates the impact of corporate research and development (R&D) on firm performance in the food-processing industry. The agro-food industry is usually considered to be a low-tech sector (the share of total output that is attributable to R&D is around 0.27% in the EU). However, the agro-food industry is very heterogeneous. On the one hand, there are many highly innovative food-processing firms with intensive R&D activity and, on the other hand, many food-processing firms derive and adopt innovations from other sectors such as machinery, packaging and other manufacturing suppliers. We perform data envelopment analysis (DEA) with two-step bootstrapping, which allows us to correct the bias in (in)efficiency and generate unbiased estimates for (in)efficiencies. We use a corporate dataset of 307 companies from agriculture and food-processing industries from the EU, the USA, Canada and Japan for the period 1991â€“2009. The estimates suggest that R&D has a positive effect on firmsâ€™ performance, with marginal gains decreasing at the R&D level, and performance differences detected across regions and food sectors. General public expenditure in R&D is also associated with a positive impact on firm performance. As a result, policy support for this type of non-high-tech innovative sector is expected to generate growth. However, results that suggest heterogeneity in R&D effects across EU Member States may point to differences in the implications of innovation policies across EU regions.
L66|Why cooperative wineries produced poor quality wine and why they were set up: Evidence from Spain (1895-1935)|Since the 1950s a substantial part of all European wine has come from cooperative wineries, which since their appearance around the year 1900 have mostly produced cheap, poor quality wine. This paper discusses whether this has been a consequence of their inability to solve a collective action problem. After showing that this is not so, it examines why cooperatives concentrated on the production of bad wine and studies why their market share was small before the 1950s. Lastly, it uses data from Spain to analyse the factors determining the creation of cooperative wineries in the early twentieth century.
L66|Branding and Performance in the Global Beer Market|The mass market for beers is served by a few global breweries in an oligopoly structure covering most of the world market. The homogeneity of their main lager beers are very high and produced at large scaled plants at low costs. However, the breweries spend large amounts of money to promote some of the lager beers as premium beers and at a high and increasing price premium. Based on a database with prices for standard and premium lager, the paper study the development in the consumption of different types of beers on the global market in recent years. We estimate the price premium on premium beers and relate it to the rapid change in the oligopoly structure of the market through the merger and acquisition activities.
L66|Analyzing Barrel Purchasing Decisions on Winery Costs|No abstract is available for this item.
L66|Wine Production In Québec: A Restatement| Wine production in Québec over the last twenty years has grown rapidly with an increased interest for diversified products in terms of quality and price. The growth of supply is related not only to the number of producers but also to the increased varieties of wines proposed. This paper proposes an economic analysis of wine production in Québec by analyzing the concentration level of producers. The level of competition has increased significantly between 2008 and 2105 due to an increasing number of small wine producers. An index of relative firm position in the market based on relative prices is calculated and we demonstrate that a high price strategy is significantly related to the size of the vineyard rather than the age of the domain or the number of wines produced.
L66|Markups and product differentiation in the German brewing sector|In this paper, we provide a method to separate the product differentiation markup from other sources of market power, i.e., collusive behavior or lack of market transparency, based on the estimation of a single reduced form equation. We apply this method to a sample of about 200 breweries in Germany, because beer is a differentiated product and at the same time the sector has repeatedly been suspected to show collusive behavior. Our empirical results show that a significant part of the estimated markup is due to product differentiation. This is especially true for beers produced in Bavaria. However, there are other important sources of imperfect competition. Markups are higher for large firms and increase over time. In addition, we observe increasing returns to scale and average costs above marginal costs. Hence, in the German brewing sector a high markup does not necessarily translate into a high profit margin. [EconLit citations: L13; L66].
L66|Trade Credit Financing In African Agro-Food Manufacturing Industry: Incidence And Motives| Trade credit is a form of short-term financing employed by non-financial firms in inter-firm trade. This study examines the incidence and the motives for extending trade credit among agro-food manufacturing firms in Africa. The study uses a subsample of agro-food firms from 2014 World Bank Enterprise Survey data from eight African countries: Burundi, Malawi, Mauritania, Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, Sudan and South Sudan. The incidence of trade credit is relatively high among agro-food firms as 60.5% and 55% of firms extend and receive trade credit respectively. However, the mean proportion of yearly total input purchases received as trade credit (22%) is higher than the mean proportion of yearly total sales extended as trade credit (19%). From the two-limit Tobit estimation, firm size, manager experience, degree of product diversification, access to bank credit, overdraft availability and supplier credit are found to play a significant role in the level of trade credit firms extend to customers. However, when supplier credit is added to the model, it completely absorbs the effect of access to bank credit. For suspected endogeneity of supplier credit, an instrumental variable (IV) two-limit Tobit is estimated and the results show no presence of endogeneity. From the results, transaction, quality verification, marketing and long-term relationship motives for extending trade credit to customers are implied.
L66|Cooperative Wineries and Wine Marketing in Spain|Cooperative wineries emerged with a double objective: on the one hand, the common production ofwine, to reduce production costs and at the same time to increase the quality of the product; on the other hand, the common sale of wine, with a reduction of intermediaries and an improvement of the position of winegrowers in the marketing process. Both objectives had to lead to a higher remuneration for the product and, consequently, for producers’ income. In the wine sector producers were mainly small family farmers who faced a context of tendential fall in wine prices and, consequently, a decrease in their income. If the advantages of winemaking in common seem obvious, success in the second objective seems more doubtful. In this article we want to analyze the marketing of wine in Spain through the cooperative wineries: What was their role in the wine trade? What types of sales did they adopt and why? How did they adapt to changes in the wine consumption patterns?
L66|Consumers’ costly responses to product-harm crises|Using an ideal setting from a major food safety crisis, we estimate a full demand model for the unsafe product and its substitutes and recover consumers' preference parameters. Counterfactual exercises quantify the relevance of di erent mechanisms -changes in safety perceptions, idiosyncratic tastes, nutritional characteristics, and prices-driving consumers' response. We find that consumers' reaction is limited by their taste for the product and its nutritional characteristics. Due to the costs associated with switching away from the a ected product, the decline in demand following a product-harm crisis tends to understate the true weight of such events in consumers' utility. Indeed, we nd that a large fraction of consumers are unresponsive to the crisis even when they significantly downgrade their product safety perception. For an accurate assessment of the crisis, managerial strategies should therefore account for how di erent demand drivers bind consumers' substitution patterns.
L66|Quantifying the coordinated effects of partial horizontal acquisitions|Recent years have witnessed an increased interest, by competition agencies, in assessing the competitive effects of partial acquisitions. We propose an empirical structural methodology, which can deal with settings involving all types of owners and ownership rights, to quantify the coordinated effects of partial horizontal acquisitions on differentiated products industries, by evaluating the impact of such acquisitions on the minimum discount factors for which coordination can be sustained. We also provide an empirical application of the methodology to several acquisitions in the wet shaving industry that give rise to cross- and common-ownership structures. The results are as follows (i) the incentives to coordinate of the firms that the acquiring party is – pre-acquisition – able to influence are non-decreasing with any acquisition; (ii) the incentives to coordinate of the acquired firm are non-decreasing with acquisitions involving full or partial both financial and corporate control rights, but non-increasing with acquisitions involving full or partial solely financial rights; and (iii) the incentives to coordinate of the remaining firms in the industry are non-increasing with any acquisition. This implies that the coordinated effects of partial horizontal acquisitions are, in general, ambiguous, which illustrates the importance of an empirical structural methodology.
L66|Supply Uncertainty and Foreign Direct Investment in Agri-food Industry|We investigate whether and to what extent agricultural uncertainty drives the location of capital in the food processing industry. We show that when a risk-neutral food company has the possibility of exercising market power as both seller and buyer, the impact of agricultural uncertainty on the decision of producing abroad depends on whether the multinational makes the pricing/production decision before or after uncertainty is revealed. An econometric study is then needed to identify the mechanisms at work. The theoretical implications are tested by using a gravity model on European countriesÕ and the United StatesÕ outward FDI stock, detailed by destination country in the agri-food industry. Overall, our results suggest that a higher agricultural volatility in the home country triggers investments abroad and that a host country exhibiting low agricultural uncertainty attracts relatively more foreign capital. Moreover, international differences in agricultural uncertainty generate incentives for Vertical disintegration by food companies, especially when trade costs are sufficiently low.
L66|Cadena de Farmacéuticos y Apósitos Quirúrgicos. Estructura, Comercio Internacional y Protección|Utilizando la metáfora de la cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que producen farmacéuticos y apósitos quirúrgicos para el período 2002 – 2012. Para ello el documento presenta el número de empresas que pertenecen a la cadena, la forma como ellas se distribuyen geográficamente, y por tamaño empresarial, e identifica los principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo. El flujograma de la cadena productiva es construido a partir del proceso productivo identificado y de la Matriz Insumo – Producto del sector industrial. En las secciones finales se presentan diferentes indicadores: producción y ventas; concentración empresarial de la producción y las ventas, consumo intermedio; exportaciones e importaciones; índice HERFINDAHL-HIRSCHMAN (IHH); índice de BALASSA; índice de especialización de KRUGMAN; comercio intraindustrial; y tasa de protección efectiva
L66|Convergence in National Alcohol Consumption Patterns: New Global Indicators|With increasing globalisation and interactions between cultures, countries are converging in many ways, including in their consumption patterns. The extent to which this has been the case in alcohol consumption has been the subject of previous studies, but those studies have been limited in scope to a specific region or group of high-income countries or to just one or two types of alcohol. The present study updates earlier findings, covers all countries of the world since 1961, introduces two new summary indicators to capture additional dimensions of the extent of convergence in total alcohol consumption and in its mix of beverages, and distinguishes countries according to whether their alcoholic focus was on wine, beer or spirits in the early 1960s as well as to their geographic region and their real per capita income. Also, for recent years we add expenditure data and compare alcohol with soft drink retail expenditure, and we show what difference it makes when unrecorded alcohol volumes are included as part of total alcohol consumption. The final section summarizes the findings and suggests further research could provide new demand elasticity estimates and use econometrics to explain the varying extents of convergence over time, space and beverage type.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L66|The Effects of Mandatory Disclosure of Supermarket Prices|We study how mandatory online disclosure of supermarket prices affects prices and price dispersion in brick-and-mortar stores. Using data collected before and after a transparency regulation went into effect in the Israeli food retail market, multiple complementary control groups and relying on a differences-in-differences research design, we document a sharp decline in price dispersion and a 4% to 5% drop in prices following the transparency regulation. The price drop varied across stores and products; it was smaller among branded products than among private-label products, and it was smaller among stores and products that were likely to have been associated with more intense search patterns even before prices became transparent (e.g., products in heavy-discount chains; popular products; products that meet stringent kosher requirements). Finally, we show that prices declined as more consumers used price-comparison websites, and we highlight the role of media coverage in encouraging retailers to set lower prices.
L66|Impulsive Consumption and Financial Wellbeing: Evidence from an Increase in the Availability of Alcohol|Increased availability of alcohol may harm individuals if they have time-inconsistent preferences and consume more than planned before. We study this idea by examining the credit behavior of low-income households around the expansion of the opening hours of retail liquor stores during a nationwide experiment in Sweden. Consistent with store closures serving as commitment devices, expanded opening hours led to higher alcohol consumption and greater consumer credit demand, default, negative consequences in the labor market, and increase in crime on Saturdays. Our calculation shows that the effects of alcohol consumption on indebtedness could amount to 4.4 times the expenditure on alcohol.
L66|To Study Consumers’ Use of Information on Food Labels in Vietnam|The information on food labels is an important source to guide consumers in making choices of food. The objective of this study is to analyze factors affecting consumers’ awareness of food labeling information. The survey was conducted among 375 people with age of above 18-year-old in Vietnam. Using the method of descriptive statistical analysis, testing the reliability of scale (Cronbach’s alpha), exploratory factor analysis, and multivariate regression analysis, the results showed that there are 04 factors affecting consumers’ intention of using the information on food labels: Attitudes toward information on food labels, effect of society, perceived behavioral control, and concern about diet-health. In addition, the customers’ intention of using the information on food labels has a positive impact on their use behavior of information on food labels.
L66|Non-separable time preferences, novelty consumption and body weight: Theory and evidence from the East German transition to capitalism|This paper develops a dynamic model to illustrate how diet and body weight change when novel food products become available to consumers. We propose a microfounded test to empirically discriminate between habit and taste formation in intertemporal preferences. Moreover, we show that ‘novelty consumption’ and endogenous preferences can explain the persistent correlation between economic development and obesity. By empirically studying the German reunification, we find that East Germans consumed more novel Western food and gained more weight than West Germans when a larger variety of food products became readily accessible after the fall of the Wall. The observed consumption patterns suggest that food consumption features habit formation.
L66|Influence of Age and Education on Purchase Intention of Halal Labelled Food Among Indonesian Muslim Mothers|"""Objective – This study examines the discrepancies that exist among the influence of age and education on purchase intention of halal labelled food, by using conscientiousness as a covariate. Methodology/Technique – Total number of respondents used in this research were 352 Indonesian mothers. Data has been collected through questionnaires measuring the purchase intention of halal labelled food and analysis has been performed through analysis of covariance. Findings – The results have indicated that when conscientiousness trait is controlled, the interaction of age and education exhibit influence on purchase intention of halal labelled food with (F=6.079; p=.03), and effect size of 3.4% (.034). The influence of education, with controlled conscientiousness trait, over purchase intention of halal labelled food is significant (F=3.407; p=.034), effect size 1.9% (.019). On the other hand, age, with controlled conscientiousness trait, does not have significant influence over purchase intention of halal labelled food (F=3.407; p=.34). Novelty – This paper has revealed demographic variables; education and age; that influence purchase intention by controlling psychological factor."""
L66|Comment mesurer la performance des alliances stratégiques internationales ? Application aux industries agroalimentaires en Afrique de l’Ouest|The purpose of this exploratory study is threefold. It is first to conduct a critical literature review on international strategic alliances’ issues. Then, drawing on combined frameworks of Blanchot (2006), Reus and Ritchie (2004), and Cheriet (2009), we aim to propose an integrated model of performance measurement of these cooperative relationships with three logics: multi-dimensions of the construct,multi-perspectives of partners and integration of cooperative relationship dynamics. Finally, our word will also discuss the possibilities of its application to the specific context of agribusiness in West Africa countries. This first work intends to identify appropriate performance indicators through the examination of the main empirical research on the strategic alliances’ performance o in the context of emerging countries and to consider the possibilities of methodology replication to African context. ....French Abstract : L’objet de ce travail exploratoire est triple. Il s’agit d’abord de mener une analyse critique de la littérature portant sur les issues des alliances stratégiques internationales. Ensuite, en s’inspirant des travaux de Blanchot (2006), de Reus et Ritchie (2004) et de Cheriet (2009), de proposer un « tableau de bord » de la mesure de la performance de ces relations coopératives avec une triple logique : multidimensions du construit, multi-perspectives des partenaires et tenant compte de la dynamique de la relation. Enfin, il s’agira de discuter des perspectives de son application au contexte spécifique des industries agroalimentaires et du secteur de la distribution alimentaire en Afrique de l’Ouest. Ce travail d’étape est aussi destiné à identifier les indicateurs de performances pertinents à travers l’examen des résultats des principales recherches empiriques sur la performance des alliances stratégiques dans le contexte des pays émergents et de s’interroger sur les possibilités de réplication méthodologique au contexte africain.
L66|Disentangling Innovation in Small Food Firms: The role of External Knowledge, Support, and Collaboration|This paper applies unique survey data on innovation and external interaction of small food producers in Sweden. The overall purpose is to test if firms that are more engaged in external interaction are more innovative. To disentangle innovativeness beyond new goods and services, innovation is measured as new processes, new markets, new suppliers, new ways of organization, and new distributors. Findings point to a positive relationship between firm innovation and external interaction, both in terms of collaboration, external knowledge and support from regional actors. In particular, collaboration regarding transports and sales is shown to enhance most types of innovation. Product and process innovation benefit from external knowledge from extra-regional firms as well as regional support from the largest firm. Findings suggest that current innovation policies can improve their efficiency by increasing their flexibility to enable tailor-made innovation policies at the local level.
L66|Acquisition Of Mexican Companies By Foreign Investors: Evidence From Catering Services And The Food Industry, Adquisicion De Empresas Mexicanas Por Inversionistas Extranjeros: Caso De Comedores Industriales|acquisitions between countries are a business opportunity and offer international economic empowerment. Mexican companies are currently being purchased by foreign investors. This study identifies factors that influence the catering services and food industry in Mexico, and the relationship between them. We wish to know factors that make them attractive as a foreign investor purchase candidate. The study was done as a joint research. The qualitative stage involves a case study of the two most important companies in Mexico that were acquired by foreign investors. Factors that influenced its foreign acquisition were identified. The quantitative stage involved a questionnaire applied to 15 companies that had not been acquired. Their specific factors or characteristics and trend of rotation were identified. The results confirm that foreign investors primarily seek companies that possess an attractive profile
L66|A Stochastic Production Frontier Estimator of the Degree of Oligopsony Power in the U.S. Cattle Industry|Abstract The objective of this study is to estimate the degree of oligopsony power in the U.S. cattle industry with the use of the recently developed stochastic frontier estimator of market power. Unlike the seminal paper where estimation of the mark-up in an output market at firm level was the main objective, this work proposes a stochastic production frontier estimator in order to estimate the mark-down in an input market at aggregate level. Furthermore, with the help of the new estimator we derive and estimate the Lerner index of oligospony power for the U.S. cattle market. For the empirical part of the study we employed annual time series data from the U.S. cattle/beef industry for the time period 1970-2009. Our results suggest that beef packers exert market power when purchasing live cattle for slaughter.
L66|Producción y exportación de vino en España: El caso de Castilla y León/Spains?s Wine Production and Exports: The Case of Castile and Leon|La industria agroalimentaria (IAA) constituye una de las principales ramas del sector manufacturero en Castilla y León y en España y una de las actividades que mejor comportamiento ha venido registrando en estos últimos años de dura crisis económica. Tales circunstancias confieren a este sector la condición de importante motor de desarrollo económico territorial. Dentro de la IAA, el subsector del vino ha experimentado un considerable dinamismo, hasta colocar a España como principal país exportador a nivel mundial. El objetivo fundamental del presente trabajo es reflejar la andadura del subsector vinícola en la región de Castilla y León, con particular referencia a su actividad exportadora. Para ello, se examinará la posición de la industria española del vino a escala mundial, su relevancia en el contexto agroalimentario nacional y su comportamiento en los últimos años. Después, se analizará el caso particular de esta rama manufacturera en Castilla y León, haciendo hincapié en sus potencialidades como vehículo de internacionalización, merced a la creciente exportación, y como elemento de desarrollo local/rural. The agrofood industry (AFI) is one of the main branches of the manufacturing sector in Castile and Leon and Spain and one of the best performing activities in recent years of severe economic crisis. In these circumstances this industry appears as an important factor for territorial economic development. Within the AFI, the wine subsector has experienced considerable dynamism, placing Spain as the main exporting country worldwide in volume. The main objective of this work is to analyze the evolution of the wine subsector in the region of Castile and Leon, with particular reference to its export activity. In order to achieve this purpose, the position of the Spanish wine industry at the global level, its relevance in the national agrofood context and its performance in recent years are examined. After that, the particular case of this manufacturing sector in Castile and Leon will be analyzed, emphasizing its potential as a vehicle for both internationalization, thanks to the increasing export, and local/rural development.
L66|Supply Uncertainty and Foreign Direct Investments in Agri-food Industry|We investigate whether and to what extent agricultural uncertainty drives the location of capital in the food processing industry. We show that when a risk-neutral food company has the possibility of exercising market power as both seller and buyer, the impact of agricultural uncertainty on the decision of producing abroad depends on whether the multinational makes the pricing/production decision before or after uncertainty is revealed. An econometric study is then needed to identify the mechanisms at work. The theoretical implications are tested by using a gravity model on European countries' and the United States' outward FDI stock, detailed by destination country in the agri-food industry. Overall, our results suggest that a higher agricultural volatility in the home country triggers investments abroad and that a host country exhibiting low agricultural uncertainty attracts relatively more foreign capital. Moreover, international di erences in agricultural uncertainty generate incentives for vertical disintegration by food companies, especially when trade costs are suciently low.
L66|Impulsive Consumption and Financial Wellbeing: Evidence from an Increase in the Availability of Alcohol|Increased availability of temptation goods might harm individuals if they have time-inconsistent preferences and consume more in the present than planned before. We study this idea by examining the credit behavior of low-income households around the expansion of the opening hours of retail liquor stores during a nationwide experiment in Sweden. Consistent with store closures serving as commitment devices, expanded operating hours led to higher alcohol consumption (Nordstrom and Skog 2003) and greater consumer credit uptake and default. Thus, our results show that limiting the availability of temptation goods can improve the financial wellbeing of individuals with inconsistent-time preferences.
L66|Vertical price relationships between different cuts and quality grades in the U.S. beef marketing channel: A wholesale-retail analysis|The present article offers an empirical assessment of the degree and the structure of price dependence between wholesale and retail market levels in the U.S. beef industry, while accounting for product differentiation. This is pursued using the statistical tool of copulas and monthly rates of price changes for different cuts and quality grades of the beef product for the time period 2002–2016. Six wholesale–retail pairs were formed based on different cuts and quality grades. The empirical results suggest that prices at retail level respond differently to extreme negative and positive wholesale price shocks. More specifically, extreme price increases at the wholesale level are transmitted to the retail level in five out of six pairs whereas extreme price decreases are not passed from the wholesale to the retail market level in five out of six pairs. Based on these findings, there is evidence of asymmetric price relationships between wholesale–retail market levels in the U.S. beef marketing channel, when quality differences in cuts and grades are considered.
L66|Regional development in the context of economic reform: The case of Limassol|Regional development occurs in the larger context of national economies. Thus, the elaboration of regional economic development strategies cannot be separated from higher-level economic policy which frames and conditions opportunities and risks for regional development. As a Southern European country undergoing a process of profound structural economic reform, Cyprus provides a case for a policy context aiming towards the emergence of a new model of economic growth. Within this context, the Limassol region as one of the country’s major economic centers with a number of comparatively strong industries can serve as an example of how to promote regional development in the framework of national reform priorities such as moving the national economy closer towards a knowledge- and innovation-driven model. The present study analyses current reform priorities on the national and supra-national level, takes stock of the regional economic structure of Limassol district, and presents some preliminary ideas that could be further explored if and when a comprehensive regional economic development strategy for Limassol were to be elaborated.
L66|Indonesia towards 2030 and beyond: A Long-Run International Trade Foresight|One of the most important variables in the emerging economies like Indonesia is the stability of the exchange rate. Unstable exchange rates make it almost impossible for all business ventures to plan the business. The higher the depreciation of the Rupiah the higher the inflation rate and this will decrease people's purchasing power. In the balance of payments, the stability of the exchange rate and capital account are strongly influenced by the current account balance. A study found that in Indonesia, in the long run (Johansen Procedure) Indonesia current account balance affects the real exchange rate while in the short run (VECM) it affects the nominal exchange rate. The study also found that in the current account balance the one that affecting the exchange rate is the trade balance. Indonesia's trade balance relies on a surplus of trade in goods, especially agricultural products, petroleum and gas. The price of products in the primary sector is very vulnerable because of the volatility of primary products due to that of world’s oil and gas price. Indonesia's current account balance is highly dependent on manufacturing product trade. Another study found that in real-world, manufacturing trade influences more the capital flows than vice versa. Therefore, in order to maintain a positive long-term economic growth and stable exchange rate, Indonesia must increase its trade competitiveness, especially in the manufacturing sector. This paper will explore the challenges and opportunities of international trade in Indonesia towards 2030 and afterwards.
L66|Determinanty zaufania konsumentów do firm z sektora rolno-spożywczego<BR>[The Determinants of Consumer Trust to the Agri-Food Industry]|W opracowaniu przedstawiono znaczenie zaufania konsumentów do sektora rolno-spożywczego. Celem artykułu było pokazanie wybranych czynników determinujących to zaufanie. Zdefiniowano cechy zaufania. Przedstawiono stan zaufania do producentów sektora według licznych raportów na ten temat. Zwrócono uwagę na główne obszary problemowe z jakimi spotyka się sektor spożywczy odnośnie bezpieczeństwa żywności, w tym przypadki fałszowania żywności, stosowania dodatków, jak również zagrożenia związane z produkcją żywności nowej generacji, w tym funkcjonalnej czy genetycznie modyfikowanej. Wszystkie te obszary przedstawiono w relacji do zaufania konsumenckiego. Do realizacji przyjętego w opracowaniu celu zastosowano analizę krytyczną literatury przedmiotu. (abstrakt oryginalny) EN The paper presents the importance of the consumer trust in the agri-food sector. The features of trust has been defined. The state of confidence in the sector's producers has been reported according to numerous reports on this topic. Attention has been paid to the main problem areas that the food industry faces in terms of food safety. It is food counterfeiting, additives, and the risks related to the production of genetically modified food. All these areas are presented in relation to the consumer trust. The aim of the paper was to analyse selected factors determining trust from the food sector perspective. In this study, a critical analysis of the literature was applied. (original abstract)
L66|Startup as a partner of cooperation for big company in the agri-food industry: Analysis of forms of cooperation on examples|Currently obtaining and maintaining a competitive advantage require implementation of innovation in companies. This trend is mainly caused by the rapid development cycle of technologies. Thus, there is a question of adaptability especially regarding introducing innovation. It can be assumed that cooperation between entities at various stages of the business development is increasingly important and large enterprises from the agri-food industry are willing to interact with startups. This interaction may allow startups to overcome the difficulties that are emerging at the early stage of the development such as the problem of delivering the reliable proof of concept. The goal of this paper is an analysis of cooperation and use of the synergies between large enterprises and startups especially in order to address needs of innovation in the economy. The cooperation can take various forms, and this paper will discuss selected types of collaboration between large enterprises and startups, which are related to business acceleration activities, co-development, co-branding, acquisitions, and acqui-hire.
L66|Roadmap for Renewal: A Shared Platform in the Food Industry|Abstract The majority of digital platform research has focused on consumer-centric platforms. Driven by the vast growth potential of direct consumer market access, industrial communities locked behind the conventional gatekeepers in their respective value chains have lately started to tinker with their own platform creation initiatives. Aided by fifteen food industry actors, we identify two critical managerial prerequisites for and design a six-step roadmap towards a participatory infrastructure platform – a platform that allows platform participants to share proprietary data and – by exploiting the data – to create new artifacts in consumer-centric marketplaces. Beyond product innovations, sharing data also enables new optimization layers for operational efficiencies and increased productivity on the industry level. In exploring the participants’ commitment and willingness to shift towards such a platform model, we found three operational data types that the companies would readily be willing to share: 1) transportation data, 2) warehousing data, and 3) demand/supply data managed with decentralized governance models. In the short term, each data type could provide the foundation for the establishment of a specific type of an operational platform: a transportation platform, a warehousing platform, or a market platform. The latter would provide the long-sought direct access to consumer markets. Building on these models, we identify another three strategic avenues for long-term joint development: 1) algorithmic development and evolution of the platform, 2) cross-industry interoperability of the platform, and 3) interoperability with competing platforms. Laying out a roadmap of evolving platform models towards a consumer-driven business ecosystem, we contribute to the empirical literature on industrial platform creation.
L66|The impact of home and host country institutions in the internationalization of an African multinational enterprise|We demonstrate that firms can exploit their knowledge of â€˜weakâ€™ institutional settings and turn it into a source of advantage as they internationalize into locations with similar institutional â€˜weaknesses.â€™ Using the case of one Africaâ€™s most successful multinational enterprises we illustrate the value gained from initially capitalizing upon institutional complementarity (utilizing the comparative advantage linked to institutional know-how) by exploiting the experience of the home countryâ€™s environment into similar settings. Over time and through learning-by-doing, pressure arose to diversify the risk linked with over-exposure to institutional uncertainty and country risk, and this was associated with the process of institutional substitution into more advanced countries. We see an emerging multinational learning and building its capabilities by leveraging off its understanding of its home country institutional environment.
L66|Social justice, the food product consumer and non-communicable diseases: Implications of consumer protection legislation for the food industry in South Africa|Many health problems are related to food and diet patterns. Socio-economic development in South Africa has meant a change in diet patterns, with poorer communities moving away from traditional foods to convenience and processed foods. These foods have been associated with obesity and could greatly increase the risk of developing food-related non-communicable diseases, including diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease. In addition, apartheid resulted in inequality among consumers in terms of education levels, literacy and understanding of the language used in labelling and product information, as well as in terms of access to good quality commodities that are arguably healthier. It also resulted in inequality in terms of knowledge of consumer rights and the ability to enforce them, and a lack of information and knowledge as to food related health challenges. Particular sectors in the food industry have been less concerned about the consumer health risks associated with their products or communicating such information to their consumers. Hence, recently there have been initiatives by government to protect consumers against food related non communicable diseases by proposing legislation to curb consumption of specific food products. The proposed ?sugar tax? on sugar sweetened beverages is one example. The Consumer Protection Act (CPA), passed in 2008, aims at protection of consumers by prohibiting or regulating a range of marketing and business practices and affording the consumer a range of legal rights and remedies. This paper investigates the implications of the CPA and related legislation, for the food industry and consumers of food products. The approach adopted for this paper is a descriptive critique engaging in a review of related literature, and pertinent legislation, particularly the CPA. It is envisaged that this paper will highlight the implications of the CPA in terms of the rights of consumers and the concomitant obligations of suppliers of food products, to re-examine the health risks related to their products, food labelling, disclosure of information particularly about associated health risks, and consumer education about products, in plain and understandable language. It will also identify possible gaps in the law requiring specific regulation.
L66|What is in a Name? Information, Heterogeneity, and Quality in a Theory of Nested Names|Collective labels are widespread in food markets, and are either separated or nested with private brands—the latter are known as “nested names”. We propose a model to explain the rationale of nested names, with collective labels being effective in reaching unaware consumers, while individual brands help firms to reach aware consumers. We also incorporate decision-making within the group of producers joining collective labels, taking into account their heterogeneity in providing quality. We show that nested names emerge when consumers become more aware of information on the label’s quality, as well as when producers become more heterogeneous. Welfare may decrease, however, when the group switches to nested names because they may lead to lower quality incentives for the majority of producers. Our results also provide insights into the historical and recent trends in food industries, such as within-label differentiation and label fragmentation, as well as their respective welfare implications.
L66|La valorisation des produits de terroir en Algérie : démarches en cours, contraintes institutionnelles et perspectives|Our research aims to analyze the ongoing processes of valorization of local products in Algeria. Indeed, since 2008, the country has engaged in a process of analysis of the existing and selection of local products in order to develop signs of quality and origin. This process has accelerated in recent years, with two elements: the launch in 2013 of an ambitious Algeria-EU twinning project, with a strong allocation to support the development of local products in Algeria; and the installation in July 2015 of the ministerial committee for products labeling. Based on the results of previous academic research (Salhi, 2009 and 2013, Hadjou and Cheriet, 2013, Lamani 2014) and documents emanating from Algerian institutions, we analyze the existing process, its difficulties in terms of implementation and operational constraints faced by several actors in terms of involvement and replication. Finally, we propose some elements of discussion and perspectives to reinforce the processes in progress. ....French Abstract: L’objectif de cette recherche est de dresser un bilan des démarches en cours de valorisation des produits de terroir en Algérie. En effet, depuis 2008, le pays s’est engagé dans un processus d’analyse de l’existant et de sélection de produits de terroir en vue de développer des signes de qualité et d’origine. Ce processus s’est accéléré depuis quelques années, avec deux éléments : le lancement en 2013 d’un ambitieux projet de jumelage Algérie –UE, avec une forte dotation pour appuyer les démarches de la valorisation des produits de terroir en Algérie ; et l’installation en juillet 2015 du comité interministériel chargé de la labellisation. En nous appuyant sur les résultats de recherches académiques antérieures (Salhi, 2009 et 2013, Hadjou et Cheriet, 2013, Lamani 2014) et des documents émanant des institutions algériennes, nous analysons dans cette recherche le processus existant, ses difficultés en termes de mise en place et d’opérationnalisation, et les contraintes rencontrées par les opérateurs en termes d’adhésion et de réplication. Enfin, nous proposons quelques éléments de discussion et des perspectives pour renforcer les démarches en cours.
L66|Consumers’ Costly Responses to Product-Harm Crises|"Exploiting a major food safety crisis, we estimate a full demand model for the unsafe product and its substitutes and recover consumers' preference parameters. Counterfactual exercises quantify the relevance of different mechanisms|changes in safety perceptions, idiosyncratic tastes, product characteristics, and prices|driving consumers' responses. We nd that consumers' reaction is limited by their preferences for the product observable and unobservable characteristics. Due to the costs associated with switching from the affected product, the decline in demand following a product-harm crisis tends to understate the true weight of such events in consumers' utility. We nd that, in the specific crisis we study, the demand would have declined 19% further if consumers had had access to a closer substitute in terms of product characteristics and 23% further if consumers' idiosyncratic unobserved taste for the affected product category was as low as that for one of the main substitute categories. For an accurate assessment of product-harm crises, managerial strategies should therefore account for how different demand drivers bind consumers' substitution patterns."
L66|Strategien kleiner und mittlerer Betriebe in angespannten Arbeitsmarktlagen: Eine Untersuchung am Beispiel der niedersächsischen Ernährungswirtschaft|"Im vorliegenden Bericht werden die Ergebnisse des Teilprojektes ""Lokale Strategien für die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung"" des europäischen Forschungsprojekts TRUSTEE (""Towards RUral Synergies and Trade-offs between Economic development and Ecosystem services') beschrieben. Vor dem Hintergrund der erwarteten Fachkräfteknappheit wurde am Beispiel der niedersächsischen Ernährungswirtschaft zwischen 2014 und 2016 untersucht, (1) wie sich lokale Arbeitsmärkte auf Strategien und Entwicklung der überwiegend kleinen und mittleren Betriebe des Sektors auswirken, (2) in wie fern die Betriebe Unabhängigkeit vom lokalen Arbeitsmarkt erlangen können und (3) wie die Unternehmen ihrerseits die lokalen Arbeitsmärkte beeinflussen. Die Untersuchung fand in drei Schritten statt. Im Sommer 2015 wurde eine standardisierte Befragung der Ernährungswirtschaft in Niedersachsen mit 200 antwortenden Betrieben durchgeführt, die den Hauptteil der Studie bildet. Zweitens wurden im Herbst 2015 bzw. Winter 2015/16 Workshops zum Thema Fachkräftebedarf ('Fachkräfteworkshops') in einer ländlichen und in einer eher urbanen Region Niedersachsens organisiert, dokumentiert und im Nachgang ausgewertet. Um einen tieferen Einblick in das Zusammenspiel verschiedener regionaler Organisationen zu erhalten, wurden drittens im Frühsommer 2016 Interviews mit Beteiligten regionaler Weiterbildungslandschaften in ausgewählten niedersächsischen Regionen geführt. [...]"
L66|Robert Dirks, Food in the Gilded Age; What Ordinary Americans Ate|Robert Dirks offers an important contribution to food and nutrition history in his book Food in the Gilded Age: What Ordinary Americans Ate. The book spans a broad swath of late 19th century US nutrition history using available dietaries from diverse sources and multiple ethnic groups. Early Mexican-Americans represent one of the earliest ethnic groups in the US. During the Gilded Age, the children of Native-Mexicans with early white European explorers –Mestizos-reflectthe most pre-developed diets in the West. Dirks summarizes their diets using Mexican-American households in Las Cruces, New Mexico and the Rio Grande Valley, Texas that were transitioning into Southwestern economies.
L66|Boosting competition on Israeli markets|Promoting competition to enhance productivity at the firm level and resulting income and growth improvement and a lower cost of living is an important economic and social challenge in Israel. Consistent evidence shows multiple deficiencies leading to a dual functioning of the economy between exposed and sheltered sectors. Product markets are hampered by regulations that are far from best practice. Because of its geographical and geopolitical situation, Israel is less open to foreign trade than other small OECD countries. Moreover, its product markets feature monopolies in many sectors. Addressing these issues have been high on the policy agenda since the 2011 “tent protests”, and the authorities have adopted or launched reforms in many domains since then. However, further increases in foreign trade exposure by lowering non-tariff barriers, making regulation more competition-friendly in network industries, especially electricity, and reducing the oligopolistic structure of the food and banking sectors would still have considerable economic payoffs.This Working Paper relates to the 2016 OECD Economic Review of Israel www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-israel.htm Stimuler la concurrence sur les marchés israéliens Promouvoir la concurrence pour accroître la productivité dans les entreprises et les gains en résultant pour les revenus et la croissance et abaisser le coût de la vie constitue un enjeu économique et social de taille pour Israël. Certains éléments concordants montrent de multiples déficiences qui mènent à un fonctionnement dual de l’économie, partagée entre secteurs exposés à la concurrence internationale et ceux qui en sont protégés. Les marchés de produits sont entravés par des réglementations qui sont loin de constituer des exemples de bonnes pratiques. De par sa situation géographique et géopolitique, Israël est une économie moins ouverte aux échanges internationaux que d’autres petites économies de l’OCDE. Qui plus est, ses marchés de produits se caractérisent par l’existence de monopoles dans de nombreux secteurs. Les autorités ont fait de ces questions une priorité depuis la « révolte des tentes » de 2011 et ont depuis lors adopté ou engagé des réformes dans de nombreux domaines. Toutefois, une plus forte exposition aux échanges internationaux via une réduction des obstacles non tarifaires, une réglementation plus favorable à la concurrence dans les industries de réseau, en particulier dans le secteur de l’électricité, et une organisation moins oligopolistique du marché de l’alimentation et du marché bancaire, serait grandement payante sur le plan économique. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de l’Israël 2016 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-israel.htm).
L66|Strengthening competition in network sectors and the internal market in Canada|Canada’s productivity performance has lagged that of many other OECD countries, despite some improvement in recent years. One measure to enhance overall efficiency would be to strengthen competition on the domestic market to drive future multi-factor productivity improvements. The potential gains are large: about a half a percent per year over a fairly long horizon. This paper focuses on increasing competition in network sectors, including energy, telecommunication services and broadcasting, and transportation, which are key inputs to production in the broader economy. Improving regulatory conditions, efficiency and/or cost competitiveness could yield more productive outcomes in these sectors, as well as in downstream industries. Competition could also be increased by lowering barriers to interprovincial trade and the movement of labour, which act to fragment Canada’s already small domestic market. To this end, reforms of the Agreement on Internal Trade and measures to reduce sectoral barriers to trade are also discussed. This Working Paper relates to the 2016 OECD Economic Survey of Canada (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-canada.htm) Concurrence dans les industries de réseau et renforcement du marché intérieur au Canada La productivité canadienne est inférieure à celle de nombreux pays de l’OCDE malgré quelques progrès ces dernières années. Il serait possible d’accroître l’efficience globale en renforçant la concurrence sur le marché intérieur afin de favoriser les futurs gains de productivité globale. Ces gains sont importants, de l’ordre d’un demi pour cent par an sur une période plutôt longue. Ce document porte principalement sur l’intensification de la concurrence dans les industries de réseau, comme l’énergie, les télécommunications, la diffusion audiovisuelle et les transports, qui jouent un rôle essentiel dans le processus de production de l’ensemble de l’économie. L’amélioration de la réglementation, l’augmentation de l’efficience et/ou le renforcement de la compétitivité-coût pourraient accroître la productivité dans ces secteurs, ainsi que dans les secteurs d’aval. La concurrence pourrait également être intensifiée par la réduction des obstacles aux échanges entre provinces et à la mobilité de la main-d’oeuvre, qui fragmentent un marché intérieur déjà petit. Ce document examine donc également les réformes possibles de l’Accord sur le commerce intérieur et les mesures visant à réduire les obstacles sectoriels aux échanges. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE du Canada 2016 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-canada.htm)
L66|Concurrence dans les industries de réseau et renforcement du marché intérieur au Canada|La productivité canadienne est inférieure à celle de nombreux pays de l’OCDE malgré quelques progrès ces dernières années. Il serait possible d’accroître l’efficience globale en renforçant la concurrence sur le marché intérieur afin de favoriser les futurs gains de productivité globale. Ces gains sont importants, de l’ordre d’un demi pour cent par an sur une période plutôt longue. Ce document porte principalement sur l’intensification de la concurrence dans les industries de réseau, comme l’énergie, les télécommunications, la diffusion audiovisuelle et les transports, qui jouent un rôle essentiel dans le processus de production de l’ensemble de l’économie. L’amélioration de la réglementation, l’augmentation de l’efficience et/ou le renforcement de la compétitivité-coût pourraient accroître la productivité dans ces secteurs, ainsi que dans les secteurs d’aval. La concurrence pourrait également être intensifiée par la réduction des obstacles aux échanges entre provinces et à la mobilité de la main-d’oeuvre, qui fragmentent un marché intérieur déjà petit. Ce document examine donc également les réformes possibles de l’Accord sur le commerce intérieur et les mesures visant à réduire les obstacles sectoriels aux échanges. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE du Canada 2016 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-canada.htm).
L66|Concentration, Product Variety, and Entry-for-Merger: Evidence from New Product Introductions in the U.S. Food Industry|Competing theories in industrial organization predict that more concentrated industries will lead to a smaller and more efficient variety of products or, alternately, a larger and less efficient array of products. This paper presents an empirical study of these competing implications that estimates the impact of market concentration on new product introductions in a panel of nine food processing industries over 1983 to 2004. Controlling for industry-level unobservables (using fixed effects) and endogeneity of industry market structure, we find that industry concentration promotes the introduction of new products. Preliminary evidence also suggests that new product introductions spur subsequent food industry mergers. Both conclusions are consistent with the “entry-for-merger” theory of product variety wherein atomistic innovators introduce new products in anticipation of profitable future mergers with concentrated firms.
L66|Инновационное Развитие Пищевых Предприятий Украины С Учетом Параметров Устойчивости<BR>[Innovative development of food enterprises of Ukraine, considering sustainability parameters]|В работе рассмотрены приоритетные направления, обеспечивающие эффективное развитие пищевых предприятий на основе инноваций. Определены стратегические ориентиры и основные параметры, определяющие уровень устойчивости и эффективности с учетом тенденций и перспектив соответствующих рыночных сегментов. The paper considers the priorities to ensure the effective development of food enterprises through innovation. It defines the strategic guidelines and basic parameters that determine the level of stability and effectiveness, taking into account the trends and prospects of the relevant market segments.
L66|Socio-Economic Status and Life Expectancy in Lebanon: An Empirical Analysis|This study has investigated the impact of socio-economic status on life expectancy in the case of Lebanon over the period of 1971 to 2014. Availability of food, CO2 emissions, secondary school enrollment, per capita income and population growth are used for reviewing socio-economic status of Lebanon. Johansen test is used for examining co-integration among variables. The results of Johansen co-integration show that there is co-integration among the variables of the model. The long run results of the model show that all selected independent variables of the model have significant impact on life expectancy in case of Lebanon. The causality test results reveal that all the independent variables have causal relationship with life expectancy at birth in the Lebanese case over the selected time period. The estimated results suggest that if government of Lebanon wants to increase life expectancy at birth it has to improve its socio-economic status of its masses.
L66|Identifying the Factors affecting the customer’s Buying Behavior: A case study of Men’s cosmetic Market in Karachi, Pakistan|The purpose of this study was to determine various factors such as age, occupation, income, models and celebrity influence, as well as the role of metrosexuals (independent variables), which have an effect on consumers in buying men’s cosmetic products (dependent variable). Specific objectives were to study the impact of factors affecting customers buying behavior in the men’s cosmetic market, to determine the impact of appearance on a person’s success in their professional life, as well as to ascertain the age group which uses men’s products the most. A study of the literature review suggested factors which affect the buying behavior of men purchasing male cosmetic products include age, occupation, income, celebrity influence and a rise in the metrosexual phenomenon, however, the research problem pertained to a lack of knowledge on how much of these factors individually affect consumer behavior with regards to purchases. As such, the study was significant and therefore needed to be carried out to examine the impact of various factors on the buying of men’s cosmetic products. Methodology used in this study was quantitative in nature. The method of primary data collection was carried out through a close ended questionnaire administered to 50 participants. Collected data was tabulated, and the analysis was conducted with the help of SPSS. It was concluded that age, occupation, and role of metrosexuals has had a significant impact on the consumer’s buying behavior in relation to the purchase of men’s cosmetics especially in Karachi. It was found out that majority of the people believed that using men’s cosmetics helps them in succeeding in their occupation, improves their appearance , spend a sum of money on buying men’s cosmetics. This study will be helpful for new researchers to understand the impact of these various factors on consumers in buying men’s cosmetic products in Karachi, and for manufacturers to align their promotion strategies for maximum effect.
L66|A stochastic frontier estimator of the aggregate degree of market power exerted by the U.S. beef and pork packing industries|The objective of this study is to measure the amount of market power exercised by the U.S. red meatpacking industry using the recently developed stochastic frontier estimator of market power. The aggregate degree of market power in both the input market (cattle and hogs) and the output market (beef and pork) is estimated using annual time series data for the period 1970- 2009. The empirical results reveal that the farm-to-wholesale price spread is 4.91% and 4.16% above the marginal processing costs, in the beef and pork packing industries, respectively. These findings indicate that rather a small percentage of the farm-to-wholesale price spread can be attributed to market power in both U.S. meat packing sectors.
L66|Rola innowacji miękkich w badaniach innowacyjności przedsiębiorstw z sektorów niskotechnologicznych na przykładzie sektora spożywczego<BR>[The Role of the Soft Innovation in the Research of Low-Tech Sectors on the Example of Food Industry]|Artykuł dotyczy problematyki innowacyjności podmiotów działających w sektorach niskich technologii. Podjęto w nim rozważania na temat przyczyn niskiej obecności przedsiębiorstw z takich sektorów w statystykach dotyczących innowacyjności. Przedstawiono podstawowe definicje innowacji. Ukazano specyfikę sektora spożywczego jako jednego z kluczowych sektorów gospodarki światowej. Następnie przedstawiono sposoby wprowadzana innowacji miękkich przez przedsiębiorstwa sektora spożywczego. (abstrakt oryginalny) EN The study refers to the issue of innovation entities operating in the low-tech sectors. It discusses the reasons for the low presence of companies from this kind of sectors in the statistics on innovation. The article presents the basic definitions of innovation. It shows the specificity of the food sector as one of the key sectors of the global economy. Next, reference is made to the current distribution of innovations and the specifics of soft innovation are presented, including an attempt to identify ways of soft innovations introduction by food businesses. (original abstract)
L66|Vice versus virtue investing around the world|This paper assumes the role of advocatus diaboli by testing whether an investment in sin stocks can financially outperform an investment in socially responsible stocks. We create a set of global, regional, and domestic portfolios consisting of a large number of stocks belonging to what could be labeled as a sextet of sin: adult entertainment, alcohol, gambling, nuclear power, tobacco, and weapons. We assess the performance of sin stocks against well-known benchmarks, and rerun the identical assessment for socially responsible stocks. We find no compelling evidence that sin stocks, or socially responsible stocks outperform or underperform, and establish this result in several ways. Consistent with this finding, a hedge portfolio long in sin stocks and short in socially responsible stocks does not outperform the market, either. However, sin stocks are substantially tilted towards value, bear less market risk with an average beta below one, and are prone to momentum relative to socially responsible stocks. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
L66|Leniency and Loyalty in the Choice of Certifiers: Evidence from the BRC Food Safety Standard|Standards play a vital role in promoting food safety. Certification bodies audit manufacturing sites to certify them for a standard. Using data from the British Retail Consortium global standards program, we offer a glimpse at the market for and examine manufacturers’ choices of certification bodies. Manufacturers prefer geographically close certifiers and those that assigned a higher share of A grades in the previous year. This behavior provides an incentive for lenient grading. We also find a strong tendency of manufacturers to return to the same certification body that audited their site in the previous year.
L66|What Drives Firm Profitability? A Comparison of the US and EU Food Processing Industry|This paper analyzes persistence and the drivers of profitability in US and EU food processing using GMM estimations. Due to different firm size structures first comparable samples of US and EU food processors are derived using Propensity Score Matching. The GMM results indicate that profit persistence in food processing is lower than in other manufacturing sectors. Firmâ€ specific drivers of profitability are size and financial risk. Regarding industry characteristics concentration and the growth rate significantly influence profitability. The findings provide insights for the management of US and EU food processing firms aiming to enhance their competitiveness.
L66|Permanence and competitive success of the SMIs located in Libertador municipalitiy Mérida, Venezuela|Permanence and success of small and medium enterprises are always threatened; however, many manage to transcend. The investigation aims to figure out the factors significant in the permanence and the competitive success of the small and medium industrial enterprises located in Libertador municipality Merida, Venezuela. For this, 48 industrial companies were studied, with at least 6 years in business. The data was analyzed by descriptive methods, tests of independence (Ji-square), and simple correspondence. Two factors resulted significant: a) managerial capacities (raw material negotiation and experience) and b) demographic (entrepreneur age). Also the small companies result more dynamic and pro successfully from internal perspective.
L66|The Distribution of Food Retail Prices and the Euro Changeover: Signpost Items Versus Occasional Goods| ABSTRACT The Euro changeover distorted previously well‐formed nominal price patterns. Food retailers may have reacted by adjusting prices to reintroduce psychological prices as before the Euro changeover. We employ a detailed data set of German food retail prices before and after the Euro changeover to test three different benchmarks indicating potential adjustments of prices. However, none of these benchmarks do adequately reflect the actual distribution of prices. We find that prices of signpost items follow best a conversion at the official rate. Also, signpost items show a slower price adjustment. Occasional goods’ prices indicate a reestablishment of psychological price patterns, in particular for the ending digits; price distributions are adjusted faster. Further, price inflation is about zero for both goods, but prices in particular for signpost items have been significantly raised just before the Euro changeover. These different pricing patterns may be explained by consumer behavior. Consumers react more sensitive to price changes of frequently purchased goods (signpost items), and thus, retailers convert prices at the official rate and postpone price adjustments for these items after the Euro changeover. [JEL Classifications: D40, L66, Q13].
L66|The effect of retail mergers on prices and variety: An ex-post evaluation|Unlike most retrospective merger studies that only focus on price effects, we also estimate the impact of a merger on product variety. We use an original dataset on Dutch supermarkets to assess the effect of a merger that was conditionally approved by the Dutch Competition Authority (ACM) on prices and the depth of assortment. We find that the merger did not affect prices but it led the merging parties to decrease the depth of their assortment, thereby reducing consumer choice. This effect is mainly driven by a reduction in variety for stores that were not re-branded after the merger, suggesting that the merging firms reposition their product offerings in order to avoid cannibalization. We also find that the reduction in variety for the merging parties is partially compensated by competitors increasing variety, except in very concentrated markets where all firms decrease variety. The issuance of divestitures partially outweighed the negative effect of the merger. Yet, it appears that additional divestitures would have been necessary to remove completely the adverse effect of the merger on the depth of assortment.
L66|Particulate Pollution and the Productivity of Pear Packers|We study the effect of outdoor air pollution on the productivity of indoor workers at a pear-packing factory. Increases in fine particulate matter (PM2.5), a pollutant that readily penetrates indoors, leads to significant decreases in productivity, with effects arising at levels below air quality standards. In contrast, pollutants that do not travel indoors, such as ozone, have little, if any, effect on productivity. This effect of outdoor pollution on indoor worker productivity suggests an overlooked consequence of pollution. Back-of-the envelope calculations suggest the labor savings from nationwide reductions in PM2.5 generated a sizable fraction of total welfare benefits.
L66|The Effects of Tobacco Control Policies on Tobacco Products, Tar, and Nicotine Purchases among Adults: Evidence from Household Panel Data|We analyze the Nielsen Household Consumer Panel to estimate the effects of tobacco policies on tobacco-related purchases using within-household variation. We also match purchases to cigarette contents from NHANES. Higher cigarette taxes reduce cigarette purchases and increase smoking cessation product purchases, while estimates of smoking ban effects are less precisely estimated. Smokeless tobacco (SLT) taxes lead to reductions in SLT use but also lead to substitution among SLT products. We find evidence that cigarette taxes induce purchases of cigarettes with higher tar, nicotine, and carbon monoxide contents, but this compensatory behavior is overwhelmed by the reduction in cigarettes purchased.
L66|Do Consumers Exploit Commitment Opportunities? Evidence from Natural Experiments Involving Liquor Consumption|"This paper provides evidence concerning the extent to which consumers of liquor employ commitment devices. One widely recommended commitment strategy is to regulate alcohol consumption by deliberately manipulating availability. The paper assesses the prevalence of the ""availability strategy"" by evaluating the effects of policies that would influence its effectiveness--specifically, changes in allowable Sunday sales hours. It finds that consumers increase their liquor consumption in response to extended Sunday on-premises sales hours, but not in response to extended off-premises sales hours. The latter finding is inconsistent with widespread use of the availability strategy."
L66|Innovative Food Quality Models – Developed as an Interface for Modern Consumers and Sustainable Business|The intensive development of global markets correlated with the modern consumer’s demands led to a new complex approach concerning the food sector and its’ main determinants. Old market theories that describe the food market mechanisms as a simple three point process: “to produce – to sell – to buy” are now growing into elaborated models based on more determinants that have one common challenge: quality. Thus, the present study aims to highlight the importance of producers’ accountability in ensuring the quality of food products, by implementing standardize methods of production and by informing the consumers in a correctly and completely manner. In other words, the research focuses on quality management systems as defining instruments that can assure high-quality food products are being delivered at competitive prices to domestic and international markets. In this sense, food quality management principles are analyzed from the point of view of one of the biggest actors in the food industry, Mondelez International. Having as a starting point the interview results with the Procurement Innovation Manager in Quality, this paper manages to outline a consumer preference based model in developing new food products. The present conceptual model takes into consideration both quality specialist and consumer’s demands, in order to maintain the requirements of food management and safety systems and, simultaneously, to be flexible and optimize new food products according to modern consumer’s quality requirements: design.
L66|The Exploitation of the Traditional Component in Restructuring Modern Food Offer in Romania|Food and eating habits, together with adjacent agricultural activities have had and an important role in the development of modern society and the individual itself. Besides its nutritional role, food has become a main socio-cultural determinant, food consumption patterns being influenced, on one hand, by psycho-sensory and quality characteristics of the food product and, on the other hand, by the physiological state of the consumer and its main determinants: traditions, religion and culture. These elements, together with economic considerations have a significant share in shaping the modern eating habits. In this context, the present paper aims to identify and analyze the main capitalization methods of the food’s traditional potential in reshaping the modern food offer, starting with a literature review and continuing with an exploratory analyze of the traditional food sector in Romania. Considering the main directions outlined by literature, this article tries to identify a set of specific features of the traditional food sector in Romania both in terms of producer and consumer perspectives. In this regard, an interview and an exploratory based questionnaire study were conducted. Having as a starting point the wide variety of Romanian food resources, this study aims to highlight how culinary customs have been modeled throughout history in order to establish eating patterns as an assessment method based on the impact of technological progress on the future alimentation.
L66|Segmenting Wine Market: California Red and White Wine Retail Prices in British Columbia| Previous hedonic wine studies have employed conventional regression models to show the effects of objective and subjective attributes such as sensory characteristics, expert quality panel assessments, and regional reputation on wine prices. This paper employs a market segmentation approach based on price to show how lower, mid-priced and higher priced California red and white wines sold in British Columbia (BC) are influenced by objective attributes including geographical origin, grape variety, family brand names, alcohol content, and volume sales. Results show that red and white wine prices are segmented differently and the price segments for either wine type vary from those reported by earlier studies. Also, the effects of numerous attributes on wine prices vary significantly across wine types and price segments. The study findings show higher priced California Cabernet Sauvignon wines fetch a sizeable price premium compared to similar priced varietal wines like Merlot. Higher priced California white wines from Napa are discounted relative to wines labeled with a generic California appellation, whereas higher priced California red wines from Sonoma, Central Valley and Central Coast earn a price discount. Moreover, alcohol content is negatively related to higher priced California red wines, while positively associated with prices of mid-priced and higher priced California white wines.
L66|The Milk Price Effect of a Private Supply Management Program in the U.S. Dairy Industry|No abstract is available for this item.
L66|The imperfect price responses of orange juice demand in the U.S| The purpose of this study is to investigate imperfect price reversibility and measure price sensitivity incorporated with the effect of trade promotions for refrigerated 100% OJ. Using a price decomposition method with distributed lags, we test imperfect irreversibility and asymmetric price responses. Empirical models consisted of prices coupled with promotions and prices decoupled from promotions to determine the effect of trade promotions on retail prices. The results showed that the demand for OJ was imperfectly price reversible when we used prices coupled with promotion, and asymmetric price responses were found in NFC OJ demand. Prices coupled with promotions were more elastic than prices decoupled from promotions. The demand for OJ was influenced by both current and previous information. Dynamic adjustments toward price and promotions may result in irreversibility. Competitions with price reduction increase sales in the short run, but frequent promotions may lead to lower reference prices that eventually weaken consumer willingness to purchase at regular prices without promotions.
L66|Price Impacts of Tasting Notes Across Wine Segments| It can be difficult to understand how wines prices are established. Wines are experience goods, so consumers must rely on their previous experience or expert opinions in making their purchase choices. The impact of expert rating scores on wine prices is well documented. This study estimates the contribution of expert’s wine tasting notes, focusing on certain keywords, and other wine characteristics. We examine whether expert descriptive information has an influence on the wine prices using tasting notes on Washington wines that are listed in Wine Spectator magazine. The analysis includes estimations of different wine segments by price category. Estimating a hedonic price functions by product segment relaxes the assumption that the implicit prices of each attribute are the same across price categories. The results indicate that certain keywords used in tasting notes and wine characteristics exert a significant influence on the prices of wines and these effects are different across different segments.
L66|The CWT Program Effects: An Analysis of Retail Fluid Milk Pricing in Selected U.S. Cities|No abstract is available for this item.
L66|Similarity in Demand Structures and Foreign Direct Investment in the Food and Beverage Industry| I study the relationship between demand similarity and foreign direct investment in the food and beverage industry. My regression specification includes a measure of similarity in income per capita to proxy for similarity in demand. Using firm-level greenfield investment data, I find a significant effect of income similarity along the intensive and extensive margin of foreign direct investment. My findings show that investment activities are more intense between countries with similar income per capita. The similarity effect is larger for the intensive margin, implying that it is not only more likely that an investment is realized between countries with similar income per capita, but also that such a project involves a considerable larger investment and creates more jobs. Although I find evidence for heterogeneity in the similarity effect, all coefficient estimates have a negative sign. Moreover, distinguishing between types of foreign direct investment, I find that the similarity effect is mainly relevant for manufacturing projects. These results show that demand for quality is an important determinant of cross-border investment activities in the food and beverage industry.
L66|Competition, Price Dispersion and Capacity Constraints: The Case of the U.S. Corn Seed Industry| This study examines the effect of competition on price dispersion and argues that the effect is contingent on the ability of firms to meet market demand. Our comparative static results show that competition among symmetrically capacity-constrained firms leads to a price decrease in the lower tail of the price distribution and a price increase in the upper tail. In contrast, competition among symmetrically capacity-unconstrained firms, or among firms with asymmetric capacities leads to an overall price increase along the distribution function. To investigate these findings empirically, we use a novel data set from the U.S. corn seed industry with farm-firm-level sales information for conventional and genetically modified corn seeds between 2004 - 2009. We estimate the empirical model using the IV Quantile Regression, and found evidence consistent with the above mentioned comparative static results. The analysis also shows that capacity-unconstrained seed firms charge a price premium, confirming the positive relationship between product availability and pricing found in our theoretical model.
L66|Does Organic Wine Taste Better? An Analysis of Experts' Ratings| Eco-labels are part of a new wave of environmental policy that emphasizes information disclosure as a tool to induce environmentally friendly behavior by both firms and consumers. Little consensus exists as to whether eco-certified products are actually better than their conventional counterparts. This paper seeks to understand the link between eco-certification and product quality. We use data from three leading wine rating publications (Wine Advocate, Wine Enthusiast, and Wine Spectator) to assess quality for 74,148 wines produced in California between 1998 and 2009. Our results indicate that eco-certification is associated with a statistically significant increase in wine quality rating<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L66|The Costs and Benefits of Collective Reputation: Who gains and who loses from generic promotion programs?| In this paper we develop an original approach to evaluate the costs and benefits associated to a generic promotion program using an application to Bordeaux wines. The benefit is computed from the marginal impact of the collective reputation of the program on the individual reputation of its members. These different marginal impacts are estimated using detailed survey data about the image of Bordeaux wines in seven European countries. We find positive and significant spillover effects from the umbrella reputation (Bordeaux) that moreover increase with the individual reputation level of the wine. Controlling for the natural endogeneity of the collective reputation in this setup, we capture the important fact that this relationship is faced with marginal diminishing returns. These spillover effects, when significantly positive, vary from a minimum of 5% to a maximum of 15% of additional favorable quality opinions. We then show that some subregions are more likely to benefit from generic promotion programs, suggesting that fees should be established on a benefit-cost basis.
L66|Does a nutritious diet cost more in food deserts?|Food deserts and their potential effects on diet and nutrition have received much attention from policymakers. While some research has found a correlation between food deserts and consumer outcomes, it is unclear whether food deserts truly affect consumer choices. In this article, we compare food prices in food deserts, defined as low‐income, low‐access census tracts, and nonfood deserts to observe whether and to what extent consumers face higher prices for a complete diet in food deserts. If a nutritionally complete diet costs significantly more in food deserts, resident consumers may be constrained from consuming healthier foods. We use store‐level scanner data from a nationally representative sample and calculate a census‐tract level Exact Price Index (EPI) based on a food basket defined by the Thrifty Food Plan (TFP). The EPI addresses potential biases from both product heterogeneity and variety availability. We find that the overall price impact of living in a food desert is small; low‐access areas have only 3.5% higher EPI than high‐access counterparts. However, consumers who are constrained to shop within their own census tracts face a much higher EPI than high‐access counterparts (9.2%). The higher EPI primarily comes from lower variety availability in food deserts.
L66|Resource misallocation and productivity in Ukrainian food industry| The paper studies resource misallocation in Ukraine’s food industry and its impact on industry’s total factor productivity during the period of 2002-2010. Applying Hsieh and Klenow (2009) framework to the dataset of 8,410 Ukrainian food producers, I found that optimal allocation of resources can potentially increase the productivity of this sector by 166-400%. The extent of misallocation in the manufacturing of food and beverages is not uniform across industries, as well as across regions of Ukraine. Results also show that in the case of optimal allocation of resources, small and medium enterprises should have a higher role in food production sector.
L66|A Magyar Fagyasztott Meggy Termelés Gazdasági Elemzése| A magyar zöldség-gyümölcs feldolgozóipar az utóbbi 20 évben kapacitásainak jelentős részét elvesztette, a termelés elmarad az 1980-as évekhez képest. A felvevőpiacok megteremtését és bővítését a Vidékfejlesztési Minisztérium és a szakma is kiemelt ügyként fogja kezelni a következő, 2014-2020-as tervezési ciklusban. Mindkét fél 100 milliárd forintos fejlesztést akar megvalósítani a feldolgozó iparban a Vidékfejlesztési Program támogatásaival. A tanulmányban fő célkitűzésem annak megválaszolása, hogy a hazánkban feldolgozott fagyasztott meggy versenyképes-e az Európai Unió piacán. A FAOSTAT és EUROSTAT makrogazdasági külkereskedelmi adataiból becsültem meg az Európai Unió fagyasztott meggyrre vonalkozó piaci igényét. A hazánkban előállított exportált fagyasztott meggy komparatív előnyének meghatározásához a Balassa-indexet alkalmaztam. A hazai fagyasztott meggy gyártás üzemi szintű költség- és jövedelemviszonyainak meghatározásához primer adatok alapján költség-haszon elemzést végeztem. Az EU-28 tagországai összesen 90-110 ezer tonna fagyasztott meggyet importálnak, azaz elviekben legalább ennyi fagyasztott meggyre van szükség az Unió piacán, melyből hazánk évek óta mindösszesen 2-3%-kal részesedik. Ezt az igényt 70%-ban Lengyelország és Szerbia fedezi. A fagyasztott meggy RCA (megnyilvánuló komparatív elünyök) mutatói alapján hazánk csekélyebb komparatív előnnyel bír Lengyelországhoz képest. Magyarország földrajzi helyzetét és termelői adottságait kihasználva az Uniós piacokat, különösképpen a német piacokat megcélozva magasabb komparatív előnyre tehetne szert. A költség-haszon elemzés alapján elmondható, hogy a legjelentősebb közvetlen költségtétel az alapanyag költsége (40-74%). 1 kg fagyasztott meggy önköltsége az alapanyagártól és a feldolgozás költségétől függően 156 és 454 Ft/kg között alakul. Az elmúlt évek eredményei alapján egy kg fagyasztott meggy ára 200 és 450 Ft között, a jövedelmezőség -12 és 60% között alakult. Az egy kg késztermék és az egy kg késztermékre jutó alapanyagköltség különbségének növekedésével növekszik az elérhető jövedelem. -------------------------------------------------- The main goal of my study is to prove whether the domestic processed frozen sour cherries are competitive on EU market or not. I estimated the EU market’s frozen sour cherry demand on the basis of FAOSTAT and EUROSTAT macroeconomic and external trade data. The Balassa-index was applied to determine comparative advantages of domestic processed frozen sour cherry. In order to define costs and benefits of domestic sour cherry processing I used primary data. Altogether the EU 28 ins import 90-110 tonnes of frozen sour cherries. It means that in principles there is a need for almost that amount of frozen sour cherries on the market of EU. Hungary has been taken apart of this supply by 2-3% for years. Poland and Serbia cover the 70% of this demand. According to the frozen sour cherry’s RCA index Hungary has lower comparativeness than Poland. Taking geographical and production advantages Hungary could realize higher comparative advantages targeting EU’s especially German markets. On the basis of cost-benefit analysis it can be said that the most important indirect cost are the raw material costs (40-74%).The price of 1 kg frozen sour cherry is between 156-454 HUF/kg depending on the raw material and processing costs. Based on the previous year’s data the price of frozen sour cherry has obtained between 200-450 HUF and the profitability has been between 12-60%. Increasing the difference between 1 kg of processed product and the raw material cost of 1 kg processed product will grow the total income.
L66|Big Data's Potential to Improve Food Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability and Food Safety| Big data is emerging as an important information technology to guide decisions within agri-food supply chains. Big data can be used potentially to differentiate and identify final products based on underlying farm production attributes demanded by consumers in the supply chain. This paper considers the challenges faced by the supply chain in responding to consumer demands and adoption of big data technologies in agricultural production through closer evaluation of two examples—one of which considers the use of a sustainability metric and the other considers the potential to increase food safety. We conclude with some comments about likely future issues and implications of the potential widespread adoption of big data.
L66|Global Dairy Trade Situation and Outlook| This paper provides an overview of the economic trends and outlook for global dairy trade. Particular attention is given to the Asian market due to the significant role it plays in the global dairy trade. The global dairy market is in a challenging period, particularly given the uneven and volatile market movements. Despite these challenges there is reason for optimism in the international dairy market. There are signs the market is in correction mode as low milk prices are translating into slower production growth which in turn is expected to improve the supply situation.
L66|External Knowledge Sources as Drivers for Cross-Industry Innovation in the Italian Food Sector: Does Company Size Matter?| Knowledge and competencies traditionally rooted in industries external to the food sector’s boundaries are gaining momentum and foster innovation in the food domain. In Italy, food companies collaborate with other firms in open and cross-industry innovation (CII) projects to achieve a competitive advantage. The paper aims to shed lights on eventual drivers for CII in the food sector in a twofold manner: (i) exploring to what extent external knowledge sourcing affects innovation and (ii) seeking to understand to what extent different means of external knowledge sourcing might differ according to the company size. To this end, probit models have been run on a sample of 703 Italian food companies from the CIS 2010 and 2012. Empirical evidence shows that in the Italian food industry innovation relies on different external knowledge sources. Acquisition of machinery and equipment allows food companies to transfer external know-how inside the firm boundaries. Product innovation benefits of external R&D activities as well as of information provided by competitors and consultants. Process innovation relies mostly on acquisition of technology (machinery and equipment) as well as on information provided by input suppliers.
L66|Willingness to Pay More for Organic Foods by Tennessee Consumers| This paper examines the general knowledge of consumers regarding organic food and determines their willingness to pay more for it. Data was collected on a random sample of grocery shoppers in the state of Tennessee. The study reveals most of the respondents had a fair knowledge of what organic food was. The number of respondents who had never purchased organic food was found to be only slightly higher than the number who purchase it. A binary logistic regression found income and Environmental concern to be factors that effectively determine willingness to pay more for organic food.
L66|Spanish agri-food contribution to world trade: evolution and explanatory factors| The agri-food industry is one of the most representative sectors of the Spanish economy, both for its contribution to domestic economic growth and, above all, for its international projection. The aim of this paper is, first, identify the strongest chapters of the Spanish agri-food exports and, secondly, to analyze the ability of Spain to consolidate and improve the position reached (market share) in world markets, given the dynamics of international demand of each of the chapters considered and the degree of diversification in terms of customers (destinations) and exportable supply. The results confirm that Spain has managed to increase its market share in almost all agrifood activities, with the exception of fruit and vegetables, characterized by a high concentration of sales in the European market. This increase in market share, indicative of the sector competitiveness, has also ocurred in some of the chapters where international markets show greater dynamism, which offers favorable prospects for the sector.
L66|The Irresistible Rise of the Craft-Brewing Sector in Italy: Can We Explain It?|This paper empirically investigates the emergence of microbreweries in Italy over the last 20 years (period 1993-2014). This rise is expressed by the increasing number of entries in the sector actually accompanied, in most recent years, by an increasing number of exits. The paper proposes an empirical investigation of this entry-exit dynamics through a sequence of survival models. Three orders of possible determinants are considered. Beyond idiosyncratic characteristics, the other two order of factors are the exogenous evolution of the beer market and the specific geographical and local context. Estimation results show that, whereas market force and individual features unquestionably affects entry and exit choices, geographical and local factors are of limited relevance, especially for the entry process.
L66|Where Is The Romanian Wine Industry Heading?|The wine sector in Romania occupies a very good position in Europe and worldwide. The favourable natural and climatic conditions as well as the historic tradition in growing grapevines and producing wine have been and are favourable factors for the development of this industry. This paper focuses on highlighting some important aspects of the Romanian wine market in the light of supply and demand. The volume of production is fluctuant, just as the average wine consumption, while the exports and imports are mainly intra-Community. The main external partners are Germany, France and Italy. The 100% absorption rate of Community funds allowed Romania to attract additional amounts in the period 2014-2018.
L66|Profitability of Czech Food Enterprises in Relation to Their Size|The aim of the paper is to analyse profitability of enterprises in the food and beverages industry of the Czech Republic in time period of 2003-2013 and to evaluate the possible impact of the firm size on the firm profitability. First, the development of the average ROA of individual size groups of enterprises within ten food sub-sectors is analysed graphically. Second, the correlation between company size and the level of the ROA indicator is statistically validated by using parametric ANOVA. Based on the analysis it can be concluded that the level of profitability in the Czech food and beverages industry is relatively low, and moreover, there is a tendency to decrease during the observed period. The highest values of ROA are achieved by the largest companies (expressed by the number of employees) and on the contrary, the ROA values of the smallest companies are often negative and in the whole observed period there are significantly lower than ROA values of other size groups of enterprises, which is valid in almost all sub-sectors. The analysis has shown that the level of profitability is determined by the company size. Significant differences in the size of ROA in different size groups were also statistically verified with the use of ANOVA.
L66|Price Dependence between Different Beef Cuts and Quality Grades: A Copula Approach at the Retail Level for the U.S. Beef Industry|The objective of this study is to assess the degree and the structure of price dependence between different cuts of the beef industry in the USA. This is pursued using the statistical tool of copulas. To this end, it utilizes retail monthly data of beef cuts, within and between the quality grades of Choice and Select, over the period 2000–2014. For the Choice quality grade, there was evidence of asymmetric price co-movements between all six pairs of beef cuts under consideration. No evidence of asymmetric price co-movements was found between the three pairs of beef cuts for the Select quality grade. For the pairs of beef cuts formed between the Choice and Select quality grades, the empirical results point to the existence of price asymmetry only for the case of the chuck roast cut.
L66|Improving Energy Management In The Food Industry Using The Motivational And Prediction Factors Evaluation And Energy Efficiency Measurement System|The article addresses the topics of energy efficiency management, starting from energy system modeling of an enterprise from food industry through the motivational system improvement, predicting and measuring energy efficiency. Based on the survey were determined the main directions of energy savings and have been specified preconditions for the study, particularly the special features of each process, location, technical age of technological equipment, experience and knowledge of personnel, including criteria-factors that influence the energy efficiency of an enterprise. In the article are determined the axes of enterprise energy consumption and proposed energy efficiency measures for industrial processes.
L66|Cooperation in the food industry: contributions and limitations of the open innovation model|This article focuses on the multi-partner relationships between agrofood firms and external stakeholders to innovate, which some authors today call the Open Innovation model (Chesbrough, 2003). Based on various studies we have conducted on innovation and cooperation processes in agrofood companies, we show that innovation processes are not always “open”, as some companies prefer to develop their innovations internally. For various reasons (confidentiality, obstacles in protecting innovations, difficulties in establishing relationships in the absence of internal R&D, etc.) these firms can choose to innovate without recourse to external partners. Furthermore, we discuss the hypothesis that geographical proximity between companies and stakeholders would automatically result in a greater ability to absorb external knowledge and technologies. “Remote” cooperation is strong and organised proximity plays a key role in facilitating the cooperation. JEL Codes: D21, L20, L66, O32
L66|Non-Separable Time Preferences and Novelty Consumption: Theory and Evidence from the East German Transition to Capitalism|Non-separable intertemporal preferences and novelty consumption can explain the persistent correlation between economic development and obesity. Employing the German reunification as a fast motion natural experiment of economic development, we study how the sudden availability of novel food products impacts individual consumption patterns and body weight. Immediately after the reunification, East Germans consumed more novel western food and gained more weight than West Germans. The subsequent long-run persistence in food consumption and body weight among Eastern Germans cannot be explained by taste for variety; it provides evidence for habit formation in intertemporal consumption preferences.
L66|The Impact of Retail Mergers on Food Prices: Evidence from France|This paper analyzes the impact of a merger in the French retail sector on food prices, using a consumer panel data. We perform a di fference-in-diff erences analysis by comparing price changes in stores for which the local market structure is aff ected by the merger to unaff ected stores. In addition, we empirically investigate economic forces behind the observed price changes. On average, we fi nd that the merger signifi cantly raised competitors' prices contemporaneously with merging firms' price increases. Further, we show that competitor prices increase more in local markets that experience larger structural changes in concentration and chain diff erentiation.
L66|¿Qué explica el precio del vino? Análisis hedónico del mercado de alta calidad|Se establece una relación entre precios de vinos de alta gama y sus determinantes. Se responde a las preguntas ¿Qué explica el precio de los vinos de alta calidad? ¿Cómo influyen en el precio elementos que están (en buena parte, aproximadamente o escasamente) en manos de los productores? Para ello, se construye una base de datos de trece años de los 100 mejores vinos que anualmente selecciona la publicación Wine Spectator. Con ella se estima una regresión de precios hedónicos. Se identifican bodegas, orígenes y un país, cuyos vinos están “sobrevalorados” o “subvalorados” respecto a lo que el modelo indica. We determine a relationship between high quality wines and its drivers. We answer the questions: What variables explain high-quality wine prices? How do certain factors (highly, slightly or scarcely) under control of the suppliers, influence prices? To respond, we build a database with thirteen years of the best 100 wines annually ranked in Wine Spectator magazine. With the database we estimate a hedonic price regression. We also identify wineries, origins and a country whose wines are “overvalued” or “undervalued” with respect to model’s predictions.
L66|Craft-Stoff für den Biermarkt?|Die Craft-Bierbewegung ist inzwischen auch in Deutschland angekommen. Viele Brauer hoffen auf eine ähnlich dynamische und nachhaltige Entwicklung der deutschen Craft-Bierszene wie in den USA.
L66|Consumers' Costly Responses to Product Safety Threats|The main goal of this study is to determine how the different components of preferences condition consumers' reactions to safety threats in markets with no close substitutes for the unsafe product. Using data from an ideal setting related to the mad cow disease epidemic, we estimate a full demand model for meat and estimate consumers' preference parameters over nutrients, safety, and taste. We find that substituting away from the threatened product (beef and veal) is costly for consumers in terms of forgone nutrients, especially iron, and taste. Counterfactuals quantify the observed decrease in demand for beef and veal following the safety threat event, which is driven by consumers updating their perceptions of this meat category's safety. We also find that the consumer demand response is heterogeneous and limited by their tastes.
L66|KÖLSCH versus ALT: Erkenntnisse aus konsumentenpsychologischen Experimenten<BR>[KÖLSCH versus ALT: Learnings From Consumer Psychological Experiments]|In konsumentenpsychologischen Experimenten mit 50 Kölnern und 50 Düsseldorfern im Alter von 35 bis 65 Jahren wurde untersucht, ob man Unterschiede zwischen den beiden Biersorten KÖLSCH und ALT erkennen kann. Dazu wurde zunächst in einem Blindtest der Geschmack von KÖLSCH und ALT beurteilt. Die Bewertungen von KÖLSCH und ALT bzgl. der Merkmale „schmeckt mir“ sowie „schmeckt frisch“, „schmeckt mild“, „schmeckt würzig“ waren nahezu gleich. Weiterhin wurde in einem Blindtest untersucht, ob die Versuchspersonen KÖLSCH und ALT überhaupt identifizieren können. Auch hierbei gab es keine signifikanten Unterschiede. Nur zu 55 % wurde das Bier richtig erkannt, was auf Zufalls- bzw. Rateniveau liegt. Später wurde in einem offenen Test nochmals der Geschmack für KÖLSCH und ALT untersucht. Jetzt zeigt sich, dass den Kölnern das KÖLSCH deutlich besser schmeckt als das ALT. Den Düsseldorfern hingegen schmeckt das ALT signifikant besser als das KÖLSCH. Eine Untersuchung der Präferenzen unterstützt diese Ergebnisse: Während in dem Blindtest die Präferenzen bei annähernd 50:50 lagen, veränderten sich diese im separaten offenen Test mit 78:22 zugunsten des Heimatbieres. Diese Ergebnisse sind schon erstaunlich, da einfach nicht zu glauben ist, dass Männer zwischen KÖLSCH und ALT objektiv nicht unterscheiden können. Die Ergebnisse werden ausführlich psychologisch und wissenschaftstheoretisch interpretiert und daraus Erkenntnisse für das Marketing abgeleitet.
L66|Unternehmenszusammenschlüsse im Lebensmitteleinzelhandel verringern die Produktvielfalt|Over the past decades the grocery retail sector underwent a significant restructuring process throughout Europe. While competition from hard-discounters has grown, in most European countries concentration has also increased as a consequence of mergers and acquisitions among already powerful retail chains. These considerationslead antitrust authorities to very cautiously enforce competition policy in this sector with the aim of preventing the market getting worryingly concentrated. Ina study for the Dutch Autoriteit Consument & Markt (ACM), we examined the effects of a series of three national mergers in the Dutch grocery markets between 2009 and 2012 that have been approved by the ACM subject to divestitures. We find that the mergers did not have significant effects on prices. However, we find that the last mergersignificantly reduced the depth of products’ assortment and, consequently, reduced consumers’ choice. Moreover, the divestitures imposed by the ACM were onlypartially able to outweigh the reduction in variety caused by the mergers. In den letzten Jahrzehnten hat der Lebensmitteleinzelhandel in ganz Europa einen erheblichen Restrukturierungsprozess durchlaufen. Während der Wettbewerbsdruck durch die Billigdiscounter gestiegen ist, nahm gleichzeitig in weiten Teilen Europas die Marktkonzentration durch Fusionen und Übernahmen unter Einzelhandelsketten zu, die bereits vorher über eine erhebliche Marktmacht verfügten. Aus diesem Grund achten die Wettbewerbsbehörden in dieser Branche besonders sorgfältig auf die Einhaltung wettbewerbspolitischer Regelungen, damit die Marktkonzentration nicht ein besorgniserregendes Maß annimmt. In einer Studie für die niederländische Autoriteit Consument & Markt (ACM), haben wir die Auswirkungen dreier nationaler Unternehmenszusammenschlüsse im niederländischen Lebensmittelmarkt zwischen 2009 und 2012 untersucht, welche von der ACM unter der Auflage, Filialen zu verkaufen, genehmigt wurden. Wir kommen zu dem Ergebnis, dass die Zusammenschlüsse keine erheblichen Auswirkungen auf die Preise hatten. Allerdings reduzierte der letzte Zusammenschluss in signifikantem Maße die Breite des Sortiments und damit die Auswahlmöglichkeiten der Konsumenten. Die von der ACM angeordneten Filialverkäufe konnten die negativen Folgen durch die Zusammenschlüsse nur teilweise begrenzen.
L66|Fusionen im Lebensmitteleinzelhandel gehen zu Lasten der Produktvielfalt: Sechs Fragen an Tomaso Duso|No abstract is available for this item.
L66|El Mercado Mundial De Aceituna De Mesa (1990-2015)|El olivar ha sido tradicionalmente un cultivo mediterráneo cuya producción de aceitunas se ha destinado, en su mayor parte, a la elaboración de aceite de oliva, producto básico de la dieta mediterránea. En el presente trabajo intentamos abordar de forma preliminar el análisis del mercado mundial de aceituna de mesa, el cual ha registrado un importante crecimiento en las últimas décadas debido, por un lado, al aumento de la producción mundial de las variedades de aceitunas aptas para esta transformación, y por el otro, al importante crecimiento de la demanda de este producto como alimento de acompañamiento y celebración. Además del análisis de la producción y del consumo internacional de aceituna de mesa, se analizan los flujos de comercio internacional y el peso relativo en éstos de los diferentes países que participan en este comercio en los últimos 25 años. The olive grove has traditionally been a Mediterranean crop whose olive production has been directed, mostly, to the manufacture of olive oil, a staple of the Mediterranean diet. In this paper we address the analysis of the global market for table olives, which has had a significant growth in recent decades due, on the one hand, to the increase in world production of varieties of olives suitable for this transformation, and on the other, to the growth in olives demand for appetizer and celebration consumption. In addition to analysis of production and international consumption of table olives, international trade flows and the relative weight of these different countries involved in this trade over the past 25 years are analyzed.
L66|Domestic and Foreign Firms in Russian Food Industry for the Period of 2005-2014|The article studies the economic and social results of companies in Russian (domestic) ownership (RO) and companies in foreign and joint ownership (FJO) in the food industry of Russia. Using economic analysis and analysis of variance we investigated main indicators for 2005-2014 at the level of Russia and Russian regions. The analysis showed that RO firms are dominating in Russian food industry, but in some regions the foreign and joint firms are prevail. We found that the advanced development of foreign firms was observed during the period of 2005-2013, but the joint firms’ share decreased for this period. In 2014 the significant growth of RO firms’ production volumes was revealed. RO firms in 2005-2014 were characterized by employment decrease and labor intensity fall. The FJO firms’ employment was stable but they have significantly less employment and much less labor intensity (lower social results) in a comparison with RO firms.
L66|Consumers’ Purchasing Decision towards Food Products of Small and Medium Enterprises|The gross domestic product (GDP) of Malaysia has continuously increased from year to year. All industry sectors are responsible for contributing to Malaysia’s GDP, including the food and beverage (F&B) industry. The sales within the Malaysian F&B retail industry were forecast to grow yearly. This study is to examine Malaysian consumers’ acceptance of F&B products of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). In depth, this study also tries to investigate whether consumers use experience when making a decision to buy SMEs’ F&B products in the hypermarket. Results from structural equation modeling shows that consumers are barely aware of the existence of SMEs’ F&B products and prefer to buy establish brands’ products in the hypermarket. Hence, we suggest SMEs be more prominent in marketing their products. This action will influence consumer decisions in choosing SMEs brands over established brands’ products
L66|Time inconsistency and alcohol sales restrictions|Restrictions on alcohol sales hours or days are commonly used tools in order to reduce alcohol consumption. However, a forward-looking consumer can buy in advance, and thereby mostly undo the impact of the restriction. I study whether time inconsistent consumer preferences can provide a justification for restrictions on alcohol sales time. I estimate a demand model, which allows a fraction of consumers to be time inconsistent, using scanner data of beer purchases and other shopping behavior. According to the estimation results, 16% of regular beer buyers, or only 3% of all consumers, behave as if they are time inconsistent. I find that in terms of consumer welfare, the sales restriction may be welfare improving, but is worse than increasing taxes.
L66|Effects of increased variety on demand, pricing, and welfare|We use order statistics to analytically derive demand functions when consumers choose from among the varieties of two brands—such as Coke and Pepsi—and an outside good. Soft-drinks have no price variability across varieties within a brand, so traditional demand systems (e.g., mixed logit) are not identified. In contrast, our demand system is identified and can be estimated using a nonlinear instrumental variable estimator. Our demand functions are higher-order polynomials, where the polynomial order is increasing in variety. Because these demand curves have convex and concave sections around an inflection point, firms are more likely to respond and make large price adjustments to increases in cost than to comparable decreases in costs. We compare the profit-maximizing number of varieties within a grocery store to the socially optimal number and find that consumer surplus and welfare would increase with more variety.
L66|Performans Degerlemesinde DEMATEL ve Bulanik TOPSIS Uygulamasi|Bu calismada Turkiye Seker Fabrikalari Anonim Sirketi adi altinda toplanmis 23 seker fabrikasinin 2008-2012 yillari arasindaki verileri kullanilarak performans degerlendirmesi yapilmistir. Calismada fiilen islenen pancar, yakit tuketimi, is gucu, seker uretimi, makine kapasitesi, melas miktari ve satis miktari kriter olarak dikkate alinmis ve bu kriterlerin agirliklari DEMATEL yontemi ile hesaplanmistir. Bu agirliklar kullanilarak bulanik TOPSIS yontemi ile performans degerlemesi yapilmistir. Bulanik TOPSIS uygulamasi yapilirken tamamen gercek verilerden yararlanilmistir. Gercek veriler ucgen bulanik sayilar kullanilarak bulaniklastirilmistir. Calismanin sonuclari incelendiginde performans acisindan Eregli, Ilgin ve Eskisehir seker fabrikalari ilk uce girerken, Alpullu, Elazig ve Kars seker fabrikalarinin son siralarda yer aldigi gorulmektedir.
L66|Testing the Pecking Order Theory of Capital Structure in FTSE 350 Food Producers Firms in United Kingdom between 2001 and 2005|This paper tests the Pecking Order Theory to see if it best explains the financing behaviour of FTSE 350 UK Food producer firms from the time period of 2001 to 2005. A multiple case study design was used. However, the study approach was retrospective in nature. The Pecking order model as proposed by Shyam-Sunder and Myers, Frank and Goyal; and Rajan and Zingales, was followed in this research. The empirical analysis of firm-year data was compared to a generalised view of the literature to enable an assessment of the commonalities and differences observed. The results suggest that although there is some form of Pecking order behaviour amongst FTSE 350 UK food producer firms, especially when it comes to managers’ preference for the different sources of finance, their financing behaviour is best explained by the trade-off theory of capital structure.
L66|Prospettive strategiche per il Made in Italy agroalimentare: un’analisi esplorativa del mercato delle macchine professionali da caffè espresso secondo le 5 forze competitive di Porter|It is well known that the agri-food industry represents an important leverage for Italian exports. Espresso coffee is one of the drivers of this industry and is one of the key Made in Italy assets. Exporting espresso means spreading Italian culture. In fact, Espresso is widely associated with the Italian way of life, even though agricultural coffee production takes place very far from Italy. The connection between espresso and Italy is not provided only by the consumption culture, but also by the production of machinery for espresso preparation. Italian firms are an example of excellence in the production of traditional espresso machines. The development of the international horeca (hotel-restaurant-café) sector provides an opportunity for both the espresso producers and the connected industrial sectors, to improve their position in the international markets. This article presents an analysis of the coffee machine sector, with particular regard to its connections with the horeca sector. Porter’s framework of five forces is used to show the competitive environment in which the interested sectors operate. A snapshot of the relationships within the espresso coffee sector is taken using analysis of a variety of sources. The focus is on professional coffee machines and the possible development of this industry. Through a collection of secondary data, this article highlights the challenges faced by the espresso coffee machines manufacturers. On one hand it demonstrates that it is possible to spread Italian culture through coffee consumption. On the other hand, new global challenges are emerging, such as the growing coffee capsule market.
L66|New consumers behaviours in the sharing economy: An experimental analysis on food waste reduction|Food security, along with growing population and the associated environmental concerns, make food waste and loss a central topic in economic analysis. While food losses occur mostly at the production, postharvest and processing phases of the supply chain, food waste takes place mainly at the end of the chain and therefore concerns primarily the habits and behaviour patterns of retailers and consumers. Many solutions and practices have been proposed and oftentimes implemented in order to “keep food out of landfills”, thus reducing food waste at the source. However, little attention has been paid to the possible sharing of consumer-side food surplus. In this context, food sharing could represent an effective way to tackle food waste at the consumers’ level, with both environmental and economic potential positive effects. Currently, several initiatives and start-ups are being developed in the US and Europe, involving the collection and use of the excess of food from consumers and retailers and the promotion of collaborative consumption models (e.g. Foodsharing, Growington, Feastly, etc.). Nevertheless, there is still little empirical evidence testing the effectiveness of introducing sharing economy approaches to reduce food waste. This study seeks to fill this gap through a framed field experiment. We run two experimental treatments; in the control treatment students were asked to behave according to their regular food consumption habits, and in the food sharing treatment the same students were instructed to purchase food, cook and consume it collectively. Preliminary results showed that the adoption by households of food sharing practices do not automatically translate into food waste reduction. A number of factors (environmental and economic awareness, domestic skills and collaborative behaviors) might act as ‘enablers’ to make sharing practices effective.
L66|Are consumers concerned about plastic water bottles environmental impact?|Although plastic induces environmental damages, almost all water bottles are made from plastic. However, these damages are more or less significant according to the plastic used. This study evaluates the consumers' willingness to pay (WTP) for different plastics used for water packaging. Successive messages emphasizing the characteristics of plastic are delivered to participants allowing explaining information influence on the consumers' WTP. We find that information has a significant effect on WTP. The participants' WTP for plastic bottles tends to increase after information emphasizing that the related plastic bottles has no negative impact on the environment, and to decrease with information on its negative impact. Using a fixed effect panel model, we show that there is a significant premium for recycled plastic bottles except when biodegradable plastic bottles are present on the market. We compare the welfare effects of regulatory policies allowing reducing environmental damages of plastic water bottles. We get that information campaign on plastic bottles issues would be the best policy whether it would not be difficult to implement it in practice. Then we discuss about other environmental policies and tools which could be applied in order to reduce plastic water bottles negative impact on the environment.
L66|Juice Market in Ukraine: State Analysis and Assessment of the Impact of Accounts Receivable of Customers on Its Development|Growing of the competition in the juice market determines the relevance of the study of factors affecting the production and sale of juice products. The article is devoted to the analysis of indicators of the juice market and to the determination of trade debtors impact on production juice products. Dynamics of juice consumption of population of Ukraine for the past fifteen years was estimated. Analysis of the volume of juice production in Ukraine for the years 1960-2003 and the main trends of its development were determined. The structure and the principle domestic juice retailers were defined. According to the research results, 84 % of the juice market in Ukraine belongs to the four largest companies which alternately occupy leading positions. It was found that long-term receivables negatively affect the juice producer activities but some companies on various circumstances have to sell their products in terms of delayed payment to remain as a retailer and to increase the production. In order to encourage debtors to timely payment for delivered goods it was proposed to introduce a flexible system of discounts.
L66|Anti-Counterfeiting Technologies In Albanian Food Industry|European Parliament has taken several actions related to the authenticity of food, including the establishment of laws and standards. Albania, as a country that aspires to join the European Union, has implemented the legal framework to meet these standards. However, there is a lack of traceability in systems that will help food companies and the government fulfill these requirements. This paper shows a prototype where food authenticity is an integral part of a traceability system. The objective is to provide a combination of Quick Response (QR) coding with anti-counterfeiting technology. This is accomplished using encryption algorithms over mobile platforms. The prototype implementation in this way implies easy data access of for business operators, government authorities as well as the ultimate customer.
L66|Freshwater White Shrimp Supply Chain Performance Assessment, Evaluacion Del Desempeno De La Cadena De Suministro Del Camaron Blanco De Agua|Small and Medium Organizations (SMEs) of the Cajeme district, which produce freshwater white shrimp, are currently facing planning and assessment difficulties in their supply chain. The Experimental Technology Transfer Center (known as CETT 910), operated by the Aquaculture Department of the Technological Institute of Sonora (ITSON), where R&D farming methods of this type of shrimp takes place, is an example of this situation. In an attempt to add value to the market, organizations have come up with the idea of breeding shrimp with an increased yield and larger sizes. Nevertheless, it has become a problem because in order to achieve these goals, the farming time per cycle is being exceeded, thus causing additional costs that surpass the planned budget range. This consequently, increases the risk of failure. This article presents research results on how to assess the performance of the freshwater white shrimp supply chain, using the systems dynamics methodology which allowed us to observe several scenarios on the product during the process of its breeding, production and final delivery to clients. The results obtained offered CETT 910 theoretical and methodological foundations for the development and understanding of the dynamics of three links of the freshwater white shrimp supply chain which is produced and distributed in domestic and international markets.
L66|An Innovative Approach For Planning And Execution Of Pre-Experimental Runs For Design Of Experiments / Enfoque Innovador Para La Planificación Y Ejecución De Series Pre-Experimentales Para Diseno˜ De Experimentos|This paper addresses the study of the pre-experimental planning phase of the Design of Experiments (DoE) in order to improve the final product quality. The pre-experimental planning phase includes a clear identification of the problem statement, selection of control factors and their respective levels and ranges. To improve production quality based on the DoE a new approach for the pre-experimental planning phase, called Non-Conformity Matrix (NCM), is presented. This article also addresses the key steps of the pre-experimental runs considering a consumer goods manufacturing process. Results of the application for an industrial case show thatthis methodology can support a clear definition ofthe problem and also a correct identification of the factor ranges in particular situations. The proposed new approach allows modeling the entire manufacturing system holistically and correctly defining the factor ranges and respective levels for a more effective application of DoE. This new approach can be a useful resource for both research and industrial practitioners who are dedicated to large DoE projects with unknown factor interactions, when the operational levels and ranges are not completely defined. / El presente ensayo aborda el estudio de la fase pre-experimental de planificación del Diseño de Experimentos (DoE) con el fin de mejorar la calidad del producto final. En dicha fase pre-experimental de planificación se incluye una identificación clara del planteamiento del problema, de la selección de los factores de control y de sus correspondientes niveles y rangos. Para mejorar la calidad de producción basada en el DoE se presenta un nuevo enfoque para la fase pre-experimental de planificación llamado Matriz de No Conformidades (NCM). Este ensayo aborda también los pasos clave de las series experimentales teniendo en cuenta el proceso de fabricación de artículos de consumo. Los resultados de la puesta en marcha para un caso industrial demuestran que esta metodología puede respaldar una definición clara del problema y también la correcta identificación de los rangos de factores para situaciones concretas. Este nuevo enfoque propuesto permite modelar todo el sistema de fabricación de manera holística y definir correctamente los rangos de factores y niveles correspondientes para una puesta en marcha eficaz del DoE. Dicho enfoque puede ser un recurso útil tanto para profesionales de la investigación como de la industria que se dedican a grandes proyectos de DoE cuyas interacciones de factores son desconocidas, cuando los niveles y rangos operativos no están definidos del todo
L66|New consumers behaviours in the sharing economy: an experimental analysis on food waste reduction|"Food security, along with growing population and the associated environmental concerns, make food waste and loss a central topic in economic analysis. While food losses occur mostly at the production, postharvest and processing phases of the supply chain, food waste takes place mainly at the end of the chain and therefore concerns primarily the habits and behaviour patterns of retailers and consumers. Many solutions and practices have been proposed and oftentimes implemented in order to ""keep food out of landfills"", thus reducing food waste at the source. However, little attention has been paid to the possible sharing of consumer-side food surplus. In this context, food sharing could represent an effective way to tackle food waste at the consumers' level, with both environmental and economic potential positive effects. Currently, several initiatives and start-ups are being developed in the US and Europe, involving the collection and use of the excess of food from consumers and retailers and the promotion of collaborative consumption models (e.g. Foodsharing, Growington, Feastly, etc.). Nevertheless, there is still little empirical evidence testing the effectiveness of introducing sharing economy approaches to reduce food waste. This study seeks to fill this gap through a framed field experiment. We run two experimental treatments; in the control treatment students were asked to behave according to their regular food consumption habits, and in the food sharing treatment the same students were instructed to purchase food, cook and consume it collectively. Preliminary results showed that the adoption by households of food sharing practices do not automatically translate into food waste reduction. A number of factors (environmental and economic awareness, domestic skills and collaborative behaviors) might act as 'enablers' to make sharing practices effective."
L66|Efficiency and related technological aspects of the Indian food processing industry: A non-parametric analysis|With a continuously growing population, India faces a real challenge in fulfilling the target of food security for all of her citizen. Parallel to increment of food production, better processing of it as well plays a vital role in ensuring nutrient food to all in a sustainable fashion. Food processing industry may plays a vital role in this direction and, therefore, occupies an important place in India’s overall economic growth, in general and that of her manufacturing sector, in particular. For its significant share to the industrial output and both direct and indirect employment generating capacity, food processing industry is considered to be a remarkable pooling factor for the prosperity of agricultural sector as well. In this study, we explore the performance of the production units of this industry. We have analyzed data on Annual Financial Statements of food processing companies, collected through Prowess database of Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) during 2000-2015. We use a two stage methodology for our analyses. Using data envelopment analysis (DEA) method in the first stage, we obtain technical efficiency (TE) score of the individual production units of the industry. In this connection, we also examine the extent of diverse technologies used across its various sub-sectors, through a measure called technology closeness ratio (TCR), which we explain in the paper in details. We then explain such TE scores in terms of certain company -specific variables using simple ordinary least squares (OLS) regression method, to have an idea on the factors that may influence such performance. Results suggest that the units producing dairy products and sugar recorded relatively lower level of TE, whereas those producing vegetable oil and products are more technically efficient as compared to other sub-sectors within the industry. Overall TCR varies from 0.63 (for sugar and dairy products) to 0.93 (for vegetable oil and products), implying thereby that the former two have an opportunity to improve their overall performance to a sizeable extent through technological upgradation, whereas the latter does not have much scope to improve themselves in this regard, and can improve their overall performance only through more efficient utilization of available resources! Moreover, observed evidence of positive impact of R and D intensity and infrastructural factor on performance have a remarkable implication on the role of the government for providing necessary infrastructural facilities and (probably) initiating innovative scheme(s) to make research and development activities more attractive to them!
L66|Acquisitions, Productivity, and Profitability: Evidence from the Japanese Cotton Spinning Industry|We explore how changes in ownership affect the productivity and profitability of producers. Using detailed data from the Japanese cotton spinning industry at the turn of the last century, we find that acquired firms' production facilities were not on average less physically productive than the plants of the acquiring firms before acquisition. They were much less profitable, however, due to higher inventory levels and lower capacity utilization—differences that reflected problems in managing the uncertainties of demand. After acquisitions, less profitable acquired plants saw drops in inventories and gains in capacity utilization that raised both their productivity and profitability levels. (JEL D24, G32, G34, L11, L25, L66, N65)
L66|The Rise of Fringe Competitors in the Wake of an Emerging Middle Class: An Empirical Analysis|"The ""emerging middle class"" is a force of economic importance in many consumer markets around the globe. A striking phenomenon in some of these markets is the growth of ""generic,"" low-price brands. This paper examines these phenomena in Brazil's large soft drink market. Our study draws on data sources that capture both social mobility and market outcomes. Our analysis suggests that the emergence of a price-sensitive, new middle class aided the staggering growth of a fringe of generic producers. Our estimated demand model rationalizes a drastic price cut, led by Coca-Cola, that allowed it to contain the fringe's growth. (JEL D12, L11, L66, L81, M37, O12, O14)"
L66|Study on the Competitiveness of the Romanian Meat Processing Industry|Meat processing represents a strategic sector that can significantly contribute to local food industry competitiveness and national food security. The generous natural resources available to Romania and the tradition in animal husbandry can provide adequate raw materials for the processing industry in order to cover domestic consumption needs and obtain substantial revenues by export. Currently, Romanian meat market is dependent on the imports of meat, as carcasses or processed products. There have been mainly live animals or semi-finished products which are exported, fact which led to an imbalance of trade and to low revenues for the domestic meat industry. This article proposes an analysis of the local meat processing industry in terms of production, consumption and trade transactions, assessed in the international context of the meat market. The study indicates that in the last few years, Romania has recorded significant progress in the meat processing and production domain; nevertheless, the financial performance of the local companies is inferior to that of the EU companies. Except the poultry meat and mutton sectors, in which the export value exceeds imports, the other sectors show a deficit, the domestic demand not being covered. The low concentration degree of the companies from the meat processing industry show a continued market fragmentation and a growth potential for the existing companies.
L66|Oligopoly Power in the Food Industries Revisited: A Stochastic Frontier Approach|This study estimates mark-ups and oligopoly power for U.S. food industries using a stochastic frontier (SF; Kumbhakar, Baardsen and Lien, 2012; Baraigi and Azzam, 2014) approach, where mark-ups are treated as systematic deviations from a marginal cost pricing frontier. We apply the analysis to 36 U.S. food industries using NBER-CES Manufacturing Industry Database (2014), which covers a span of 31 years from 1979 to 2009. Empirical results show that all the food industries in the sample exercise at least some degree of oligopoly power, but most in a moderate manner. The estimated mean Lerner index is approximately 0.06, generally much lower than obtained using the conventional NEIO approaches. The SF model used provides a novel and promising framework to test and measure the degree of market power in agricultural and food markets.
L66|Competitive Package Size Decisions| In the consumer packaged goods (CPGs) industry, consumers base their purchase decisions in part on package size because different package sizes offer different levels of convenience. The heterogeneous preference for package size allows manufacturers to use package size as a competitive tool in order to raise margins in the face of higher production costs. By competing in package sizes, manufacturers may be able to soften the degree of price competition in the downstream market, and raise margins accordingly. In order to test this hypothesis, we develop a structural model of consumer demand, and manufacturers' joint decisions regarding package size and price applied to store-level scanner data for the ready-to-eat breakfast cereal category. While others have argued that manufacturers reduce package sizes as a means of raising unit-prices in a hidden way, we show that package size and price are strategic complements – downsizing causes competitors to lower their prices, which leads to further downsizing, and more price competition until a particularly undesirable equilibrium (from the manufacturers perspective) is reached. Our results suggest that package downsizing is not necessarily the best way to extract surplus from consumers as the existing literature would lead us to believe.
L66|Energy Price Transmission and Retail Milk Prices|This paper estimates the pass-through between diesel fuel and retail milk prices at the product brand level, based on a random coefficient logit demand model along with a market channel marginal cost function in order to estimate energy price pass-through rates to the consumer. It takes into account the partial and net impact of energy prices through the multi-market effects on other inputs. It also exploits a natural experiment of energy hyperinflation and the great recession in 2008. Empirical results show that energy prices (e.g., diesel price) significantly impact the retail prices of milk products and are, therefore, an important determinant of food price inflation. Pass-through rates are estimated to be in the range from 0.15 to approximately 0.50 before March 2008 and from 0.09 to 0.19 after March 2009, with an average of 0.26. This indicates that a $1.00 per gallon increase in diesel prices would on average result in a 26¢ per gallon increase in the retail price of milk.
L66|How can differences in German raw milk prices be explained? An empirical investigation of market power asymmetries| Addressing the increasing concentration of dairy processors in Germany, this paper investigates imperfect competition on the German raw milk market. Using a panel data set of dairy processors’ price and processing data and related market information for the years 2001-2012, the conjectural variation approach allows analyzing market power of dairy processors towards raw milk producers. The paper contributes to the literature by providing an empirical up to date analysis of imperfect competition across and regions in Germany. The estimation results indicate an oligopsonistic market structure in Germany.
L66|Market size and innovation: An application to the French seed market for large crops| The aim of this paper is to analyse the impact of market size on innovation in the seed industry. The analysis is based on a panel dataset that covers 19 large crops in France during the period 1989-2012. Our econometric analysis is based on a negative binomial specification and we conduct both cross section as well as panel data analysis. We show that the French crop area always has a positive and significant effect on the number of innovations introduced each year. Market size of foreign countries may be either positive or negative revealing synergy or substitution effects. When hybrid crops are considered, the innovation is mainly determined by a positive and very significant fixed effect, crop area having no more influence. This last result can be interpreted as market size being mainly dependent on crop area for non-hybrid crop and dependent of price mark-up for hybrid crops.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L66|Persistent firm profitability in the US and EU food processing industry| This article analyzes profit persistence as well as the drivers of profitability in the US and EU food industry using GMM estimations. Due to different structures in firm size comparable samples of US and EU food processors are derived using Propensity Score Matching. The results indicate that the persistence of profitability in the food industry is lower compared to other manufacturing sectors. Firm specific drivers of profitability turn out to be firm size and growth as well as financial risk. Interestingly, while long-term risk has a negative impact on profit persistence in the EU, it has a positive one in the US. Regarding industry characteristics the growth rate measured by the growth in industry sales has a significant impact on profitability. While this impact is positive in the EU, it is negative in the US.
L66|Market size and innovation: An application to the French seed market for large crops| The aim of this paper is to analyse the impact of market size on innovation in the seed industry. The analysis is based on a panel dataset that covers 19 large crops in France during the period 1989-2012. Our econometric analysis is based on a negative binomial specification and we conduct both cross section as well as panel data analysis. We show that the French crop area always has a positive and significant effect on the number of innovations introduced each year. Market size of foreign countries may be either positive or negative revealing synergy or substitution effects. When hybrid crops are considered, the innovation is mainly determined by a positive and very significant fixed effect, crop area having no more influence. This last result can be interpreted as market size being mainly dependent on crop area for non-hybrid crop and dependent of price mark-up for hybrid crops.
L66|Price dispersion and inflation rates: evidence from scanner data| In this paper we investigate the relationship between price dispersion and inflation; we use weekly retail scanner data from 2009 to 2011 to measure price dispersion and inflation for several dairy products. We implement a linear model to investigate the linkage between price dispersion and consumer price indexes. As in the previous literature, we obtain mixed results with respect to the relationship between price dispersion and inflation, and further investigation and theoretical refinement are needed to identify a common pattern.
L66|The irresistible rise of craft breweries in Italy: magic out of nowhere or just another example of agro-food diversification?| This research empirically investigates the emergence of craft breweries in Italy over the period 1993-2014, whose rise has generated, in the recent years, an high number of entries in the sector. Two different order of possible drivers can be taken into account. therefore the rise of craft brewing can be simply interpreted as the consequence of a change in the beer market, particularly the increasing attention of consumers to the quality of productions and their geographical origin, with the consequent differentiation and segmentation of the market. Secondly, it can be argued tha, the rise of craft breweries in Italy shows a territorial concentration thus indicating that also local factors may represent major drivers. Due to agglomeration economies of different nature, areas with a specialization in food and, above all, beverages production may represent preferential territories for new entries. The same can be argued for areas showing a strong tendency towards agricultural diversification.At the same time, this geographical concentration may generate congestion effects (or localized diseconomies) whenever localized entries become too many given the size of the market. The present study proposes an empirical investigation on the role of local drivers in determining the entry into this sector of new craft breweries as well as the selection process of the existing breweries. This investigation takes the form of an entry-exit analysis and is carried out through a sequence of survival models.
L66|Import Penetration, Intermediate Inputs and Firms’ Productivity in the EU Food Industry| The aim of this contribution is to study empirically the effect of trade liberalization on productivity growth exploiting a large micro-dataset of more than 20,000 French and Italian food firms, over the 2004-2012 period. This relationship has been studied focusing on import penetration at both industry and upstream sectors level, to investigate the role played by imports in intermediate inputs. Main findings show that import penetration in both final products and intermediate inputs systematically contributed to firm-level productivity growth. Yet, the productivity growth effect induced by import penetration in upstream sectors is 10 times higher than the one at the industry level. Horizontal import competition coming from the EU15 and OECD countries exerts the strongest effect on productivity growth. By contrast, when vertical import penetration is considered, also sourcing intermediate inputs from emerging markets appears important for firms’ productivity growth. Finally, we also find a strong confirmation that the effects of import penetration are increasing with the initial level of firms’ productivity. All these stylized facts may have interesting policy implications.
L66|Import Penetration, Intermediate Inputs and Firms’ Productivity in the EU Food Industry| The aim of this contribution is to study empirically the effect of trade liberalization on productivity growth exploiting a large micro-dataset of more than 20,000 French and Italian food firms, over the 2004-2012 period. This relationship has been studied focusing on import penetration at both industry and upstream sectors level, to investigate the role played by imports in intermediate inputs. Main findings show that import penetration in both final products and intermediate inputs systematically contributed to firm-level productivity growth. Yet, the productivity growth effect induced by import penetration in upstream sectors is 10 times higher than the one at the industry level. Horizontal import competition coming from the EU15 and OECD countries exerts the strongest effect on productivity growth. By contrast, when vertical import penetration is considered, also sourcing intermediate inputs from emerging markets appears important for firms’ productivity growth. Finally, we also find a strong confirmation that the effects of import penetration are increasing with the initial level of firms’ productivity. All these stylized facts may have interesting policy implications.
L66|Food Processing Firms, Input Quality Upgrading and Trade| In this paper the heterogeneous firms and trade literature is extended by integrating quality of inputs and outputs in a food and agricultural setting. Recently, Sexton (2013) has suggested that intermediate agricultural input quality is critical in food processing firms’ output quality and pricing decisions. The results presented in this paper indicate that intermediate agricultural input quality, when combined with the quality of other food processing inputs, is important in analyzing the production decision-making of firms. Extending the model of Kugler and Verhoogen (2012), the quality of food processing inputs is integrated into the analysis in two ways: first, it affects the production of the final good, in that higher quality food processing inputs lower the marginal cost of producing the final good; and, second, food processing input quality is complementary to intermediate input quality in determining quality of the final good. By choosing these elements, firms become differentiated on a vertical (quality) level not only because of their capability draw and intermediate input quality choice, but also because of their choice of food processing inputs. Three key results are developed in the paper: first, larger firms, measured by revenue, charge a higher price for their final good, pay a higher price for their inputs, and produce a higher quality final good. Second, firms that produce for export destinations with a higher preference for quality, choose higher-quality inputs. Third, if preference for quality increases in export-destinations new firms enter the export market, while less capable firms are forced to exit.
L66|Can Voluntary Nutrition Labeling Lead to a Healthier Food Market?| This article reviews approaches to voluntary nutrition labeling (VNL), such as front-ofpackage (FOP) labels, that emerged in the 2001-2014 period to provide simplified nutrition information, thus lowering the search cost for nutritional information. We present a market model to assess consumer and producer responses to changes in information search cost brought about by VNL. We specifically focus on the introduction of VNL in the ready-toeat cereal (RTEC) market and illustrate trends in labeling and the overall healthfulness of RTEC products. Both the conceptual and empirical evidence suggest that VNL has been instrumental in attaining a healthier RTEC market. Finally, we suggest a research agenda to further theory development and empirical (experimental and big data) research to better comprehend the role of VNL in relation to market healthfulness.
L66|Field cross-fertilization between GM and non-GM maize in Mallorca: a Mediterranean insular approach|No abstract is available for this item.
L66|Dynamic versus static inefficiency assessment of the Polish meat‐processing industry in the aftermath of the European Union integration and financial crisis|This paper assesses the dynamic inefficiency of the Polish meat‐processing industry during the period between 2004 and 2012. This study employs also a comparison of dynamic with static inefficiency measures to address the importance of accounting for adjustment costs when measuring a firm's inefficiency. Dynamic and static cost inefficiencies and their decomposition into technical, allocative, and scale inefficiency are derived using Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). Results show that firms’ low levels of dynamic cost inefficiency are mainly due to dynamic allocative inefficiency rather than technical and scale inefficiency. The 2008 financial crisis appears to hamper firms’ dynamic technical performance, but has also a positive influence on the dynamic allocative and scale inefficiencies. We further show that the average static measures tend to underestimate all inefficiency components compared to dynamic counterparts. [EconLit citations: C61, D61, L66].
L66|Firm Organizational and Payoff Imbalances: An Aggrievement Model with Cooperatives and Private Firms| Firm Organizational and Payoff Imbalances: An Aggrievement Model with Cooperatives and Private Firms
L66|Quality Upgrading, Trade, and Market Structure in Food Processing Industries| In this paper the heterogeneous firms and trade literature is extended by integrating quality of inputs and outputs in a food and agricultural setting, along with an analysis of how the ability to translate capability into higher product quality is critical in evaluating the cut-offs for food processing firms to enter domestic and export markets. Specifically, it is found that the direction of change in the domestic market cut-off, due to an increased ability to raise quality, is sensitive to key parameters of the capability distribution; while for the export market cut-off the direction of change depends on the fixed costs of entry into and rents from exporting. These hypotheses are then tested for using panel data for Chilean food processors.
L66|An Analysis Of The Relation Between Wine Consumption And Cultural Models| The paper describes the correlation among grape-bearing areas, grape production, wine production, wine consumption and population figure for various countries. Secondly, it explains the correlation among wine consumption, wine consumer expenditure and a country’s cultural model with reference to the population’s religion in some countries. The statistical method used in testing these connections was the Bravais-Pearson correlation coefficient. An additional analysis of the distribution of grape production, wine production, and wine consumption for the world’s top ten countries was made. Although wine consumption is banned by Islam, Buddhism and Hinduism, there are some Muslim, Buddhist and Hindu majority countries with a high level of wine consumption per capita. This high level is determined neither by the other religion population nor by foreign tourists, but rather by the way in which religion is understood and practiced by individuals.
L66|Red Arrow Products Smokin’ Into the Future: Facing Changing Diets and New Challenges in the Food Industry| This case study is intended for use by undergraduates studying agribusiness and agricultural economics. The case introduces a firm whose products are minor ingredients for an iconic, but declining food item. The learning outcomes sought from this case is to: i) understand the structural changes in the meat industry and its implications on the production and demand for hot dogs; ii) examine the sources of competitive advantage faced by ingredient suppliers; and iii) analyze the elements of organizational change and the adaptive solutions in a declining market. The study, inter alia, includes concepts from agribusiness strategic management (i.e., industry driving forces, economic market structure, and competitive advantage), and supply chain management to examine the firm and industry.
L66|Consumer Testing for the Local Food Start-Up| Consumer tests are utilized by medium and large food companies to evaluate new products or test new product formulations on potential buyers. The typical objective is to examine various sensory attributes for liking and to examine whether adjustable product attributes such as saltiness, sweetness and texture are “Just About Right” or need reformulation, but packaging, message, and purchase intent questions can be incorporated or emphasized to evaluate the market. These pieces of information may help a company market its product to retailers or distributors by proof of liking or willingness to purchase. However, though this information is perhaps needed even more by those interested in starting-up a food company. A consumer test could help avoid serious losses in launching a product that consumers either don’t like sufficiently or which will require a price which consumers aren’t willing to pay. A consumer test can also help discover if small adjustments in formulation are needed. Properly executed such a study can also provide evidence to start marketing to retailers or look for financing. Unfortunately the costs of a professionally executed test can be prohibitive.
L66|Profitability factors in the meat industry of Castilla y León| A characterization of the meat companies of Castilla y León is performed in the 2009-2011 period from their accounting reports, with special emphasis on profitability and internal and external elements that relate to it. The application of cluster techniques leads to 5 groups according to their strategies of product differentiation (high margins) or cost leadership (high rotation). The three first groups include companies devoted to products of quality, with diverse results because while some firms obtain high margins in others are negative. The companies that manufacture products of half quality, with intermediate margins and rotations, present better results and perspectives. Meanwhile the cluster corresponding to meat processing, with the smallest margins and highest rotations, is the one who finds in worse situation, with negative returns in 2011. The estimated econometric model also shows how the size and location are crucial to explain the profitability of the meat firms of Castilla y León. Potentiation of both could slow the decline is detected in the 2009-2011 period.
L66|Oligopoly Power in the Food Industries Revisited: A Stochastic Frontier Approach| Since the late 1980s, the analysis of market power in the food industries has shifted from analyzing market concentration (structure) towards empirically measuring how far a market diverges from perfect competition (conduct). The New Empirical Industrial Organization (NEIO; usually offspring of the work of Appelbaum, 1982, or Bresnahan, 1982) has dominated the food economics literature on market power in the past 25 years (see Kaiser and Suzuki, 2006, for a summary of NEIO applications to food industries) and continues to do so (Cakir and Balagtas, 2012; Hovhannisyan and Gould, 2012; Cleary and Lopez, 2014). NEIO studies, in general, find a significant degree of oligopoly power in the food industries (Bhuyan and Lopez, 1997; Lopez, Azzam and Liron, 2002; Sheldon and Sperling, 2003). This study estimates mark-ups and oligopoly power for U.S. food industries using a stochastic frontier (SF; Kumbhakar, Baardsen and Lien, 2012; Baraigi and Azzam, 2014) approach, where mark-ups are treated as systematic deviations from a marginal cost pricing frontier. We apply the analysis to 36 U.S. food industries using NBER-CES Manufacturing Industry Database (2014), which covers a span of 31 years from 1979 to 2009. Empirical results show that all the food industries in the sample exercise at least some degree of oligopoly power, but most in a moderate manner. The estimated mean Lerner index is approximately 0.06, generally much lower than obtained using the conventional NEIO approaches. The SF model used provides a novel and promising framework to test and measure the degree of market power in agricultural and food markets.
L66|E-Cigarettes: The Extent and Impact of Complementary Dual-Use|The highly controversial e-cigarette industry has generated considerable policy debate and mixed regulatory responses worldwide. Surprisingly, an issue that has been largely ignored is the categorisation of e-cigarettes as substitutes or (dynamic) complements for conventional smoking. We conduct an online survey of US participants finding that 37% of e-cigarette users view them primarily as complementary. We use this result along-side publicly available data to calibrate a cost-benefit analysis, estimating that complementarity reduces the potential cost-savings of e-cigarettes by as much as 57% (or $3.3-4.9bn p.a.) relative to case with zero complementarity.
L66|No milk for the bear: the impact on the Baltic states of Russia's counter-sanctions|The Russian government banned in August 2014 imports of different food and agricultural products from the European Union as a countermeasure to sanctions introduced by the EU and several other countries after Russia's actions in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. This paper assesses the effect of Russia's counter-sanctions on the economies of the Baltic states using different statistics sources and an international inputâ€“output model, while taking into account possible data problems in international trade data due to re-exports. The amount of trade affected by Russia's counter-sanctions varies across the Baltic states. In 2013, the exports of goods affected amounted to 2.6% of GDP in Lithuania, 0.4% of GDP in Estonia, and 0.3% of GDP in Latvia, but re-exports are included in these numbers. The overall impact of the sanctions on GDP once intra-EU supply chains are taken into account is below 0.5% of GDP in all the Baltic states.
L66|The Impact Of Soda Sales Taxes On Consumption: Evidence From Scanner Data|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12101-abs-0001""> Scientific evidence on the effect of sugar consumption on obesity has propelled policy makers in several states across the United States to propose the imposition of a tax on soft drinks sales. In this article, we look at the effect of two tax events: a 5.5% sales tax on soft drinks imposed by the state of Maine in 1991 and a 5% sales tax on soft drinks levied in Ohio in 2003. We investigate this question by using sales data collected by scanner devices in the two states, where soda taxes where enacted as well as on neighboring states. We employ a difference-in-difference matching estimator (DIDM) that, in our setting, permits the comparison among treatment and control groups based on brand identity. Results suggest that neither sales tax had a statistically significant impact on the consumption of soft drinks. This finding is robust to several alternative specifications . ( JEL D12, H22, C90, L66)"
L66|Expert Opinion And Product Quality: Evidence From New York City Restaurants|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12178-abs-0001""> We analyze whether consumers' quality perception and/or producer investment of New York City restaurants, measured by Zagat scores, responds to newly appearing expert opinion, measured by Michelin scores. Answering this question is of general economic interest as it applies to all markets with information asymmetries. Employing a difference-in-differences approach as well as a propensity score matching approach we find significant Michelin treatment effects on food and décor quality. Based on these changes, we find a Michelin-induced price increase of approximately 30% per Michelin star. To examine whether the improved food and nonfood quality is based on restaurant investments or is merely imagined, we analyze nonfood investments by referring to Wine Spectator wine list awards. Our analysis suggests that Michelin-reviewed restaurants are significantly more likely to invest in their wine list than others. As a result, Michelin reviewed restaurants are more likely to improve food and nonfood (esp. décor) quality leading to significant price increases. However, while restaurants that increase prices only due to décor and service improvements are more likely to go out of business, food improvements appear to secure a restaurant's survival . ( JEL D11, L15, L66)"
L66|Choosing between Order-of-Entry Assumptions in Empirical Entry Models: Evidence from Competition between Burger King and McDonald's Restaurant Outlets|" type=""main""> We demonstrate how a non-nested statistical test developed by Vuong [1989] can be used to assess the suitability of alternate order-of-entry assumptions used for identification purposes in empirical entry models. As an example, we estimate an entry model of McDonald's and Burger King restaurant outlets in United States. The data set focuses on relatively small ‘isolated’ markets. For these markets, the non-nested tests suggest that order-of-entry assumptions that give Burger King outlets a first-mover advantage are statistically preferred. Last, a Monte Carlo experiment provides encouraging results suggesting that the Vuong-type test yields reliable results within the entry model framework."
L66|National Sentiment and Consumer Choice: The Iraq War and Sales of US Products in Arab Countries| Did the rise in anti-American sentiment caused by the Iraq war affect sales of US goods abroad? We address this question using data on soft drinks and fabric detergents sales in nine Arab countries. We find a statistically significant negative impact of the war on sales of US soft drinks in seven countries. The impact dissipates after a few months in two countries but persists in the other five. In the case of detergents, we only find a significant negative impact in one country. We conclude that international politics can sometimes affect consumer behavior and market outcomes.
L66|Economic Development, Novelty Consumption, and Body Weight: Evidence from the East German Transition to Capitalism|This paper develops a conceptual framework that can explain why economic development goes along with increases in body weight and obesity rates. We first introduce the concept of novelty consumption, which refers to an increase in food availability due to trade or innovation. Then we study how novel food products alter the optimal consumption bundle and welfare, and possibly lead to changes in body weight. We test our model employing the German reunification as a fast motion natural experiment of economic development. Our data elicit detailed information on East Germans' food consumption, body mass, and diet-related health. After the fall of the Wall, East Germans permanently changed their diet by consuming novel western food products. A significant population share permanently gained weight. This is consistent with our theoretical framework where past affects current consumption, and where novel goods determine consumption changes over time with ambiguous effects on diet-related health.
L66|A Single Espresso, Please! Rationalizing Espresso Price Dispersion Across Italian Cities|Abstract This paper aims at providing an explanation of the observed espresso price dispersion across major Italian cities. We present some preliminary empirical evidence that suggests a positive relationships between the average espresso price in a city and the number of coffee shops (normalized for the adult population) operating in that city. The finding is shown to be robust after controlling for GDP per capita and consumers’ price index. We provide an interpretation of the empirical findings relying on a model of price competition where firms adjust the mark-up to offset the negative effect of any increase in their number.
L66|Innovation et responsabilité sociale des entreprises (RSE) dans les entreprises agroalimentaires du Languedoc-Roussillon : le rôle de la performance économique|The relationship between innovation and CSR has so far resulted in studies that 1) mainly analyze the integration of CSR into the business as a generator of innovations and thus of economic performance, or 2) focus on the strategic dimensions of environmental innovation. Few publications examine the impact of innovation on CSR or the double relationship. The aim of this paper is to analyze the double relationship between innovative behavior and commitment to CSR, using an original scale to measure CSR performance, through the results of a survey of food companies in the Languedoc-Roussillon region. A bi-directional relation is confirmed: a commitment to CSR is positively related to innovation and reciprocally, but more assertively in the first direction. However, there is a positive effect of economic performance in the relationship between innovation and social performance, which suggests – against most of the literature – that the economic performance is a prerequisite for social performance. JEL Codes: L00, L66, M14, O31, L25
L66|Le développement d'une logistique durable dans la filière vitivinicole bourguignonne ? Identification des stratégies et pratiques|The objective of this paper is to analyze whether wine companies in Burgundy promote a sustainable logistics and how they implement it. The studied population consists of three types of actors (growers, cooperatives, traders). We were able to separate companies into two categories in order to identify the main trends in sustainable logistic strategies. The first category consists of companies with more sophisticated logistics while the second relates to smaller businesses and gives secondary importance to such strategies. However we show that other elements contribute to consider the importance of sustainable development. Thus, small companies with experience of distributing wine on different supply chains (including export), who outsource functions that are not central to their core activity to logistic service providers with whom they have a close relationship, who build lasting partnerships with stakeholders such as customers or develop innovations like pooling in logistics management or the use of batch carriers, can also be efficient in sustainable logistics and economic performance (cost reduction). JEL Codes: Q56, L66, Q52, R410
L66|Innover de façon plus juste ? De la place des connaissances dans un dispositif de coopération sciences sociales – industrie|This article analyzes a cooperation program between social sciences and industry, which aims to develop alternative approaches to design innovation within a food company. We question the ways in which socio-anthropological knowledge about food consumers are produced as part of this partnership, and are mobilized within the company to design more accurate innovations, in terms of responsibility and fitness to market. From a field survey at the interface between action and critical research, we first analyze the origin and the issue of the partnership between the company, social sciences and the kind of knowledge they generate. We then show the inherent difficulties of this cooperation, in terms of contrasted temporality between knowledge production and product design, boundaries of the methodology, and in the latter, emphasis put by the company on the socio-anthropological knowledge. JEL Codes : Z1, L66, O15, O32, O35
L66|Capacité d’innovation du prestataire de services logistiques et performance logistique perçue par l’industriel : quelle relation dans le contexte vietnamien ?|The rapid growth of logistics service providers (LSP) has become a reality in many developed countries, but also in economies in transition. They now offer a wide range of services to their clients, and they demonstrate a significant innovation capability in the creation of new value added services. The question is whether their clients are aware that innovation capability positively influences their logistical performance. If it is the case, it would mean that the most innovative LSP are in a favorable position on the market, and they can expect a strong loyalty of their clients. This article studies the link between the innovation capability of LSP and the logistical performance perceived by the manufacturer, from the results of a research conducted with 139 Vietnamese food manufacturers. JEL Codes : L66, L87, M10, R49
L66|The artisanal economy through the prism of practical actions: the case of the parisian glover-perfumers in the 18 th century|The guilds that partly organize artisanal work in urban areas in modern France have long been considered to be institutions that are shut away in their statutes and their regulations, protective of their monopolies, conventional and averse to innovation. This dubious image of artisans inherited, on the one hand, from the political culture of the French Revolution, which connected this particular way of organizing work with the society of orders and privileges, and on the other hand with a ?large enterprise culture? that has characterized the analyses of several French historians, is today being questioned. JEL Codes: L26, L66, N63, O31
L66|Behavioral Responses to Taxation: Cigarette Taxes and Food Stamp Take-Up|This paper investigates a previously unexplored behavioral response to taxation: whether smokers compensate for higher cigarette taxes by enrolling in food stamps. First, we show theoretically that increases in cigarette taxes can induce food stamp take-up of non-enrolled, eligible smoking households. Then, we study the theoretical predictions empirically by exploiting between and within-household variation in food stamp enrollment from the Current Population Survey as well as data from the Consumer Expenditure Survey. The empirical evidence strongly supports the model predictions. Higher cigarette taxes increase the probability that low-income smoking households take-up food stamps.
L66|The Effects of Productvity and Demand-Specific Factors on Plant Survival and Ownership Change in the U.S. Poultry Industry|In this paper we study the productivity-survival link in the U.S. poultry processing industry using the longitudinal data constructed from five Censuses of Manufactures between 1987 and 2007. First, we study the effects of physical productivity and demand-specific factors on plant survival and ownership change. Second, we analyze the determinants of the firm-level expansion. The results show that higher demand-specific factors decrease the probability of exit and increase the probability of ownership change. The effect of physical productivity on the probability of exit or ownership change is generally insignificant. Also, firms with higher demand-specific factors have higher probability to expand whereas the average firm-level physical productivity turns out to be an insignificant determinant of firm expansion.
L66|Branchen im Blickpunkt: Entwicklung und Perspektiven der Fleischerzeugung in Deutschland|In Deutschland hat sich in den letzten Jahren der Fleischverbrauch im Bereich der Größenordnung von etwa 60 kg pro Kopf eingependelt. Zeiten des mengenmäßigen Wachstums beim Fleischverzehr sind aus heutiger Sicht in den nächsten Jahren kaum mehr zu erwarten. Die Verbraucher im 21. Jahrhundert verlangen vor allem bessere Qualität.
