L67|Tarjetas de crédito en personas de ingresos medios y bajos en Colombia: ¿qué determina su uso?|Se investigan los determinantes del uso de la tarjeta Crédito Fácil Codensa, utilizando las características demográficas de los tarjetahabientes. Este mecanismo de financiación, de uso generalizado en Bogotá por parte de personas cuyos ingresos se encuentran en la parte baja de la distribución, se utiliza para la financiación de consumo de bienes semidurables (muebles, electrodomésticos, computadores, etc.) y no durables (alimentos, prendas de vestir, etc.). Son algo más de 1.000.000 de clientes al finalizar el período de estudio. Analizamos los determinantes del cupo de crédito, la probabilidad de uso de la tarjeta y el valor de las compras para el período 2010-2015. Ingreso, educación, edad, género, estrato y vivienda propia son determinantes del cupo de crédito junto con variables indicadoras de la fase del ciclo, el comportamiento del mercado laboral y la liquidez de la economía (tasa de intervención de la autoridad monetaria, aproximada por la Tasa Interbancaria, TIB). La probabilidad de compra está determinada no solo por el ambiente macroeconómico, sino también por variables individuales, entre las cuales, el ingreso permanente figura reduciendo dicha probabilidad. El monto de las compras mensuales está determinado por la tasa de interés vigente en el mes de las compras, la tasa de usura y por características individuales como el ingreso, la edad, la educación y el género. Se presenta evidencia de restricciones de liquidez para personas que tienen una alta utilización el cupo; sin embargo, las decisiones de la mayoría de los agentes no distan de la hipótesis de ciclo de vida-ingreso permanente. **** ABSTRACT: The determinants of the Crédito Fácil Codensa card usage are investigated, using the demographic characteristics of cardholders. This financing mechanism, widely used in Bogotá by people (more than 1.000.000 at the end of the sample period) whose income is in the lower part of the distribution, is used to finance the consumption of semi-durable goods (furniture, household appliances, computers, etc.) and non-durable goods (food, clothing, etc.). We analyze the determinants of the credit quota, the probability of using the card and the value of purchases for the period 2010-2015. Income, education, age, gender stratum and own housing are determinants of the credit limit along with variables indicating the phase of the cycle, the labor market performance, and the liquidity of the economy represented by the policy rate (proxied by the Interbank Rate, TIB). The probability of purchase is determined not only by the macroeconomic environment, but also by individual variables. Permanent income reduces the likelihood of buying. The amount of monthly purchases is determined by the current interest rate in the month of purchases or usury rate and by individual characteristics such as income, age, education, gender of the individual. There is evidence of liquidity restrictions for people who have a high use of the card limit. However, the decisions of most agents are not that far from the permanent income-life cycle hypothesis.
L67|Activism and Trade|This paper studies the effect of activism on the imports of consumer products, by focusing on an event which generated massive consumer mobilization against neglecting firms, namely the collapse of the Rana Plaza building affecting the textile industry in Bangladesh. We hypothesize that this episode was a main shock in the perceived quality of clothing producers sourcing in Bangladesh. Using detailed import flows on textile goods from OECD countries, we analyze whether the imports of consumer products were affected by the disclosure of information, in countries differently exposed to the collapse. To proxy the amount of information received by individuals in different countries, we use the nationality of the firms involved in the Rana Plaza building: soon after the disaster, NGOs and the media insisted on the origin countries of the neglecting companies, publishing the list of misbehaving firms by nationality. We use a difference-indifference approach to compare the imports from Bangladesh of countries having been differently associated in the news to the Rana Plaza collapse. Results show a post-disaster decrease in imports for countries whose firms were directly involved in the Rana Plaza building. The effect has to be interpreted relatively to the evolution of imports of similar countries, however not linked to the collapsed Rana Plaza knitting factories. While aggregate imports from Bangladesh continue to increase during the whole period (2010-2016), there is a marked disruption that affects countries whose brands were named and shamed by activists and the media after the disaster. No such differential pattern is observed for non-textile goods. Our results are robust to a variety of checks.
L67|Do sustainable energy policies matter for reducing greenhouse gas emissions?|Yes, they matter. To reply to this question, we assess the impact of energy efficiency and renewable energy policies on six different air pollutants: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxides (N2O), non-methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) in the case of the Italian provinces in the decade 2005-2015. The empirical analysis is performed in a panel data context by means of propensity score matching with multiple treatment, since our framework is characterized by the presence of two treatments, corresponding to the two different energy policies analyzed, i.e. energy efficiency policy and renewable policy. These two policies can be applied by each province as mutually exclusive strategies or as joint strategies. Our results show that renewable policies are the most efficient in terms of climate goals especially when planned on a local scale, while energy efficiency policies alone are ineffective. Moreover, the success of these policies depends on the type of pollutant to be reduced. Finally, we note that the effect of these two policies was reinforced by the counter-cyclical fiscal policies implemented to contrast the Global Financial Crisis in 2008.
L67|What explains India’s poor performance in garments exports: evidence from five clusters?|In this paper, we examine the Indian apparel industry to examine the effect of clusters on the sales of this industry. The data has been collected through a primary survey in five garments clusters in India. The variable that is significant in explaining sales in most equations is technology proxied by imported machinery. It has been argued that inter-firm linkages and linkages between firms, service providers and institutions are crucial for competitiveness and this is best achieved through a cluster. Studies on clusters have shown that some clusters have been able to deepen their inter-firm division of labour, raise their competitiveness and break into international markets. Agglomeration may arise from the specialization of a region in a particular industry where firms share common inputs or knowledge. We argue that the main reason for India’s poor performance in garments (compared to other South Asian countries such as Bangladesh) is the lack of proper clusters. The development of the cluster in India has followed the ‘top down’ approach and the natural process through which linkages are developed are yet to occur in most clusters.
L67|Do young innovative companies create more jobs? Evidence from Pakistani textile firms|Using unique innovation survey data collected among a homogenous sample of firms active in the textiles and apparel sector in Pakistan, this paper analyses the role of innovation for employment growth. In particular, it develops and tests the hypothesis that innovation is conducive to employment creation, and that this is especially the case for smaller and younger firms, supporting the hypothesis that young innovative companies grow faster by engaging in riskier and more radical innovation to catch up with incumbent firms. We find empirical evidence for these hypotheses, which is robust to different model specifications and estimation techniques and to different measures of innovation. Young innovative companies also perform well in absolute employment creation making them interesting from a policy perspective.
L67|Working Paper 299 - The Structure and Performance of the Ethiopian Manufacturing Sector|Although Ethiopia has emerged as one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies, its manufacturing sector is still far from being an engine of growth and economic transformation. It currently plays a marginal role in employment creation, exports, and output, and falls short on stimulating domestic linkages. The sector is dominated by small firms and resource-based industries, low-value and low technology products, and weak inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral linkages. The manufacturing sector’s export orientation has been low and stagnant. Based on data and evidence from the past 25 years, the paper provides an in-depth analysis of the structure. and performance of the Ethiopian manufacturing sector and further explores the reasons behind the ‘paradox’ of the slow growth of industrial outputs and structural shifts. Since the mid-2010s, however, there are some promising signals that the manufacturing sector might be coming out of its doldrums and showing positive dynamics. The paper summarizes the growing challenges of building an industrial workforce and domestic capability, together with export capacity. The findings from this study show a bias for hope, as well as a potential structural transformation. JEL classification: L16, L60, L67, 014. Keywords: Ethiopia, firms, industries, manufacturing, structural transformation, industrial structure, industrialization, industrial policy, linkages, industrial parks.
L67|Cadena productiva de papel, cartón e industria gráfica Estructura, comercio internacional y protección|Utilizando el concepto de cadena productiva este documento propone una metodología para describir la evolución de las empresas industriales que elaboran productos del papel y de la industria gráfica para el período 2001 – 2017. Utilizando la Matriz Insumo – Producto del Sector Industrial (MIPSI), el documento identifica las principales etapas y subprocesos que hacen parte del proceso productivo y presenta el flujograma de la cadena productiva. El documento presenta también un conjunto de indicadores que caracterizan la cadena productiva: número de empresas; distribución geográfica y por tamaño empresarial; valor de la producción; concentración geográfica de la producción; nivel de encadenamiento de los eslabones intermedios; exportaciones e importaciones; concentración de las exportaciones e importaciones por socio comercial y por eslabones finales; creación y desviación de comercio derivada de los acuerdos comerciales firmados por Colombia; tasa de protección efectiva y nominal; y prospectiva de las exportaciones en mercados estratégicos
L67|Globalisation and the Gender Earnings Gap: Evidence from Sri Lanka and Cambodia 1992-2015|This paper focuses on how the forces of globalisation, specifically the Multi-Fibre Arrangement (MFA), have affected women's wages in the apparel sector in developing countries. Using household and labour force surveys from Cambodia and Sri Lanka, we find large positive wage premiums and a closing of the male-female wage gap during the MFA period, but smaller premiums and a widening wage gap after the end of the MFA. Our results suggest that apparel exports continued to benefit women in developing countries post-MFA.
L67|Global Value Chains and Vertical Specialization: The case of Portuguese Textiles and Shoes exports|This paper evaluates the growing participation of the Portuguese economy, and especially of the textiles, leather, and shoes industry, in the so-called Global Value Chains (GVCs).We use the 2016 edition of the World Input-Output Database (WIOD) to empirical assess the changes in the geography of imports and exports of the Portuguese textiles, leather and shoes industry as well as quantify the growing vertical specialization in this sector. We also measure value added, import and employment coefficients for the Portuguese economy and the Portuguese textiles, leather, and shoes sector. The results show that Portuguese textiles, leather, and shoes trade have been more concentrated in Spain, Italy, India and China and less concentrated in Germany, France, and the United Kingdom. This sector is more relevant in the Portuguese economy than in any other Eurozone economy in terms of output, employment and value-added, and it has been recovering its relevance in the Portuguese economy since 2009.Textiles, leather, and shoes is the manufacturing industry with the higher potential to generate new jobs in Portugal. Despite the negative contribution of the financial crisis, vertical specialization of Portuguese textiles, leather, and shoes exports have been increasing ever since.
L67|At the roots of China's striking performance in textile exports: a comparison with its main Asian competitors|This paper analyzes the determinants of China's striking performance in textile exports in the time period 2001-2016. We integrate the analysis by Lall and Albaladejo (World Development, 2004), based only on China and its main Asian competitors' market share dynamics, by estimating an extended version of a traditional export function, derived from the imperfect substitute model, including a proxy of non-price competitiveness. The key long-run elasticities for each Asian exporter are thus computed and discussed in a panel-data framework, and the different export performances are examined taking into account the interaction between the estimated parameters and the growth rates of relative prices, world income and product quality. Lastly, we decompose the textile export growth differences between China and its rivals into the three main channels of trade competition, i.e. price, quantity and quality. Our findings show that China is crowding out most of its rivals with a competitive strategy based on a mix of low and decreasing relative prices and non-price policies aiming at stimulating export volumes. However, certain weaknesses in the Chinese trade prospects emerge when quality improvement is considered.
L67|Proposed Methodology for Strategic Trade Policy to Achieve High Value Added Exports: A Case of Pakistan’s Textile Sector|This paper proposes a new methodology through which a list of specific intermediate inputs can be generated for a strategic reduction in tariff rates to climb up the export value chain. This methodology can be extended across all the manufacturing sectors in countries where the technology is constrained and the economy relies on great chunk of imported goods. We argue that by reducing the tariffs on selective range of inputs; low priced, high quality intermediate inputs can be made available to the local manufacturer that will lead to better quality exports of the final product. We take a conservative approach to propose a sequence of tariff reduction on intermediate inputs based upon its importance ranging from a scale of being extremely important to less important, ultimately to promote high value added exports. We do so, by comparing the average quality of each respective intermediate input available to the local manufacturer with the quality of the same intermediate input imported from abroad to strategically propose the final list of intermediate inputs that should be considered for tariff reduction (at HS-6 Digit Code). Next, a cross country comparison of tariff rates between Pakistan, India and Sri Lanka is done to show where the potential of tariff reductions exist for Pakistan. Finally, this list at HS-6 digit code is extended at HS-8 digit code to further precisely identify the inputs. We present the case of Pakistan’s textile sector, and apply this methodology as an illustration to identify a list of intermediate inputs for strategic reductions in tariffs.
L67|Product Variety, Across-Market Demand Heterogeneity, and the Value of Online Retail|Online retail gives consumers access to an astonishing variety of products. However, the additional value created by this variety depends on the extent to which local retailers already satisfy local demand. To quantify the gains and account for local demand, we use detailed data from an online retailer and propose methodology to address a common issue in such data - sparsity of local sales due to sampling and a significant number of local zeros. Our estimates indicate products face substantial demand heterogeneity across markets; as a result, we find gains from online variety that are 30% lower than previous studies.
L67|Product Variety, Across-Market Demand Heterogeneity, and the Value of Online Retail|Online retail gives consumers access to an astonishing variety of products. However, the additional value created by this variety depends on the extent to which local retailers already satisfy local demand. To quantify the gains and account for local demand, we use detailed data from an online retailer and propose methodology to address a common issue in such data- sparsity of local sales due to sampling and a significant number of local zeros. Our estimates indicate products face substantial demand heterogeneity across markets; as a result, we find gains from online variety that are 45% lower than previous studies.
L67|Zone Pricing in Retail Oligopoly|We quantify the welfare effects of zone pricing, or setting common prices across distinct markets, in retail oligopoly. Although monopolists can only increase profits by price discriminating, this need not be true when firms face competition. With novel data covering the retail home-improvement industry, we find that Home Depot would benefit from finer pricing but that Lowe's would prefer coarser pricing. Zone pricing softens competition in markets where firms compete, but it shields consumers from higher prices in rural markets, where firms might otherwise exercise market power. Overall, zone pricing produces higher consumer surplus than finer price discrimination does.
L67|Decomposition of Gender Income Gap in Rural Informal Micro-enterprises: An Unconditional Quantile Approach in the Handloom Industry|There exists a noteworthy gender income gap in the micro-entrepreneurial activities, and typically the females earn lower than the males. While such gender income gap in wage employment is well-documented, the aspect needs attention in the context of the micro-en-trepreneurship, particularly in the informal sector. It is important to analyze how differently the gender difference in endowments affect the income of the male and the female micro-entrepreneurs. The present study, based on primary data, analyses gender income gap and its compositions throughout the income distribution of the handloom micro-entrepreneurs in Assam. On an average, the female micro-entrepreneurs earn 51 percent lesser than their male counterpart. The unconditional quantile decomposition reveals that the gender income gap increases along the income distribution. The differences in the productive characteristics (endowment effects) explain much of the income gap at the median level and beyond than the heterogeneous returns to such characteristics (discriminatory effects). The endowment effects related to education, financial literacy, risk attitude, SHGs membership, and technol-ogy adoption are found in favor of the male micro-entrepreneurs. The results suggest that poor management of entrepreneurial activities of the female results in wider gender gap throughout the income distribution. The study urges for policy prescriptions towards dis-semination of technological, financial, and managerial know-how to make the females more organized towards addressing the gender income gap.
L67|Participación online del cliente en el sector de la moda|Desde una revisión de la literatura, el presente trabajo muestra la relevancia de las acciones de colaboración abierta o co-creación online entre usuarios y empresas del sector textil español. El objetivo es plantear cómo la actual implicación del cliente en acciones de co-creación online en el sector, puede configurar un nuevo escenario de participación o colaboración en Internet. La activa participación online del usuario a través de la aportación de ideas, creaciones o cambios para el sector, es un planteamiento relevante siendo además el medio online, una excelente plataforma de interacción.
L67|Brand wars in cyberspace: a GIS solution|In the first sight, it seems to be obvious that Nike, the well-known US sports equipment company, is predominant in Great Britain; however, the European (German) giant, Adidas also happens to be very popular in the country. The duel between the global first and second sportswear companies can be traced back to not just their sales numbers in a bid to gain larger market share, but also to soft factors, such as reputation. The only problem is that reputation can be at best measured by well-organized questionnaire data of population samples, which are sometimes difficult to administer. However, this issue can be also solved by capturing the presence of indirect knowledge about the brands, for example, from the geographically localizable content of cyberspace. The indirect application of digital footprints in scientific analyses has notable examples, in which the conclusions are based on the examination of digital data that have been generated as by-products of socio-economic phenomena.
L67|What is the effect of inflation on consumer spending behaviour in Ghana?|The paper examines the effect of inflation on consumer spending behaviour in Ghana during the period 1964 to 2013 using annual data. The analysis of the results was done using Ordinary least square test (OLS), the Johansen test (JH), and Vector Error Correction (VECM) test. The findings of the studies based on the JH tests showed stable significant long run relationship between inflation and consumer spending behaviour. The findings of the study shows significant short run relationship between inflation and consumer spending using the VECM. The results of the OLS test show there is positive relationship between inflation and consumer spending behaviour. Policy makers should take into account the findings of the study in managing the economy. Future studies on causality and structural break are worth undertaking.
L67|The phase-out of second-hand clothing imports: what impact for Tanzania?|The East African Community has begun phasing-out imports of second-hand clothing to promote the development of the domestic garment sector. Using trade data and information obtained from the exporters, this study produces the first estimate of disaggregated imports of second-hand clothing in Tanzania. The net import of used clothing is estimated at over 540 million pieces per year, compared to a domestic production of new clothing of 20 million pieces and import of 177 million pieces of new clothing. This study assesses the short-term impact of the phase-out on the domestic garment sector. Depending on the substitutability between new and used clothing, the phase-out could prompt increased import of new clothing. It could also prompt employment losses and generate costs for the poorest consumers. In the longer term, the phase-out is unlikely to promote the development of the garment sector unless the existing constraints are properly addressed.
L67|Die Beziehungen der Norddeutschen Wollkämmerei und Kammgarnspinnerei zu den Banken|The Relationship of the Norddeutsche Wollkämmerei und Kammgarnspinnerei (Nordwolle Group) with the Banks: Research into the relationship between banking and industry has long held the view that banks had dominated their clientele from industry, trade and retailing and they had established a position of power that was almost impossible to reign in. More recent studies question this assessment and deliver impressive evidence that the relationship between industry and banks was often characterized by information asymmetries. For example, major companies often withheld information about their earnings performance during credit negotiations so that the banks had to make large risk provisions which reduced their profitability. This was also true for the Nordwolle textile group, which had financed the expansion of its business during the Weimar Republic primarily from outside capital, first and foremost using loans from various banks. In obtaining these loans, the Group's management succeeded repeatedly in playing competing banks against one another. Even major banks such as Danat-Bank, Berliner Handelsgesellschaft, and probably Dresdner Bank as well, placed major bets on getting Nordwolle to commit itself as a client. As long as the banks could be talked into believing that company was profitable and continually expanding, the banks were ready to grant new loans. Not until the spring of 1931, after indications about the Group's actual situation had made the rounds did the banks push through extensive audits of the company's financial statements. That the efforts to rescue Nordwolle ultimately remained fruitless was not least a result of the new-found caution in awarding additional loans.
L67|The clash of rural-urban migrants and real estate investors on Phnom Penh's housing market: Prospects for garment workers|Housing markets of large cities around the world, particularly in so-called developing and emerging countries, are currently experiencing a clash: On the one hand, large numbers of labour migrants arrive from rural areas and need cheap rental housing. On the other hand, international real estate investment, particularly in the upper market segment, is strong. The resulting mismatch of housing demand and supply increases segregation, marginalises the vulnerable and leads to massive urban development problems. Phnom Penh illustrates this particularly well: Along with Cambodia's rapid globalisation in the last decades, hundreds of thousands of migrants, particularly garment workers, have moved to the capital. Housing for them is insufficient both in terms of supply and quality, though, because Phnom Penh's entrepreneurial mode of governance also attracts many investors, who focus on more profitable and prestigious real estate projects, often linked to speculation. These push land values up and push cheap rental housing further and further outside the city. This study carries out an indepth analysis of the prospects for rural-urban migrant workers on Phnom Penh's investor-driven housing market by firstly outlining both migration and real estate investment trends and by secondly examining the case of garment workers' housing. To complement the scarce literature on the topic, field research and expert interviews have been conducted. From these, an assessment of the status quo, of stakeholders' approaches to it and finally, proposals for action are derived.
L67|The Effect of Industrial Cluster Policy on Firm Performance in Ethiopia: Evidence from the Leather Footware Cluster| This paper empirically analyzes the productivity, profitability, innovation and network effects of a public policy promoting micro and small scale industrial clusters in Ethiopia. To this end, firm-level survey data was collected from randomly selected clustered leather shoe manufacturers that have directly benefited from the policy and those that do not, both before and after the cluster policy intervention. The results from econometric analysis suggests that the industrial cluster policy adversely impacts the productivity, profitability, growth, and innovation performance of the small and micro leather shoe manufacturing enterprises that moved to the government created clusters . The analysis of the transmission mechanism further reveals that the relocated cluster policy hampers the treated firms’ collaborative business and knowledge network and aggravates their growth impediments which includes lack of trust, high customer and supplier search and reach cost, lack of market information, imperfect contract enforcement, delays in the supply of raw materials and the lack of skilled labor. The time lag between policy implementation and its impacts may conceal the long-term impact of the cluster policy. The overwhelming majority of the representatives of treatment group firms also continue to believe that their buisness performance will improve over time as a result of their participation in the MSE cluster development program. This study is a pioneer to quantitatively evaluate the productivity, profitability, innovation and network effect of industrial cluster policy in Ethiopia.
L67|Workers Beneath the Floodgates: Low-Wage Import Competition and Workers' Adjustment|Using employee-employer matched data for the period 1999 to 2010, I analyze the impact of a low-wage trade shock on manufacturing workers in a high-wage country, Denmark, and how they adjust to the shock over a decade. To derive causal effects I exploit the dismantling of import quotas on Chinese products with China’s accession to the WTO as a quasi-experiment and utilize within-industry, within-occupation heterogeneity in workers’ exposure to this trade shock. Showing significant negative effect on workers’ earnings and employment trajectories over the decade, the study identifies job instability in the service sector as a main adjustment friction which is concentrated among workers with manufacturing specific education and occupation. The results establish the importance of specific human capital in trade adjustment and provide evidence of skill upgrading at the individual level as workers re-build lost human capital through education.
L67|Nachhaltiger Konsum und Textilabkommen: Sollten Unternehmen und Konsumenten auf die Einhaltung von Mindeststandards verpflichtet werden?|Im Oktober 2014 wurde das Bündnis für nachhaltige Textilien von Vertretern der Wirtschaft, Zivilgesellschaft, Standardorganisationen und Gewerkschaften gegründet, um soziale, ökologische und ökonomische Verbesserungen entlang der Textillieferkette zu erreichen. Zeichnen sich nach etwas über einem Jahr Gültigkeit erste Erfolge ab? Sabine Ferenschild, SÜDWIND e.V. Institut für Ökonomie und Ökumene, sieht ein Manko des Textilbündnisses darin, dass es auf Freiwilligkeit beruht. Positiv dagegen seien die Berücksichtigung aller textilen Verarbeitungsstufen sowie die Abdeckung einer breiten Palette inhaltlicher Standards im sozialen wie im ökologischen Bereich. Gegenwärtig könne man weder von einem Gelingen noch von einem Scheitern sprechen, da das Bündnis noch mit der Schaffung seiner eigenen Grundlagen beschäftigt sei. Stefan Körzell, DGB, unterstreicht, dass insbesondere die Unternehmen dafür Sorge tragen müssen, dass ihre weltweiten Produktionsstandorte oder die ihrer Zulieferer sicher sind. Dies dürfe nicht auf Freiwilligkeit beruhen, sondern erfordere strengere Haftungsregeln für Unternehmen, und zwar auf nationaler und internationaler Ebene. Nach Ansicht von Thomas Silberhorn, Bundesministerium für wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit und Entwicklung, ist das Bündnis ein Beispiel dafür, wie Politik, Wirtschaft und Zivilgesellschaft gemeinsam an sozialen und ökologischen Verbesserungen arbeiten können. Aber auch ein kritisches Bewusstsein der Verbraucher sei notwendig, damit die Nachfrage nach nachhaltig hergestellten Waren- und Dienstleistungen steige und dadurch Anreize für die Unternehmen gesetzt werden, nachhaltiger zu produzieren.
L67|Development of Network-Ranking Model to Create the Best Production Line Value Chain: A Case Study in Textile Industry|The main reason for creating value chain is fulfilling needs and organizational resources with the least cost and highest quality. Application of most of the current techniques has merely intended to choose the best scenario. But industrial units need to build an ideal scenario as a value chain which focuses on intangible interstitial and hidden factors: good (good nature), bad (bad nature), fixed (obligatory nature) and free (not identifying their nature) and creates value. Therefore, the model presented in this article answers this issue. First of all we present a model based on the network approach of data envelopment analysis, then we assess and rank the stages based on the scenarios for the stages forming the value chain and finally, the ideal decision unit is presented. For this reason, the general efficiency is designed with two natures; 1.input-centered (concentration on the costs) and 2.output-centered (concentration on the incomes).
L67|Quota restrictions and intra-firm reallocations: Evidence from Chinese exports to the US|We study how Chinese textile and clothing firms adjusted the product structure of their exports to the US, as triggered by the termination of Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) quotas. We find that the removal of MFA quotas induced firms to expand their product scope while reducing the concentration on their core product. These effects are strong for domestic and foreign privately-owned firms, but insignificant for state-owned firms.
L67|Ex-garment female workers: a new entrepreneurial community in Mauritius|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to investigate the characteristics of the ex-garment workers that have turned to self-employment either in the formal or informal sector in the wake of the termination of the multi-fibre arrangement, which led to job losses. This move has given rise to a new community of entrepreneurs in the Mauritian landscape. Hence, this paper tells a story of women empowerment to disempowerment and finally the struggle for them to get re-empowered. This study also shows that there has been a limit to which self-employment led to empowerment for these women as their incomes are low, and they remain in vulnerable positions. Design/methodology/approach - – The study analyses the transformation of a sample of ex-garment workers into new entrepreneurs. The analysis in this paper rests on survey data collected from 92 ex-garment female workers, who are presently self-employed in either the formal or informal sectors, in different parts of Mauritius. Findings - – The findings reveal that the self-employed women in the sample, who are also ex-garment female workers, are essentially necessity-driven entrepreneurs. Most of them have only basic primary education and seem to have no other choice than to engage either formally or informally in similar activities, given their prior knowledge and experience in the textile and clothing industries. The authors also find evidence of statistically significant differences across age, marital status and household size between those women in the informal sector compared to those engaged in the formal sector. Research limitations/implications - – Resource constraints aside, this study could benefit from a larger sample cutting across many other sub-sectors. So far, the results of this study are only applicable to the specific sample studied. In terms of implications, the study finds that the relevant authorities should come up with targeted policies to help these women and address and alleviate the barriers that they face. Practical implications - – This study provides an insight to help explain why a large group of women have gone into self-employment in Mauritius in the past 10 years. The authors find that self-employment has provided an empowerment outlet for these women so that they can financially contribute to their household income. From the policy-making perspective, this implies that it is important for the government to support the activities of these self-employed women with conducive policies. Originality/value - – The study helps to advance knowledge on self-employed women in a small vulnerable island economy context. Given that the transition from being employed to unemployed and then the move to self-employment happened in a rather short span of time for these women, the contribution of this study is also to put at the forefront the industrial changes and the individual coping strategies.
L67|Religious Heritage Tourism and Creative Economy in Cirebon: The Diversity of Religious, Cultures and Culinary|Cirebon has an element of completeness in tourism management. Religious, heritage and tourism is a combination of three industry from the perspective of economics that play a role in the development of tourism and has the potential to encourage people's creativity in the economic sector. With a qualitative approach, this study confirms the religious heritage and the creative economy tourism the icon for Cirebon in developing the tourism industry, including travel and religious culture as well as a variety of culinary and crafts.
L67|Technology in the Sialkot Gloves Manufacturing Sector|This paper uses a unique sample of sports glove manufacturers from Sialkot to develop an index of technological sophistication. The data shows that total factor productivity (TFP) and total revenue productivity (TRP) cluster around their mean levels. The medium-tech and high-tech firms seem to have a higher TFP and LP than the low-tech firms. Another interesting result is that, across firms, the level of retained earnings has a negative impact on TFP and TRP.
L67|The Afghan Carpet Industry: Issues and Challenges|his paper describes the current issues and challenges that the carpet industry in Afghanistan is facing. The context of this paper is based on review of literature, policy papers and interviews carried out with public and private institutions, carpet producers/ weavers and sellers/traders. Millions of people are directly and indirectly employed and earn their income from this sector in major hand-made carpet producers and exporters of Asian countries including Afghanistan. The Afghan carpets export rose rapidly from USD 4 million in 2001/02 to USD 216 million in 2005/06. After six years the export trend considerably slumped to USD 44 million, which also abruptly affected domestic carpets production. The main issues and challenges found are: competition from other Asian carpet producers and exporters, lack of branding and market linkage, lack of access to finance, low quality raw materials, inadequate cut and wash facilities, lack of market research and limited training, endemic corruption etc. Considering the current unemployment and poverty condition, the cited issues and challenges of the industry should be tackled. To do so, there is a great need of huge and concrete attention plus strong cooperation by the Afghan government, private sector, donor agencies and NGOs.
L67|The Effects of Brand Perception in the Purchase of “Made in Italy” and “Made in China” Fashion Products in Nigeria|Products’ perception is a critical part of the consumer attitude and has significant impact on buying behaviour. Consumer attitude which reflects in buying behaviour is a corollary of the decision making process where consumers interpret information inputs and make meaningful choices among alternative products. These are formulated into marketing strategies intended to enable the seller establish a market either locally or internationally. The present study attempts to examine how the Nigerian consumer perceive branding strategies used by fashion manufacturers of Italian and Chinese country of origin (COO). Convenience sampling was conducted on a sample of 300 consumers in a cross-sectional survey (223 valid responses). Using T-test, the study found that consumers perceive a significant difference (Italy superior to China) in terms of attributes, values and product benefits between the products labelled from these two countries and closely correlated in terms of cultural dimensions of craftmanship and business tradition.
L67|Innovation Strategies in Indian Textile Sector – Evidence from Surat Textile Cluster|Though India has comparative advantage in labour intensive sector like textile, India’s performance in this sector is not too impressive on the export front. In this context, this paper argues that lack of innovation culture could be one of the principal reasons for India’s poor performance. This hypothesis is tested by conducing primary survey in one of the more dynamic textile cluster in Northern India namely, Surat and adjoining areas. Our findings do indicate lack of product as well as organisational innovation culture in this region, which may be a serious bottleneck in competitive export market. We do find that firms score well in respect of marketing innovation which probably suggests that competitive pressure has increased due to the globalization of the economy. Firms are also found to be keen in respect of process innovation to reduce cost in the aftermath of increased pace of competition in the sector.
L67|Identifying the Factors affecting the customer’s Buying Behavior: A case study of Men’s cosmetic Market in Karachi, Pakistan|The purpose of this study was to determine various factors such as age, occupation, income, models and celebrity influence, as well as the role of metrosexuals (independent variables), which have an effect on consumers in buying men’s cosmetic products (dependent variable). Specific objectives were to study the impact of factors affecting customers buying behavior in the men’s cosmetic market, to determine the impact of appearance on a person’s success in their professional life, as well as to ascertain the age group which uses men’s products the most. A study of the literature review suggested factors which affect the buying behavior of men purchasing male cosmetic products include age, occupation, income, celebrity influence and a rise in the metrosexual phenomenon, however, the research problem pertained to a lack of knowledge on how much of these factors individually affect consumer behavior with regards to purchases. As such, the study was significant and therefore needed to be carried out to examine the impact of various factors on the buying of men’s cosmetic products. Methodology used in this study was quantitative in nature. The method of primary data collection was carried out through a close ended questionnaire administered to 50 participants. Collected data was tabulated, and the analysis was conducted with the help of SPSS. It was concluded that age, occupation, and role of metrosexuals has had a significant impact on the consumer’s buying behavior in relation to the purchase of men’s cosmetics especially in Karachi. It was found out that majority of the people believed that using men’s cosmetics helps them in succeeding in their occupation, improves their appearance , spend a sum of money on buying men’s cosmetics. This study will be helpful for new researchers to understand the impact of these various factors on consumers in buying men’s cosmetic products in Karachi, and for manufacturers to align their promotion strategies for maximum effect.
L67|Permanence and competitive success of the SMIs located in Libertador municipalitiy Mérida, Venezuela|Permanence and success of small and medium enterprises are always threatened; however, many manage to transcend. The investigation aims to figure out the factors significant in the permanence and the competitive success of the small and medium industrial enterprises located in Libertador municipality Merida, Venezuela. For this, 48 industrial companies were studied, with at least 6 years in business. The data was analyzed by descriptive methods, tests of independence (Ji-square), and simple correspondence. Two factors resulted significant: a) managerial capacities (raw material negotiation and experience) and b) demographic (entrepreneur age). Also the small companies result more dynamic and pro successfully from internal perspective.
L67|The Market for Training Services: A Demand Experiment with Bangladeshi Garment Factories|We marketed a training program for lower level managers (line supervisors) to large factories in the Bangladeshi ready-made garment industry. Take-up of the program (even for a free slot) was low, due to intense production pressures, fire-fighting and concerns over retention of trained workers. Take-up is quite insensitive to pricing. There was higher interest and demand in training modules aimed at improving production processes and quality, rather than human resources and social compliance. Since the program was priced close to a commercially viable rate, it might be possible to develop a market provided they could be proved to be effective.
L67|Markup and Cost Dispersion across Firms: Direct Evidence from Producer Surveys in Pakistan|Researchers typically invoke theoretical assumptions to estimate mark-ups. Instead, we directly obtain mark-ups by surveying Pakistani soccer-ball producers. We document six facts: (i) Mark-ups are more dispersed than costs; (ii) Mark-ups and costs increase with firm size; (iii) The mark-up elasticity with respect to size exceeds the cost elasticity; (iv) Costs increase with size because larger firms use higher-quality inputs; (v) Larger firms charge higher mark-ups because they have higher production shares of high-quality balls that carry higher mark-ups, and because they charge higher mark-ups conditional on ball type; (vi) Correlations suggest marketing efforts are important for generating higher mark-ups.
L67|Evaluating Behaviorally Motivated Policy: Experimental Evidence from the Lightbulb Market|Imperfect information and inattention to energy costs are important potential motivations for energy efficiency standards and subsidies. We evaluate these motivations in the lightbulb market using a theoretical model and two randomized experiments. We derive welfare effects as functions of reduced-form sufficient statistics capturing economic and psychological parameters, which we estimate using a novel within-subject information disclosure experiment. The main results suggest that moderate subsidies for energy-efficient lightbulbs may increase welfare, but informational and attentional biases alone do not justify a ban on incandescent lightbulbs. Our results and techniques generate broader methodological insights into welfare analysis with misoptimizing consumers. (JEL D12, D83, H21, H31, L67, Q41, Q48)
L67|The Evolution Of The Textile And Clothing Industry - Romania: From Lohn To Loss|Textile industry and clothing represent an important source of income and employment opportunities for many developing countries. Recent global economic events determined rapid changes which led to restructuring and reorganization of the industry. In recent years, in Europe and implicitly in Romania has increased the competition from a number of third countries, particularly in Asia, which benefit from low labour costs. An important feature of European textile and clothing industry is the widespread use of lohn production, which means that labour-intensive operations with lower added value are transferred in countries where labour cost is much lower. This article aims to analyze the evolution of textile and garments sector in Romania, which ranked among the top three manufacturers in the field at European level, highlighting the political and economic changes that have occurred and influenced the economic indicators of the industry. The analysis carried out is based on data collected from Romanian statistical yearbooks and the findings suggest that lohn production is not a long-term advantage for subcontracting companies.
L67|Nanotechnologies for textiles, fabrics and clothing: an overview of the scientific literature on the topic|Aim of the present work is the analysis of the scientific literature on the topic of Nanosciences and Nanotechnologies applied in the field of the study and production of fabrics, textiles and clothing. A dataset, obtained with a specific methodology, is analysed in order to describe the features and the evolution of this field. Several features of the dataset are highlighted in the study. Results on numbers and trends of the different features are presented and discussed, and at the end of the work conclusions on the evolution of scientific production on the topic are presented.
L67|The price and income elasticities of the top clothing exporters: Evidence from a panel data analysis|This paper studies the main export function features of twelve top clothing exporters (China, Hong Kong, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Netherlands, Spain, Turkey, UK and USA) in the period between 1992 and 2011. Price and income elasticities are estimated for each economy using a panel data approach, after controlling for nonstationarity, cointegration and Granger causality. Rolling regressions are also performed, and show the existence of some elasticities instability over time, fundamentally related to the profound economic and institutional changes affecting the clothing trade in the period under consideration. The analysis suggests that most advanced economies, including Hong Kong, changed their position in the global value chain towards an “organizational” role. China confirms its leadership in clothing exports although its rising price elasticity sounds a warning with regard to future prospects.
L67|Le imprese in crescita e la ricomposizione dell’occupazione nei settori del made in italy del veneto|Questo contributo propone una lettura delle variazioni occupazionali a partire dalle imprese piuttosto che dai lavoratori coinvolti. Si tratta di una prospettiva che, in una fase di crisi come l’attuale, pare più adeguata a cogliere le tensioni che attraversano il sistema produttivo e le effettive modalità di utilizzo della forza lavoro. L’analisi si basa sulla messa a punto di un archivio anagrafico delle imprese (Silimp) cui ricondurre i movimenti di ingresso/ uscita dal lavoro dipendente. L’attenzione si focalizza sul comparto manifatturiero veneto del made in Italy osservato nel quinquennio che va dalla fine del 2008 al 2013. Emerge un panorama articolato e trasversale rispetto ai settori, con risultati divergenti in termini di ricadute occupazionali. Le imprese caratterizzate da performance positive si contraddistinguono per la selezione di personale con più elevata qualificazione e per l’ampio ventaglio di forme contrattuali utilizzate.
L67|Local and transnational relations of Prato’s Chinese enterprises, and their contribution to the province’s economy|The present volume continues the close examination of the socio-economic conditions and main characteristics of the Chinese community now steadily living and working in the Prato district. The attention is shifted to the system of relations, mainly but not solely economic, that links the Chinese community on one side to native inhabitants and entrepreneurs, and on the other to those of the country of origin, specifically from Wenzhou (Zhejiang Province), a city where is present a well-established, export-oriented clothing industry’s cluster. In the district literature, the local and international spheres of relations – where the first is intended as trust among economic agents and the second as openness to international markets – are considered important factors of local development. The evolution of the two territorial scales at which socio-economic integration occurs is analyzed with the aim of highlighting tendencies, possible risks and opportunities, and drawing from them some useful policy indications. One question is whether the settlement of a considerable foreign community, not always well integrated with the native population, can favour the creation of those trust relationships that have always constituted a key factor of success for the Prato district. And also, which are the expectations – and consequently the role – regarding the second-generation Chinese in promoting a higher level of integration? What about economic integration, measurable through accounting matrixes, is it much higher than the social integration averagely perceived? And how does the evolution of international relations change the local economy’s perspectives, considering that in the past they concerned only the export of finished goods, whereas today they are enhanced by import flows of semi-finished and finished goods? These are the questions that this study seeks to answer, using direct investigations and analyzing socio-economic data.
L67|Growth and Prospects of Agro-Processing Industries in Punjab|Present study attempts to examine the growth and prospects of agro-processing industries in Punjab in the post liberalization period. Punjab that used to perform reasonably well in terms of industrialization, few years back, is today facing the industrial crunch owing to obvious reasons. Keeping present trends in mind, the state needs to emulate the growth path adopted by China, explicitly, wherein thrust to development had been on the manufacturing sector. With availability of food grain production round the year, it seems viable also in the state to develop the agro processing industries. In fact, researchers have pointed out that Punjab’s agriculture has reached a stage where its sustainability is in doubt. If such apprehensions turn out to be true, then future of masses will also land in darkness. Development of agro-processing industries at this juncture, are perceived to be the stimulator that can revamp the vanished glory of the state. The study is an attempt made through empirical framework to find out the conditions for the development of agro-processing industries in the state.
L67|Export boost of textile industry of Pakistan by availing EU’s GSP Plus|Pakistan is commonly known as agriculture based economy where vast areas of cultivated lands are producing cotton. This enabled to establish and flourish textile industries in Pakistan, therefore Pakistan is vital part of cheap and quality based textile products exporting country. Recently Pakistan is granted European Union's Generalised Scheme of Preferences (GSP) Plus status as a year from January 2014 by European Union because of that Pakistan's Textile exports surged to $14.22 billion in the fiscal year 2013-2014. This study main focus is on EU’s GSP Plus for textile industry of Pakistan to explore the effects and impact on the international trade, export and economy of Pakistan. The various issues and problems pertaining to the policy, strategy, trade, export and taxes are analyzed and discussed to come up with suggestions. Pakistan Textile sector made $14.22 billion (2013-2014 Jul-Jun) compared to export value of the previous fiscal year, reaching from $13.69 billion in the previous year (July 2012, June 2013). The country's textile exports have been shown in growth of 3.81% in fiscal year (2013 2014 Jul-Jun) as compared to fiscal year of (2012-2013 Jul-Jun). The key motive behind the growth of textile exports is the national GSP plus successful from Jan 2014 because of textile export to the EU which is increased by 18% to reach $ 5 billion figure for the first time in Pakistan history because of the GSP plus status granted by the European Union, and textile exports to the left of the globe fell by 3.5%. Seeing this textile export Pakistan government is ready for a 5-year program to grant subsidies for the textile sector. Under the latest planned textile strategy (2014-19), textile industry will be rewarded. Followed by the strategy, textile exports will increase over the next five years, $ 26 billion, in addition to the creation of employment opportunities.
L67|The New Brazilian Anti-Corruption Law|This piece is intended to call the attention of directors, businessmen and company managers to a fact of great relevance. With the enactment of Law 12,846/13, its first and second articles imposed the accountability, administrative and civil liability of legal entities when of the perpetration of acts against the domestic or foreign Public Administration, meaning a relevant risk as the companies will liable regardless of guilt in the practice of corruption committed in its own interest or benefit.
L67|Organization, Management, and Wage Practices in Pakistan’s Electrical Fan and Readymade Garment Sectors|The electrical fan sector in Pakistan has existed since at least the country’s independence and produced for the domestic market for most of its history, although the sector has had strong export growth in the last 15 years. On the other hand, the readymade garment sector has a shorter history, but has been export-oriented from the beginning. The fan sector has retained the traditional batch production system while garments are produced along a line. Nonetheless, both rely on piece rate-based wages to meet their production targets. In this paper, we describe production, management, wage practices, quality, and some barriers to reorganization in these sectors.
L67|Preventing Factory Fires through Contracts: Case study of Garment Factories in Bangladesh|Following a multi-decade history of lethal fires in the Bangladeshi garment industry, Sato (2012) proposed a contract framework that encourages manufacturers to adopt measures that reduce loss of life. Apart from the humanitarian imperative, the manufacturer has an incentive to sign the contract and adopt its preventative measures because an industrial disaster will cancel its relationship with its global retailer and end the related profits. This theoretical study specifies the optimal contract that incentivizes manufacturers and reduces the occurrence of garment industry fires.
L67|An international comparison of productivity change in the textile and clothing industry: a bootstrapped Malmquist index approach|Firms in the textile and clothing industry operate in competitive international markets characterized by the liberalized trade after the removal of multi-fiber agreement quotas in 2005, and have to address rapid changes in consumer preferences and production technology. Hence, improving competitiveness is crucial for firm survival. Competitiveness of the sector often depends on its firms meeting their production potential. This paper analyzes productivity changes in the textile and clothing industry worldwide during the period 1995–2004. A bootstrapped Malmquist approach is used to identify the respective contributions of technical change, technical efficiency change, and scale efficiency change. Moreover, differences in productivity changes across different groups of firms are statistically assessed. Our results show a relatively small overall productivity increase for both textile and clothing firms due to positive technical change, despite declines in technical and scale efficiency. Furthermore, our results indicate that productivity and its components differ for textile firms and clothing firms, for firms in countries that benefited and did not benefit from the quotas’ elimination, and for firms in different regions. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
L67|Export boost of Textile Industry of Pakistan by availing EU’s GSP Plus|Pakistan is commonly known as agriculture based economy where vast areas of cultivated lands are producing cotton. This enabled to establish and flourish textile industries in Pakistan, therefore Pakistan is vital part of cheap and quality based textile products exporting country. Recently Pakistan is granted European Union's Generalised Scheme of Preferences (GSP) Plus status as a year from January 2014 by European Union because of that Pakistan's Textile exports surged to $14.22 billion in the fiscal year 2013-2014. This study main focus is on EU’s GSP Plus for textile industry of Pakistan to explore the effects and impact on the international trade, export and economy of Pakistan. The various issues and problems pertaining to the policy, strategy, trade, export and taxes are analyzed and discussed to come up with suggestions. Pakistan Textile sector made $14.22 billion (2013-2014 Jul-Jun) compared to export value of the previous fiscal year, reaching from $13.69 billion in the previous year (July 2012, June 2013). The country's textile exports have been shown in growth of 3.81% in fiscal year (2013 2014 Jul-Jun) as compared to fiscal year of (2012-2013 Jul-Jun). The key motive behind the growth of textile exports is the national GSP plus successful from Jan 2014 because of textile export to the EU which is increased by 18% to reach $ 5 billion figure for the first time in Pakistan history because of the GSP plus status granted by the European Union, and textile exports to the left of the globe fell by 3.5%. Seeing this textile export Pakistan government is ready for a 5-year program to grant subsidies for the textile sector. Under the latest planned textile strategy (2014-19), textile industry will be rewarded. Followed by the strategy, textile exports will increase over the next five years, $ 26 billion, in addition to the creation of employment opportunities.
L67|Immigration and the Diffusion of Technology: The Huguenot Diaspora in Prussia|This paper analyzes long-term effects of skilled-worker immigration on productivity for the Huguenot migration to Prussia. In 1685, religiously persecuted French Huguenots settled in Brandenburg- Prussia and compensated for population losses due to plagues during the Thirty Years' War. We combine Huguenot immigration lists from 1700 with Prussian firm-level data on the value of inputs and outputs in 1802 in a unique database to analyze the effects of skilled immigration to places with underused economic potential. Exploiting this settlement pattern in an instrumental-variable approach, we find substantial long-term effects of Huguenot settlement on the productivity of textile manufactories.
L67|"When the Floodgates Open: ""Northern"" Firms' Response to Removal of Trade Quotas on Chinese Goods"|Using the dismantling of the Multi-fibre Arrangement quotas on Chinese textile products in conjunction with China's accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), within firms adjustments to intensified low-wage competition is analyzed. Employing Danish employer-employee matched data covering from 1995 to 2007, the analysis shows a significant change in the workforce composition of firms in response to heightened competition. Competition is found to negatively affect employment, value-added, and intangible assets of the Danish firms, and firms refocus away from products, where China's competitive advantage becomes higher. The results show an important role of the distributional impact of low-wage competition within firms in restructuring the industry.
L67|Branche im Blickpunkt: Das Textil- und Bekleidungsgewerbe in Europa und Deutschland – Totgesagte leben länger|Das Bekleidungsgewerbe in Europa hat weite Teile seiner industriellen Basis verloren. In deutlich eingeschränkterem Maße trifft dies mittlerweile auch für das Textilgewerbe zu. Dennoch können sich die Textil- und Bekleidungsunternehmen einiger weniger europäischer Länder vergleichsweise gut in dem wie kaum ein anderer Industriesektor von der internationalen Arbeitsteilung geprägten Gewerbe behaupten. Hierzu zählen insbesondere Vertreter der deutschen Textil- und Bekleidungsbranche, die sich seit der Wirtschaftskrise 2008/09 nicht nur besser als der EU-Durchschnitt, sondern auch als fast alle ihre westeuropäischen Kontrahenten entwickeltet haben. Im Textilgewerbe ist der Erfolg deutscher Firmen ihrer Fokussierung auf die (hoch-)technischen Textilsegmente zu verdanken. Doch auch hier machen inzwischen Textilunternehmen aus China der deutschen Branche ihre führende Stellung streitig. Nichtsdestotrotz werden auch künftig deutsche Firmen im Geschäft mit Textilien und Mode erfolgreich national und international mitmischen.
L67|Notas sobre Política de Desarrollo Productivo en Colombia|Este documento contiene una serie de reflexiones sobre políticas de desarrollo del sector productivo en Colombia, que surgen de investigaciones de los autores, algunas de ellas en compañía de otros coautores. El documento, estructurado a manera de “postre de notas”, plantea reflexiones puntuales sobre diferentes temas relacionados con la política de desarrollo productivo en Colombia, centrales al debate actual.
L67|Cómo una microempresa logró un desarrollo de productos ágil y generador de valor empleando Lean|El propósito del presente artículo es mostrar un ejemplo de cómo una microempresa puede hacer que su desarrollo de productos sea más ágil, flexible y generador de valor empleando Lean. Se tomaron como referentes el proceso genérico de desarrollo de productos, el proceso de desarrollo tradicional en el sector de confecciones, el sistema Toyota de desarrollo de productos y el antiguo sistema de desarrollo de la empresa. Se destacan el rol del lugar de reunión virtual y el papel del ingeniero jefe en el nuevo sistema de desarrollo de productos. Como resultado se obtuvo un sistema más enfocado en el cliente, con mejor velocidad de respuesta y producción Justo a Tiempo.
L67|La competitividad de las Pymes manufactureras del Ambato - Ecuador|El mundo contemporáneo exige, de manera radical, a las empresas pequeñas, medianas o grandes empresas, altos niveles de competitividad para su supervivencia en los mercados. Estos niveles de competitividad tienen que ver tanto con factores internos como externos que apoyan el fortalecimiento de su actividad comercial y posicionamiento en el mercado junto a una gestión empresarial visionaria y creciente en el sector económico en el que las empresas se hallan involucradas. Bajo este escenario, se investigó los niveles de competitividad en las Pymes del sector manufacturero en base a las estrategias competitivas de Michel Porter y el análisis de factores internos y externos de competitividad; involucrando a 111 pequeñas empresas que representan a una muestra por conglomerados. La toma de datos fue a través de una encuesta aplicada a los gerentes y administradores. Con los datos se logró efectuar un análisis detallado que permitió obtener resultados precisos sobre la problemática en estudio generando el diamante de la competitividad para Pymes manufactureras de Ambato.****** Contemporary world require companies (small, medium or large), high levels of competitiveness in order to survive in the market. These requirements are related with both internal and external factors that support companies’ business strengthening and market position along with a growing and visionary business management in the economic sector in which companies are involved. Under this scenario, SMEs’ manufacturing sector levels of competitiveness were examined based on the internal and external factors competitiveness analysis and on the competitive strategies proposed by Michel Porter, involving a sample of 111 companies. The data was collected through a survey conducted to the managers of these companies; the gathered information through the survey allowed us make a detailed analysis obtaining precise results about the problem, generating the diamond of competitiveness for Ambato manufacturing SMEs.
L67|Le lien entre satisfaction et fidélité du consommateur dans le secteur de l'habillement : impact de l'usage des marques et des soldes|Within the behavioral research in sales promotion, the product and brand usage is almost never taken into account by researchers, in spite of its relevance as a mediating variable between sales promotion and satisfaction or loyalty. This research, applied to clothing, aims at studying the direct effect of the product acquisition context; and more specially the effect of a price discount, seasonal and outlet sales; on consumer transaction-Specific satisfaction. Moreover, the indirect effect of brand usage frequency on the link between satisfaction and customer loyalty is studied. To address these research questions we used a diary method study. This study aims to monitoring every week consumer’s purchases and clothing usage. Our results indicate that if the transaction-Specific satisfaction with a brand is negatively linked to consumer loyalty, it is compensated by increased brand usage frequency. The more a consumer is satisfied with the transaction, the more he uses the product and is likely to be loyal to the brand. Thus, as consumer transaction-Specific satisfaction is higher for purchases during seasonal sales or outlet sales than without these offers, it allows indirectly brands to build consumer loyalty.
L67|“Flying geese” in China: The textile and apparel industry's pattern of migration|China has large regional variations in both factor endowments and levels of economic development. In principle, some industrial enterprises will relocate to the inland regions from the coastal regions to take advantage of lower wage rates and land prices, provided that the regions are different enough. However, few studies have empirically tested whether this kind of “flying geese” pattern of domestic industrial relocation has occurred on the ground or not. Using data from the textile and apparel industry from 1998 to 2011, this paper shows the existence of the “flying geese” pattern of industrial relocation. Data show that before around 2005, the textile and apparel industry was clustered in the eastern region of China, but it has since shifted toward the central and western regions.
L67|High Hopes and Limited Successes: Experimenting with Industrial Polices in the Leather Industry in Ethiopia|In the presence of standardized production technology and the possibility of potentially unlimited market rendered by international trade, there is clear comparative advantages to be realized in experimenting with industrial polices in the leather industry in Ethiopia. This paper reviews wide arrays of policy interventions in the industry and, more modestly, attempts to link these interventions with the performance observed in the industry. We find that industrial policies in the leather sector have been largely effective driving strong growth. This growth, however, has not been in par with its potentials. Market problems along the supply-chain, liquidity constraint, limited processing and marketing capacity, inefficient regulations and enforcement capacity and coordination problem have culminated into below-potential levels of production and, hence, export earnings. We believe that, impressive results to date notwithstanding, important improvements still need to be made in terms of policy responsiveness and in ensuring growth is broad-based across relevant value chains. While building market institutions to bring down transactions costs will improve the effectiveness of industrial polices in the sector, policy makers should ensure that existing regulations are transparent, enforceable and do not impose undue burden on investments in the industry. Continuous channels of communication and information exchanges between the private sector and the regulatory organ would accelerate the understanding of constraints and their apt solutions.
L67|Innovative Agency Flow: The Case Of Whitewater Paddling Community|This paper investigates the innovation activity in an amateur community. It implements the case study method to analyze the intensive innovation creation process that was going on in the whitewater paddling community during the last two decades of the twentieth century. We apply the notion innovative agency to get a deeper understating of the process of innovation creation, and to identify all actors of innovation. Further we trace the process of innovative agency delegation between actors. We find out that two radical innovations and many incremental innovations emerged in this community. We conclude that their emergence was shaped by creative and competitive environment of the whitewater paddling community.
L67|Key Factors That Influence The Succession Process In Family Businesses In The Textile Sector In Tijuana, B.C., Mexico, Factores Claves Que Influyen En El Proceso De Sucesion En Las Empresas Familiares Del Sector Textil En Tijuana, B.C., Mã‰Xico|This research relates to family textile businesses in Tijuana, BC, Mexico in 2012. Family businesses constitute an important framework due to the large number of establishments in Mexico. It is important to address key factors influencing the succession process, as it must take into consideration when designing a succession plan. The aim of this study is to determine key factors that influence the succession process in the family textile businesses, where such factors as are discussed: systemic competitiveness, intergroup conflicts, attitudes of owners and organizational environment. This research will help improve the performance of family textile businesses and provide a scheme of key factors that influence the succession process in the textile sector.
L67|Prohibition of parallel imports as a vertical restraint: per se approach or a misunderstanding?|This paper attempts, on the one hand, to reveal the main principles of Competition Law (regulatory and case law framework) covering the prevention of parallel trade, mainly the prohibition of parallel imports, and on the other hand to cast light on the main effects of parallel imports prohibition imposed by an upstream supplier on the competitive structure of the downstream market. Especially, the regulatory framework that relates to Block Exemption Regulation 330/2010, (ex Block Exemption Regulation 2790/99), with Block Exemption Regulation 461/2010 (ex Block Exemption Regulation 1400/2002) in order to determine whether prohibition of parallel imports constitutes a hardcore restriction or not, while the economic analysis evaluates it in a geographical vertical market with upstream suppliers and downstream buyers which sell goods to the final (domestic) consumers. Administrative anticompetitive measures are considered as well. The results indicate that the prohibition of parallel imports by upstream firms cause vertical restraints to the domestic customers of the buyers. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
L67|The Textiles and Garments Sector: Moving Up the Value Chain|The textiles and garments (T&G) sector accounts for almost 50% of Pakistan’s exports and is the largest component of manufacturing. T&G sector, because of recent favorable developments for the industry in Pakistan and the expected future changes in the international trade structure for the sector, has the potential to play an important role in expanding Pakistan’s exports. In addition, garments manufacturing is the least energy and capital intensive industrial activity and thus resonates with Pakistan’s resource endowment to generate economic growth and employment. Garment manufacturers have tried to overcome the constraints arising from the energy shortages and adverse security and country risk perceptions by investing in power generation, upgrading IT, developing design and R&D capability. Punjab Government’s focus on garments as a central plank of its industrial strategy has also helped. However, this paper argues that for the sector to fully realize its potential, government policies that shape the incentive structure faced by the industry need to be re-aligned In this regard, the most important is Pakistan’s import policies and customs procedures that discourage the import of materials such as synthetic yarn and fabric, technical textiles and specialized trimmings and accessories needed by exporters to move up the value chain, and a significant bump up in the growth trajectory will only take place if import policy and custom procedures are substantially reformed. This paper focuses on the following themes: First, structural changes and trends in T&G exports; second, the associated constraints to growth of the garments sector; and third, to highlight some of the steps taken by the industry leaders in terms of policy reforms and by firms, particularly with regards to managing resources to enhance competitiveness.
L67|Is It Possible to Maintain Russian Textile and Apparel Industry|The case of the Russian textile and apparel industry is investigated on the?basis of statistical data and data collected from the surveys of enterprise managers. It is shown how lock in the local markets has led to a gradual deterioration of the observed industry. Influential studies of economists and sociologists are used to describe emergence and transformation of the global value chains in textile and apparel industry with a specific reference to the experience of China. Policy changes regarding raw materials and local production systems are suggested to encourage integration of this industry into the global economy.
L67|The Development Dynamics Of The Textile And Clothing Industry In Moldova|The Moldovan textile sector is a major domain of the country’s export and still has a tremendous growth potential. The industry accounted for 1.5% of the GDP and 3.9 (NBS) of the manufacturing GDP. The textile cluster employed over 2,750 workers in 2010, 4,092 in 2011 and 4,118 in 2012. The most important export destinations for Moldovan textile producers are EU countries. Moldova’s main competitive advantages include the competitive workforce and the fact that this is one of the cheapest locations. Most of these jobs are rural-based and taken by young women, who make up 85-95% of all T&A workers. The value of the manufactured textiles was € 33,8 million in 2010 and rose more than twice - up to € 68,14 million in 2011 and € 78,95 in 2012 (NBS). Moldova has an easy access to both CIS and European markets. Over 83 (NBS) companies operate in the Moldovan textile industry, most of them in CM (cut and make), CMT (cut, make and trim) processing. Major foreign partners for outsourcing are of Italian, German and Dutch origin, and include Dolce&Gabbana and Trussardi, for instance.
L67|Investigation of Online Visual Merchandising (OVM) Elements of Apparel Web Stores|The paper presents the results of a scientific research project concerning the new emerging academic field of Online merchandising. The study aims to identify, classify, and measure the OVM elements/subelements and it is the first one that generalizes and systematizes on a global basis the groups, the categories, the elements, and the subelements of OVM of apparel online shops. The method of content analysis is applied in the context of randomly selected apparel web stores. The adopted inductive approach in the study reveals 55 subelements which are grouped into 13 elements. These elements form 5 categories. Finally the 5 categories form 2 major groups. The OVM elements/subelements are analyzed and the frequency of usage of each subelement is measured and discussed. Finally, the authors summarize the results and outline the future directions for research.
L67|Optimization of Online Visual Merchandising Elements (OVME) on the Basis of Consumer Preferences|The article reports the results of a research project on the newly emerging academic field of merchandising. The aim of the recent study is to offer an optimal combination of OVME in online fashion stores in accordance with users’ preferences. One of the main conclusions drawn from an analysis of pre-selected fashion items in the online environment, as well as the layout of online shops, was that the main attributes to be considered in online store space design result from content analysis (and are overviewed in detail in a previous publication of Katrandjiev, Hr. and Velinov, I.). The authors share their findings and offer a further direction of research.
L67|Dealing With Crisis: Using Subcontracting For The Development Of The Croatian Leather Manufacturing And Processing Industry|As literature suggests, subcontracting presents an important source of support of various kinds to small and medium-sized companies from large ones as well as an important source of efficiency and competitiveness. It is considered as an instrument of industrial and economic development and employment creation in developed and developing countries, and particularly in labour intensive industries. A reduction of demand, a change in consumption patterns, a global shift from production and economic crisis have increased the interest of many researchers analyzing subcontracting relationships mostly in textile and clothing industry. This paper is investigating the role of subcontracting in the case of the Croatian leather manufacturing and processing industry with an aim of getting better insight into its contribution to the development of this sector. Therefore, for the purpose of this paper, a two-phase research study, including a qualitative approach, was used: 1) the first phase on the sample of companies operating in the Croatian leather manufacturing and processing industry which intended to find out overall perception of benefits and limitations of subcontracting for the Croatian footwear and leather manufacturing companies; 2) the second phase on the group of the Croatian footwear and leather manufacturing companies, focusing on the success of subcontracting in dealing with global crisis. The findings of the study confirm that positive relationships between subcontracting and business performance was found as well as some areas for improvement.
L67|"Knowledge-based productivity in ""low-tech"" industries: evidence from firms in developing countries"| Using firm-level data from five developing countries--Brazil, Ecuador, South Africa, Tanzania, and Bangladesh--and three industries--food processing, textiles, and the garments and leather products--this article examines the importance of various sources of knowledge for explaining productivity and formally tests whether sector- or country-specific characteristics dominate these relationships. Knowledge sources driving productivity appear mainly sector specific. Also differences in the level of development affect the effectiveness of knowledge sources. In the food processing sector, firms with higher educated managers are more productive, and in least-developed countries, additionally those with technology licenses and imported machinery and equipment. In the capital-intensive textiles sector, productivity is higher in firms that conduct R&D. In the garments and leather products sector, higher education of the managers, licensing, and R&D raise productivity. Copyright 2014 The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Associazione ICC. All rights reserved., Oxford University Press.
L67|The price and income elasticities of the top clothing exporters: Evidence from a panel data analysis|This paper studies the main export function features of twelve top clothing exporters (China, Hong Kong, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Netherlands, Spain, Turkey, UK and USA) in the period between 1992 and 2011. Price and income elasticities are estimated for each country using a panel data approach, after controlling for nonstationarity, cointegration and Granger causality. Rolling regressions are also performed, and show the existence of elasticities instability over time. The analysis suggests that most advanced countries, including Hong Kong, changed their position in the clothing global value chain towards an “organisational” role. China confirms its leadership in clothing exports although its rising price elasticity sounds a warning with regard to future prospects.
L67|‘Cold, Calculating Political Economy’: Fixed costs, the Rate of Profit and the Length of the Working Day in the Factory Act Debates, 1832-1847|The paper re-analyses the evidence presented by pro and anti-regulation interests during the debates on factory reform. To do so it considers the interrelationship between fixed costs, the rate of profit and the length of the working day. The interrelationship casts new light on the lobbying positions on either side of the debate. It does so by comparing the evidence presented in the debates before parliament and associated pamphlets with actual figures contained in the business records of implicated firms. As a result the paper identifies the compromise position of the working day length compatible with reasonable rates of profit based on actual cost structures. It is thereby able to reinterpret the validity of the claims of contemporary political economy used to support the cases for and against factory regulation.
L67|Working Conditions of Handloom Weavers in Madurai|The Textile industry has occupied a unique place in India and its contribution to industrial production, employment and export earning is very significant. While Indian handloom weavers had a wider market in ancient times but have faced several challenges with the advent of textile mills. At present the industry is passing through a crucial juncture – it is trying to gain niche markets through its unique product style and modernisation of the craftsmanship. However, the condition of workers in this sector continues to be bleak and unless they are taken care of, the sector will die just because of lack of skilled manpower.
L67|Export Subsidy Reforms and Productivity Improvements: The Case of the Indian Textile and Clothing Sector|The World Trade Organization (WTO) recommends all members to phase out their export subsidies. While this may render export-oriented industries susceptible to tighter competition in their import markets, productivity improvements could help offset such disadvantages. This article explores the interaction between these two different aspects to evaluate the economy-wide impact of export subsidy reforms and productivity improvements in the Indian textile and clothing sector. Our analysis stands on various policy simulations applying the general equilibrium model of the Global Trade Analysis Project (GTAP; Hertel, 1997). The welfare impacts of the removal of Indian textile and clothing subsidies in terms of equivalent variation shows that India is expected to encounter a loss of about 71.5 million US$, while other Asian countries may gain about 218 million US$. In a different scenario, we simulate the impact of a complete phase-out of subsidies provided to the textile and clothing industry of India and a simultaneous increase in total factor productivity growth to 3.5 per cent. This leads to a net positive welfare change and an expected gain of about US$ 13.17 million in terms of allocative efficiency. We conclude that merely removing subsidies is not enough, as is often argued by Indian policymakers that such a policy reversal might result in contraction of the sector. Investments in total factor productivity should come about simultaneously, probably by employing surplus funds from saved subsidy payments in areas like research and development and infrastructure. This conclusion may be qualitatively generalised for any sector in the world, which is examined for export subsidy reforms, but similar economy-wide studies are recommended for specific cases.JEL Codes: F00, F13, C68, L670
L67|A ray of hope? Another look at the Italian textile industry|Despite increasing competition from newly industrializing countries, Italy’s textile industry has continued to be an important contributor to the domestic economy. Many observers attribute this resilience to the industry’s focus on quality. Here, we take note of that view but also examine production and cost relationships to explore the existence of returns to scale and the interrelationships among inputs to gain additional insights about the future prospects for this industry. The findings are consistent with constant returns to scale and a substitute relationship between all input pairs except for domestic capital and foreign intermediate goods. The results also suggest some increasing flexibility in the labor market, perhaps including informal sector arrangements, greater responsiveness of labor demand to the price of capital, and more international production sharing arrangements. An increasing elasticity over time of the demands for domestic capital and domestic intermediate goods with respect to the price of foreign substitutes was also observed. Since further economies of scale do not exist, maintaining the Italian textile industry’s reputation for outstanding quality will likely be an important survival strategy for some products. For others, production sharing may be necessary to maintain international competitiveness. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
L67|Adaptation patterns and consumer behavior as a dependency on terror|Terror may have dire implications for the public’s behavior. According to Kirschenbaum (J Homel Secur Emerg Manag 3(1/3):1–33, 2006 ), in order to minimize the expected impact of a terror incident the public has to adopt a “survival strategy”. According to the underlying research hypothesis of the study, the longer the terror incidents continue, the more the public accepts the possibility that it will be in this situation for the long term; therefore, the extent of its deviation from its ordinary consumer behavior steadily declines after each terror incident. By using daily trade data and an Event Studies econometric methodology, we found the existence of an adaptation trend among the consumer public. Thus, over time, the Israeli public internalized the realization that if it wishes to sustain a reasonable standard of living, it must minimize the disparity between its consumer economic behavior before a terror event and its behavior afterwards. Announcing more assassinations of terrorists was found to calm the public’s fears, when fears are judged by a return to more normal consumption patterns. Another finding is the existence of variance in the pace of this adaptation as a dependency of the type of good consumed: consistently, the adaptation is faster in regard to non-durable goods than to durable goods. This outcome is subject to interpretation, since durable goods may be viewed as “half-consumption goods, half-capital goods,” it stands to reason that capital goods would be more strongly affected than consumption goods. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
L67|The Role of Leading Firms in the Evolution of SME Clusters: Evidence from the Leather Products Cluster in Florence| Clusters that emerged in the past have changed during the latest decades, so that today the research challenge in economic geography is on their evolution over time. The aim of this paper is to update the evolutionary path of SME Italian clusters, which faced the economic crisis are undergoing a process of decline in the number of firms. Furthermore, changes in the techno-economic landscape and in the competitive environment have generated new challenges. In this context, some leading firms, able to connect local resources (and firms) to global networks, have emerged over time and today they act as a gatekeeper. The focus will be on local networks interacting with leading firms and particular attention will be devoted to the pattern of co-evolution and to the geographical dimension of this co-evolutionary process. To empirically verify if other firms in the cluster may co-evolve with the leading firm over time, a deep analysis of the Gucci network in the leather products cluster in Florence will be carried out.
L67|Cluster evolution in mature Industrial cluster. The case of Prato Marshallian ID after the entrance of Chinese firm populations (1945-2011)|The aim of the present research is to participate to the recently resurged debate on cluster life cycle theory among scholars of New Evolutionary Geography and Industrial Economics, starting from the seminal contributions of Menzel and Fornhal (2010). Authors pointed out how the very cluster dynamics is both the driver for the movement of a cluster through a life cycle and the reason why this movement differs from the industry life cycle. Cluster life cycle is recently attracting increasing attention and notwithstanding some authors as Martin and Sunley (2011) showed some criticism, proposing alternative approaches, they agreed the cluster evolution literature is still in search of an appropriate analytical frame work and is necessary to follow an evolutionary approach instead of a deterministic perspective, considering also the analysis of local contexts. Boschma and Fornahl (2011) reaffirming this position, indicate a ?roadmap for future research' able to integrate different approaches and promote the production of a coherent mass of longitudinal empirical study necessary to verify theoretical hypothesis, at the moment not sufficiently adequate. The work deals with the evolution of textile-clothing Marshallian Industrial District (MID) in Prato, focusing on last twenty years, characterised by the settlement of a large numbers of Chinese firms. The Prato MID is in a transformation/decline phase due for many scholars to the entrance of Chinese immigrants as well as the recent economic crisis and the effects of globalization (Johnson et al., 2009). We contribute to this debate following an evolutionary approach according to the Organisational Ecology and density dependence (Hannan and Freeman, 1989; Hannan and Carroll, 1992). The analysis is carried out on Italian and Chinese firms in Prato MID. Data are collected elaborating the Registry of Economic Activity held by the Province of Prato (1990-2011) and integrated with a previous database constructed from REA from Chambers of Commerce of Prato and Florence (1945-1998) (Lazzeretti and Storai, 2003; Lazzeretti and Terchi, 2002). We carried out demographic analysis on the natality and mortality of firms of Prato MID and we tested ecological models in order to establish relationships between legitimation and competition ecological processes and different life cycle phases. Results allow us to reconstruct the internal dynamics of Prato MID from its birth till today and identify in which stage of the life cycle it is currently, providing a theoretical and empirical contribution to the study of cluster evolution, through the Organisational Ecology.
