L68|Tarjetas de crédito en personas de ingresos medios y bajos en Colombia: ¿qué determina su uso?|Se investigan los determinantes del uso de la tarjeta Crédito Fácil Codensa, utilizando las características demográficas de los tarjetahabientes. Este mecanismo de financiación, de uso generalizado en Bogotá por parte de personas cuyos ingresos se encuentran en la parte baja de la distribución, se utiliza para la financiación de consumo de bienes semidurables (muebles, electrodomésticos, computadores, etc.) y no durables (alimentos, prendas de vestir, etc.). Son algo más de 1.000.000 de clientes al finalizar el período de estudio. Analizamos los determinantes del cupo de crédito, la probabilidad de uso de la tarjeta y el valor de las compras para el período 2010-2015. Ingreso, educación, edad, género, estrato y vivienda propia son determinantes del cupo de crédito junto con variables indicadoras de la fase del ciclo, el comportamiento del mercado laboral y la liquidez de la economía (tasa de intervención de la autoridad monetaria, aproximada por la Tasa Interbancaria, TIB). La probabilidad de compra está determinada no solo por el ambiente macroeconómico, sino también por variables individuales, entre las cuales, el ingreso permanente figura reduciendo dicha probabilidad. El monto de las compras mensuales está determinado por la tasa de interés vigente en el mes de las compras, la tasa de usura y por características individuales como el ingreso, la edad, la educación y el género. Se presenta evidencia de restricciones de liquidez para personas que tienen una alta utilización el cupo; sin embargo, las decisiones de la mayoría de los agentes no distan de la hipótesis de ciclo de vida-ingreso permanente. **** ABSTRACT: The determinants of the Crédito Fácil Codensa card usage are investigated, using the demographic characteristics of cardholders. This financing mechanism, widely used in Bogotá by people (more than 1.000.000 at the end of the sample period) whose income is in the lower part of the distribution, is used to finance the consumption of semi-durable goods (furniture, household appliances, computers, etc.) and non-durable goods (food, clothing, etc.). We analyze the determinants of the credit quota, the probability of using the card and the value of purchases for the period 2010-2015. Income, education, age, gender stratum and own housing are determinants of the credit limit along with variables indicating the phase of the cycle, the labor market performance, and the liquidity of the economy represented by the policy rate (proxied by the Interbank Rate, TIB). The probability of purchase is determined not only by the macroeconomic environment, but also by individual variables. Permanent income reduces the likelihood of buying. The amount of monthly purchases is determined by the current interest rate in the month of purchases or usury rate and by individual characteristics such as income, age, education, gender of the individual. There is evidence of liquidity restrictions for people who have a high use of the card limit. However, the decisions of most agents are not that far from the permanent income-life cycle hypothesis.
L68|The Production Relocation and Price Effects of U.S. Trade Policy: The Case of Washing Machines|We analyze several rounds of U.S. import restrictions against washing machines. Using retail price data, we estimate the price effect of these import restrictions by comparing the price changes of washers with those of other appliances. We find that in response to the 2018 tariffs on nearly all source countries, the price of washers rose by nearly 12 percent; the price of dryers—a complementary good not subject to tariffs—increased by an equivalent amount. Factoring in the effect of dryers and price increases by domestic brands, our estimates for the 2018 tariffs on washers imply a tariff elasticity of consumer prices of between 110 and 230 percent. The 2016 antidumping duties against China—which accounted for the overwhelming majority of U.S. imports—led to minor price movements due to subsequent production relocation to other export platform countries. Perhaps surprisingly, the 2012 antidumping duties against Korea led to relocation of production to China, actually resulting in lower washer prices in the United States. We find that our measure of the tariff elasticity of consumer prices may differ in sign and magnitude from conventional pass-through estimates which are based on a regression of country-specific import price changes on country-specific tariff changes. Production relocation effects, price changes by domestic brands, and price changes of complementary goods all contribute to the differences between these measures.
L68|Coordinated Capacity Reductions and Public Communication in the Airline Industry|"We investigate whether legacy U.S. airlines communicated via earnings calls to coordinate with other legacy airlines in offering fewer seats on competitive routes. Using text analytics, we build a novel dataset on communication among airlines about their capacity choices. Our estimates show that when all legacy airlines in a market discuss the concept of \capacity discipline,"" they reduce offered seats by between 1.14% to 1.48%. We verify that this reduction materializes only when airlines communicate concurrently, and that it cannot be explained other possibilities, including that airlines are simply announcing to investors their unilateral intentions to reduce capacity, and then following through on those announcements. Additional evidence from conditional-exogeneity tests and control function estimates confirms our interpretation."
L68|The Incidence of Coarse Certification: Evidence from the ENERGY STAR Program|A coarse certification provides simple, but incomplete information about quality. Its main rationale is to help consumers trade off dimensions of quality that are complex and lack salience. In imperfectly competitive markets, it may induce excess bunching at the certification requirement, crowd out high quality, and facilitate price discrimination. Who will ultimately benefit from a coarse certification thus depends on the degree of market power firms can exercise as well as on consumers’ sophistication in responding to such information. This paper illustrates these insights using the ENERGY STAR certification program as a case study. I investigate the incidence of the program with a structural econometric model of the U.S. appliance market. I find that the certification can crowd out energy efficiency, make consumers worst off, and have small, but heterogenous impacts on firms’ profits. In this context, the certification tends to not be welfare-improving. This conclusion, however, crucially depends on the market environment and the design of the policy - in scenarios where energy prices are low, or the certification requirement is very stringent, the ES program can be welfare-improving.
L68|Overseas expansion and technological capabilities : the case of Chinese electronics firms|We analyze the formation of technological capabilities of major Chinese home appliance and consumer electronics manufacturers in comparison with telecommunication equipment manufacturers and hardware startups in the electronics industry. To achieve this, we focus on the external business environment of major home appliance and consumer electronics manufacturers, including the technological gaps between foreign and Chinese firms in the same industry, the possibility of cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&A) transactions, and the barriers to starting a business and to developing new products. Results suggest that there are a variety of ways to increase the technological capabilities of firms in emerging countries and that there may be an optimal way for it depending on a business environment.
L68|Modeling and Checking the Power Quality of High Pressure Sodium Vapor Lamp|High pressure sodium Vapor lamps due to long service life High Light, as the most comprehensive street lighting and industrial lighting Whose use is increasing day by day. One of the major drawbacks to these lamps is producing a lot of current harmonic. Therefore, check the Power Quality of these lamps becomes necessary. To check the quality of our lamps, it's necessary to express the exact model of these lamps. In this paper, we simulate a high-pressure lamp based on plasma physics equations. With this exact model, the power consumption of these lamps is considered by using THD and the results are compared with the standard values. In this paper, taking into account the magnetic ballast for a high-pressure sodium Vapor lamp, a precise simulation of these lamps was performed using the MATLAB / Simulink software.
L68|Forest Industry In Republic Of Bulgaria: State And Prospects|The paper attempts to characterize the performance and problems in Forest Industry in Republic of Bulgaria. It contains general characteristic like technological and economic characteristics of the Forest Industry in Bulgaria, technological operations and wood processes, trends of the furniture in EU as a main final product in the Forest Industry. It presents the largest enterprises and the biggest foreign suppliers also and countries for export and import. The paper also presents the performance of the Forest industry enterprises in Bulgaria in strategical management areas like quality, ICT, financing, marketing, internet, internationalization and innovations.The methods applied include statistical analyses of production, value added and employee, expert assessments as well as generalization survey's results from a focus group of managers of Forest industry SMEs, provided in 2016. Some recommendations are drawn in areas of strategic management (technologies and information, innovation cooperation) and in areas of production and operations management.
L68|Demand Forces of Technical Change Evidence from the Chinese Manufacturing Industry|This paper investigates the effect of market size on innovation activities across different durable good industries in the Chinese manufacturing sector. We use a potential market size measure driven only by changes in the Chinese income distribution which is exogenous to changes in prices and qualities of durable goods to instrument for actual future market size. Results indicate that an increase in market size by one percentage point leads to an increase of 4.4% in R&D inputs, an increase in labour productivity by 6.5% and an increase in the likelihood of a successful product innovation by about 1.1 percentage points. These findings are robust controlling for export behaviour of firms and supply side drivers of R&D.
L68|Auge, quiebra y reconversión de la industria de electrodomésticos en España a la luz del Grupo Orbaiceta SA, c. 1950-1990|This article uses a case study to explore the birth and deployment of the household appliance sector in Spain during the country's major economic development between 1960 and 1975. On the back of this growth cycle, Orbaiceta SA became one of Spain's most dynamic and innovative firms. Brand reputation was achieved through the reinvestment of profits and aggressive market penetration. Once it had consolidated its position as the domestic market leader, the company launched an internationalisation strategy. It took over plants in financial difficulties, albeit with a high technological content. One fifth of its production was sold abroad. However, this expansion failed due to the economic crisis of the 1970s and early 1980s, exacerbated by the political uncertainty of the period of transition from Franco's dictatorship to democracy. Over-borrowing bankrupted the Group, which was bailed out with public funds. Following a process of industrial restructuring, the company was sold to the German multinational BSH. KEY Classification-JEL: N6. N 94. L6. L68
L68|The Samurai Bond: Credit Supply And Economic Growth In Pre-War Japan|While credit supply growth is associated with exacerbating financial crises, its impact on general economic activity and long run development are unclear. To identify a causal impact, we use bond payments to samurai in nineteenth century Japan as a quasi-natural experiment and exploit variation between regions. Our proxy for credit supply, samurai population shares, is positively associated with per capita levels of firm establishment and capital investment and average firm capital. Initial samurai population share affects output per capita in the short and long run only in regions with early access to railways, mainly through the tertiary sector. Our interpretation is that increased credit supply may have a positive and persistent impact on output if a region has productivity-enhancing investment opportunities.
L68|Dealing With Liability Of Foreignness: The Case Of Philips In Australia, 1945-1980|How do multinational enterprises (MNE) respond to the ‘liability of foreignness’ (LoF) they experience in foreign markets? The case study in this paper demonstrates that firms develop dynamic, interactive strategies to minimise the LoF risks they perceive. The Australian subsidiary of Dutch MNE Philips Electronics experienced a significant LoF during 1939-1943, when it came close to being nationalised. In response, Philips Australia set out to build ‘FDI legitimacy’ after 1945 in order to maximise both its ‘national embeddedness’ in the host country and its influence on government policy that guided the rapid development of Australia’s postwar electronics industry. This strategy aimed to minimise risk and maximise commercial opportunities for the firm. Philips Australia localised senior management, maximised local procurement and local manufacturing, took a leading role in industry associations, engaged politically influential board members and used marketing tools to build a strong brand and a positive public profile in Australia. The firm became aware of the limitations of this strategy in 1973, when a new Labor government reduced trade protection. Increasing competition from Japanese electronics firms forced Philips Australia to restructure and downsize its production operations. Despite increasing reliance on imports from the parent company’s regional supply centres and efforts to specialise production on high- value added products, the firm saw its profitability and market share in Australia decrease. The case demonstrates that the success of strategic responses to minimise LoF and maximise ‘FDI legitimacy’ is highly context-dependent.
L68|Deutsche Elektroindustrie trotzt unsicherem weltwirtschaftlichem Umfeld – Chancen durch Digitalisierung|Vor dem Hintergrund einer gedämpften weltwirtschaftlichen Entwicklung war die konjunkturelle Entwicklung in der deutschen Elektroindustrie 2016 tendenziell nur leicht aufwärts gerichtet. Das Brexit-Votum oder die weltweit zunehmende Antiglobalisierungsrhetorik sind nur einige Gründe dafür, dass sich die sehr exportorientierten Unternehmen der Elektroindustrie mit einer weiter zunehmenden wirtschaftlichen und politischen Unsicherheit konfrontiert sehen.
L68|Consumer myopia, imperfect competition and the energy efficiency gap: Evidence from the UK refrigerator market|The empirical literature on the energy efficiency gap concentrates on demand inefficiencies in the energy-using durables markets and finds evidence that consumers underestimate future energy costs when purchasing a new appliance. We take a broader view and also consider the impact of imperfect competition. Using data on the UK refrigerator market (2002–2007), we find that the average energy consumption of appliances sold during this period was only 7.2% higher than what would have been observed under a scenario with a perfectly competitive market and non-myopic consumers. One reason for this small gap is that market power actually reduces energy use.
L68|The impact of energy prices on product innovation: Evidence from the UK refrigerator market|This paper uses product-level data from the UK refrigerator market to evaluate the impact of electricity prices on product innovation. Our best estimate is that a 10% increase in the electricity price reduces the average energy consumption of commercialized refrigerator models by 2%. A large share of this reduction is explained by a reduction of freezing space. We also show that the exit of energy-inefficient products contributes more to energy reduction than the launch of new energy-efficient models. These findings suggest that innovation – the development of better technologies embodied in new products – does not respond strongly to energy price variations.
L68|Craft Beer Consumer Behavior, Comportamiento Del Consumidor De Cerveza Artesanal|This study aims to determine the most important attributes when buying craft beer. Descriptive research is done. We use an exploratory phase seeking to define important attributes. Later, as conclusive stage is conducted to determine the weight of each attribute by analyzing a survey applied to beer consumers. The method used to establish the importance of attributes is the Best Worst Scaling. The results indicate there are two segments. The first segment called Stout that are more mature and with a better perception of handicrafts goods. The second segment called Lagers are mostly students and show a lower frequency of beer consumption. When consuming craft beer the most important attributes for Stout are product quality, followed by the kind of beer, and the recommendation of someone. The most important attributes for lagers are quality and type of packaging, followed by the fact that someone has recommended the product and the price. Based on these results, recommendations focused on communication strategies for entrepreneurs engaged in the production of craft beer are generated.
L68|The Role of Sales Agents in Information Disclosure: Evidence from a Field Experiment|With a large nationwide retailer, we run a natural field experiment to measure the effects of energy use information disclosure, customer rebates, and sales agent incentives on demand for energy-efficient durable goods. Although a combination of large rebates plus sales incentives substantially increases market share, information and sales incentives alone each have zero statistical effect and explain at most a small fraction of the low baseline market share. Sales agents strategically comply only partially with the experiment, targeting information to more interested consumers but not discussing energy efficiency with the disinterested majority. These results suggest that seller-provided information is not a major barrier to energy-efficiency investments at current prices in this context.Data, as supplemental material, are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2015.2327 . This paper was accepted by John List, behavioral economics .
L68|Do Energy Efficiency Standards Hurt Consumers? Evidence from Household Appliance Sales|Since 1987, the Department of Energy has set minimum energy efficiency standards for household appliances. Although the review process considers engineering-based accounting of costs and benefits associated with standards, economists have questioned whether these policies hurt consumers by increasing prices and limiting the scope and nature of product attributes, thereby reducing consumersâ€™ perceptions of product quality. To evaluate whether standard changes affect prices and quality, we develop a constant-quality price index using same-model price changes of appliances sold in the United States between 2001 and 2011, a period over which energy-efficiency standards changed three times for clothes washers and Energy Star thresholds were updated for refrigerators. We use this index to disentangle price changes from perceived quality changes, and develop a welfare index that accounts for both prices and quality changes over time. We then examine how price, quality and welfare changed as energy-efficiency standards became progressively more stringent. We find no indication that more stringent standards increased prices or reduced product quality. Instead, we find prices declined while quality and consumer welfare increased, especially around times when more stringent energy efficiency standards were enforced. Similar price and quality patterns emerge for refrigerators which had only Energy Star R policy changes. We conclude that standards have had at worst a negligible effect on consumer welfare, or at best lowered prices and improved quality for both washers and refrigerators, and perhaps other appliances. Further analysis suggests that standards induce innovation, but have little or no influence on inter-manufacturer competition.
L68|Profiles of 50 major appliance manufacturers worldwide|This report ranks 50 appliance manufacturers selected according to their volume of sales. From the point of view of the ownership, 35 of these companies are public listed while 15 are private owned. The total turnover of the analyzed companies is worth around USD 680 billion, including USD 188 billion of the major appliances considered in this report: refrigerators and freezers, washers and driers, dishwashers, hoods, cooking appliances, microwave ovens, air conditioners, vacuum cleaners. Company profiles are available for each of the 50 appliance manufacturers, with information on company background, historical and recent facts, basic data (including total turnover of the last two years, white appliances turnover and white appliances share on total production, number of employees and turnover per employee, as well as number of household appliances sold, when available), sales breakdown by business, by product and by geographical area, production sites and brands. In the ranking we can find: holding companies where major appliances represent just a minor portion of the total turnover (e.g. Toshiba, Samsung, Hitachi, Liebherr, etc.); specialized companies, with an incidence of major appliances on the total turnover in excess of 80% (Whirlpool, Electrolux, BSH, ArÃ§elik); companies with two or more relevant business units, where major appliances represent 30%-60% (Haier, LG, Nortek, Franke, Middleby Corp). The analysis includes global players and regional leaders (Amica, CNA Group, Gorenje, Dacor, Arcelik, Vestel, Smeg, and others). Some companies have developed an international presence in specific segments (Middleby Corp in the bakery segment, Gree, Daikin and Chunlan for air conditioners). Considering the country of the headquarters, 15 companies are Chinese, 7 Japanese, 6 Americans, 5 Italians, 11 of other European countries (including Turkey), 3 from South Korea 2 from India and 1 from Mexico.
L68|The European market for office furniture|"This is the twenty-nine edition of the report The European market for office furniture and it analyses production, consumption, prices, distribution channels and international trade of office furniture in the European continent. A forecast on office furniture consumption in 2017 and 2018 is provided. The report analyses sales data and market shares of top European office furniture manufacturers. Ranking of company sales are broken down by country, by segment (seating, desking systems, executive office furniture, filing systems/storage, wall-to-wall units, meeting rooms and communal areas). The report also analyses the office furniture competitive system: prices, distribution channels and short company profiles. Office furniture industry production is broken down by product type (seating: Executive office chairs, Operative office chairs, Visitor chairs, Folding/Stackable chairs and others; operative desking systems: adjustable and not adjustable, free standing and panel based; executive office furniture; filing systems/storage; wall-to-wall units; furniture for meeting rooms and communal areas). Trends of office furniture prices by country and data on employment and turnover per employee are also provided. The report also provides a focus on office swivel chairs in Europe: a detailed analysis on office seating quantities and brand positioning. The number and the performance of swivel chairs sold in 2015 and 2016 and brand positioning by average ""net price"", is given for seven major countries (Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Poland and Sweden). Values include both products manufactured in Europe and products imported from Extra European countries. The analysis of office furniture distribution channels by country covers: direct sales, office specialists, non-specialists and other. A breakdown of office furniture sales by distribution channel is available for the top companies. A breakdown of European office furniture exports and imports is provided by country and by product type (office furniture and office seating). Addresses of about 210 office furniture companies mentioned in the report are also included. The European considered countries of the study have been expanded from 16 to 30: Northern Europe: Denmark (DK), Finland (FI), Norway (NO) and Sweden (SE); Western Europe: Belgium (BE), France (FR), Ireland (IE), Netherlands (NL) and the United Kingdom (UK). Unless otherwise specified, figures for Belgium include those for Luxembourg; Central Europe (DACH): Germany (DE), Austria (AT) and Switzerland (CH); Southern Europe: Greece (GR), Italy (IT), Portugal (PT) and Spain (ES); Central-Eastern Europe: Poland (PL), Czech Republic (CZ), Slovakia (SK), Hungary (HU) and Romania (RO), Slovenia (SL), Croatia (HR), Bulgaria (BG), Cyprus (CY), Malta (MT), Estonia (EE), Latvia (LV), Lithuania (LT)."
L68|The European market for kitchen furniture, part I|EXECUTIVE SUMMARY. The 28th edition of CSIL Report The European market for kitchen furniture, Part I offers an accurate comprehensive picture of the kitchen furniture industry in 17 EU countries, providing data and 2012-2017 trends (both in value and in volume) in kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports, at European level as a whole and for each country considered, for the total sector and by price range (six price groups). Marketing policies, the main macroeconomic variables necessary to analyse the performance of the sector for the last six years, an analysis of the supply structure and the competitive system, and an overview of the distribution system are also provided. The value and weight of the built-in appliances on kitchen furniture supply is considered, too. A retrospective assessment on the past 30 years of the kitchen furniture industry (1986-2017) and main company facts on the long run is given. COUNTRIES COVERED. European Union 15 Countries (before the May 2004 enlargement) plus Norway and Switzerland. The countries were divided into four areas according their geographical proximity and similarity in market characteristics: Northern Europe: Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden; Western Europe: Belgium and Luxembourg, France, Ireland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom; Central Europe: Austria, Germany and Switzerland; Southern Europe: Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain. INTERNATIONAL TRADE. Kitchen furniture imports and exports in the 17 Western European countries considered, broken down by country and by geographical area of destination/origin. The time frame considered is 2012-2017. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS. A financial analysis is based on a sample of around 100 selected European kitchen furniture manufacturers, and includes profitability ratios (EBITDA, EBIT, ROI, ROE), structure ratios, employment data and per employees ratios. SUPPLY STRUCTURE. An analysis of the types of product manufactured by the European kitchen furniture companies and information on key players operating in each segment. Kitchen furniture production is broken down according to: cabinet door material (solid wood, veneer, laminated, decorative papers, thermoplastic foils, lacquered, melamine, aluminium, glass); cabinet door style (classic, rustic, modern, design, hi-tech); cabinet door colour (white, bright colours, neutral colours, wood looking) and lacquered type (high gloss, opaque); worktop material (solid surface materials, engineered and natural stone, laminated, wood, tiles and ceramics, steel and aluminium, wood, glass); type of lay-out (price range, shape, size). DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS. Overview of the main distribution channels active on the European kitchen furniture market at European level as a whole and for each country considered. The analysis of the distribution system covers the following channels: Kitchen specialists; Furniture retailers; Large furniture chains; Contract; Building trade; DIY stores; Direct sales; E-commerce. COMPETITIVE SYSTEM. Analysis of the leading local and foreign players present in each price range and in each European country considered. Detailed tables show sales data and market shares for the leading kitchen furniture companies and short profiles of the major players in the kitchen furniture industry are also available. At the end of this chapter there is a focus on European kitchen furniture exports and market shares outside EU17 countries, by area of destination (Central-Eastern Europe and Russia, Middle East and Africa, Asia and Pacific, North America and Central-South America). Addresses of about 230 European kitchen furniture companies are also provided.
L68|Sofa Market and Recliners in Europe. Report for 18 countries|The study “Sofa market & Recliners in Europe.-Report for 18 countries” analyses the upholstered furniture market in 18 Western European countries providing data on production, consumption, import and export of upholstered furniture and an analysis of both the competitive system and the supply structure. Company information and activity performances for the European top manufacturers in the sofa segment are also provided. The report also provides short term forecasts of upholstered production and consumption. For the first time the report includes a focus on the European recliners/motion sofa supply structure. This Report is the result of : - over 200 direct interviews to leading upholstery companies and key testimonials conducted both on an online survey and a vis à vis basis. - processing of macroeconomic and sector statistics from 2011 to 2016 - analysis of sector documentation from CSIL's databases which were created in 1980 and have been updated annually. The report is structured as follows: An executive summary provides a complete and rich presentation of the European upholstered furniture sector, deepening both trends and structure of the market and the competitive system with an independent assessment of the sector performance and prospects for the coming years; Chapter I: Basic data. Production, consumption and trade, provides an overview of the European upholstered furniture industry and market through updated statistics and through tables, graphs and maps for Europe as a whole and for each country. The data are provided both in value and in volume; Chapter II: The European sofa competitive system provides rankings of the major European sofa manufacturers, company shares on total upholstery production, breakdown of companies turnover by product specialization, plant localization employees, major European sofa exporters. The chapter also provides companies detailed profile of 15 among the top European players; Chapter III: The European sofa supply offers an analysis of the typology of products manufactured by the European upholstered furniture manufacturers and tables and information on actors operating in each segment: price ranges (economic, medium, upper), covering material (leather, fabric, other material including artificial leather), destination (residential/contract); Chapter IV: The recliners sofa industry in Europe focuses on the motion/recliner upholstered furniture industry in Europe, by estimating the European production of this segment by country and investigating the main characteristics of the supply, type of mechanisms (manual – power) , number of seats (sofas – chairs), covering materials, prices. Tables with the main European players share on the motion supply and short profiles on the main extra-European manufacturers in the segment are provided. Furthermore a list of recliner mechanisms suppliers is presented; Chapter V: Analysis by country, Fort each country the report provides an upholstered furniture country report including: country ranking on a world and European basis, the segment basic data 2011 - 2016. Data for production and consumption in value and volumes, imports and exports by country and geographical area. The chapter offers an analysis of the typology of products manufactured by the European upholstered furniture manufacturers and tables and information on actors operating in each segment: price ranges (economic, medium, upper), covering material (leather, fabric, other material including artificial leather), destination (residential/contract). For all countries (excluding Greece and Ireland) the report provides a supply structure analysis (price ranges, covering material, residential/contract) and motion/stationery and a ranking by upholstered furniture turnover of major local sofa manufacturers . For all countries (excluding Greece, Ireland and Portugal) the report provides a brief introduction to the country home furniture distribution system, with details about major furniture retailers involved in the sofa business; Annex: Directories of mentioned manufacturing companies finally provides full contact information on each company mentioned in this Report. Countries covered: Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom.
L68|The European market for lighting fixtures. Part I|The report provides a breakdown of lighting fixtures market in 17 Western European countries by segment (Consumer and Professional lighting fixtures market), by products and applications and by light source (LED, OLED and traditional sources). Countries covered: Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom. Sales data and market shares for over 100 European and International players operating in this area and country data updated to 2017. Activity trend, international trade, product trends: 2012-2017. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2019. Data on consumer residential lighting are broken down by style (traditional, modern, design), while data on architectural commercial lighting are broken down by kind of product (downlights recessed lighting, tubes systems tracks, linear lighting strips, high bays, floor and table lamps, chandeliers for commercial spaces, projectors spotlights, wall washers, LED panels) and application (hospitality, office, retail, art and museums, entertainment, schools and infrastructures). Industrial lighting consists of lighting for industrial sites, healthcare lighting, weather resistant and explosion-proof lighting, emergency lighting, marine lighting. Outdoor lighting includes residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, lighting for streets and major roads, area campus lighting, lighting for tunnels and galleries, Christmas and special events lighting. A financial analysis is based on a sample of over 500 European companies active in the lighting sector, and includes profitability ratios (EBITDA, EBIT, ROI, ROE), structure ratios, employment data and per employees ratios. The analysis of lighting fixtures distribution channels in Europe covers: direct sales and contract, specialist lighting stores, furniture stores and chains, department stores, wholesalers, DIY stores, e-commerce. A breakdown of lighting fixtures sales by distribution channel is available for most of the main companies. Short profiles of key influencers for the Contract market, such as architectural offices, free-lance designers, lighting designers, are also provided. A breakdown of lighting fixtures exports and imports for each European Country considered is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin, also considering the performance of the main European companies on extra EU17 markets (Central Eastern Europe, Russia and other CIS Countries, Middle East, Asia and Pacific, North America, Central-South America, Africa). Lighting fixtures sales by product (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by European country of destination are provided for the major local and International companies operating in this market. Market shares and short profiles are also included. Addresses of about 350 European lighting fixtures manufacturers are also provided. Among the considered products: indoor lighting, outdoor lighting, decorative lighting, consumer lighting, residential lighting, architectural lighting, commercial lighting, industrial lighting, technical lighting, professional lighting, traditional lighting, modern lighting, design lighting, floor lamps, table lamps, wall and ceiling lamps, chandeliers, suspensions, downlights, recessed lighting, tubes, systems, tracks, LED panels, linear lighting, strip lighting, projectors, spotlights, hospitality lighting, office lighting, retail lighting, art and museums lighting, entertainment lighting, schools and infrastructures lighting, lighting for industrial sites, healthcare lighting, emergency lighting, weather resistant and explosion-proof lighting, marine lighting, residential outdoor lighting, urban landscape lighting, streets and major roads lighting, area campus lighting, tunnels and galleries lighting, Christmas lighting, incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge, metal halide, LED, OLED.
L68|The European market for emergency lighting|This is the second edition of CSIL Report on the European market for emergency lighting. The information provided in this report is based on desk and field analysis, with information collected on approximately 30 sector companies through 30 direct interviews. The geographical perimeter of the study covers 30 European Countries including the 28 States of the European Union, plus Norway and Switzerland. The countries were divided into eight clusters according to their geographical proximity and similarity in market characteristics. Nordic countries: Denmark (DK), Finland (FI), Norway (NO), and Sweden (SE); United Kingdom (UK) and Ireland (IE); Netherlands (NL); Germany (DE), Austria (AT) and Switzerland (CH); France (FR) and Belgium (BE); Italy (IT); Spain (ES), Portugal (PT) and Greece (GR); Central-Eastern Europe: Bulgaria (BG), Croatia (HR), Cyprus (CY), Czech Republic (CZ), Estonia (EE), Hungary (HU), Latvia (LV), Lithuania (LT), Malta (MA), Poland (PO), Romania (RO), Slovakia (SK), Slovenia (SI). Estimated data on European production and consumption of emergency lighting are provided by country and by geographical area. Activity trend is given as comparison with 2012 (previous edition of this Report). Financial data are showed in terms of turnover growth rate and EBITDA margin for selected companies. Estimated sales figures and market share for specific countries are given, as well main technological findings. Short profiles of the major European and international companies are also provided.
L68|The European market for lighting controls and IoT|"This Report aims to provide figures and trends for the European market for lighting controls, analysing the sector performance, the competitive system, market drivers and major market players. The study has been produced on the basis of around 20 direct interviews and overall documentation relating to the lighting industry available both online and offline + CSIL's database of roughly 1,000 worldwide manufacturers operating in the lighting industry. Product segmentation included: residential, commercial, industrial and outdoor lighting controls applications. Subcategories of the mentioned segments have also been investigated (offices, hotels, private homes, shops, industrial plants, hospitals, urban landscape and streetsâ€¦). The following technologies have been investigated: user interfaces (including sliders, dimmers, touch panels, remote controls, timers and standard control panels), sensors (including presence, occupancy, movement and light sensors) and control modules (including relay panels, group controllers, scene controllers and DMX controllers). Fixture mounted (including all devices mounted on the fixtures or luminaries), wall mounted (including ceiling mounted) and integrated building automation system (BAS) are some of the product sectors examined in this research. Further analysis on protocols used (DALI, DMX, etc.) is also included. Geographical coverage: in-deep analysis for 16 West European countries (around 85% of the market value), overview on Central-East Europe, Russia, Middle East and North Africa (15%). Lighting control systems are used for working places, aesthetic, and security illumination for interior, exterior and landscape lighting, and theatre stage lighting productions. They are often part of sustainable architecture and lighting design for integrated green building energy conservation programs. A major advantage of a lighting control system over conventional individual switching is the ability to control any light, group of lights, or all lights in a building from a single user interface device. Any light or device can be controlled from any location. This ability to control multiple light sources from a user device allows complex ""light scenes"" to be created. A room may have multiple scenes available, each one created for different activities in the room. A lighting scene can create dramatic changes in atmosphere, for a residence or the stage, by a simple button press. In landscape design, in addition to landscape lighting, fountain pumps, water spa heating, swimming pool covers, motorized gates, and outdoor fireplace ignition; it can be remotely or automatically controlled. Other benefits include reduced energy consumption and power costs through more efficient usage, longer bulb life from dimming, and reduced carbon emission. Newer, wireless lighting control systems provide additional benefits including reduced installation costs and increased flexibility in where switches and sensors can be placed."
L68|E-commerce for the furniture industry|This report analyzes the world e-commerce market for furniture. The estimated size of the global e-commerce market for furniture and a breakdown by macro-regions are provided. Sales volume and performance for single distributor categories (E-tailers, brick & click furniture stores, non-specialists dealers) are also provided in the report. Online sales of furniture and related products for over one hundred leading players based in US, Europe and Asia are also presented, with profiles highlighting their e-commerce policies. The report includes overviews of the US, European and Asian furniture markets, including forecasts for 2017-2018. Crucial issues for the e-commerce market for furniture - as price policies, logistics and delivery, offline-online integration, role social media - are discussed in light of companies' experiences. Product considered: Upholstery, Outdoor, Office Furniture, Kitchen Furniture, other furniture (furniture for dining and living rooms, bedroom furniture, furniture for bathroom, occasional furniture and non-upholstered seats).
L68|E-Commerce in the lighting fixtures sector|The report analyses the development of E-commerce sales in the lighting fixtures industry to nowadays and future prospects providing market size of lighting fixtures industry and E-commerce sales, by country/area (Europe, America, Asia) and by segment (Residential, Commercial, Industrial and Outdoor lighting). The Report highlights also a strategy for the E-commerce of lighting fixtures for the middle run, focusing on logistic platforms, price promise, investments from incubators, increasing use of smartphones, lack of infrastructure. E-commerce players: short profiles of leading E-commerce players, sales data and market shares are included. Successful and unsuccessful stories. Around 200 useful contacts. Countries and geographical area considered: Europe (mainly Western Europe), America (mainly the United States), Asia (mainly China, India and Japan). The Report E-commerce for the lighting fixtures industry has been carried out using the following tools: field research including direct interviews with important manufacturers and distributors operating in the E-commerce business; desk analysis and comparison for a sample of over 200 companies using E-commerce (mainly US, Europe and China based); analysis of CSIL databases concerning lighting fixtures sector worldwide; processing of official statistics and various E-commerce related sources worldwide.
L68|The upholstered furniture market in the United States|The report Upholstered Furniture market in the United States provides data and trends in upholstered furniture production and consumption, upholstery imports and exports, and an analysis of both the competitive system and the supply structure. The time frame considered is 2007-2016. Upholstered furniture consumption forecast for the closing of the 2017 and 2018 are provided. The U.S upholstery productionis broken down covering materials: fabric, leather, other (faux leather, microfiber, vinyl). Data are provided both in values and in units. The market for upholstered furniture is analysed by considering major demand determinants(labour market, consumer confidence, household income, furniture expenditure, housing completed and price trends of new home sales). The U.S upholstery consumption is divided by: Covering materials: leather, fabric, other materials Type of product: stationary and motion upholstery Price ranges: low, middle, upper middle and high The U.S competitive system for upholstered furniture is analysed considering data and trends on employment, manufacturing plants localization at country level. Leading U.S manufacturers are set forth by upholstery turnover, production capacity, number of employees and product specialization. Top manufacturers both US-based and international operating on the U.S. market are identified by upholstery sales and market shares on total upholstery consumption. Leading 30 company's profiles are included with product portfolio, total and upholstery sales, brands, number and localization of manufacturing plants, number of employees and export share. A focus on entry and distribution strategies on the U.S upholstery market for non-US based manufacturers is provided by identifying companies for upholstery sales to the U.S. The analysis of distribution channels covers: traditional furniture stores, manufacturer branded furniture stores, online sales, lifestyle furniture stores, warehouse membership clubs, discount department stores and department stores. A breakdown of furniture sales value by distribution channel is included for 2016. A focus on e-commerce sales includes the value of upholstery online sales, the digital strategies of leading manufacturers and a selection of furniture retailers selling online. More than 140 retailer's profiles are provided with product mix, geographical area covered, furniture and furnishings turnover, number of stores and key vendors offered.
L68|The European market for bathroom furniture, furnishings and wellness|The 8th edition of CSIL Report The European market for bathroom furniture, furnishings and wellness offers an accurate comprehensive picture of the bathroom furniture and furnishings industry in Europe, providing data and trends (both in value and in volume) on bathroom furniture and furnishings consumption, at European level as a whole and for each country considered, for the total sector and by product. Main macroeconomic variables necessary to analyze the performance of the sector for the last 6 years and forecasts 2017-2018, analysis of the competitive system, financial analysis on a sample of over 60 selected European companies which have bathroom furniture as main business area, overview of the distribution system and estimates of average factory prices for each product considered, are also provided. This report takes into consideration nine bathroom macro-sectors and their main products: bathroom furniture; bathroom furnishings and accessories (including soap dish, towel rails, toilet brushes, tumbler holders, toilet paper holder, shower curtains, etc.); WC seats; shower screens and enclosures; whirlpool bathtubs; multifunctional shower booths (including equipped hydro massage columns and mini spa); bathroom taps, faucets, shower arms; acrylic sinks and bathtubs; ceramic sanitary ware (sinks, bidets, urinals, bathtubs, shower trays). The countries covered were divided into five areas according their geographical proximity and similarity in market characteristics. These areas are: Northern Europe: Denmark (DK), Finland (FI), Norway (NO) and Sweden (SE); Western Europe: Belgium (BE), France (FR), Ireland (IE), the Netherlands (NL) and the United Kingdom (UK); Central Europe (DACH): Germany (DE), Austria (AT) and Switzerland (CH); Southern Europe: Greece (GR), Italy (IT), Portugal (PT) and Spain (ES); Central Eastern Europe (CEE): Poland (PL), Other CEE countries (Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia). Via detailed tables are shown sales data and market shares of the top European and international bathroom furniture and furnishings companies for each bathroom macro-sector and in each European country considered, together with short company profiles. A focus on European bathroom furniture and furnishings sales outside Europe for selected European companies is also provided by geographical area of destination (Russia, North and Latin America, Asia and Pacific, Middle East and Africa). An address list of around 250 European and international bathroom furniture and furnishings companies is included.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in the United States|The twelve edition of The Lighting Fixtures market in the United States offers a comprehensive picture of the lighting fixtures industry in the US, providing data and trends 2012-2017 and forecast up to 2021. From one hand, the report analyzes the main trends affecting the market over the last five years, considering the production, the consumption, the imports and the exports of lighting fixtures in the country. On the other hand, it offers an analysis of the market structure and the competitive system, an overview of the distribution system and the main players operating in the market. International Trade. Lighting fixtures exports and imports are considered, broken down by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The time frame considered is 2012-2017. Market Structure. The lighting fixtures market is divided into four main segments: residential-consumer, architectural-commercial, industrial, outdoor. Within them, the market is further broken down by types of product, by light sources, and by the place of production. A financial analysis, on a sample of a selected number of companies operating in the market, includes profitability ratios and financial indicators. Distribution Channels. The analysis of the distribution system is organized by the following channels: Contract/Builders, Lighting Specialists, Lifestyle stores, DIY stores, E-commerce. A selection of architectural offices and lighting designers, electrical and lighting wholesalers, and furniture stores is also included. Competitive System. Finally, the report offers an analysis of the leading local and foreign players present in the market and in each segment considered; through sales data, market shares and short profiles. An address list of more than 130 US lighting fixtures manufacturer is included. Among the considered products: indoor and outdoor lighting, decorative residential lighting, commercial lighting, industrial lighting, technical lighting, traditional-transitional-contemporary lighting, floor-table-wall-ceiling lamps, suspensions, downlights recessed, tracks systems, projectors spotlights, hospitality, retail, office lighting, entertainment lighting, lighting for museums, lighting for industrial plants, explosion-proof lighting, marine lighting, healthcare lighting, emergency lighting, residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, Christmas lighting, street lighting, sporting facilities and galleries, incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge, LED, lighting controls and IoT applications.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in China|The 10th edition of The Lighting Fixtures market in China offers an accurate and in-deep analysis of the lighting fixtures industry in China, providing data and trends 2011-2016. From one hand, the report analyses the main trends affecting the market over the last five years, considering the production, the consumption, the imports and the exports of lighting fixtures in the country. On the other hand, it offers an analysis of the supply structure and the competitive system, an overview of the distribution system and the main players operating in the market. International Trade: Lighting fixtures exports and imports are considered, broken down by country and by geographical area of destination/origin (total lighting, only lighting fixtures, only lighting components). The time frame considered is 2011-2016. Supply Structure: The lighting fixtures market is divided in four main segments: residential-consumer; commercial; industrial; outdoor. Within them, the market is further broken down by types of product and application, by light sources (incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge, LEDs, OLED, fiber optics), and by the place of production. A financial analysis, on a sample of selected number of companies operating in the market, includes profitability ratios and their turnover per employee is also included. Data on consumer/residential lighting are broken down by style (traditional, modern, design) and by product type (floor, table, wall and ceiling lamps, embedded lighting, chandeliers and suspensions), while data on commercial lighting are broken down by kind of product (downlights/recessed, tubes/tracks/systems, floor and table lighting for commercial spaces, wall washers, LED panels, linear lighting and strips, chandeliers and suspensions for commercial spaces, projectors/spotlights) and application (hospitality, office, retail, art and museums, entertainment, schools, airports and other big infrastructures). Industrial lighting consists of lighting for industrial sites, healthcare lighting, weather resistant and explosion-proof lighting, emergency lighting, marine lighting. Outdoor lighting includes residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, lighting for streets and major roads, area/campus lighting, lighting for tunnels and galleries, Christmas and special events lighting. Distribution Channels: The analysis of the distribution system is organized by the following channels: Contract/Builders; Lighting Specialists; Wholesalers; Lifestyle stores (Furniture stores/chains and department Stores); DIY stores; E-commerce. A selection of leading e-commerce players, architectural offices and lighting designers operating in China is also included. Competitive System: Finally, the report offers an analysis of the leading local and foreign players present on the Chinese market and in each segment considered; through sales data, market shares and short profiles. An address list of more than 300 local and foreign lighting fixtures manufacturer active in China is included.
L68|The kitchen furniture market in the United States|The Report The kitchen furniture market in the United States, now in its fifth edition, offers an in-deep analysis for the kitchen furniture sector, and an overview about the bathroom furniture market, with data on market size and its segmentation, activity trend and forecasts, international trade, distribution system and reference prices. Short profiles of the leading US kitchen furniture manufacturers and distributors are also included as well as their market shares. The report covers both kitchen furniture and built-in appliances sold through this channel. The analysis of the US kitchen furniture imports and exports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination/origin, for the period 2011-2016. The kitchen furniture production in the United States is broken down by style, cabinet door material, worktop material for a sample of companies. The analysis of kitchen furniture distribution in the US market covers the following channels: Dealers/Kitchen specialists, Builders, Home improvement, Distributors, Buying groups, Architects, Design centers. Reference prices of kitchens sold through these channels are also mentioned. An overview of the construction and real estate market, as well as figures on population and disposable income in the United States are also included. The main magazines, fairs and associations in the field of kitchen furniture in the United States are quoted. The chapter on the competitive system analyses the main companies active in the US kitchen furniture market, providing short company profiles, data on kitchen furniture sales and market shares. Sales from Europe and China to North America are also included for a sample of companies. A chapter is dedicated to major appliances with data on consumption and international trade by category (cooking appliances, hoods, microwave ovens, dishwashers, refrigerators and freezers), as well as data on reference prices. A focus on the Bathroom furniture sector is also given, including market quantification, product trends, price analysis and competition. A specific description of the shower screens segment with profiles of the major manufacturers is also offered. A list of the mentioned companies is included.
L68|The kitchen furniture market in Japan and South Korea|JAPAN SECTION: This Market Research Report provides an analysis of the kitchen furniture market in Japan providing trends in kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports, reference prices, marketing policies and distribution. Short profiles of major players are given as well their market shares. Data on kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports are given for the years 2008-2016, in Million USD and Billion YEN. The analysis of the Japanese kitchen furniture imports and exports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The kitchen furniture production in volume is split between system kitchens and sectional kitchens. The kitchen furniture consumption in Japan is broken down by size and structure of the kitchen room, worktop material, cabinet door material and colour. The distribution of kitchen furniture in the Japanese market is described, mentioning the different distribution channels: department stores, lifestyle concept stores, home centers, furniture chains, appliances retailers, e-commerce. Short profiles are included for the main distributors of furniture and household appliances present in the Japanese market. Reference prices of kitchens and built-in appliances are listed. The main magazines, associations and fairs in the field of kitchen furniture in Japan are mentioned. The competitive system analyses the main players present in the Japanese kitchen furniture market, providing short company profiles, their estimated turnover and market shares. Addresses of the mentioned companies are also enclosed. SOUTH KOREA SECTION: This Market Research Report offers an overview of the kitchen furniture industry in South Korea providing trends in kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports, reference prices, marketing policies and distribution. Short profiles of major players are given as well their market shares. Data on kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports are given for the period 2008-2016, in Million USD and Billion KRW. The analysis of the Korean kitchen furniture imports and exports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The kitchen furniture supply in Korea is broken down by cabinet door material, kitchen size and worktop material. The competitive system analyses the main players present in the Korean kitchen furniture market, providing short company profiles, turnover data and market shares. Demand determinants examined in the first chapter of the report are: economic indicators, population indicators and data on the construction activity. Addresses of the mentioned companies are also enclosed.
L68|The office furniture market in China|CSIL Market Research The office furniture market in China provides office furniture market size, historical trends of office furniture production and consumption, imports and exports. The report is enriched by an in-depth analysis of the competitive system in terms of company dimension, manufacturing locations and product breakdown. Figures on sales and estimates on market shares of the leading office furniture manufacturers operating in China are also available (total office furniture production and segments: seating, operative desks, executive furniture, storage, wall to wall units). Short profiles of the top office furniture manufacturers are also available. Office furniture production is reported by segment (office seating, operative desks, executive furniture, office storage, wall to wall units). The analysis of supply includes also product sub-segments (i.e. chairs by type, office desks by type) and materials used. The figures are given for a medium term span (2010-2016) giving an indication of the market trend. Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area of origin/destination. A focus on the domestic market includes average prices declared by companies during the survey, sales by region and by main customers (public sector, foreign multinationals, big and middle private companies, small private companies, independent white collars, banking/insurance). Data on the distribution system are also provided, with sales broken down by distribution channels and kind of customers. Analysis of price levels is included, with a particular focus on office swivel chairs where brand positioning is given on the bases of the number of units manufactured by single company and average price. An analysis of the market potential focuses on construction sector, Chinese richest cities, luxury retail location, trends in the hospitality sector and the commercial lighting fixtures segment. Over 100 addresses of key operators are included. The study has been carried out involving direct interviews with more than 120 sector firms and distributors operating on the Chinese market.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Japan and South Korea|JAPAN SECTION. The Report The lighting fixtures market in Japan is at its sixth edition. It provides historical statistical data 2011-2016 of Production, International trade and Market size of the lighting fixtures industry in Japan. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2020 are also provided. Lighting Demand of the Japanese market is broken down by segment (consumer and residential lighting, architectural and commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). A focus on LED lighting is provided throughout historical data and forecasts up to 2020. A breakdown of Japanese lighting fixtures exports and imports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the Japanese lighting fixtures market (by segment, by product and application), with data on sales and market shares and short company profiles. A breakdown of the distribution channels of lighting fixtures in Japan is given, together with short profiles and sales of a sample of lighting fixture distributors. Covered channels are: direct sales and contract; lighting fixtures specialists; furniture stores and chains, department stores, DIY; Wholesalers; E-commerce sales; appliances and electronics stores. A list of selected architectural companies in Japan involved in the lighting business and Lighting designers is given. A relevant financial analysis is included for around 30 Japanese manufacturers of lighting fixtures and related activities. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, population indicators, building construction indicators) are also provided. Addresses of the mentioned lighting companies in Japan are also enclosed. SOUTH KOREA SECTION. The Report The lighting fixtures market in South Korea is at its third edition. It provides historical statistical data 2011-2016 of Production, International trade and Market size of the lighting fixtures industry in South Korea. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2020 are also provided. Lighting Demand of the South Korean market is broken down by segment (consumer and residential lighting, architectural and commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). A breakdown of South Korean lighting fixtures exports and imports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the South Korean lighting fixtures market, with data on sales and market shares and short company profiles. A relevant financial analysis is included for around 40 South Korean manufacturers of lighting fixtures and related activities. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, population indicators) are also provided. Addresses of the mentioned lighting companies in South Korea are also enclosed.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Australia and New Zealand|AUSTRALIA SECTION. The report The lighting fixtures market in Australia is at its third edition. It provides data and trend (2011-2016) on production, international trade and market size of the lighting fixtures industry in Australia, broken down by consumer residential and technical professional lighting. The analysis also provides a breakdown of the Australian lighting fixtures exports and imports by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The lighting demand of the Australian market is broken down by segment (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). A focus on LED lighting is provided throughout historical data and forecasts up to 2021. An overview of the geographic distribution of the industry is presented. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the Australian lighting fixtures market (by segment), with data on sales, market shares, and short company profiles. A breakdown of the distribution channels of lighting fixtures in Australia is given, together with short profiles of a sample of lighting fixture distributors. Covered channels are: direct sales and contract; lighting fixtures specialists; furniture stores and chains, department stores, DIY; Wholesalers; E-commerce sales. A list of selected architectural companies involved in the Australian lighting business and Lighting designers is given. The main fairs, events, and organizations related to the lighting industry are presented. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, population indicators, building construction indicators) are also provided, together with macroeconomic forecasts up to 2021. NEW ZEALAND SECTION. The report The lighting fixtures market in New Zealand is at its third edition. It provides historical data for the period 2011-2016 of production, international trade and market size of the lighting fixtures industry in New Zealand. The study offers a breakdown of New Zealand lighting fixtures exports and imports by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The lighting demand is broken down by segment (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the local lighting fixtures market, with data on sales, market shares and short company profiles. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, population indicators) are also provided, together with macroeconomic forecasts up to 2021.
L68|Kitchen furniture: World market outlook|This report provides an overview of the world trade of kitchen furniture, with statistical data (production, consumption, imports, exports, in volume and values) for 60 countries selected according to their contribution to the international trade of kitchen furniture. The report identifies the opportunities that arise in the global kitchen furniture market and it is a helpful tool for companies exporting kitchen furniture as it contains a rich collection of key country data, allowing comparisons among different areas. Production and consumption of kitchen furniture are given at world level and by country, both in value and units. International trade statistics (imports and exports) of kitchen furniture by country of origin/destination are included, as well as trade balance data covering the years 2011-2016. Statistics 2011-2016 and outlook data are also available in a country format. They include: historical series (2011-2016) of kitchen furniture trade by country of origin and destination; production, exports, imports and consumption data in value for the years 2011-2016 and data in volume for the last available year (normally 2016), economic indicators (population, households, marriages, household consumption expenditure), exchange rates local currency per US$ and local currency per EUR; a comparison with imports in volume of selected built-in appliances (hoods, refrigerators, dishwashers). The third part of the report provides company profiles for some among the main kitchen furniture manufacturers worldwide: AC Products, American Woodmark, Ballingslöv, Cleanup, Eczacibasi, Elkay, Fotile, Fournier, Häcker, Haier, Hanssem, Howdens Joinery, Ikea, Itataia, Kebao Boloni, Kinetic, Lixil, Lube, Mandemakers, Marya, Masco, Masterbrand, Nobia, Nobilia, Nolte, Oppein (Oupai), Pianor, RSI, Scavolini, Schmidt Groupe, Schüller, Takara Standard, Veneta Cucine, Wood Mode. Countries included in the report are: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong (China), Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Vietnam.
L68|Top 200 furniture manufacturers worldwide|The Top 200 furniture manufacturers worldwide report provides an overview of the furniture competitive system, selecting and listing 200 furniture top companies by their revenues, products and geographical coverage. Data on global furniture consumption, trade and production are included for time frame 2011-2016. Comparisons between industry trends and top furniture manufacturers are provided. Top 200 manufacturers are broken down and analysed according to headquarters location, activity and furniture product specialization (office, kitchen, home and upholstered furniture) as well as financial performance (turnover and employment). Profiles are structured with the following information: Companies directory (headquarters address, telephone number, website, email address, year of establishment), Business activity (product portfolio, furniture product specialization), Financial performance (total revenues and number of employees), Manufacturing activity (facilities location, plant expansion and cost rationalization strategies), Sales breakdown by product and by geographical area, Distribution activity: brands, retailing and branding strategies for the domestic and international markets. Companies selected have headquarters in the following countries: Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Malaysia, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, United Kingdom, USA.
L68|What is the effect of inflation on consumer spending behaviour in Ghana?|The paper examines the effect of inflation on consumer spending behaviour in Ghana during the period 1964 to 2013 using annual data. The analysis of the results was done using Ordinary least square test (OLS), the Johansen test (JH), and Vector Error Correction (VECM) test. The findings of the studies based on the JH tests showed stable significant long run relationship between inflation and consumer spending behaviour. The findings of the study shows significant short run relationship between inflation and consumer spending using the VECM. The results of the OLS test show there is positive relationship between inflation and consumer spending behaviour. Policy makers should take into account the findings of the study in managing the economy. Future studies on causality and structural break are worth undertaking.
L68|Deutsche Elektroindustrie – 2008er Höchstmarke trotz globaler Unwägbarkeiten wieder im Visier|2015 konnte die Produktionsentwicklung die moderaten Erwartungen nicht ganz erfüllen. Für 2016 fallen die Wachstumsaussichten der heimischen Elektrounternehmen moderat optimistisch aus.
L68|The European market for RTA furniture|The V edition of CSIL report The European market for RTA furniture aims to provide a detailed overview of the RTA furniture market in Europe through the analysis of the sector performance, the competitive system, its main actors, the supply structure and the distribution system and the main market trends. This study is based on three main macro-areas: Overview of the RTA furniture market: production and consumption of RTA furniture at an European level and in the major countries with trends for the main markets; The competitive system: a careful examination of the industrial structure and description of the leading operators on each market; Distribution channels for kit furniture in Europe, with description of a sample of leading operators specialized in RTA furniture. NEW: This edition includes a focus on the RTA furniture market trends and main innovations with figures by product type, material, surface and type of finishing . Countries covered: Western Europe (EU17): Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom Eastern Europe (EU13): Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Croatia; Other countries: Liechtenstein, Serbia Products covered : Living/dining room furniture (including sets for living/dining room, bookshelves, tables and chairs, occasional furniture); bedroom furniture; children furniture; office/home office furniture; bathroom and kitchen furniture. Note: By RTA furniture we mean the group of furnishing products which, according to the country of reference, are defined as flat-pack, ready to assemble (RTA), knock down (KD), DIY (do it yourself), self-assembly or kit furniture that come in flat-packs and include all the hardware and instructions necessary for assembly.
L68|The contract furniture and furnishings market in Europe|The sixth edition of the report The Contract Furniture and Furnishings Market in Europe provides a comprehensive picture of the European furniture market. The report provides the following estimates: (a) production and consumption of contract furniture in Europe in 2009-2015 (b) production, consumption, and annual growth by market segment in 2015 (c) production by product in 2015 (d) production and consumption for each of the 17 covered countries in 2015. The contract furniture market is broken down by the following destination segments: Retail: (a) Mass market: supermarkets, middle range stores and (b) Luxury shops; Hospitality: hotels, residences, tourist villages, etc; Office spaces: offices and public bodies: banks, large private customers – Public administration, official residences, embassies etc ; Real estate: residential buildings; Restaurants and bars: restaurants, bars, cafés; Educational: schools, universities, conference halls; Art and museums; Entertainment: theaters, music halls, cinemas, leisure environments; Healthcare: hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, retirement homes; Marine: cruise ships, yachts; Airports; For each segment an analysis of key specific demand drivers and market features is provided. Covered countries: Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom. Among the considered products: Upholstery, Bedrooms and mattresses, Contract tables and chairs, Kitchen furniture for real estate, Commercial lighting fixtures, Bathroom furniture and fittings, Office furniture, Shop fittings. Short profiles for over 120 leading contract furniture companies, and production shares by destination segment and product for over 300 companies. Financial analysis of major contract furniture companies based on 2010-2014 balance-sheets. Financial indicators: Operating Revenue (Turnover), Added Value, P/L for Period (Net Income), Shareholders Funds, Cash Flow, ROA, ROE, EBITDA margin, EBIT margin, Solvency Ratio, Current Ratio, Number of Employees, Turnover per Employee, Added value per Employee Focus on the US market, with construction dynamics by relevant segment and tips to export in the US. Contact details of over 450 furniture and furnishing producers/contractors, and over 230 architect and design studios. Lists of 300 top hotel companies, over 30 relevant fairs, over 30 relevant magazines.
L68|The office furniture market in the United States|CSIL Market Research The office furniture market in the United States provides an overview of the office furniture market in the USA with historical trends of production and consumption, imports and exports data. The report is enhanced by an in-depth analysis of the competitive system in terms of company dimension, manufacturing locations and product breakdown. Figures on sales and estimates on market shares of the leading office furniture manufacturers operating in the United States are also available (total office furniture production and segments: seating, operative desks, executive furniture, storage, other products). The sample has been extended to more than 100 among the leading North American manufacturers. Short profiles of the top office furniture manufacturers are also available. Office furniture market is analysed by segment (office seating, operative desks, executive furniture, office storage, other products) Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and by geographical area of origin/destination. A focus on the domestic market includes sales by region and by main distribution channel. A directory of some of the main dealerships in major metropolitan areas is also included. An analysis of the market potential focuses on non-residential construction sector: office, lodging, healthcare, educational, etc. Values on construction put in place and forecasts until 2020 are also provided. Over 100 addresses of key operators are included. The study has been carried out involving direct interviews with more than 100 sector firms, distributors and sector experts operating in North America.
L68|The European market for kitchen furniture, part II|The eigth edition of The European market for kitchen furniture Part II (formerly The kitchen furniture market in Central-Eastern Europe) analyses the production, consumption, international trade, distribution and competitive system of the kitchen furniture industry in the following 13 CEE Countries (CE Europe 13 or CEE 13): Bulgaria (BG), Croatia (HR), Czech Republic (CZ), Hungary (HU), Poland (PL), Romania (RO), Slovakia (SK), Slovenia (SI). For this edition, Estonia (EE), Latvia (TV), Lithuania (LT), Cyprus (CY), Malta (MT) have been added. An overview on other 6 CE European Countries is also included as appendix at the end of the report: Albania, Bosnia Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Ukraine. The report covers both kitchen furniture (excluding the sales of cabinets only) and the built-in appliances sold through this channel. Kitchen furniture imports and exports in the CE European countries considered, are broken down by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The time frame considered is 2012-2017. The main macroeconomic variables necessary to analyse the performance of the sector for the last six years are also included. A financial analysis is based on a sample of almost 350 Central-Eastern European manufacturing companies that produce mostly kitchens, and includes profitability ratios (EBITDA, EBIT, ROI, ROE), structure ratios, employment data and per employees ratios. Kitchen furniture production is broken down according to: cabinet door material (solid wood, veneer, laminated, decorative papers, thermoplastic foils, lacquered, melamine, aluminium, glass); cabinet door style (classic, rustic, modern, design, hi-tech); cabinet door colour (white, bright colours, neutral colours, wood looking) and lacquered type (high gloss, opaque); worktop material (solid surface materials, engineered and natural stone, laminated, wood, tiles and ceramics, steel and aluminium, wood, glass); price range (luxury, upper end, middle-upper, middle, middle-low, low end). An overview of the main distribution channels active on the kitchen furniture market in Central-Eastern Europe (Kitchen specialists; Furniture retailers; Large furniture chains; Contract and Building trade; DIY stores). Information on the competitive system include the analysis of the leading local and foreign players (especially from Italy and Germany) present in each price range and in each CE European country considered. Detailed tables show sales data and market shares for the leading kitchen furniture companies, and short profiles of the major players in the kitchen furniture industry are also available. An address list of the major CE European kitchen furniture companies mentioned in the Report is included.
L68|The kitchen furniture market in Russia|CSIL Market Research Report The kitchen furniture market in Russia analyses production, distribution, consumption, trade and competition for one of the most challenging markets for this sector, providing kitchen furniture production and consumption statistics and trends, as well as import and export data by country and by geographical area of origin and destination. The survey involved collecting information from approximately 100 sector companies either through active participation (direct interviews or completion of a questionnaire) or from company balance sheets, figures and estimates. Historical data are examined, especially as regards five-year, three-year and one-year market comparisons. The report covers both kitchen furniture and the built-in appliances sold through this channel. Information on the competitive system include sales data and market shares for 50 of the top kitchen furniture manufacturers in this area (players from Russia, Germany and Italy), as well as short company profiles. Highlights of distribution channels are given, along with a list of 200 among the most important retailers selling kitchen furniture and furniture trade centres in Russia, from low to luxury price ranges and by Federal District. The kitchen furniture market in Russia is broken down by kitchen style, cabinet door material, worktop material. The Report also gives a wide range of macro-economic indicators (country indicators, real growth of GDP and inflation up to 2022, population indicators, data on building activity). A snapshot of the Ukrainian kitchen furniture market is included, as well as a Directory of the main magazines available on the Russian furniture market. An address list of the major players in the kitchen furniture industry in Russia is also provided.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Russia|CSIL report The lighting fixtures market in Russia provides a full analysis of the lighting fixtures market in Russia, giving lighting fixtures industry statistics (production and consumption, imports and exports), sales data and market shares of the main players with company profiles, and data on the supply structure (light sources, productivity and employment), distribution channels and reference prices. The lighting fixtures market is broken down highlighting four core segments: residential lighting, commercial lighting, industrial lighting, outdoor lighting. Data on consumer/residential lighting are broken down by style (traditional, modern, design) and by positioning of the lamp (floor, table, wall/ceiling lamps, chandeliers/ suspensions), while data on architectural/commercial lighting are broken down by kind of product (downlights/recessed, tubes/systems/tracks, floor and table lamps for commercial spaces, wall washers, LED panels, linear lighting and strips, chandeliers and suspensions for commercial spaces, projectors/spotlights) and application (hospitality, office, retail, art and museums, entertainment, schools and infrastructures). Industrial lighting consists of lighting for industrial sites, healthcare lighting, weather resistant and explosion-proof lighting, emergency lighting, marine lighting. Outdoor lighting includes residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, lighting for streets and major roads, area/campus lighting, lighting for tunnels and galleries, Christmas and special events lighting. The breakdown of Russian lighting fixtures exports and imports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination/origin. The reports provides a breakdown of light sources (incandescence, fluorescence, LED, gas discharge and metal halide, fiber optics). Sales breakdown by distribution channel (direct sales/contract, lighting specialist retailers, furniture and furnishings chains/department stores, wholesalers, DIY, E-Commerce) and by geographical region (Central, Siberian, Southern, Ural, Privolzhskly, North West and Far East) are provided for a sample of companies. Reference prices are given for the main lighting products in the segments of residential, commercial, industrial and outdoor lighting, in a sample of stores. The main section of the Report is dedicated to the competitive system, with lighting fixtures sales and market shares of the major companies operating in the Russian market, for each lighting fixtures segment: residential, commercial, industrial, outdoor lighting. Short profiles of the major Russian companies operating in the lighting fixtures industry are also included. Addresses of about 200 lighting fixtures companies (manufacturers and traders) mentioned in the report are also available.
L68|The kitchen furniture market in China|This report provides a comprehensive picture of the kitchen furniture industry in China, enhanced by historical trends on production, consumption and international trade, analysis of the production and distribution systems and information on major players. The study was carried out via direct interviews with Chinese and international kitchen furniture manufacturers operating in China. Kitchen furniture exports and imports are broken down by country and by geographical region of origin and destination. Historical data are provided for the time frame 2011-2016. A similar analysis was conducted for the international trade of a list of selected appliances (refrigerator and freezers, cooking appliances, clothes washers and driers, dishwashing machines, hoods) relevant for the kitchen industry. Chinese kitchen production is analysed by including historical series of kitchen production in value and volume for the years 2012-2017. Kitchen production in China is broken down according to: style (classic, country, modern basic, modern, design, high tech); cabinet door material (solid wood, veneer, laminated, decorative paper, thermoplastics, lacquered, melamine, aluminium, glass); cabinet colour (white, bright, neutral) and lacquering (bright, opaque); worktop material (solid surface materials, natural and engineered stone, laminated, tiles, steel and aluminium, wood, glass). The chapter on the distribution system offers an analysis of the major sales channels (contract and building trade, kitchen specialists, furniture shops, furniture chains, and DIY) for kitchen and their 2013-2017 trends, including a list of the main kitchen furniture retailers in the major Chinese provinces and short profiles of the leading furniture chains. Reference prices for kitchen furniture and the weight of built-in appliances on the value of the kitchen market are also considered. An in-depth analysis of the competitive system identifies the leading Chinese manufacturers by kitchen production, sales, price range and exports. Updated company profiles of the top manufacturers provide data on the company's total turnover, number of employees, export share, location of manufacturing plants and distribution channels. The competitive system analysis also identifies a selection of leading international kitchen manufacturers operating on the Chinese market, providing descriptions of their distribution strategies and short company profiles. The final chapter tries to identify the major domestic demand determinants, which includes macro-economic indicators (country indicators, real growth of GDP and inflation up to 2021, population indicators, data on disposable income and wealth, data on construction sector and real estate); population dynamics (population, urbanization, analysis of the top cities); consumers' trends and preferences; real estate and construction sector development (investments in residential building, data on the construction sector). A list of more than 60 major players in the kitchen furniture industry in China is also included.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in India|The report The lighting fixtures market in India is at its seventh edition. It provides data and trend (2012-2017) on the production, the international trade and the market size of the lighting fixtures industry in India, broken down by consumer residential and technical professional lighting (divided in architectural commercial, industrial, and outdoor). The breakthrough of the LED lighting technology in the Indian lighting fixtures market is analysed through historical data dated back to 2011 and forecasts up to 2021. The report also considers the main public investment programs launched by the State and National governments for improving the efficiency of lighting consumption in the country, including the Smart City Mission project. The study also provides a breakdown of the Indian lighting fixtures exports and imports by country and by geographical area of destination and origin for the years 2011-2016. The lighting demand of the Indian market is broken down by segment (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (conventional and LED). An overview of the geographic distribution of the lighting sales in the country is presented. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the Indian lighting fixtures market (by segment), with data on sales, market shares and short company profiles. A breakdown of the distribution channels of lighting fixtures in India is given, together with short profiles of a sample of lighting fixture distributors. Covered channels are: direct sales and contract; lighting fixtures specialists; furniture stores and chains, department stores, DIY; wholesalers, and e-commerce sales. A list of selected architectural companies involved in the Indian lighting business and Lighting designers is given. The main fairs, events, and organizations related to the lighting industry are presented. Country economic indicators (including GDP, Inflation, private consumption, population indicators, and building construction indicators) are also provided, together with macroeconomic forecasts up to 2021.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Middle East and North Africa|The Report The lighting fixtures market in Middle East and North Africa (MENA), now in its sixth edition, provides historical data and trend on production, international trade and market size of the lighting fixtures industry in the MENA region highlighting the two main market segments for lighting fixtures, residential lighting and professional technical lighting. Lighting Demand is broken down by segment (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). A focus on LED lighting is provided throughout historical data and forecasts up to 2021. The analysis also shows a breakdown of the MENA lighting fixtures exports and imports by country and by geographical area of destination and origin. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the region, with data on sales and market shares and short company profiles. The geographical coverage of the report includes: Middle East: Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates ; North Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia. The term MENA is used as synonym of: Middle East and North Africa. The first section of the report shows the aggregate figures and the outlook of the area, including the activity trend and the competitive situation. The second part contains the analysis by single country. This edition of the report include an in-depth focus for Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates where a description of the distribution system is provided, highlighting the main contractors and architectural companies involved in the lighting business, the main specialist importers and distributors of lighting fixtures and the major building projects in the pipeline. Country economic indicators (including Real growth of GDP and inflation, population indicators, construction and building activity indicators) are also given.
L68|The European market for lighting fixtures. Part II|The report provides a breakdown of lighting fixtures market in 13 Central-Eastern European countries by segment (Consumer and Professional lighting fixtures market), by products and applications and by light source (LED and traditional sources). Countries covered: Bulgaria, Cyprus, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. Plus a focus on international trade of lighting fixtures and comparison with selected country indicators for 5 countries of the Balkan Peninsula. Sales data and market shares for over 100 CE European and International players operating in this area and country data updated to 2017. Activity trend, international trade, product trends: 2012-2017. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2019. Data on consumer residential lighting are broken down by style (traditional, modern, design), while data on architectural commercial lighting are broken down by kind of product (downlights recessed lighting, tubes systems tracks, linear lighting strips, high bays, floor and table lamps, chandeliers for commercial spaces, projectors spotlights, wall washers, LED panels) and application (hospitality, office, retail, art and museums, entertainment, schools and infrastructures). Industrial lighting consists of lighting for industrial sites, healthcare lighting, weather resistant and explosion-proof lighting, emergency lighting, marine lighting. Outdoor lighting includes residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, lighting for streets and major roads, area campus lighting, lighting for tunnels and galleries, Christmas and special events lighting. A financial analysis is based on a sample of over 150 CE European companies active in the lighting sector, and includes profitability ratios (EBITDA, EBIT, ROI, ROE), structure ratios, employment data and per employees ratios. The analysis of lighting fixtures distribution channels in Central-Eastern Europe covers: direct sales and contract, specialist lighting stores, furniture stores and chains, department stores, wholesalers, DIY stores, e-commerce. A breakdown of lighting fixtures sales by distribution channel is available for most of the main companies. A breakdown of lighting fixtures exports and imports for each Central-Eastern European Country considered is provided by country and by geographical area of destination and origin, also considering the performance of the main CE European companies on extra CEE markets (Western Europe, Russia and other CIS Countries, Middle East, Africa, Americas, Asia and Pacific). Lighting fixtures sales by product (consumer residential lighting, architectural commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by CE European country of destination are provided for the major local and International companies operating in this market. Market shares and short profiles are also included. Addresses of about 130 CE European lighting fixtures manufacturers are also provided.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Turkey|The Report offers an overview of the lighting fixtures industry in Turkey, providing trends in lighting fixtures production and consumption, imports and exports, distribution and prices for residential, commercial, industrial and outdoor lighting. A breakdown of lighting fixtures exports and imports is provided by country and by geographical area of destination/origin. Data on consumer/residential lighting are broken down by style (classic, modern, design) and positioning of the lamp (floor, table, wall/ceiling, chandeliers/suspensions), while data on architectural/commercial lighting are broken down by product (downlights, fluorescence/track systems, low voltage spotlights and professional projectors, wall ceiling panels, high bays, decorative lighting for commercial use) and application (hospitality, office, retail/luxury shops, museums, schools and public infrastructures). Industrial lighting consists of lighting for industrial sites, emergency, hospital, explosion/weather proof and marine lighting. Outdoor lighting includes residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, major roads, tunnels, sport plants and other large areas, Christmas/event lighting. Lighting fixtures sales are broken down by light sources: incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge, LED. The analysis of lighting fixtures distribution in Turkey covers the following distribution channels: project dealers, lighting specialist stores, DIY and furniture chains, wholesalers and electrical stores, e-commerce. Reference retail prices of lighting fixtures in Turkey are given in the two different segments (residential, technical) by category, application, light source, style and manufacturer/distributor. An overview of the leading developers, architects, lighting designers and project dealers in Turkey is provided, as well as some information on the main magazines, associations and trade fairs. Sales data and market shares are given for the major lighting companies present on the Turkish market for each segment (residential, commercial, industrial, outdoor lighting), as well as data on lighting fixtures exports for a sample of around 50 leading Turkish exporters. Short company profiles for the main players are also included. Macroeconomic indicators with information on Turkish economy, population, real growth of GDP and data on construction activity are also provided. A list of around 120 addresses of lighting fixtures companies present on the Turkish market is also available.
L68|The kitchen furniture market in Turkey|The II edition of CSIL Report The kitchen furniture market in Turkey offers an accurate and comprehensive picture of the kitchen furniture industry in the country, providing data and trends 2010-2015 (both in value and in volume) for the kitchen furniture production and consumption, imports and exports. In addition, the report consider marketing policies, macroeconomic variables useful to understand the performance of the sector for the last 6 years, the supply structure, the competitive system, and the distribution system. The value and weight of the appliances on kitchen furniture supply is also considered. INTERNATIONAL TRADE: Kitchen furniture exports and imports are presented broken down by geographical area of destination/origin. The time frame considered is 2010-2015. SUPPLY STRUCTURE: This chapter offers an analysis of the types of product manufactured by the Turkish kitchen furniture manufacturers and information on the key players operating in each segment. Kitchen furniture production is broken down by: Cabinet door materials (solid wood and veneer; laminated, decorative papers, and melamine; thermoplastic foils; lacquered; aluminum and glass); Worktop materials (natural stones; engineered stones; laminated; solid surface materials); price range (Luxury, Upper, Upper-Middle, Middle, Middle-Low, Low). Hinge price range and top players; Sink price range and top players. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM: The overview of the distribution system in place in Turkey considers: the geographical breakdown of kitchen furniture sales; an analysis of the two main channels through which kitchens are sold: Contract (project, building trade, direct sales); Retail (local artisan/craftsman shops, kitchen specialists, furniture chains, DIY stores, e-commerce). COMPETITIVE SYSTEM: The leading local and foreign operators in the kitchen furniture industry are analyzed via detailed tables that show sales data, market shares, and short profiles of the top players. This chapter also presents top sellers in each market segment, top importer and exporter companies. An address list of around 50 Turkish kitchen furniture companies is included.
L68|LEDs and the worldwide market for lighting fixtures|The ninth edition of the CSIL Research LEDs and the worldwide market for lighting fixtures is mainly based on around 300 interviews with manufacturers and retailers of lighting fixtures worldwide during the first half of 2018, in addition to statistical data and 20-year experience of CSIL in the lighting fixtures industry. The Report provides estimated data on consumption of total lighting fixtures and LED based lighting fixtures for the years 2012-2016 and forecasts for the years 2017-2021. A breakdown of LED lighting fixtures worldwide market is provided by country or geographical area (Western Europe, Central-Eastern Europe, Russia and other CIS Countries, United States and Canada, Latin America, China, India, Japan, Asia and Pacific, Middle East, Turkey, Africa) by segment (residential-consumer, commercial-architectural, industrial, outdoor lighting), by product (bulbs and retrofit lamps, modules, floor, table, wall ceiling, chandeliers, suspensions, downlights, recessed, batten, modular systems, high bays, wall washers, LED panels, strip-linear lighting, spotlights, poles, projectors, bollards, steps) and by application (Hospitality, Office, Retail, Entertainments, Institutions, Industrial plants, Hazardous conditions, Emergency, Healthcare, Marine, Residential outdoor, Architectural outdoor, Christmas and Festivities, Streets and tunnel, and large area). LED based lighting fixtures sales and related market shares are provided for the major companies operating in this market by considered countries. Short company profiles are also included. In the ranking there are both companies using LEDs for some 30%-40% of their company turnover and LED lighting specialists. Company market shares are given also for sectors and applications. A focus on the supply chain of the LED industry is provided, as well as a section describing the breakthrough technologies that are supposed to lead the industry in the coming years. Countries considered: Western Europe: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom (i.e. the European Union 15, less Luxembourg for which lighting fixtures data are listed together with those of Belgium) + Norway and Switzerland; Central-Eastern Europe: Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia (i.e. New EU Members 13), Serbia ; Turkey; Russia and other CIS Countries: Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine; North America: Canada and the United States; Latin America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela; China; India; Japan; Asia and Pacific: Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam; Middle East: Bahrain, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates; Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia, South Africa.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Latin America|The Report, now at its forth edition, analyses the lighting fixtures and LED market in 5 Latin America countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico), a market with an estimated consumption (at production prices) that, in 2017, amounts to USD 4.5 billion. After a first quick glance of the Latin America lighting fixtures market as a whole, the report is structured as follows, for each country: Chapter I - Basic data and market structure - offers an overview of the lighting fixtures industry with data on production, consumption, international trade, and estimated breakdown of lighting fixtures sales by segment (consumer and professional, indoor and outdoor), specific products and applications, light sources (LED and Conventional). Chapter II - Activity trend and market drivers - offers lighting fixtures time series on production, consumption and international trade, data and forecasts for selected macroeconomic indicators, social trends, building activity. Chapter III - International trade - provides detailed tables on lighting fixtures exports and imports by country and by geographical area of destination and origin, and data on international trade of lamps. Chapter VI - Competitive System and distribution channels - analyses the competitive system offering an insight into the leading local and foreign players present in each segment, with data on sales and market shares and short company profiles. An overview of the main distribution channels and a selection of architectural offices and lighting designers is also included. At the end of the Report, an address list of over 300 lighting companies operating in Latin America.
L68|Iran Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research report Iran furniture outlook is part of CSIL Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present over 70 countries. The report contains updated statistics and indicators useful to analyse the Iranian furniture market through tables, graphs and illustrated maps. A detailed overview of Iran's economy introduces the study commenting status, prospects and challenges of the Iranian industry with a focus on the furniture and furnishings sector. Moreover, selected indicators describe the Iranian business climate with a world comparison. Among the demand determinants supporting the analysis of the furniture market in Iran, the report includes a country's demographic profile and information regarding the construction industry and the tourism sector. The study also provides value data to 2015 and forecasts (real growth rates %) 2016-2018 for furniture consumption, market trends and information on main furniture distribution channels and prices, and value data to 2015 for furniture production with an overview of Iran productive factors and furniture productive system. International trading activities parts contain data for furniture imports and furniture exports to 2015, with details for main trading partners and breakdowns by furniture segments (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, office furniture, furniture n.e.c.). Who are the top players operating in the area? The report includes a list of 40 selected leading furniture companies with kind of activity, product portfolio and website. Main sector fairs and associations are also indicated
L68|World trade of lighting fixtures|The twenty-second edition of the CSIL research World trade of lighting fixtures is the result of official figures on international trade; analysis of CSIL databases for lighting fixtures in Europe and worldwide; official documents concerning macroeconomic trends and sector performances for the last two years. The Report provides an overview of the world trade of lighting fixtures, with statistical data (production, consumption, imports, exports) at worldwide level and data on the lighting fixtures industry in 66 countries selected according to their contribution to international trade of lighting fixtures. Countries considered: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lithuania, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Oman, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Venezuela, Vietnam. Data are provided both for the lighting fixtures sector as a whole and for the two core segments: Residential lighting and Technical lighting. The report identifies the opportunities on the global lighting fixtures market and is a helpful tool for lighting fixtures exporters as it contains a rich collection of key country data, allowing comparisons among specific interest areas. The world production, consumption, imports and exports of lighting fixtures are broken down by geographical area (European Union 25 + Norway and Switzerland, Central-East Europe outside the EU & Russia, Asia and Pacific, Middle East and Africa, North and South America) and by High Income countries and Middle and Low Income countries. International trade statistics (imports and exports) 2011-2016 are given by country highlighting the major exporting and importing countries, and providing main destination countries of exports and main origin countries of imports for each of the 66 countries considered. Imports and exports data 2011-2016 are also given for lamps and trade balance data, covering the years 2011-2016, are included. Data are provided both in USD and EUR. Data are also available in a country format: production, consumption and trade figures for the Total, Residential and Technical lighting. Historical series (2011-2016) on lighting fixtures exports and imports, the origins of imports and destinations of exports, by country and by geographical area. Exports and imports breakdown by lighting fixtures and components. International trade data of lamps, 2011-2016. Economic indicators (population, area, GNP, household consumption expenditure) and real growth of GDP up to 2021. Country rankings to place all statistics in a broad worldwide context and allowing comparisons among specific interest areas.
L68|The world market for outdoor lighting fixtures|CSIL report The world market for outdoor lighting fixtures offers a full analysis of the outdoor lighting fixtures market worldwide. This study provides outdoor lighting fixtures industry statistics (consumption data), sales data and market shares of the top manufacturer. Worldwide market is considered such as the aggregate of 66 monitored countries, selected by CSIL on the basis of size of the economy, importance of the lighting fixtures sector and contribution to World trade of lighting fixtures, plus an approximation of the market value in the Other countries. The geographical classification of the 66 monitored countries is as follows: North America: Canada and the United States; West Europe: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom (i.e. the European Union 15, less Luxembourg for which lighting fixtures data are listed together with those of Belgium) + Norway and Switzerland; China; Japan; Asia and Pacific: (a): Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan (Developed Countries); (b): Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam (Emerging and Trasforming Countries); Latin America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela; Central-Eastern Europe (CE Europe): Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia; Russia and other CIS Countries: Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Ukraine; Middle East: Bahrain, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates; India; Africa: North Africa (Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia) + South Africa. Turkey. For each Regional cluster, market size and market shares are provided. Outdoor lighting is analysed according to the following segments: Residential lighting (home gardens lighting and architectural lighting for common spaces in residential buildings; Urban landscape lighting (architectural lighting for city centres city beautification); Christmas and Event lighting; Streets and major roads lighting; Lighting for tunnels and galleries; Campus/area lighting (sporting plants, open air parkings, petrol stations). For each market segment, market size and market shares are provided. Around 150 companies have been monitored for this Report, and 50 case histories (mainly about public projects) reported. Addresses of about 350 companies manufacturing outdoor lighting fixtures and mentioned in this research are also given
L68|Furniture Outlook for Asia and the Pacific|CSIL market research report Furniture Outlook for Asia and the Pacific provides an overview of the furniture industry for 32 countries in the following geographical regions:West Asia (10 countries): Bahrain, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates;Central Asia (5 countries): Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan;South Asia (4 countries): Bangladesh, India, Iran, Pakistan;China (2 markets): China and Hong Kong (China);East Asia (3 countries): Japan, South Korea, Taiwan;South-East Asia (6 countries): Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam;Oceania (2 countries): Australia and New Zealand.Data cover production, consumption, imports, exports for 2015 and consumption forecasts for 2016, 2017 and 2018.This market research report also includes:Apparent furniture consumption by country and by geographical area, current status and prospects;Furniture imports by country and by geographical area including a matrix showing the main countries of origin of furniture imports;Furniture exports by country and by geographical area including a matrix showing the main countries of destination of furniture exports;Furniture production by country;Main urban markets (urbanization will be rapid, with important implications for the growth of furniture consumption).Statistics and outlook data are also available in a country format:Furniture market size;Furniture production;Furniture trade;Origin of furniture imports;Destination of furniture exports;Country rankings to place all statistics in a broad Asia Pacific context.The 32 country tables include additional socio economic indicators:Total household consumption expenditure;Total GNP at purchasing power parity;Per capita GNP at purchasing power parity;Urban population;Internet users and mobile cellular subscriptions.Key features of the study:A picture of the furniture industry in Asia Pacific;A rich collection of key country-data allowing comparisons among countries;Forecasts on the evolution of furniture market in the considered countries in 2016, 2017 and 2018, based on the analysis of furniture industry dynamics and macro-economic indicators.
L68|The Impact of Stop-Go Demand Management Policy on Britain's Consumer Durables Industries, 1952-1965|We examine the impacts of British government stop-go policy on domestic sales of consumer durables over 1952 - 1965, via hire purchase restrictions and punitive Purchase Tax rates. Our analysis includes a general review of contemporary evidence regarding the impacts of these measures, a more detailed study of the television sector, and time-series econometric analysis for both televisions and a representative high-ticket labour-saving consumer durable washing machines. We find that the restrictions had devastating impacts on Britain's consumer durables industries, preventing firms from fully exploiting economies of scale, reducing output growth and international competitiveness, and eroding industrial relations. Government officials were aware of these problems, but considered them a price worth paying to facilitate moves towards sterling convertibility and the re-establishment of the City as a leading financial and trading centre.
L68|The impact of fixed and variable cost on automobile demand: Evidence from Denmark|Many car characteristics, for instance cabin space and engine power, have a positive impact on fixed and variable costs. We extend the hedonic model, that considers only one type of cost, to the situation in which fixed as well as variable costs depend on the characteristics of the durable and derive an expression for the full willingness to pay for characteristics that takes into account the impact on fixed as well as variable costs. We apply the model to the demand for automobiles using rich Danish register data. Estimation reveals considerable heterogeneity and a non-negligible contribution of the variable costs in total willingness to pay. Next we show that under suitable assumptions a structural interpretation of our estimates is possible. We show that the willingness to pay per kilometer driven can be interpreted as a parameter of the utility function and study how it is related to household characteristics. Finally, we illustrate the model by computing how consumers change car quality in response to an increase in the fuel price.
L68|Exploring Consumer Behavior towards Product Placement Strategy through Television Programs: A Case Study of Q Mobile in Pakistan|Purpose: The changing attitude of viewers in skipping conventional television advertisements is causing a serious concern for advertisers. To respond this, marketing professionals are using diverse and more dynamic advertising strategies for instance, product placement to attract prospective customer attention. The study uses case study approach and the respondents are asked about the product placement of a mobile phone company (Q mobile) that uses product placement in a famous TV play (Bulbaly) in Pakistan. Methodology: This study examines the consumers behavior towards product placement as advertising strategy in television programs. It also examines how consumers with diverse demographic backgrounds responds to product placement advertising strategy. The study found significant influence of product placement in TV programs on consumer purchase intentions for the case of Q Mobile in Pakistan. The study also investigated how product placement differs on purchase intentions of consumers having diverse demographics including age, gender, education, income level and TV watching frequency. Findings: The findings of this research provide important information to devise a more successful advertising campaign to obtain a favorable consumer response. Recommendations: Recommendations are made on the basis of empirical analysis.
L68|The Impact of Online Sales on Consumers and Firms: Evidence from Household Appliances|In this paper, we estimate a differentiated products demand model to ask three questions regarding the introduction of e-commerce. First, we ask whether the online distribution channel has increased total sales, or only diverted sales from traditional channels. We find that there is some market expansion effect but also a considerable sales diversion. Second, we ask who benefited most from online sales: consumers or firms. We find that consumers benefited more, which is entirely due to the appearance of an additional distribution channel and not due to increased competition. Third, we ask how the online channel has affected European market integration. We find that international price differences for identical products are larger in the traditional channel than online. However, there is still substantial market segmentation in the online channel between the EU countries. The introduction of e-commerce therefore did not influence price levels and price dispersion in the traditional channel.
L68|Socioeconomic characterization of the artisan community in Nariño, Colombia|This article analyzes the socioeconomic conditions of the artisan community of Nariño, emphasizing on the three production lines identified as potential for the development of the sectors of handicrafts and leather goods in this Colombian department: Leather and embossed leather; Hats and costume jewelry, and Straw and wooden handicrafts decorated with Pasto varnish, chaff and plated teapot. Through qualitative response econometric modeling, we characterize the probability of working in the covered production lines as a function of a set of both discrete and continuous socioeconomic variables. The study highlights that the design of policies aimed at improving the organizational conditions of these sectors should address the feelings, expectations and needs of artisans, focusing on those of the community members that perceive the lowest income levels, and advance towards strengthening community relationships and partnerships under a differential approach.
L68|The European Market for Healthcare Lighting|This is the first edition of CSIL Report on the European market for healthcare lighting. The information provided in this report is based on desk analysis and field analysis for two healthcare macro segments and its main products such as hospitals and dental studies, the activity trend in Europe, the market drivers (such as demographic changes, healthcare expenditure, hospitals, nursing residential care facilities, dental practices and community pharmacies). It is provided also a market value by application and a list of the major players and weight on the overall lighting turnover. The desk analysis includes: i)statistical data collection from official sources (eg. Eurostat databases) and other sources (eg. associations, trade press..); ii)the review of other existing documentation (eg. press releases, web sources, studies relating to the lighting industry); iii) the analysis of companies databases (eg. balance sheets). The field analysis was carried on through 20 interviews with manufacturers and experts operating in the healthcare lighting industry. Analysis about LED share in the Healthcare lighting market and specific applications is given. Specific segments analyzed include surgery lighting, intensive care and examination rooms lighting, normal stay bedrooms, long-care bedrooms lighting, lighting for common areas, corridors and circulation areas lighting, stairwells lighting, lighting for laboratories and pharmacies, design tips.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Asia Pacific|The report analyzes the lighting fixtures market in Asia Pacific. It provides historical statistical data 2009-2014 of Production, International trade and Market size of the lighting fixtures industry for the 11 countries considered (Australia, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam). Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2018 are also provided. The Report has been produced using the following information sources: over 100 interviews with lighting fixtures manufacturers and other companies involved in related industries; statistical and international sales data; desk research, both online and offline; frequent discussions with customers of these Reports. Demand is broken down by segment (consumer/residential lighting, architectural/commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (Conventional and LED). A breakdown of lighting fixtures exports and imports in the 11 Asian countries considered is provided by country and by geographical area od destination/origin. An overview of the competitive system is outlined, with short company profiles, data on sales and market shares for the top lighting fixtures companies for each Asian Pacific country considered. Highlights on productive concentration by geographical area and data on employment in the lighting industry are also provided. A breakdown of lighting fixtures sales by distribution channel is estimated by Asian Pacific countries. Distribution channels considered: direct sales and contract; lighting fixtures specialists; furniture stores/chains, department stores, DIY; Wholesalers; e-commerce sales; appliances/electronic stores. When available, data on decorative lighting are broken down by style (traditional, modern, design), while data on architectural and commercial lighting are broken down by application (hospitality, retail, luxury shops, office, entertainment, big infrastructures). Industrial lighting consists of lighting for industrial sites, hospital, weather and explosion-proof, emergency lighting. Outdoor lighting includes residential outdoor lighting, lighting for urban landscape, lighting for major roads, area/campus lighting, tunnels. Addresses of about 330 lighting fixtures manufacturers active on the Asian Pacific market are also provided.
L68|The Lighting Fixtures Market in Africa|The first edition of the report The Lighting Fixtures Market in Africa offers a comprehensive analysis of the market for lighting fixtures and lamps in 23 African countries (Algeria, Angola, Botswana, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Tunisia and Uganda). For each country, it provides figures for consumption and production in 2013, and trade flows (imports and exports, specified for lighting fixtures and lamps) from 2009 to 2013. The Report is divided in two parts. In the first part, there is an analysis of basic data for production, consumption and international trade in 2013, with total market shares and market value. There is then an analysis of activity trends between 2009 and 2013, as well as an analysis of the competitive system, detailing the leading local and foreign players present in the market, and presenting short profiles for almost 80 companies, distinguished by geographical region and the country in which they operate. To conclude the first part, demand drivers offer the main macroeconomic variables necessary to put the market in context and analyse recent economic trends in Africa. The second part of the Report offers an in-depth analysis for each of the 23 countries covered by this study. For each of them, data about lighting fixtures and lamps consumption, production, international trade, and major macroeconomic indicators, including access to electricity, urban population, paved roads, international tourism, population and business climate indicators, are provided. Among the considered products: Residential lighting, Commercial lighting, Industrial lighting, Outdoor lighting, as well as Incandescent lighting, Fluorescent lighting, LED lighting, Gas discharge and Metal Halide lighting.
L68|South Korea Furniture Outlook|In the last decade, the South Korean furniture market has performed well, surpassing the pre-crisis levels. Furniture per capita spending is continuously increased since 2009 and it is in the range of some European countries. This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: An executive summary (see 1. The Key Facts of the Furniture Sector) provides the furniture industry overview; Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the furniture sector, from the supply side (see Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (see Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (see Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (see Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (see Annex 1. Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided (see Major Furniture Companies and Sector Fairs, Press and Institutional Bodies). Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (see Annex 2. Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (see Business Climate).
L68|Wooden Furniture Outlook|This report contains an overview of the world wooden furniture industry, where for wooden furniture we refer to finished furniture in both wood based panel and solid wood. Part I reviews the world market, the major producing countries and the status and prospects of world trade of wooden furniture including a world trade matrix. CSIL forecasts of growth of demand in 2015 and 2016 by country are also included. Part II includes the Wooden Furniture Indicators (divided into World Tables and Country Tables, covering the 50 most important countries for wooden furniture production, consumption and trade). The country tables include a ten-year series of data on production, exports, imports, consumption, import penetration and export ratio for wooden furniture, a table with the main economic indicators, prospects of world consumption of wooden furniture for the years 2015 and 2016. Countries considered in the report: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, Vietnam.
L68|Furniture Outlook for Latin America and the Caribbean|The Furniture Outlook for Latin America and the Caribbean by CSIL provides: 1. An overview of the furniture industry for 28 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. Data cover production, consumption, imports, exports for 2014 and consumption forecasts for 2015, 2016 and 2017. 2. A focus on the furniture sector in 4 large markets in Latin America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Mexico. - For each country, the report offers an analysis of the sector performance and market potential, and a brief overview of the competitive system, providing also historical figures for production, exports, imports and consumption. Furthermore short profiles of manufacturers operating in the country are provided. - This market research report also includes: 1. Apparent furniture consumption for 28 countries and by geographical area in 2014 and prospects for the three following years. 2. Furniture imports for 28 countries and by geographical area including a matrix showing the main countries of origin of furniture imports. 3. Furniture production for 28 countries in 2014. 4. Large urban markets in Latin America and the Caribbean. Urbanization will be rapid, with important implications for the growth of furniture consumption - Statistics and outlook data are also available in a country format: 1. Data for 2014 on furniture market size data for 2014 on furniture production 2. Data for 2014 on furniture trade origin of furniture imports destination of furniture exports country rankings to place all statistics in a broad Latin American context. - The 28 country tables include additional socio economic indicators: 1. Total household consumption expenditure (in billions of US$) Total GNP at purchasing power parity (in billions of US$) 2. Per capita GNP at purchasing power parity (in US$) Urban population internet users and mobile cellular subscriptions - Key issues of the Latin America Furniture Outlook market research report 1. An overview of the furniture industry in Latin American countries 2. A rich collection of key country-data, allowing comparisons among countries 2015, 2016 and 2017 3. Forecasts on the evolution of furniture markets in the considered countries, based on the analysis of furniture industry dynamics and of macro-economic indicators - Countries covered: SOUTH AMERICA (12 countries): Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay, Venezuela. CENTRAL AMERICA INCLUDING MEXICO (8 countries): Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama. THE CARIBBEAN (7 countries plus the Eastern Caribbean group of 6 countries): Bahamas, Barbados, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago. The Eastern Caribbean countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
L68|Applying Triple Helix Concept To Develop Wood Sector In Vukovar-Srijem County|Wood sector is important development sector in Vukovar-Srijem County. Existing resources of high quality raw wood material, tradition of wood processing and good geographic location have potential for attracting investment, raising competitiveness and increasing employment. This paper accentuates the necessity of establishing strong collaboration between public, private and academic sector in order to develop new technologies and new products with high added value. After brief analysis of wood sector on national and regional level, basic indices for establishing Triple Helix institution are given.
L68|Turning Forests into Added Value: Romania's Furniture Trade|The paper presents the situation of the global furniture market, starting from data provided by UN COMTRADE, as well as the positioning of the Romanian producers and importers. The purpose is to reveal a real positioning based on market share as well as the potential for providing added value products to an increasing global market.
L68|Corrigendum: The Price Effects of a Large Merger of Manufacturers: A Case Study of Maytag Whirlpool|No abstract is available for this item.
L68|Cash for Coolers: Evaluating a Large-Scale Appliance Replacement Program in Mexico|This paper evaluates a large-scale appliance replacement program in Mexico that from 2009 to 2012 helped 1.9 million households replace their old refrigerators and air conditioners with energyefficient models. Using household-level billing records from the universe of Mexican residential customers, we find that refrigerator replacement reduces electricity consumption by 8 percent, about one-quarter of what was predicted by ex ante analyses. Moreover, we find that air conditioning replacement actually increases electricity consumption. Overall, we find that the program is an expensive way to reduce externalities from energy use, reducing carbon dioxide emissions at a program cost of over $500 per ton.
L68|Caracterización socioeconómica de la comunidad artesanal de Nariño, Colombia|RESUMEN: Este artículo analiza las condiciones socioeconómicas de la comunidad artesanal de Nariño, haciendo hincapié en las tres líneas de producción identificadas como potenciales para el desarrollo artesanal y marroquinero de este departamento colombiano, a saber: Marroquinería del cuero y repujado; Sombreros y bisutería en paja toquilla y las Artesanías en madera decoradas con barniz de Pasto, tamo y enchapado en tetera. A través de modelación econométrica de respuesta cualitativa, se estudia la probabilidad de desempeñarse en las líneas de producción contempladas, partiendo de un conjunto de variables socioeconómicas de naturaleza discreta y continua. El estudio resalta que el diseño de políticas encaminadas a mejorar las condiciones organizacionales de estos sectores deberá contemplar el sentir, las expectativas y necesidades de los artesanos y artesanas, focalizando las comunidades que perciben los ingresos más bajos, y deberá avanzar hacia el fortalecimiento de las relaciones comunitarias y de asociatividad en el marco de un enfoque diferencial.
L68|Durable goods and long-run electricity demand: Evidence from air conditioner purchase behavior|I estimate a dynamic structural model of demand for air conditioners, the most energy-intensive home appliance in the US. The model explores the links between demand for durable goods and expected changes in key attributes: energy efficiency and price. I incorporate expectations explicitly as a feature of the choice setting, and use parameter estimates from the model to calculate durable good demand elasticities with respect to energy efficiency, electricity price, and price of the durable itself. These estimates fill a large gap in the literature, and also shed light on consumer behavior in this setting. Results indicate that consumers are forward-looking and value the stream of future savings derived from energy efficiency.
L68|Utility rebates for ENERGY STAR appliances: Are they effective?|We estimate the impact of utility cash rebates on the market share of ENERGY STAR appliances by exploiting the variation in timing and size of rebates across US states. We find that a dollar increase in the population-weighted utility rebate raises the share of ENERGY STAR qualified clothes washers by 0.4%, but does not affect dishwasher and refrigerator shares. Using information on energy saved by an ENERGY STAR appliance and assuming a redemption rate of 40%, the cost per tonne of carbon saved is about $140 for the clothes washers rebate program. The corresponding cost of a megawatt hour saved, about $28, is lower than the estimated cost of building and operating an additional power plant and the average on-peak spot price. We conclude that the ENERGY STAR clothes washers rebate program is, on average, a cost-effective way for utilities to reduce electricity demand.
L68|Consumer benefits from the EU Digital Single Market: evidence from household appliances markets|This paper investigates price differences between online and offline retail channels in the EU Digital Single Market. Using price and sales data for ten different product categories sold both offline and online in 21 EU countries in 2009, and correcting for product characteristics, we find evidence that confirms the theory: online prices are lower than offline prices, price dispersion also tends to be lower online and online demand is more price-elastic than offline demand. In addition, from our demand estimates we compute the consumers' welfare effects of different scenarios. Our results indicate that a full price convergence across EU member states towards the lowest observed average price would significantly benefit consumers. Moreover, eliminating e-commerce would reduce consumer surplus in €34 billion while an increase in online sales between 10% and 25% would represent a change in consumer welfare in the range of €3.4 billion to €13 billion.
L68|How did the Japanese Employment System Change?Investigating the Heterogeneity of Downsizing Practices across Firms|Beyond the general issue of institutional change at the aggregate level, some studies have shown that the diversity of Japanese firms has increased since the late 1990s, both in terms of performance and organization. This paper contributes to this literature by investigating the evolving employment practices at the firm level. In mobilizing a database of listed manufacturing firms, we focus on the evolution of the speed of downsizing between the 1990s and the 2000s. A specificity of our paper is that we do not limit our analysis to the introduction of individual effects but we rather resort to a Bayesian estimation procedure, which yields to (firm-specific) individual forecasts of the parameters of the adjustment process modelled with random coefficients. The first major result we get is a decreasing average speed of downsizing, contrary to what is found in a simple estimation with individual effects. Second, we confirm the increasing heterogeneity of Japanese firms between the 1990s and the 2000s, through a rising dispersion of the speed of downsizing. Third, we are able, from a descriptive viewpoint to identify some characteristics of firms with different speed of downsizing.
L68|The European market for outdoor furniture|"The European market offers interesting opportunities for the outdoor furniture sector both in the residential and contract segment. Gardens, terraces and balconies become increasingly an extension of the living room, dining room and kitchen. Hence the barrier between indoor and outdoor is disappearing and garden furniture tends to imitate more and more indoor furniture (living room). This report offers a comprehensive picture of the outdoor furniture industry for ten Western European countries, analyzing the sector performance, product trends, type of destination (residential vs contract), distribution channels, the competitive system and its main players. The report offers data on production, exports, imports, consumption of outdoor furniture by country. Short profiles with addresses, turnover range and product type of over 100 outdoor furniture manufacturers and importers are provided for each country. The countries covered are: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom. Products covered include: seats, tables, benches, sun loungers, garden sofas, swing seats. Product destination: residential and contract segment including ""street contract"" (restaurants, bars, cafés) and hotels, wellness hotels, public spaces."
L68|The European market for outdoor lighting|"The first edition of the CSIL report ""The European market for outdoor lighting fixtures"" has been produced using the following information sources: processing of CSIL information concerning the lighting sector at the European level; database of roughly 200 worldwide manufacturers operating in the European lighting industry; statistical and international trade data; overall documentation relating to the lighting industry available both online and offline. The following market breakdown are considered: Residential lighting (home gardens and architectural lighting for common spaces in residential buildings); Urban landscape lighting (city beautification, mostly architectural); Christmas and Event lighting; Lighting for major roads and tunnels; Area lighting (sporting plants, parkings, petrol stations). The following outdoor lighting products are considered: Pathways, Bollards, Strips, Wall mounted, Pole mounted, Projectors. Kind of demand: Public, Private. Kind of lighting source used: LED, Gas discharge, Fluorescence, Incandescence, Fiber optics. Countries considered: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom (somewhat considered altogether as WE â€“ Western Europe); Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia (CEE â€“ Central Eastern Europe)."
L68|Built-in appliances distribution and brand image in Italy|This report, yearly published, has reached its xx edition and analyzes the behaviour of the Italian buyers of built-in appliances taking into consideration: the sales performance for kitchens and built-in appliances, purchasing criteria by major buyers of built-in appliances, development of brand-name image and customer satisfaction of major built-in appliances purchasers. The study is based on 117 telephone interviews with kitchen furniture manufacturers, built-in appliances wholesalers and specialized appliances chains. Distribution flows and purchases of built-in appliances are analyzed by customer type (kitchen furniture manufacturers, built-in appliances wholesalers). The report provides a detailed analysis by product type: sinks sales broken down by material, hobs, ovens, dishwashers, refrigerators sales broken down by type, hoods sales broken down by material and type. All the products mentioned above are analyzed also by geographical area and by purchase range of built-in appliances. The analysis of brand name-image covers 6 years and provides a ranking of the main quoted brands by product (refrigerators, hobs, ovens, dishwashers, hood, sinks) and by type of customer (kitchen furniture manufacturers, built-in appliances wholesalers). The report also studies the development of the criteria used to select the suppliers of built-in appliances. The results confirm that the two most important criteria are: Punctuality in delivering, After-sales technical assistance. Other criteria considered are: Brand and Product reliability, Prices, Wide range of products and models, Aesthetic qualities of the product/design and, Front staff professionalism. The Report shows also statements about 'best product in the market' and 'the product that still is not in the market'. Due to an overall weak market, the Report shows as the main buyers are becoming more and more 'demanding' from their suppliers of built-in appliances. The opinions on the built-in appliances brands expressed by the interviewed companies are organized according to brand name, type of customer (kitchen furniture manufacturers, built-in appliances wholesalers), criteria used to select the suppliers of built-in appliances. Covered brands: Aeg, Hotpoint-Ariston, Bosch, Candy, Electrolux-Rex, Franke, Foster, Indesit, Miele, Nardi, Samsung, Scholtès, Siemens, Smeg, Whirlpool. Covered products: built-in appliances, kitchen furniture, refrigerators, cooking appliances (hobs, ovens), dishwashers, built-in microwaves, small built-in appliances, hoods and sinks. On request, a list of 1000 Useful contacts (150 manufacturers of kitchen furniture, 150 wholesalers, 700 kitchen furniture retailers).
L68|The office furniture market in Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic and Romania|This report offers a comprehensive picture of the office furniture market in Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic and Romania, providing trends in office furniture production and consumption, office furniture imports and exports. Office furniture distribution channels are also examined. For each country the main economic indicators are provided. Forecast for 2014 is included. Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area. The office furniture supply structure is analyzed, with data on companies and employment. Short profiles are provided for the main office furniture companies, with data on office furniture sales and market shares of the leading local producers and of the main foreign manufacturers operating in Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic and Romania. The report is enriched by an in-depth analysis of the competitive system in terms of company size, manufacturing locations, financial ratios and product breakdown. The analysis of office furniture distribution channels covers: direct sales, dealers, large scale distribution, mail order and e-commerce. Data on the major office furniture distributors are provided. Addresses of about 130 office furniture companies mentioned in the report are also included. Office furniture production is reported by segment (office seating, operative desks, executive furniture, office storage, wall to wall units). An analysis of the market potential focuses on data about building permits, 2020 growth for selected towns, available office spaces.
L68|The office furniture market in Asia Pacific|The Asia Pacific market for office furniture (Australia, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam) is estimated by CSIL at US$ 7 billion in 2013. Over the last decade, the Region grew at 4% yearly average, both in terms of production and consumption. The Report. 'The office furniture market in Asia Pacific' analyses supply structure, market demand, import-export flows, competitive system, providing statistical data and trends of office furniture production and consumption, as well as import and export data. 2014 forecasts on office furniture demand by single country. Competitive system. It includes sales figures, market shares and short profiles of selected top office furniture companies, by each single market. Market Potential Analysis. The Report shows also a wide range of data on macro-economic indicators, employment by occupation, trends in the non-residential building sector and evolution of the office spaces in the main urban agglomerations. Some of the relevant office buildings inaugurated and upcoming completions have been reported.
L68|The office furniture market in India|In 2013 the office furniture production in India reached a total value of US$ 1,702 million, showing about 4% growth compared to the previous year (+14% in local currency). Production quadrupled over the last decade and average growth in the period considered (2007-2013) was +8% in US$. Consumption of office furniture showed a good performance driven by a general improvement in the economic situation in the country and by growth in the industrial and services sectors. Non-residential construction activities performed very well, leading to an expansion of office premises and space…CSIL Market Research The office furniture market in India provides office furniture market size, historical trends of office furniture production and consumption, imports and exports. 2008-2013 data on the office furniture sector and macroeconomic forecast up to 2018. The report is enriched by an in-depth analysis of the competitive system in terms of company dimension, manufacturing locations and product breakdown. Figures on sales and estimates on market shares of the top 50 leading office furniture manufacturers operating in India are also available (total office furniture production and segments: seating, desking, storage). The sample has been extended to more than 100 when considering either office furniture manufacturers (Local and Multinational) than importers, retailers, architects playing on the Indian market. Short profiles of the top office furniture manufacturers are also available. Reference prices are reported by segment (office seating, operative desks, executive furniture, office storage). Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area of origin/destination. A specific analysis on main players in the distribution is given for the six states and eight megacities that are considered strategic for the future of the office furniture business. Leading furniture importers are listed by city, as well as leading architects and interior designers. Considered states include Delhi-Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal. In the focused megacities a growth of household expenditure is given by around 50% from 2013 up to 2020, as an average Addresses of top 50 leading office furniture manufacturers almost mentioned in the report are also included. An Excel file attached is given with addresses of around 400 Indian furniture manufacturers and retailers and other key contacts among fairs, magazines, architects and logistic companies. The study has been carried out involving direct interviews in Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore.
L68|The office furniture market in Japan|Japan is the main office furniture manufacturer and consumer in the Region Asia-Pacific (excluding China and India), accounting for 57% of total production and 59% of total consumption. According to CSIL report Office Furniture Outlook, Japan is one of the major producing countries. The Report. 'The office furniture market in Japan' analyses supply structure, market demand, import-export flows, competitive system, providing statistical data and trends of office furniture production and consumption, as well as import and export data. The main destination area for Japanese office furniture exports was Asia and Pacific followed by North America. 2014 forecasts on office furniture demand in real term is provided. Competitive system. It includes sales figures, market shares and short profiles of selected top office furniture companies: in Japan top four control over 80% of the market.Market Potential Analysis. After the earthquake of 2011, Japan economy is experiencing a recovery. This report give you a wide range of data on macro-economic indicators, employment by occupation, trends in the non-residential building sector and evolution of the office spaces in the main urban agglomerations. Some of the relevant office buildings inaugurated and upcoming completions have been reported. In Tokyo the vacancy rate in 2013, showing rapid decrease especially in the second half of the year.
L68|The kitchen furniture market in India|This report offers a comprehensive picture of the kitchen furniture industry in India, providing trends and forecasts in kitchen furniture production and consumption, kitchen furniture imports and exports. Kitchen furniture prices, as well as the value and weight of the built-in appliances on kitchen furniture supply. Distribution system and top companies operating in the kitchen furniture industry in India are also considered. 2008-2013 data on the kitchen furniture sector and macroeconomic forecast up to 2018. The report provides a breakdown of supply of kitchen furniture by cabinet door material (solid wood, veneer, laminated, thermoplastics, lacquered, melamine, aluminium, glass), by cabinet door colour (white, bright, neutral), by cabinet door lacquering (bright, opaque) and by worktop material (solid surface materials, natural and engineered stone, laminated, tiles, steel, wood, glass). A breakdown of Indian kitchen furniture exports and imports is provided by country and by geographical area. Short company profiles of the top 50 kitchen furniture manufacturers are included. The analysis of distribution channels for kitchen furniture covers: direct sales/contract, kitchen specialists, furniture shops. The competitive system analyses the presence of the major kitchen furniture manufacturers in India and when possible the targeted market (towns, price level). Market shares are included for a sample of 50 companies. Among the considered products: kitchen furniture, kitchens, kitchen cabinet doors, worktops, built-in appliances, hoods, sinks, ovens, hobs, refrigerators, dishwashers. A specific analysis on main players in the distribution is given for the six states and eight megacities that are considered strategic for the future of the kitchen furniture business. Leading furniture importers are listed by city, as well as leading architects and interior designers. Considered states include Delhi-Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal. In the focused megacities a growth of household expenditure is given by around 50% from 2013 up to 2020, as an average About 200 addresses of key operators (about 50 kitchen furniture manufacturers, other 150 among importers, retailers and architectural companies) are included. The study has been carried out involving direct interviews in Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Azerbaijan|During the 2008-2013 period, imports of lighting fixtures in Azerbaijan registered an average 20% growth yearly. There are a lot of projects planned to be realized in next several years, including construction of tourism resorts, hotel and business centers, health and recreation centers. The overall costs of projects provide for about USD 528 million. This report analyzes the lighting fixtures market in Azerbaijan, providing trends (2008-2013) in lighting fixtures production and consumption, imports and exports. Data on the supply structure, reference prices and distribution channels are also provided, as well as sales data, market shares and short company profiles of the major lighting fixtures companies operating on Azerbaijani market.
L68|The furniture industry in the European Union, Part I. Outlook for 16 countries|The report analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the European furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (Executive summary, value and performance of production, consumption, import and export); For each European Country: Forecasts for the furniture industry for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, construction statistics and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture import and furniture export by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats); Detailed tables of furniture import and furniture export by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); More than 1300 useful address of manufacturers operating in the countries are provided, as well as a list of International Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Furniture magazines; World comparisons of the imports/consumption and exports/production ratios and a cross-country comparison placing the European countries in a broader context.
L68|Vietnam Furniture Outlook|Exports have been the major driver of the country furniture industry accounting for more than 80% of the total output in 2013. Vietnam is among the largest furniture exporter in South East Asia, ranked by CSIL as the 6th largest furniture exporter at world level. This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Kuwait Furniture Outlook|This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: An executive summary (The Key Facts of the Furniture Sector) provides the furniture industry overview; Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Saudi Arabia Furniture Outlook|This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: An executive summary (The Key Facts of the Furniture Sector) provides the furniture industry overview; Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Africa Furniture Outlook|The Africa Furniture Outlook by CSIL provides an overview of the African furniture industry with statistical data for 2013 (production, consumption, imports, exports) and 2014 2015 and 2016 furniture markets scenario for 54 countries. This market research report also includes: Apparent furniture consumption for single countries and by geographical area in 2013 and prospects for to 2016; Furniture imports for single countries and by geographical area including a matrix showing the main countries of origin of furniture imports; Large urban markets in Africa. Urbanisation will be very rapid, with important implications for the growth of furniture consumption. Key issues of the Africa Furniture Outlook market research report: a picture of opportunities for furniture exporters arising from the increasing imports of African countries; a rich collection of key country-data, allowing comparisons among countries; 2014, 2015 and 2016 forecasts on the evolution of furniture markets in the considered countries, based on the analysis of furniture industry dynamics and of macro-economic indicators. Countries covered: Algeria, Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Dem Rep, Congo Rep, Cote d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
L68|Adaptation patterns and consumer behavior as a dependency on terror|Terror may have dire implications for the public’s behavior. According to Kirschenbaum (J Homel Secur Emerg Manag 3(1/3):1–33, 2006 ), in order to minimize the expected impact of a terror incident the public has to adopt a “survival strategy”. According to the underlying research hypothesis of the study, the longer the terror incidents continue, the more the public accepts the possibility that it will be in this situation for the long term; therefore, the extent of its deviation from its ordinary consumer behavior steadily declines after each terror incident. By using daily trade data and an Event Studies econometric methodology, we found the existence of an adaptation trend among the consumer public. Thus, over time, the Israeli public internalized the realization that if it wishes to sustain a reasonable standard of living, it must minimize the disparity between its consumer economic behavior before a terror event and its behavior afterwards. Announcing more assassinations of terrorists was found to calm the public’s fears, when fears are judged by a return to more normal consumption patterns. Another finding is the existence of variance in the pace of this adaptation as a dependency of the type of good consumed: consistently, the adaptation is faster in regard to non-durable goods than to durable goods. This outcome is subject to interpretation, since durable goods may be viewed as “half-consumption goods, half-capital goods,” it stands to reason that capital goods would be more strongly affected than consumption goods. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
L68|The Price Effects of a Large Merger of Manufacturers: A Case Study of Maytag-Whirlpool|Many experts speculate that US antitrust policy towards horizontal mergers has been too lenient. We estimate the price effects of Whirlpool's acquisition of Maytag to provide new evidence on this debate. We compare price changes in appliance markets most affected by the merger to markets where concentration changed much less or not at all. We estimate price increases for dishwashers and relatively large price increases for clothes dryers, but no price effects for refrigerators or clothes washers. The combined firm's market share fell across all four affected categories, and the number of distinct appliance products offered for sale fell. (JEL G34, K21, L11, L41, L68)
L68|Social Ties and User-Generated Content: Evidence from an Online Social Network|We exploit changes in wind speeds at surfing locations in Switzerland as a source of variation in users' propensity to post content about their surfing activity on an online social network. We exploit this variation to test whether users' online content-generation activity is codetermined with their social ties. Economically significant effects of this type can produce positive feedback that generates local network effects in content generation. When quantitatively significant, the increased content and tie density arising from the network effect induces more visitation and browsing on the site, which fuels growth by generating advertising revenue. We find evidence consistent with such network effects. This paper was accepted by J. Miguel Villas-Boas, marketing.
L68|Overriding consumer preferences with energy regulations|The recent wave of enacted and proposed U.S. energy regulations imposes energy efficiency standards on light bulbs, appliances, and motor vehicles based on the unsupported assumption that consumers and firms are irrational and that energy efficiency should be the paramount concern. The regulatory analyses do not document these purported failures in consumer choices or firms’ energy utilization decisions with any empirical evidence. The preponderance of the benefits that agencies claim for the regulations is derived from private benefits to consumers and firms attributable to lower energy costs. Without these benefits, the regulatory costs would greatly exceed the benefits. The regulatory analyses consider only mandates as a means of achieving energy-efficiency improvements and ignore other policy options. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Australia|Production of lighting fixtures in Australia is estimated by CSIL under 200 million USD for the year 2012. Average yearly consumption growth during the last five years has been approximately 5%. Average turnover per employee is equal to around 150,000 USD in Australia. Australia is overall a net importer of lighting fixtures. The report analyzes the lighting fixtures market in Australia. It provides historical statistical data of Production, International trade and Market size 2007-2012 of the lighting fixtures industry. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2015 are also provided. Demand of the Australian lighting market is broken down by product (decorative/residential lighting, architectural/commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge and metal halide, LED). A breakdown of lighting fixtures exports and imports of Australia is provided by country and by geographical area of destination/origin. An overview of the competitive system is outlined, with short company profiles, data on sales and market shares for the top lighting fixtures companies operating in Australia. A breakdown of lighting fixtures sales by distribution channel.
L68|The lighting fixtures market in Japan|The report analyzes the lighting fixtures market in Japan. It provides historical statistical data 2007-2012 of Production, International trade and Market size of the lighting fixtures industry. Macroeconomic forecasts up to 2015 are also provided. Lighting Demand of the Japanese market is broken down by product (decorative/residential lighting, architectural/commercial lighting, industrial lighting and outdoor lighting) and by light source (incandescence, fluorescence, gas discharge and metal halide, LED). A focus on LED lighting is provided: Japan market is compared with the world trend throughout historical data and forecasts up to 2015. A breakdown of lighting fixtures exports and imports of Japan is provided by country and by geographical area of destination/origin. The competitive system analyses the main companies present in the Japanese lighting fixtures market. Short profiles, sales and market shares are given by lighting segment (residential, commercial, industrial, outdoor) and for the total market. A breakdown of the distribution channels of lighting fixtures in Japan is given, together with short profiles and sales of a sample of lighting fixture distributors. Covered channels are: Wholesalers and Home Builders , Direct Sales and Contract , Lighting Specialists , Consumer Electronic Stores , Department Stores , DIY and Home Centres , Furniture Retailers and Furniture Chains, Lifestyle Concept Stores , Mail Order and E-Commerce. A list of magazines, fairs, associations is given. A list of almost 140 addresses of lighting fixtures manufacturers and other industry operators are included.
L68|The office furniture market in Turkey|This market research describes the office furniture market in Turkey and gives data on production, consumption, import and export of office furniture. The structure of the office furniture market in Turkey is analyzed through 50 interviews with leading office manufacturing companies, dealers and facility managers/buyers. Profiles of main office furniture manufacturers, sales and market share are also provided. Figures on potential demand, trend in non residential construction, development of new office buildings (in number and square metres) are also considered. Analysis of distribution channels: direct sales and contract, specialised dealers, not specialised dealers, large scale distribution, mail orders and e-commerce, office furniture prices and consumption trends.
L68|The office furniture market in Brazil|This research analyses the Brazilian office furniture market, providing office furniture market size, trends in office production, consumption, office furniture imports and exports. The office furniture production is reported by segment (office seating, operative desks, executive furniture, office storage, wall to wall units). Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area of origin/destination. About 50 short company profiles are provided for the leading office furniture manufacturers. An analysis of the market potential focuses on construction sector and office spaces evolution, Brazilian richest cities, luxury retail location and trends in the hospitality sector. About 124 addresses of key operators (both manufacturers and architectural companies) are included.The study has been carried out involving direct interviews with roughly 60 sector firms and distributors operating on the Brazilian market.
L68|The Chinese contract market|This Report is the result of 200 interviews with key players (Contract Furniture Manufacturers, Design Studios and Builders, Hotel Chains and other relevant Clients) and two years of CSIL research in China, on contract-related topics. Figures and analysis are described from two different point of views: end user sectors and main products. End user sectors include Hospitality, Restaurant Industry, Mass and Luxury Retail, Real Estate/Luxury Villas, Airports, Schools/Auditoriums, Arts and Museums, Marine. Products considered are: Tables/chairs, Bathrooms, Lighting, Office furniture, Beds, Flooring, Glass, Marble, Textiles. The Report, 80 pages and 20 chapters, is organized in four general sections (Purchasing process, Design studios, Basic data, main Magazines and Fairs), 8 chapters on end user sectors, 8 chapters on main products. Each chapter includes a short description of main players in that field.
L68|The kitchen furniture market in the Middle East and North Africa|The Report The kitchen furniture market in Middle East and North Africa analyses supply structure, distribution system (channels), market demand, import-export flows, competitive system, providing statistical data and trends of kitchen furniture production and consumption, as well as import and export data. 2015 forecasts on number of kitchen sold is given for each country considered. Competitive system. It includes short profiles of selected top kitchen furniture companies. Market Potential Analysis. The Report shows also a wide range of data on macro-economic indicators (new houses, weddings, main cities...) and major appliance trade data (built-in refrigerators, dishwashers, hoods, dishwashers). Countries covered: Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates. Sources: The survey involved collecting information from approximately 100 sector companies either through active participation (direct replies to an interview or completion of a questionnaire) or from company balance sheets, figures and estimates. Useful tips. The report includes also useful information on the kitchen furniture related business (importers of furniture and technical furniture fittings, trade magazines, Fairs. Annex. A list of 200 among the most important players selling kitchen furniture in the MENA, (from middle to luxury end) and an address list of the major players in the kitchen furniture industry in the Region are included.
L68|Austria Furniture Outlook|Austria is the third country at a world level in terms of per capita furniture spending after Norway and Switzerland. 71% of Austria's furniture consumption is satisfied by imports, thus representing one of the highest ratios among the Western European countries (average 50%). The top two Austrian suppliers are Germany and Italy, which together provide a combined share of 65% of the total imports. CSIL Market Research Austria Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Austria: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Austria for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Austria by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Austria (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Austria are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Austria Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Belgium Furniture Outlook|Belgium is very open to international trade; almost 78% of furniture demand in Belgium is satisfied by imports (the European average stands at 50%). The top four Belgian suppliers are Germany, China, Netherlands, Italy, which together provide a combined share of 63% of the total. CSIL Market Research Belgium Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Belgium: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Belgium for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Belgium by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Belgium (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Belgium are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Belgium Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Switzerland Furniture Outlook|Switzerland is the second country in the world, after Norway, in terms of both per capita GNP and per capita furniture spending. In addition to being the eighth furniture importer in absolute terms at a world level, Switzerland is also the fourth country in terms of the openness of its furniture market after Slovenia, the United Arab Emirates and Bulgaria, with the imports/consumption ratio standing at 81%. CSIL Market Research Switzerland Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Switzerland: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Switzerland for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Switzerland by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Switzerland (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Switzerland are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Switzerland Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Germany Furniture Outlook|Germany is a key player in the furniture sector at a world level, as it is the second importer after the USA, it ranks second for furniture exports, third for consumption and it is the third largest furniture producer after China and the United States. CSIL Market Research Germany Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Germany: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Germany for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Germany by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Germany (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Germany are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Germany Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Denmark Furniture Outlook|"Denmark is an outstanding player in the European furniture industry. The sector features two fundamental characteristics in Denmark. Firstly, it is highly export-oriented. Secondly, Danish manufacturers excel in producing high value-added furniture exploiting the great country's design tradition. Design has been a key factor in the development of the Danish furniture industry. In this respect, Denmark can count on a network of research institutions, educational institutions and industry organizations that foster both independent design companies and in-house designers. The economic output of Danish Design is difficult to quantify, however according to sector experts, most Danish Design is done by independent design firms. Moreover, in recent years, it has become a fundamental principle for Danish designers to emphasize the use of design-driven ""green"" products, which is now considered as part of the industry's very fabric. CSIL Market Research Denmark Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Denmark: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Denmark for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Denmark by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Denmark (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Denmark are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Denmark Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis."
L68|Spain Furniture Outlook|The Spanish furniture industry is still undergoing a process of downsizing that started in 2004, and the number of furniture manufacturers has been decreasing steadily year after year. In 2012 Spanish per capita home furniture consumption recorded one of the lowest values in Western Europe. CSIL Market Research Spain Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Spain: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Spain for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Spain by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Spain (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Spain are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Spain Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Finland Furniture Outlook|Finland is the nineth country in terms of per capita GNP and the eleventh in terms of per capita furniture spending at a world level. Finnish furniture industry is less oriented to exports than the European average. CSIL Market Research Finland Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Finland: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Finland for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Finland by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Finland (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Finland are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Finland Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|France Furniture Outlook|With the increase of 4% in French furniture production in 2012, France confirmed itself as one of the largest furniture players at a world level. CSIL ranks the country as the eighth largest furniture producer in the world and the third in Europe, after Italy and Germany. France is also an important furniture exporter in absolute terms, nevertheless French furniture industry is less oriented to exports than the European average. CSIL Market Research France Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in France: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in France for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of France by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in France (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in France are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research France Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Greece Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Greece Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Greece: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Greece for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Greece by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Greece (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Greece are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Greece Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Ireland Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Ireland Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Ireland: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Ireland for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Ireland by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Ireland (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Ireland are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Ireland Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Italy Furniture Outlook|"Italy is an historical leader in furniture sector. Fifteen years ago about 20% of the furniture traded worldwide was of Italian origin, with the reputation of furniture ""Made in Italy"" recognized by foreign retailers and consumers all over the world. The key factors of this success were large investments in design, a business model based on industrial districts and a high propensity to export. Thanks to all these factors, today Italy is still a key player in the furniture sector, as it is the fourth largest producer in the world, after China, the USA and Germany and it ranks third for furniture exports after China and Germany. CSIL Market Research Italy Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Italy: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Italy for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Italy by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Italy (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Italy are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Italy Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis."
L68|Netherlands Furniture Outlook|The Dutch furniture sector is traditionally characterised by openness and outward-looking orientation. This means that more than half of the furniture produced makes its way abroad and 70% of domestic furniture consumption is satisfied by imports. Since 2010 China has been the leading supplier overall, having overtaken Germany, but Germany remains the leading supplier in some important segments such as bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture and office furniture. CSIL Market Research Netherlands Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Netherlands: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Netherlands for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Netherlands by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Netherlands (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Netherlands are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Netherlands Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Norway Furniture Outlook|Norway records extremely high levels of per capita home furniture consumption, far exceeding the Western European average. Almost 68% of furniture demand in Norway is satisfied by imports. It is worth noticing that the propensity to import has increased over the years, rising from 56% in 2002 to the current 68%. Recent years have witnessed the rapid rise of imports from low wage countries, mainly from China, Poland and Lithuania. However, around 50% of Norwegian imports still come from the neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark. CSIL Market Research Norway Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Norway: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Norway for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Norway by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Norway (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Norway are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Norway Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Portugal Furniture Outlook|Portugal is one of the smallest countries in the EU in terms of population, hence its furniture industry is also considered small. It is the eleventh producer within the Western European countries. Over the last two years, the furniture market in Portugal has been strongly affected by the crisis. In order to face this difficult situation, Portuguese furniture manufacturers have started to emphasize their strategies on design and brand internationalization. France, Spain and Angola are the main destination countries of Portuguese exports accounting for around 70% of total exports. CSIL Market Research Portugal Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Portugal: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Portugal for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Portugal by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Portugal (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Portugal are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Portugal Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Sweden Furniture Outlook|Sweden is a major furniture exporter at world level taking into account the limited size of the country population; CSIL ranked the country at the 9th position in 2012. In the last decade, Sweden increased the export/production ratio from 50% in 2002 to nearly 65% in 2012. CSIL Market Research Sweden Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in Sweden: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in Sweden for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Sweden by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Sweden (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Sweden are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research Sweden Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|The furniture industry in Europe, Part II. Outlook for 12 Eastern countries|The 12 Eastern European countries considered in this analysis(Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia), with a value of furniture production of around EUR 15 billion and about 36,000 companies operating as manufacturers, provide a 4% share of world furniture production and account for 19% of total European (EU27) production. Despite the differences and peculiarities of each country, these figures give an idea of the importance of this area in a global perspective. Poland which accounts for about 50% of total supply of the 12 Eastern European countries, is a leading international player, being the 7th furniture producer and the 4th furniture exporter in the world. Upholstered furniture is the largest industry sub-sector: the weight of the 12 Eastern European countries upholstered furniture production amounts to 26% of total furniture production. Office furniture and kitchen furniture have a lower share, amounting to 7% and 6% on total furniture production, respectively.
L68|Bulgaria Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Bulgaria Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the Bulgarian furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Bulgaria for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Bulgaria as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines). CSIL Market Research Bulgaria Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990â€™s), covering at present 70 countries.
L68|Cyprus Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Cyprus Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the furniture market in Cyprus. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview. Value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports; Forecasts for the furniture industry in Cyprus for the coming years; Cyprus Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production in Cyprus by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market in Cyprus (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption in Cyprus by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Cyprus (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); World comparisons of the imports/consumption and exports/production ratios and a cross-country comparison placing Cyprus in a broader context; Top furniture companies. A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Cyprus are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs and Furniture Association
L68|Czech Republic Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Czech Republic Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the furniture market in the Czech Republic. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview. Value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports; Forecasts for the furniture industry in the Czech Republic for the coming years; Czech Republic Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production in the Czech Republic by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market in the Czech Republic (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption of the Czech Republic by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of the Czech Republic by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in the Czech Republic (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); World comparisons of the imports/consumption and exports/production ratios and a cross-country comparison placing Czech Republic in a broader context.; Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in the Czech Republic are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines
L68|Estonia Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Estonia Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Estonia for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Estonia as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines). CSIL Market Research Estonia Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990â€™s), covering at present 70 countries.
L68|Hungary Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Hungary Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the Hungarian furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Hungary for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Hungary as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines). CSIL Market Research Hungary Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990â€™s), covering at present 70 countries.
L68|Lithuania Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Lithuania Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Lithuania for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Lithuania as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines). CSIL Market Research Lithuania Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990â€™s), covering at present 70 countries.
L68|Latvia Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Latvia Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Latvia for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Latvia as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines). CSIL Market Research Latvia Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990â€™s), covering at present 70 countries.
L68|Malta Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Malta Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the furniture market in Malta. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview. Value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports; Forecasts for the furniture industry for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market in Malta (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Malta (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Malta are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs and Furniture Association).
L68|Poland Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Poland Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the Polish furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Poland for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Poland as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines). CSIL Market Research Poland Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990â€™s), covering at present 70 countries.
L68|Romania furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Romania Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the Romanian furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Romania for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Romania as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines). CSIL Market Research Romania Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990â€™s), covering at present 70 countries.
L68|Slovenia Furniture Outlook|This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided (Major Furniture Companies and Sector Fairs, Press and Institutional Bodies). Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Slovakia Furniture Outlook|CSIL Market Research Slovakia Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the furniture market. It is structured as follows: Furniture industry overview (value and performance of production, consumption, imports and exports); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Slovakia for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for the furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and by geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (a list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Slovakia as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines). CSIL Market Research Slovakia Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990â€™s), covering at present 70 countries.
L68|Turkey Furniture Outlook|The report analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the Turkish furniture market. It is structured as follows: Turkey's Furniture industry overview (Executive summary, value and performance of production, consumption, import and export); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Turkey for the coming years; Turkey Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Turkish Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for Turkish furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Turkish Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Turkey by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries-geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Turkey (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (30 short profiles of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Turkey are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed; World comparisons of the imports/consumption and exports/production ratios and a cross-country comparison placing Turkey in a broader context. CSIL Market Research Turkey Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990’s), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Ukraine Furniture Outlook|The report analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the Ukrainian furniture market. It is structured as follows: Ukraine's Furniture industry overview (Executive summary, value and performance of production, consumption, import and export); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Ukraine for the coming years; Ukraine Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Ukrainian Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for Ukrainian furniture market (population, GDP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Ukrainian Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Ukraine by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries-geographical area of origin/destination; Ukraine Furniture Market potential (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (24 short profiles and a list of around a hundred addresses of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Ukraine are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed; World comparisons of the imports/consumption and exports/production ratios and a cross-country comparison placing Ukraine in a broader context. CSIL Market Research Ukraine Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990’s), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Russia Furniture Outlook|The report analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the Russian furniture market. It is structured as follows: Russia's Furniture industry overview (Executive summary, value and performance of production, consumption, import and export); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Russia for the coming years; Russia Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Russian Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Demand Determinants for Russian furniture market (population, per capita GDP, households, residential dwellings and buildings, new office buildings and international tourism); Russian Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, office furniture, kitchen furniture, other furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Russia by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries-geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Russia (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (80 short profiles of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Russia are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed; World comparisons of the imports/consumption and exports/production ratios and a cross-country comparison placing Russia in a broader context. CSIL Market Research Russia Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990’s), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|Chile Furniture Outlook|This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided (Major Furniture Companies Sector Fairs, Press and Institutional Bodies). Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Japan Furniture Outlook|The report analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the Japanese furniture market. It is structured as follows: Japan's Furniture industry overview (Executive summary, value and performance of production, consumption, import and export); Forecasts for the furniture industry in Japan for the coming years; Japan Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Japanese Furniture Production; Demand Determinants for Japanese furniture market (population, GNP, households, disposable income, households consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Japanese Furniture Consumption; Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of Japan by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries-geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in Japan (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies (45 short profiles of top manufacturers and distributors operating in Japan are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed; World comparisons of the imports/consumption and exports/production ratios and a cross-country comparison placing Japan in a broader context. CSIL Market Research Japan Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990’s), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|World hospitality market|"This Report provides an overview of the world hospitality furniture market, namely the world contract furniture market for hotels and resorts with a focus on the four and five star segments. After two years, it is the second CSIL Report on this Issue. The Report is divided into four main geographical areas: Europe, Middle East, Asia and the Americas, with focus on some of the main countries for each Region. For each area the medium-high segment has been analysed, paying attention mainly to four and five star hotels, considering the companies that can provide ""turnkey projects"" or can offer additional services, not merely the supply of single items. Attention is given in highlighting the specific features of hundreds of key players of the hospitality sector, such as major architects and interior design studios, the major hotel chains and some of the major contractors."
L68|World luxury furniture market|This market research provides an overview of the world luxury furniture market. In detail, the Report includes: Identification of the geographical areas with the highest potential in terms of luxury furniture consumption; Demand Drivers; Best luxury retail location; Distribution system; Supply Analysis. The Report is divided into ten main geographical areas: Central Europe, Middle East, China and Taiwan, North America, South America, India, Japan, Russia and North Africa, with some focuses on the main countries of each area. Average EBITDA for the European furniture manufacturers playing in the upper end market exceeds 8%: The overall market for luxury furniture is stable in Europe and United States, whereas it is quickly growing in China (+16% on average for Italian and German suppliers), Middle East (with a growing share for German players), Latin America (where US players show a relevant share). Just at its early steps the luxury furniture market in India. The Russian market, more turbulent, is dominated by Italian firms. On the other side, US and Japanese manufacturers show relevant shares in Asia. Particular attention is given to highlight the specific features and initiatives carried out by key players of the luxury furniture business such as most prestigious architects and interior design studios, the leading luxury furniture manufacturers and the main luxury hotel chains. This Report is the result of an in-deep methodology, including: Processing of macroeconomic data and home furniture sector statistics from CSIL databases; over 60 interviews carried out specifically for this Report; Study of the existing statistics on global wealth; Analysis of the national statistics for each country’s GDP and the number of millionaires. Investigation of the general documentation related to the demand characteristics: sector magazines and company websites; Analysis of non-confidential documents already in the CSIL databases. In appendix to the report:300 useful contacts for high-end and luxury furniture manufacturers , retailers, top design and architectural studios worldwide.
L68|Windows and doors: world market outlook|The CSIL Market Research Windows and Doors: world market outlook, contains current and historical data (production, consumption, imports, exports) and analysis of Window and Door industry for a total of 70 countries. It focuses on the 30 most important Windows and Doors markets: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, United Kingdom and the United States. Data on international trade of windows and doors cover (in addition to the 30 countries listed above), 40 other countries, for a total of 70 countries. Part I deals with production, consumption and international trade of Windows and Doors and includes a section on world Windows and Doors statistics and an appendix with methodology notes; Part II consists of 30 country analysis tables, which include: Windows and Doors industry trends of production, apparent consumption, exports, imports for the years 2003-2012 and forecasts of yearly changes in Windows and Doors consumption in 2013 and 2014 - Major trading partners (countries of origin of imports and destination of exports of Windows and Doors)- nformation on breakdown of production by material (wood, metal, plastics) for a selection of countries; Part III includes Short profiles of major Windows and Doors manufacturers associations worldwide and a list of major sector fairs; Part IV contains addresses of top Windows and Doors manufacturers worldwide.
L68|Information and Ecological Behaviour towards the Natural Resources Consumption of the Population of Bucharest|Over the last decades, the consumer’s ecological behaviour has been the topic of intense debates, academic activities and researches. The scope of our article is to briefly highlight the importance of concrete actions aimed at informing and getting awareness of the environmental aspect in the consumption of natural resources, and also analyze the results of a research regarding the adult population perception of the methods developing ecological behaviour in consuming natural resources. A set of three hypotheses has been tested during the research using primary information obtained through a questionnairebased survey. The information has been processed using SPSS software. The results of our research outline the facts that the population of Bucharest is selective when choosing the information channels, that there is a low correlation between the civic expression and the individual behaviour due to an early development of the non-government organizations, the reduced civic involvement and the adverse accommodation of messages to target groups. Those who are interested in informing and developing the consumers’ ecological behaviour would rather need the support of fellow citizens than of the institutions authorized to promote such a message.
L68|Patent Oppositions as Competitive Tools: An Analysis of the Major Players in the European Market of White Goods|This paper examines the role and determinants of patent oppositions between the main competitors in a given industry. Differently from previous studies, it is not concerned with high-tech firms but considers the major players in the European market of white goods. Thus, we are dealing with a medium-tech, scale intensive industry which, during the last two decades, has been characterised by a stagnating demand and decreasing unit values. As a result, the level of competition has increased, especially in terms of product quality and innovations. Among the consequences of that, the leading companies in Europe have not only intensified their patenting activities but also the usage of oppositions against the patents of direct competitors. By considering 961 patents granted by the EPO to the above companies over the period 2000-2005, the paper shows, among other things, that the probability of receiving an opposition from industry rivals does not depend on the patent quality or value. Accordingly, it contends that, at least in the industries of this kind, the extent and direction of patent oppositions are mainly associated with idiosyncratic corporate characteristics and strategies.
L68|Global competition in mature industries. Upgrading through manufacturing|Manufacturing industries in developed countries have been experiencing profound changes over the last decade. Production of inputs and commodity goods has been increasingly outsourced to emerging countries’ low-wage suppliers, thus nurturing an unprecedented process of ‘global shifts’. Departing from the acknowledgment of this fast-changing scenario, we raised the question of whether operation can still play a role in the economic development of Western industries. While industrial statistics confirmed that the production of standardized products has been largely relocated overseas, the development of a number of case studies in the North Carolina’s and Northeast Italy’s furniture industry outlined that the manufacture of sophisticated, customized goods keeps its roots locally. By using the global value chains (GVCs) approach, we found that in-house or in-cluster control over sourcing and operations represent a strategic activity in the process of product upgrading. Accordingly, we claim that manufacturing can still play a central role in mature industries and pave the path for a next pattern of sustainable development in Western economies.
L68|Price convergence in the EMU? Evidence from micro data|The establishment of the European Monetary Union (EMU) was widely expected to cause price convergence among member states. In an investigation of this claim, the present study avoids problems of comparability and representativeness by using an extremely detailed and comprehensive scanner database on washing machine prices and sales volumes for 17 European countries. A hedonic regression yields country-specific time series for quality-adjusted price differentials. Statistically and economically significant deviations from the Law of One Price emerge. Logt tests firmly reject price convergence among EMU countries. Small convergence clusters can be identified but they are unrelated to EMU membership.
L68|Made in Italy and the global supply chain: winning strategy or unavoidable loss of know-how?|"The gaps in the export performance between Italian industry and its main competitors have (re)focused attention on the concept of ""bazaar economy"". In the specific case of Italy, the hypothesis of an economic model such as that of the bazaar economy would translate into significant impacts in terms of both new opportunities (the possibility of the more downstream manufacturing companies to expand their potential sources of procurement) and threats (the risk of an excessive loss of manufacturing know-how). The production supply chains are ideal for investigating the level and speed of global integration. The analysis focuses on three supply chains highly representative of the traditional made in Italy production models: Food & Beverages; Fashion; and Wood & Furniture. According to the supply chain logic, the analysis will focus on the degree of dependency on the foreign markets of the diverse phases and the impact of the 2008-2009 financial crisis on the financial results of the companies of the different supply chains."
L68|Supply Chain Management in the Home Appliance Industry: Evaluating Alternative Strategies|The increasing dynamics and complexity of today’s supply chains resulted in the need to select from a wide variety of the developed supply chain approaches. In this paper, a business case study is conducted to answer the research question: “How can the agility best fit within the supply chain strategies?” This research contributes to the literature by developing the DESC (differentiated enlightened supply chain) framework that consolidates necessary analysis in order to discover the scope and priorities of the supply chain from multiple perspectives. It is a guideline for the enlightened differentiated supply chain management. Through this, every different supply chain is managed differently to serve for different order winning criteria that are considered from multiple perspectives. It was concluded that in such significant and rapid changes in the requirements of different products and markets, differentiation is the clue to satisfy customer requirements and firms’ competitive position. Different priorities are to be managed differently. Also, the research concluded that postponement strategies are highly recommended for firms in competitive environments with high market dynamics.
L68|On the capability of SMEs to innovate: the cable and wire manufacturing subsector in Nigeria| This study explored the factors that explain innovation capability in SMEs in developing countries. This is important given the increasing global pressures that these SMEs have to face. The data employed came from a survey of cable and wire manufacturing firms in Nigeria. The important factors that accounted for innovation performance were firm-level leadership and use of new technologies â€“ particularly ICTs. Important external factors included interactions with customers and suppliers of equipment/raw materials. Particularly, the industry association was about the most significant driver of innovativeness. We therefore conclude that it is beneficial for industries in developing countries to be well-organised as a means to achieving improved innovation capability.
L68|The types and intensity of innovation in developing country SMEs: evidences from a Nigerian subsectoral study| Understanding the types of innovations that SMEs currently undertake, and their commitment to innovation, is especially useful for policy making in developing countries. This paper, therefore, addressed two main questions: What types of innovation occur in SMEs? How intense is innovation in SMEs? We have used empirical information from a census carried out in the Nigerian cable and wire manufacturing industry. Questionnaire and interviews were the primary means of data collection and the data covered the four-year period between 2003 and 2007. We found a high prevalence of organisational innovation and low prevalence of diffusion-based innovation. Innovation intensity was low at 0.114% per capita training investment. Interestingly, our findings revealed that process and marketing innovation accompanied each other. We conclude that SMEs in developing countries are not innovation-inactive and that they would do better if industries are well organised and firms make higher investments in learning and capability build-up.
L68|Environmental consciousness, economic gain and consumer choice of energy efficient appliances in Thailand, China and India|In developing economies, consumption of electricity in residential and commercial sectors increased with economic development. In order to identify the factors for effective facilitation of standard and labeling programs, this article explores factors that affect consumer choice to energy-efficient products. Main findings are as follows: (1)Consumers in Thailand shows the highest awareness to environmental friendly concepts, followed by India and China.(2) Chosen labeled products include air-conditioners, TVs, refrigerators and washing machines, but not some popular products such as ceiling fans, electric fans or mobile phones. (3) Consumer who has higher energy conservation perception will buy energy efficient products.(4) Consumers in China, India and Thailand are sensitive to energy efficiency of products, primarily because they lead to less expenditure on electricity. (5) Labeling works to make levels of the energy efficiency of products more visible and thus helped consumers to choose the products.
L68|The European market for eco-building products|This market research aims to provide an overview of the Eco Building (or Green) activity in the European market. Energy efficiency is today at the top of the European political agenda, as from the analysis of chapter one (Legal Framework). It is part of the triple goal of the '20-20-20' initiative adopted by the European Union in 2008, which aims to achieve by 2020 a saving of 20% in primary energy consumption, a reduction of 20% in greenhouse gas emissions and an increase of 20% in renewable resources of energy. The CSIL multiclient report The European Market for Eco building products is the result of: analysis of the legislative frame network at the EU level (first chapter); analysis of the existing stock of available statistics on the building activity in Europe (most of it is reported in the second chapter of the Report); a number of simplified simulations of cost/benefit analyses for specific actions on energy saving, for residential and commercial buildings; desk research and field research (this last on the Italian market);data mining (turnover, employees, web address) for a wide number of industrial companies involved in Eco-building. Countries covered from the statistical analysis (building and economic indicators): Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom. The attached Excel spreadsheet is useful for the qualitative calculation of both the energy and the economic savings of the main actions that can be taken, making some assumptions. Chapter 5 shows the last available turnover, employment, web address for over 1000 players in this field, according to different categories: architectural and engineering companies, builders and developers, manufacturer of prefabricated buildings, water management, photovoltaic systems, renewable energy, building automation, industrial controls.
L68|United Kingdom Furniture Outlook|The furniture industry in the UK is experiencing a structural downsizing. The contraction in furniture production (since 2007/2008) goes hand in hand with the increase in furniture imports and the challenge of imports has become an established phenomenon. However, British manufacturers have responded by developing an increasing degree of specialization, making significant improvements in quality and service and production output sees some development starting from the year 2010/2011. CSIL Market Research United Kingdom Furniture Outlook analyzes through updated furniture statistics, useful indicators and through tables, graphs and maps the German furniture market. It is structured as follows: Overview of Furniture industry in UK: executive summary and updated furniture statistics (value and trends of production, consumption, imports and exports), forecasts for the furniture industry in UK for the coming years; Productive Factors (consumption and imports of wood-based panels, forest resources, imports of woodworking machinery); Furniture Production by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture, furniture parts); Demand Determinants (population, per capita GDP, households, disposable income, private final consumption expenditure, building permits and international tourism); Furniture Consumption by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining and living rooms, office furniture); Detailed tables of furniture imports and furniture exports of UK by segment (upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture, kitchen furniture, furniture for dining-living room, office furniture, parts of furniture, parts of seats) and by main countries and geographical area of origin/destination; Furniture Market potential in UK (size of the market, performance, furniture consumer spending, market openness, import penetration); Top furniture companies . A list of top manufacturers and distributors operating in UK are provided as well as international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also listed. CSIL Market Research United Kingdom Furniture Outlook is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series of reports (issued by CSIL since the 1990's), covering at present 70 countries. The report is carried out by CSIL experts that have been working for over 30 years in the field of furniture industry analysis.
L68|The furniture industry in South East Asia. Outlook for 5 emerging manufacturing countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam|Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines are fast growing South East Asian furniture suppliers. The development of these 5 countries furniture production has been export driven. In fact, around two thirds of production is currently sold outside the country of origin. The export /production ratio for the area is roughly 66%, more than double than the world average (around 30%). Currently, furniture produced in the area satisfies 5% of total furniture consumption in the USA and 2% of total furniture consumption in Western Europe. This share has increased year after year in the last decade, particularly in the USA. The CSIL Report offers an overview of this area, providing information on the furniture production system and the import and export flows by country, as well as information on the factors affecting furniture demand, the local market and the leading companies operating in it.
L68|Indonesia Furniture Outlook|Indonesian furniture exports are in the range of US$ 2 billion and are destined to US, Europe and Asia (mainly Japan and China). This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Malaysia Furniture Outlook|Malaysia is a leading furniture exporter. CSIL ranked the country as the 8th world furniture exporter in 2011. Exports account for 67% of domestic production. Exports are mainly destined for the United States, Japan, Singapore, Australia and the United Kingdom, which together absorbed almost 60% of the total (the USA alone accounts for 27%). This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Philippines Furniture Outlook|CSIL ranks the Philippines as the 48th furniture exporter at a world level. The United States remains the country’s largest export market for furniture, absorbing around 45% of Filipino furniture exports. This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Thailand Furniture Outlook|The Thai furniture sector is definitively an export oriented one. Exports are a major industry driver and account for around 45% of the total output, well above the average world exports/production ratio (around 30%). CSIL ranks Thailand as the 27th furniture exporter at a world level. This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|The furniture industry in Argentina, Brazil, Chile|Latin America has proven to be one of the most dynamic areas, even during the international crisis. Future perspectives are also positive. The report offers an overview of the whole area as well as detailed information for each country. Data provided include, among others: furniture sector performance (production, consumption, imports and exports), three-year market forecasts, macroeconomic and business climate indicators, maps and detailed trade statistics. Over 300 short company profiles for the key players are also included. CSIL Market Research The furniture industry in Argentina, Brazil, Chile is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Report contains updated furniture statistics, tables, graphs and illustrated maps and information collected through interviews with top furniture companies and sector experts. Factors determining the demand for furniture are examined, as well as furniture consumption, furniture production by geographical areas in each country and productive factors (with a focus on wood-based panels, forest resources, woodworking machinery). For each country an outline of the major furniture companies is provided. For each company mentioned in the report, an updated profile with contact details, activity and product offer is provided. Furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and product (office furniture, kitchen furniture, upholstered furniture, non-upholstered seats, bedroom furniture). An analysis of furniture market potential and business climate is also provided for each country
L68|Failure to Launch in Two-Sided Markets: A Study of the U.S. Video Game Market|In the dynamic two-sided market environment, overpricing one side of the market not only discourages demand on that side but also discourages participation on the other side. Over time, this process can lead to a death spiral. This paper develops a dynamic structural model of the video game market to study launch failures in two-sided markets. The paper models consumers’ purchase decisions for hardware platforms and affiliated software products and software firms’ entry and pricing decisions. This paper also develops a Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo approach to estimate dynamic structural models. The results of the counterfactual simulations show that a failed platform could have survived if it had lowered its hardware prices and that it could not have walked out of the death spiral if it had subsidized software entry.
L68|Dynamics of Consumer Demand for New Durable Goods|Most new consumer durable goods experience rapid prices declines and quality improvements, suggesting the importance of modeling dynamics. This paper specifies a dynamic model of consumer preferences for new durable goods with persistently heterogeneous consumer tastes, rational expectations, and repeat purchases over time. We estimate the model on the digital camcorder industry using panel data on prices, sales, and characteristics. We find that the 1-year elasticity in response to a transitory industrywide price shock is about 25 percent less than the 1-month elasticity. Standard cost-of-living indices overstate welfare gain in later periods due to a changing composition of buyers.
L68|Knowledge Acquisition: Lessons from Local and Global Interaction in the Indonesian Consumer Electronics Sector|Knowledge acquisition plays an important role for firms, particularly those in developing countries, helping them keep up with process and product innovation and also to effectively compete in the domestic and export markets. Foreign direct investment is often regarded as the major source of knowledge acquisition for local firms in developing countries. The global value chain (GVC) framework provides an analytical tool for understanding knowledge transfer and acquisition in the context of governance. Based on empirical evidence within the Indonesian consumer electronics sector, this paper explores knowledge transfer and acquisition in the context of governance of value chains in which Indonesian manufacturing firms are engaged. Different forms of GVC governance have an impact on knowledge transfer and learning mechanisms within the chains. In captive value chains, Indonesian firms acquire production knowledge and capability from global lead firms by satisfying product and process specifications imposed by the global lead firms. In hierarchical structures, Indonesian firms learn from their joint venture partners not only production capability, but also design and product engineering. Within market-based structures, Indonesian firms acquire production and non-production knowledge through their own efforts in accessing external knowledge sources other than global lead electronics firms.
L68|Competition of the mechanisms : how Chinese home appliance firms coped with default risk of trade credit?|During the transition period from a planned economy to a market economy in 1990s of China, there was a considerable accrual of deferred payment, and default due to inferior enforcement institutions. This is a very common phenomenon in the transition economies at that time. Interviews with home electronics appliance firms revealed that firms coped with this problem by adjusting their sales mechanisms (found four types), and the benefit of institutions was limited. A theoretical analysis claim that spot and integration are inferior to contracts, a contract with a rebate on volume and prepayment against an exclusive agent can realize the lowest cost and price. The empirical part showed that mechanisms converged into a mechanism with the rebate on volume an against exclusive agent and its price level is the lowest. The competition is the driving force of the convergence of mechanisms and improvement risk management capacity.
L68|The world market for outdoor lighting|Over the last five years the world production of outdoor lighting fixtures experienced growth, although at different levels, more marked in 2005-2007 and weaker in the following years. Global growth was mainly pushed by emerging countries: China (+14%), India (+10%), Russia (+6%), Eastern Europe (+6%) and Turkey (+6%).
L68|World trade of major appliances|This report provides an overview of the world trade of major appliances (including the following segments: refrigerators+freezers, washers+driers, dishwashers, hoods, cooking appliances) with 2004-2010 data at world-wide level and 2005-2010 data on the evolution of appliances trade in 50 countries selected according to their contribution to international trade of major appliances. Statistics and outlook data are also available in a country format: 2010 appliances production, exports, imports and consumption in volume by segment, 2010 appliances exports and imports in value and average price by segment, 2005-2010 trade data in value by segment and by destination/origin countries, 2007-2010 trade data in volume by subsectors, as well as economic indicators (population, marriages, households, total GNP, per capita GNP, household consumption expenditure), exchange rates local currency per US$ and local currency per EUR, real growth of GDP and inflation (2008-2015). The report provides a picture of opportunities for major appliances exporters arising from the increasing openness of markets and a rich collection of key country data, allowing comparisons among specific interest areas
L68|The office furniture market in Czech Republic|This report offers a comprehensive picture of the office furniture sector in Czech Republic, providing trends in office furniture production and consumption, office furniture imports and exports. Office furniture distribution channels are also examined. For each country the main economic indicators are provided. A two years forecast is included. Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area. The office furniture supply structure is analyzed, with data on companies and employment. Short profiles are provided for the main office furniture companies, with data on office furniture sales and market shares of the leading local producers and of the main foreign manufacturers operating in Czech Republic. The analysis of office furniture distribution channels covers: specialized and non-specialized dealers, large scale distribution, direct sales, mail order. Data on the major office furniture distributors are provided.
L68|The office furniture market in Hungary|This report offers a comprehensive picture of the office furniture sector in Hungary, providing trends in office furniture production and consumption, office furniture imports and exports. Office furniture distribution channels are also examined. For each country the main economic indicators are provided. A two years forecast is included. Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area. The office furniture supply structure is analyzed, with data on companies and employment. Short profiles are provided for the main office furniture companies, with data on office furniture sales and market shares of the leading local producers and of the main foreign manufacturers operating in Hungary. The analysis of office furniture distribution channels covers: specialized and non-specialized dealers, large scale distribution, direct sales, mail order. Data on the major office furniture distributors are provided.
L68|The office furniture market in Poland|This report offers a comprehensive picture of the office furniture sector in Poland, providing trends in office furniture production and consumption, office furniture imports and exports. Office furniture distribution channels are also examined. For each country the main economic indicators are provided. A two years forecast is included. Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area. The office furniture supply structure is analyzed, with data on companies and employment. Short profiles are provided for the main office furniture companies, with data on office furniture sales and market shares of the leading local producers and of the main foreign manufacturers operating in Poland. The analysis of office furniture distribution channels covers: specialized and non-specialized dealers, large scale distribution, direct sales, mail order. Data on the major office furniture distributors are provided.
L68|The office furniture market in Romania|This report offers a comprehensive picture of the office furniture sector in Romania, providing trends in office furniture production and consumption, office furniture imports and exports. Office furniture distribution channels are also examined. For each country the main economic indicators are provided. A two years forecast is included. Office furniture imports and exports are broken down by country and geographical area. The office furniture supply structure is analyzed, with data on companies and employment. Short profiles are provided for the main office furniture companies, with data on office furniture sales and market shares of the leading local producers and of the main foreign manufacturers operating in Romania. The analysis of office furniture distribution channels covers: specialized and non-specialized dealers, large scale distribution, direct sales, mail order. Data on the major office furniture distributors are provided.
L68|Kitchen furniture distribution in Spain|This report offers an overview of the kitchen furniture distribution market. The analysis of kitchen furniture distribution channels covers: building trade and contract, kitchen specialist, furniture independent retailers, furniture chains, e-commerce, buying groups and franchising. Reference prices for the leading distributors are also provided. Short profiles of 18 among the main players in the kitchen furniture industry are available. Addresses of about 85 kitchen furniture distributors, selected trade press and institutional bodies are also included as well as a list of sector fairs
L68|Kazakhstan Furniture Outlook|This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: An executive summary (The Key Facts of the Furniture Sector) provides the furniture industry overview; Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|India Furniture Outlook|This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Canada Furniture Outlook|Canada is an important player in the international furniture industry. It is a big and open market and a large producer, although slow growing. CSIL ranks the country as the 9th largest furniture producer and consumer at world level. In recent years the rapid growth of imports and the decline in exports have turned Canada into a net importer of furniture. Nevertheless Canada remains among the top ten exporters of furniture worldwide. This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|United States Furniture Outlook|For decades the United States has been the furniture sector's main growth driver at a world level. The constant development of this important and huge market, consisting of 300 million inhabitants with a per capita income of about US$ 35,000 together with its continued openness to imports, have provided a strong stimulus to international furniture trade. The report offers: an outline of the challenges and potential of the This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided. Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Argentina Furniture Outlook|This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided (Major Furniture Companies Sector Fairs, Press and Institutional Bodies). Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Brazil Furniture Outlook|This research is part of the Country Furniture Outlook Series, covering at present 70 countries. Each Country Furniture Outlook Report is structured as follows: Furniture sector performance is analyzed through updated furniture statistics and through tables, graphs and maps. Information covers all the main variables necessary to analyze the sector, from the supply side (Productive Factors, Furniture Production) to the market side (Demand Determinants, Furniture Consumption), also considering the international trading activity (Furniture Imports and Furniture Exports). Future sector prospects and CSIL's assessment of market potential are also provided (Furniture Market Potential) and cross-country comparison is also shown in order to enrich the analysis (Country Rankings). Short profiles of manufacturers and distributors operating in the country and a list of international Furniture Fairs, Furniture Association and Professional Furniture magazines are also provided (Major Furniture Companies Sector Fairs, Press and Institutional Bodies). Background country information is also provided through summarized detailed statistics (Socio-Economic Data) as well as the country's attractiveness in terms of economic competitiveness (Business Climate).
L68|Evaluating the Slow Adoption of Energy Efficient Investments: Are Renters Less Likely to Have Energy Efficient Appliances?|"While public discussion of HR 2454 (the ""Waxman Markey"" bill) has focused on the cap-andtrade program that would be established for carbon emissions, the bill also includes provisions that would tighten energy efficiency standards for consumer appliances. Supporters argue that appliance standards help address a number of market failures. In particular, many studies have pointed out that landlords may buy cheap inefficient appliances when their tenants pay the utility bill. Although this landlord-tenant problem has been widely discussed in the literature, there is little empirical evidence on the magnitude of the distortion. This paper compares appliance ownership patterns between homeowners and renters using household-level data from the Residential Energy Consumption Survey. The results show that, controlling for household income and other household characteristics, renters are significantly less likely to have energy efficient refrigerators, clothes washers and dishwashers.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
L68|Free riding and durable adoption: a test of color television consumption in rural China|Using the consumption of color television sets in rural China, this paper documents the existence of a type of network effect – free riding across neighbors, which reduces the propensity of non-owners to purchase. I construct a model of timing the purchase of a durable good in the presence of free riding, and test its key implications using household survey data in rural China.
L68|Local spillovers and learning from neighbors: Evidence from durable adoptions in rural China|Using the 1999 durable consumption survey data in rural China, we examine the importance of local spillovers in the diffusion of three major durable goods, i.e., color television set, washing machine, and refrigerator. We find that, with control for many family characteristics, a household is more likely to buy its first durable good in villages where a large share of households already own one. Further evidence suggests that theses patterns are unlikely to be explained by unobserved local characteristics. When examined in more detail, the extent of local spillovers appears to be negatively related to a household’s knowledge about the product, and positively related to its education level. Both are consistent with the hypothesis that learning from neighbors plays an important role of these spillovers.
L68|SME and global industries: managing the global supply chain in the consumer electronic industry|This research takes place within a broader study, which aims to highlight the evolution strategies of the companies competing within the consumer electronics industry, and the consequent changes that have characterized the market worldwide. This paper analyzes some management and organizational issues of a me-dium Italian firm (Mivar), which has been producing television sets for almost fifty years. The aim of this paper is to underline not so much the path of Mivar growth, but the gradual loss of competitiveness, which has now led this firm to a position of total dependence on its environment. This could pro-voke the exit of Mivar from the market.Emphasizing the opportunities offered to companies by the growing inter-nationalization of the business, we highlight, however, that generally the globalization of an industrial sector does not imply a consequent internationalization of the firms operating in it. This can happen especially if the firm suffers for weaknesses due to sub-optimal size and inadequacy of its governance, like in the case of Mivar, where the lack of internationalization of its business causes several problems in managing the global supply chain, therefore compromising the system of relationships with upstream and downstream companies.
L68|Debt and depression|We examine the effect of household financial indebtedness on psychological well-being using a large household survey of families with children in Britain. Existing studies that find a link between debt and depression tend to utilise small and highly selective samples of people and only self-reported measures of financial stress, responses to which are likely to correlate with subjective measures of health. From additional household data, we can construct a variety of 'objective' quantitative measures of financial stress in order to validate self-reported measures. We show that, although there is a positive association between subjective measures of financial well-being and psychological well-being, individuals differ in their psychological response to objective household financial situations. We also examine how the potential simultaneity of financial and psychological health might be handled.
L68|Challenges of Exporting Differentiated Products to Developed Countries: The Case of SME-Dominated Sectors in a Semi-Industrialized Country|This paper surveys four Argentinean industries—light ships, television programs, wines, and wooden furniture—that have experienced substantial export growth in recent years, particularly to developed countries. The case studies first describe the structure of the industries, then characterize the emergence of export pioneers and the subsequent process of diffusion. Finally, they analyze the role played by public institutions. Across sectors, the appearance of a pioneer is largely explained by a knowledge advantage relative to other industry participants regarding foreign markets, which the pioneer acquired previously and independently of his decision to export. Diffusion occurs across as well as within sectors, as pioneers’ knowledge is relevant to other industries. Since diffusion does not necessarily hurt the pioneer, public policy has a potentially important role in fostering diffusion within and across sectors.
L68|Ex ante versus interim rationality and the existence of bubbles|"Tirole (1982) is commonly interpreted as proving that bubbles are impossible with finitely many rational traders with common priors. We study a simple variation of his model in which bubbles can occur, even though traders have common priors and common knowledge that the asset has no fundamental value. In equilibrium, agents purchase the asset at successively higher prices until the bubble ""bursts"" and no subsequent trade occurs. Each trader's initial wealth determines the last date at which he could possibly trade. The date at which the bubble bursts is a function of these finite ""truncation dates"" for the individual traders. Since initial wealth is private information, no trader knows when the bubble will burst. There are two key differences between our model and Tirole's which enable us to construct equilibrium bubbles this way. First, Tirole requires ex ante optimality, while we only require every trader's strategy to be optimal conditional on his information-i.e., interim optimal. As we argue in the text, this would seem to be the relevant definition of optimality. Second, Tirole considers competitive equilibria, while we analyze a simple bargaining game."
L68|Ex ante versus Interim Rationality and the Existence of Bubbles|"Tirole (1982) is commonly interpreted as proving that bubbles are impossible with finitely many rational traders with common priors. We study a simple variation of his model in which bubbles can occur, even though traders have common priors and common knowledge that the asset has no fundamental value. In equilibrium, agents purchase the asset at successively higher prices until the bubble ""bursts"" and no subsequent trade occurs. Each trader's initial wealth determines the last date at which he could possibly trade. The date at which the bubble bursts is a function of these finite ""truncation dates"" for the individual traders. Since initial wealth is private information, no trader knows when the bubble will burst. There are two key differences between our model and Tirole's which enable us to construct equilibrium bubbles this way. First, Tirole requires ex ante optimality, while we only require every trader's strategy to be optimal conditional on his information-i.e., interim optimal. As we argue in the text, this would seem to be the relevant definition of optimality. Second, Tirole considers competitive equilibria, while we analyze a simple bargaining game.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
