L70|Pre-Feasibility Study of Sarawak-West Kalimantan Cross-Border Value Chains|This pre-feasibility study on Sarawak-West Kalimantan cross-border value chains covers six topics: It analyzes existing trade patterns and competitive advantages of Sarawak and West Kalimantan, as well as government objectives in promoting cross-border commercial activities. It proposes a border economic area spread over a wide geographic area that covers a network of interrelated activities and provides a fully integrated approach to the border economic area design and implementation. It identifies potential cross-border value chains that can serve as high-profile projects for the border economic area. It determines the preference orderings of project features by key stakeholders such as government and development partners, commercial entities, and the local population. It estimates the net monetary returns for the project portfolio, a cost-effectiveness analysis of the stand-alone capacity-building projects, ranks stakeholders’ non-monetary preferences, and incorporates the the preference ranking order into the project portfolio’s net monetary returns. It provides an overall program appraisal for the set of projects. Based on pre-feasibility results, it lays out a plan for implementation of the border area development program.
L70|Below the Aggregate: A Sectoral Account of the UK Productivity Puzzle|We analyse new industry-level data to re-examine the UK productivity puzzle. We carry out an accounting exercise that allows us to distinguish general macroeconomic patterns from sector trends and idiosyncrasies, providing a roadmap for anyone interested in explaining the puzzle. We focus on the UK market sector. Average annual labour productivity growth was 2.5 percentage points lower during the period 2011-2015 than in the decade before the financial crisis that began in 2007. We find that several years on from the financial crisis stagnation remains widespread across detailed industry divisions, pointing to economy-wide explanations for the puzzle. With some exceptions, labour productivity growth lost most momentum in those industries that experienced strong growth before the crisis. Three fifths of the gap is accounted for by a few industries that together account for less than one fifth of market sector value added. In terms of why we observe continued stagnation, we find that capital shallowing has become increasingly important in explaining the labour productivity growth gap in service sectors, as the buoyancy of the UK labour market has not been sufficiently matched by investment, although our figures suggest that the majority of the productivity gap is accounted for by a TFP gap. The collapse in labour productivity growth has been more pronounced in the UK than elsewhere, but the broad sector patterns of productivity stagnation are in many respects similar across other advanced economies, emphasising the importance of global explanations for the puzzle. UK industries that saw the biggest reductions in productivity growth tended to be internationally competitive and more dependent on global demand than other industries. They were also industries where productivity is difficult to measure.
L70|Oil Price Shocks and Civil Conflict: Evidence from Nigeria|This paper studies the effect of international oil prices on civil conflict in Nigeria. Our analysis uses time variation in global oil prices and cross-sectional variation based on the initial distribution of oil production across Nigerian districts. According to our estimates, an increase in oil price increases the risk of civil conflicts in districts that produce oil by at least 63 percent. Using data on intergovernmental transfers, labor outcomes and firm characteristics, the study tests for popular theoretical mechanisms of the resource curse and shows that positive oil price shocks magnify conflict through rising competition for resource rents and grievance against foreign firms. No evidence is found in favor of mechanisms related to changes in the opportunity cost of engaging in conflict.
L70|Industry rates of return in Korea and alternative theories of competition: equalising convergence versus tendential equalisation|This paper considers convergence and equalisation in industry profit rates in the Republic of Korea in the period of 1970–2015, from the perspective of alternative paradigms of competition – classical and neoclassical. Two measures of profitability are estimated: average rate of profit based on the total capital stock in the economy, and incremental rate of profit (IROP) based on the concept of regulating capital. It is shown that little convergence in industry rates of profit occur when the former measure is used, while almost complete equalisation of IROP is achieved. The classical-type equalisation takes place in particular capital accumulation and competitive settings in Korea, characterised by the prominent role of diversified conglomerate firms, the capital flows within conglomerates, investment coordination by the state, and the fast pace of capital accumulation and renewal).
L70|An Econometric Identification of Abnormally Low Bids in Procurement Market: Discriminant Analysis|In the public construction procurement market, 'abnormally low bids (ALB)' are prevalent and they cause many social and economic problems. Also, when the procurement bids are colluded, ALB make the competitive price systematically underestimated. As many countries regulate ALB, their criteria to identify ALB are not homogenous. Most of the criteria are based on construction cost, which is usually inaccurate, vulnerable to accounting manipulation, and limited to the supply side information of the market. We propose an econometric identification process of ALB using a discriminant analysis. It is based on a switching regression with incomplete separation information and easily estimable by MLE. Through a Monte Carlo simulation, we show that our new method works well. We apply our method to Korean public construction bidding data from 2007 to 2016. The estimation results identify the determinants of the bid prices, along with the determinants of ALB, and presents a more accurate assessment of the collusion damage.
L70|Can Emerging Markets Tilt Global Product Design? Impacts of Chinese Colorism on Hollywood Castings|In various cultural and behavioral respects, emerging market consumers differ significantly from their counterparts of developed markets. They may thus derive consumption utility from different aspects of product meaning and functionality. Based on this premise, we investigate whether the economic rise of emerging markets may have begun to impact the typical “one-size-fits-all” design of many international product categories. Focusing on Hollywood films, and exploiting a recent relaxation of China’s foreign film importation policy, we provide evidence suggesting that these impacts may exist and be non-negligible. In particular, we show that the Chinese society’s aesthetic preference for lighter skin can be linked to the more frequent casting of pale-skinned stars in films targeting the Chinese market. Implications for the design of international products are drawn.
L70|Boyacá: un contraste entre competitividad, desempeño económico y pobreza|Boyacá es un departamento de contrastes. Por un lado, posee buenos indicadores en educación y en sus instituciones, que lo ubican como uno de los departamentos más competitivos, y en el otro extremo, tiene un aparato productivo y unos indicadores de pobreza que no muestran un desempeño muy destacado en el país. Este trabajo analiza las cifras recientes en estos temas e identifica características geográficas propias del departamento que pueden estar relacionadas con los resultados de competitividad como: el mayor número de municipios, de menor tamaño y más cercanos entre sí. ******ABSTRACT: Boyacá is a department of contrasts. On the one hand, Boyacá has good indicators in education and its institutions, which place it as one of the departments more competitive. On the other hand, Boyacá has a productive system and poverty indicators which show no performance very prominent in the country. This paper analyzes recent figures on these issues and identifies geographical characteristics of the department that may be related to the good performance in competitiveness as: the largest number of municipalities, smaller and closer together.
L70|The Outlook for U.S. Production of Shale Oil: Working Paper 2016-01|This paper describes an approach to modeling U.S. production of energy from shale resources and the outlook for that production. Production is insensitive to the price of oil in the short run but quite responsive within two to three years.
L70|Institutionelle Veränderungen und ihre Wirkung auf Branchen|Institutionelle Rahmenbedingungen spielen eine entscheidende Rolle für das Funktionieren von Märkten. Das institutionelle Umfeld bleibt dabei in der Regel nicht konstant, sondern verändert sich im Zeitablauf. Um zu analysieren, ob Veränderungen der institu­tionellen Rahmenbedingungen Effekte auf die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung insbesondere von Branchen haben, müssen die entsprechenden, für einen bestimmten Wirtschaftszweig relevanten Neuerungen zunächst identifiziert werden. Das ifo Zentrum für Industrieökonomik und neue Technologien will mit dem Aufbau einer »Institutionen-Datenbank auf Branchenebene« hierzu einen Beitrag leisten. Ziel der Datenbank ist es, institutionelle Veränderungen, die eine Branche betreffen, systematisch und möglichst standardisiert zu erfassen und damit vorhandene Branchenkenntnisse wissenschaftlich nutzbar zu machen. Der Artikel stellt erste deskriptive Auswertungen der Datenbankinhalte vor.
L70|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2016|Am 9. November 2016 fand der diesjährige ifo Branchen-Dialog statt, wiederum unterstützt vom Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Wirtschaft und Medien, Energie und Technologie sowie der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern. Nach der Begrüßung durch den Hauptgeschäftsführer der IHK für München und Oberbayern, Peter Driessen, trug Clemens Fuest, Präsident des ifo Instituts, zum Thema »Die wirtschaftliche Lage in Deutschland und Europa« vor. An den Vortrag schlossen sich die vier Branchenforen an. Zum Abschluss der Veranstaltung diskutierte Ludger Wößmann, Leiter des ifo Zentrums für Bildungsökonomik, die Frage »Integration durch Qualifikation: Chancen und Herausforderungen der Zuwanderung«.
L70|Boyacá: un contraste entre competitividad, desempeño económico y pobreza|Boyacá es un departamento de contrastes. Por un lado, posee buenos indicadores en educación y en sus instituciones, que lo ubican como uno de los departamentos más competitivos, y en el otro extremo, tiene un aparato productivo y unos indicadores de pobreza que no muestran un desempeño muy destacado en el país. Este trabajo analiza las cifras recientes en estos temas e identifica características geográficas propias del departamento que pueden estar relacionadas con los resultados de competitividad como: el mayor número de municipios, de menor tamaño y más cercanos entre sí.
L70|La gestión ambiental en las pymes del sector arcilla en Cúcuta y su área metropolitana|Este artículo evalúa la gestión ambiental de las pequeñas y medianas empresas del sector arcilla presentes en el municipio de San José de Cúcuta y su área metropolitana. Para ello, se aplicó una encuesta a cuarenta empresas ubicadas en los municipios de Cúcuta, El Zulia, Villa del Rosario y Los Patios. La información recolectada se refirió a los instrumentos, las acciones y la gestión ambiental desarrollada por estas organizaciones. En su conjunto, los resultados se analizaron a través del componente de gestión ambiental del Modelo de Modernización para la Gestión de las Organizaciones. Se concluye que si bien las empresas presentan buenos indicadores en cada una de las variables, se deben exigir acciones preventivas y correctivas en aspectos como ruido, departamento de gestión ambiental, tratamiento de residuos sólidos, emisiones atmosféricas, ciclo de vida del producto, optimización de procesos y selección y uso de materias primas.******This article evaluates environmental management by small and medium enterprises operating in the clay sector in the municipality of San José de Cúcuta, Colombia, and its metropolitan area. For the purpose, forty businesses in the municipalities of Cúcuta, El Zulia, Villa del Rosario and Los Patios were asked to respond to a questionnaire. Information was gathered on the instruments and actions used by the firms in the general field of environmental management. The results were analyzed jointly using the environmental management component of the Model of Modernization for Organizational Management. The article concludes that while the indicators are positive for every variable, preventive and corrective measures should be put in place to ensure adequate noise control, the creation of dedicated environmental management departments in firms, appropriate solid waste treatment, the control of atmospheric emissions, attention to product life cycles, the optimization of processes, and the selection and use of raw materials.
L70|Раздел 4. Реальный Сектор Экономики|Анализ динамики макроэкономических показателей российской экономики за период 2009–2014 гг. показал, что постепенное снижение темпов экономического роста сопровождалось усилением диспропорций в сфере производства, снижением инновационной активности производителей, усилением проблем разбалансированности технико-технологических характеристик основных фондов и инвестиций в основной капитал по базовым видам экономической деятельности. Развитие, основанное на экстенсивном использовании основных факторов, увеличение издержек производства снижали конкурентоспособность российской экономики. Расширение внутреннего потребительского спроса поддерживалось опережающим ростом заработной платы относительно производительности труда. Рост инвестиций в основной капитал не приводил к соответствующему повышению отдачи на единицу используемых ресурсов.
L70|The Employment Challenges In Terms Of The Fourth Industrial Revolution|"The article focuses on two key issues related to the evolution and prospects of the labourmarket, namely: the jobs and qualifications of the future in terms of the Fourth Industrial Revolution,on the one hand, and the need to stimulate youth employment in EU as a ""guarantee of the future”, onthe other hand. The conclusions of the paper show that it is essential to improve the monitoring, andthe evaluation and anticipation of qualifications, as well as the compatibility between demand andsupply on the labour market in order to increase employment and reduce long-term unemployment."
L70|The Employment Challenges In Terms Of The Fourth Industrial Revolution|"The article focuses on two key issues related to the evolution and prospects of the labourmarket, namely: the jobs and qualifications of the future in terms of the Fourth Industrial Revolution,on the one hand, and the need to stimulate youth employment in EU as a ""guarantee of the future”, onthe other hand. The conclusions of the paper show that it is essential to improve the monitoring, andthe evaluation and anticipation of qualifications, as well as the compatibility between demand andsupply on the labour market in order to increase employment and reduce long-term unemployment."
L70|Explaining Industry Differences in IT Investment Per Worker Between Canada and the United States, 2002-2013|In the past, attention has been focused on the aggregate ICT investment per worker gap, but 49.8 per cent of lower business sector IT investment per worker in Canada relative to the United States in 2013 was explained by two industries: information and cultural industries and professional, scientific and technical services. The main objective of this report is to shed light on the possible reasons for the gap in these sectors, including data measurement and comparability issues stemming from methodological differences between statistical agencies in Canada and the United States, and differences in potential explanatory variables of IT investment, such as human capital, taxation, profits, firm creation rates, industrial structure, and regulation, among others.
L70|New Evidence on the Canada-U.S. ICT Investment Gap, 1976-2014 Selected OECD Countries, 1986-2013|Productivity growth results in part from investment in information and communications technologies (ICT). To better understand Canada’s poor productivity growth relative to the United States since 2000, this report provides a detailed examination of ICT investment trends in the two countries. The report finds that real ICT investment in the total economy in Canada has yet to recover from the 2008-2009 recession, while it has not suffered the same fate south of the border. Between 2008 and 2014 real ICT investment in Canada fell 1.0 per cent per year, compared to a 2.9 per cent per year increase in the United States. The gap was even greater for real ICT investment per job, down 1.8 per cent per year in Canada versus a 2.8 per cent annual increase in the United States. The weaker ICT investment growth in Canada resulted in a large increase in the Canada-US ICT investment gap from 31.6 percentage points to 43.7 points, as nominal ICT investment per job fell from 68.4 per cent of the US level in 2008, the highest value ever achieved, to 56.3 per cent in 2014.
L70|Quantile methods for first-price auction: A signal approach|This paper considers a quantile signal framework for first-price auction. Under the independent private value paradigm, a key stability property is that a linear specification for the private value conditional quantile function generates a linear specification for the bids one, from which it can be easily identified. This applies in particular for standard quantile regression models but also to more flexible additive sieve specification which are not affected by the curse of dimensionality. A combination of local polynomial and sieve methods allows to estimate the private value quantile function with a fast optimal rate and for all quantile levels in [0; 1] without boundary effects. The choice of the smoothing parameters is also discussed. Extensions to interdependent values including bidder specific variables are also possible under some functional restrictions, which tie up the signal to the bidder covariate. The identification of this new model is established and some estimation methods are suggested.
L70|Branchenkonjunktur und Strukturwandel:Zum ifo Branchen-Dialog 2015|Am 28. Oktober 2015 findet der diesjährige Branchen-Dialog statt, wiederum unterstützt vom Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Wirtschaft und Medien, Energie und Technologie sowie der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern. Neben dem Vortrag von Hans-Werner Sinn, Präsident des ifo Instituts, zur wirtschaftlichen Lage in Deutschland und der Welt sowie den Konjunktur- und Branchenprognosen bis Ende 2017 wird Oliver Falck, Leiter des ifo Zentrums für Industrieökonomik und neue Technologien, zu Innovationen im Zeitalter der Digitalisierung vortragen.
L70|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2015|Am 28. Oktober 2015 fand der diesjährige ifo Branchen-Dialog statt, wiederum unterstützt vom Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Wirtschaft und Medien, Energie und Technologie sowie der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern. Nach der Begrüßung durch den Präsidenten der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern, Eberhard Sasse, trug Hans-Werner Sinn, Präsident des ifo Instituts, zum Thema »Die wirtschaftliche Lage in Deutschland und der Welt« vor. An den Vortrag schlossen sich die vier Branchenforen an. Zum Abschluss der Veranstaltung diskutierte Oliver Falck, Leiter des ifo Zentrums für Industrieökonomik und neue Technologien, die Frage »Innovation und technologischer Wandel in einer digitalisierten Welt«. Der Beitrag fasst die Tagung zusammen.
L70|The Electricity Market Changes In Romania After The 2007 Liberalization|In Romania the electricity market is totally opening in 2007 and by 1 July 2014 all transactions must be made only on the competitive market. This paper wants to do the analysis period following the liberalization of a recent period to highlight the changes that have occurred in the market. I used a general equilibrium model of the market which apply to the electricity market in Romania to calculate various indicators such as the amount of electricity and the prices of energy resources and analyze them in terms of market balance. The results highlight the state of imbalance and measures are required to restore the balance in the market. In conclusion, the electricity market requires large investments in equipment and refurbishments to reduce the cost of electricity.
L70|Revisiting profit persistence and the stock market in Japan|This paper tests the classical hypothesis of inter-industry profit rate's proclivity to gravitate towards the economy's average profit rate. In so doing, individual as well as panel unit root tests have been applied on a dataset consisting of 52 Japanese manufacturing industries spanning the period 1974–2008. The evidence generated is rather mixed in a sense that the inter-industry profit rates tendency to gravitate towards the economy's average rate of profit depends on the idiosyncratic characteristics of each industry. However, the rate of profit of regulating capitals, as this is reflected in the incremental rate of profit, displays gravitational behaviour around the economy-wide incremental rate of profit, the movement of which is found to be linked to the rate of return in the stock market. These results lend support to those who contend that the classical theory of competition is an area where further research is warranted.
L70|Section 4. Real sector of the economy|Analysis of the dynamics of the Russian economy macroeconomic indices for the period 2009–2014 showed that the gradual decline of economic growth was accompanied by increasing disparity in production, a decrease in innovation by manufacturers and increased problems related to the imbalance of the technical and technological characteristics of the basic funds and investments in fixed assets in basic economic activities. Development, based on the extensive use of the main factors, increase in production costs reduced the competitive ability of the Russian economy. Expanding domestic consumer demand was supported by the growth of salaries outstripping labour productivity. The growth of investments in fixed assets did not result in a corresponding increase in return per unit of the resources used.
L70|Раздел 4. Реальный Сектор Экономики|Анализ динамики макроэкономических показателей российской экономики за период 2009–2014 гг. показал, что постепенное снижение темпов экономического роста сопровождалось усилением диспропорций в сфере производства, снижением инновационной активности производителей, усилением проблем разбалансированности технико-технологических характеристик основных фондов и инве- стиций в основной капитал по базовым видам экономической деятельности. Развитие, основанное на экстенсивном использовании основных факторов, увеличение издержек производства снижали конкурентоспособность российской экономики. Расширение внутреннего потребительского спроса поддерживалось опережающим ростом заработной платы относительно производительности труда. Рост инвестиций в основной капитал не приводил к соответствующему повышению отдачи на единицу используемых ресурсов.
L70|Norwegian GDP by industry 18301930|The present paper offers new knowledge of historical national accounting in Norway in several ways. Firstly, a new and novel set of annual gross domestic product series by industry are presented for the period 18301930. Secondly, the new estimates suggest revision of the historical national accounts published by Statistics Norway. Thirdly, this may lead to necessary revisions of both Norwegian industrial history and business cycle history.
L70|A comparison of earnings persistence in high-tech and non-high-tech firms|This paper examines systematic differences in earnings persistence between high-tech (HT) and non-high-tech (NHT) firms in the presence of economic- and accounting-driven factors. We document that (1) HT firms, relative to NHT firms, show lower levels of earnings persistence, even after economic and accounting factors identified in prior research are controlled; (2) the type of HT products (durables) increases earnings persistence; and (3) the association between earnings persistence and discretionary accruals is higher in HT firms, possibly because HT mangers use discretionary accruals to convey private information about future cash flows. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L70|Hidden climate change related risks for the private sector|Climate change related risks impact and challenge the private sector in many different ways. This also applies to risk drivers like a companies’ reputation and a changing consumer behavior. Since significant risk drivers for companies differ just as much as companies themselves, a sector specific guideline to evaluate possible climate change related risk drivers is indispensable. Further, a sector specific analysis on these risk drivers can foster cross sectoral cooperation, innovation and learning processes with regard to climate change related risks.
L70|Scenarios for regionalization: analysis on Romania’s industry using Onicescu informational statistics|We have shown that in order to make a decision regarding the optimal formula for Romania’s regionalization it is necessary to consider more than one criteria. The aim of this paper is to study one of these criteria – the industrial sector. Using instruments provided by Onicescu’s informational statistics we analyze the homogeneity of the Romanian regions regarding two variables, the industrial production index and the turnover value index in industry. We find out that from this point of view regions are not homogeneous, which leads to the conclusion that industry is an aspect that can be considered when deciding on regionalization.
L70|Editor’s Overview|The 28th issue of the International Productivity Monitor features articles on the following topis: the measurement of industry contributions to labour productivity growth; the benefits of closing the Aboriginal education gap; the impact of public policies on bargaining power and the pay/productivity linkage; the relationship between employment and productivity growth; and the contribution of ICT diffusion and investment to labour productivity growth.
L70|Measuring Industry Contributions to Labour Productivity Change: A New Formula in a Chained Fisher Index Framework|Canada and the United States use Fisher indexes in their input-output accounts. Existing methods for decomposing aggregate labour productivity growth into industry contributions in a Fisher index framework either leave some productivity growth unaccounted for or are poorly suited for answering relevant questions about the industry sources of productivity growth. This article derives formulas for analyzing industry contributions to productivity change that add up exactly to the aggregate change in productivity and that have useful economic interpretations. These formulas show that the manufacturing sector made a positive contribution to productivity growth in the Canada in 2000-2010 and in the United States in 1998-2012, whereas the widely used GEAD formula implies that manufacturing made a negative contribution. Methods that can be used to decompose chained Laspeyres measures of productivity growth are also developed. These methods would be applicable in countries other than Canada and the United States.
L70|Strategic Exploitation of a Common-Property Resource Under Rational Learning About its Reproduction|We build a workable game of common-property resource extraction under rational Bayesian learning about the reproduction prospects of a resource. We focus on Markov-perfect strategies under truthful revelation of beliefs. For reasonable initial conditions, exogenously shifting the prior beliefs of one player toward more pessimism about the potential of natural resources to reproduce can create anti-conservation incentives. The single player whose beliefs have been shifted toward more pessimism exhibits higher exploitation rate than before. In response, all other players reduce their exploitation rates in order to conserve the resource. However, the overall conservation incentive is weak, making the aggregate exploitation rate higher than before the pessimistic shift in beliefs of that single player. Due to this weakness in strategic conservation responses, if the number of players is relatively small, then in cases with common priors, jointly shifting all players’ beliefs toward more pessimism exacerbates the commons problem. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L70|SME?s cluster identification in Russia|Russia inherited pattern of economic activity location from the Soviet Union, where the main forms of industry organization were territorial-production complexes (TPC) - networks of industrial organizations united by a single technological process or the chain of raw materials processing. In a market economy in the 90s, economic ties within the TPC were destroyed, leading to a drop in the level of production, fragmentation of large enterprises and the formation of a set of independent and often competing firms. Some scientists believe that this situation over the last 20 years could serve as a necessary foundation for the formation of industrial clusters (in interpretation of modern regional science). Today, interest in clusters in Russia rises again due to the need to find new mechanisms to support production and innovation in a stagnant economy. Ministry of Economic Development of Russia has developed a project to support the pilot territorial innovative clusters by providing funding for infrastructure formation. The selection of cluster initiatives was based on applications from regional governments, interested in attracting of additional investment. Most of the clusters, formed in Russia, are not in innovative sectors, as shown by studies of the Russian Cluster Observatory. But a lot of potential clusters in Russia is not formed due to the high level of distrust between firms, due to lack of understanding of the potential benefits, etc., although these clusters can develop due to geographical proximity (high concentration) of firms. The aim of our work is to identify clusters as areas of geographical concentration of small and medium businesses (SME). We also wanted to check whether the existing cluster initiatives correspond to the concentration of economic activity and whether there is potential for increasing the cluster initiatives. In our work, we use the analysis based on the localization index, but on three geographical levels for verification reasons: regions, districts and cities. Most of the data were collected from RUSLANA database, consisting information of Russian firms. After identifying a high degree of localization of a particular industry or a group of industries, we analyze the location of enterprises, based on distance-oriented methods in specific regions or between regions. The result is a map of the high concentration and localization of small and medium businesses in certain areas in a number of industries. The authors confirmed the existence of traditional and well-known clusters and identified previously unknown concentration of firms that did not declare their interaction. In the last step, the authors conducted field research - a survey of firms in areas of concentration, where clusters today are not formed, for determining the reasons for the lack of interaction.
L70|The taller the better? Agglomeration determinants and urban structure|The objective of this paper is to establish how urban structure, and in particular height of buildings, can act as a mechanism for agglomeration of firms' establishments. The causes of higher productivity in denser areas have received important attention in the urban economics literature. Input sharing, labour pooling and knowledge spillover are considered as the classical determinants of agglomeration economies. In addition to these forces, firms may be attracted to particular locations because of the prestige associated to particular areas. In order to assess how urban structure and building height can play an important role for agglomeration and the consequent productivity advantages this paper explores the role of skyscraper in influencing the concentration of establishments and employment in U.S. cities. The empirical analysis is conducted using a rich database including all 6 digits NAICS sector, for 14114 ZIP codes for 147 Metropolitan Areas in U.S. from 2000 to 2012. This database has been personally built combining information on geographic establishments location from the U.S. Census Bureau with data on skyscrapers construction from the CTBUH Global Tall Building Database. An important threat to identification comes from reverse causality, and this can arise if the increase in agglomeration in one city leads to demand pressure for more tall buildings. The estimation of the effect of the completion of new tall buildings have been conducted using instrumental variable fixed effects techniques. The dependent variables used are the log number of establishments for each sector in a ZIP area and the log productivity measure. In order to obtain exogeneous variation, the completion of new skyscrapers have been instrumented using the interaction between the distance to bedrocks in one ZIP area with the North-American steel price. One of the most important results is that the effect of newly completed skyscraper on agglomeration differs between sectors. Sectors which are characterized by higher use of human capital and high labour skills are associated with a positive and significant coefficient of new buildings completion on firms agglomeration, such as for the Finance and Insurance sector. The attraction of establishments to the ZIP codes where tall buildings will be completed has an important anticipatory component. At a ZIP level the completion of a new skyscraper is associated with a positive increase in productivity of 20 percent.
L70|Maduración del Sistema Previsional. Proyecciones y agenda|The aim of this study is to give a diagnose of the current Pension System from a 30-year forecast of its main variables. As a result, we quantify the effect of the System’s maturity on the balance sheet of Banco de Seguros del Estado (currently the only insurance company in charge of the payment of retirement pensions). The relevance of this analysis is based on the proximity of the moment when the number of annuities from the New Pension System increases significantly and the need for a deeper analysis of the current regulatory design
L70|Firm Inflation Expectations and Monetary Policy in Uruguay|Using a novel monthly survey of firm inflation expectations for Uruguay from October 2009 to June 2013, this paper studies the impact of monetary policy on inflation expectations at the micro level. Using several panel data techniques we consistently find a negative and statistically significant relationship between monetary policy and inflation expectations. We also find a high level of inertia in expectations. Past inflation changes have a positive impact on inflation expectations, while exchange rate changes have a significant but low importance on expectations. We observe a negative link between inflation expectations and expected economic activity, potentially due to past experiences of a monetary financing of crisis. Contrary to intuition, there is no clear link between firm inflation expectations and the median assessment of experts published by the Central Bank.
L70|Regulating Rates of Return Do Gravitate in US Manufacturing!| In this paper we test for the gravitation of regulating return rates, namely those return rates yielded by capital goods incorporating the best methods of production. We define them within a vintage capital model taking into consideration capacity utilization, capital depreciation and wages of workers using past capital vintages. We consider two data sets regarding US manufacturing activities and we find that gravitation does take place. Our results are contrasted with those of the previous literature. Research and policy implications are discussed.
L70|Spatial concentration of manufacturing firms in China|Applying the methodology developed by Duranton and Overman (2005, 2008), we analyze localization and dispersion of firms in China. Using a unique and detailed dataset on manufacturing firms in China, we are able to follow the changes in location patterns of firms between 2002 and 2008. Our analysis shows that firms in China are more localized than in the UK or Japan. Localization is comparable to that in the US, and takes place at relative small scales that are consistent with the size of Chinese cities. Localization increases rapidly, even in the relative short period between 2002 and 2008, especially new entrants localize. Private firms, firms from Hong-Kong, Macao and Taiwan, and foreign firms are more localized than state-owned firms. Our findings are consistent with the notion that China is increasingly liberalizing its economy, enabling (profit seeking) manufacturing firms to benefit from agglomeration economies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L70|Smart Cities are Big Cities - Comparative Advantage in Chinese Cities|The literature on China indicates that the concentration of economic activities in China is less than in other industrialized countries. Institutional limits are largely held responsible for this finding (e.g. the Hukou system); firms and workers are not able to take full advantage of the benefits from agglomeration economies. China is changing rapidly, however, also in this respect. We show that, by using the methodology developed by Davis and Dingel (2013), high-skilled workers in high-skill intensive sectors sort into larger locations. We demonstrate this for regions, agglomerations, cities, and for skills, occupations, and sectors. The results are strongest for cities and skills, followed by agglomerations and occupations, respectively. Between 2000 and 2010 this sorting process has become stronger, which we interpret as an indication that institutional limitations in China against further agglomeration weaken, and that the consensus in the literature that ‘Chinese cities are too small’ needs some qualification.
L70|Deutsche Industrie: Erhöhte Investitionsbereitschaft|Nach den aktuellen Ergebnissen des ifo Investitionstests wollen die Unternehmen des deutschen Verarbeitenden Gewerbes 2014 ihre Investitionen um rund 9% erhöhen. Für das Jahr 2013 ergaben die Meldungen der Testteilnehmer einen Anstieg von 3%. Erweiterungsinvestitionen und Investitionen in Ersatzbeschaffungen halten sich 2013 und 2014 in etwa die Waage. In diesem Jahr sind je rund 30% der Sachanlageinvestitionen den beiden Investitionsmotiven zuzuordnen. Rationalisierungsmaßnahmen spielen im Vergleich zu den 1990er Jahren nur noch eine untergeordnete Rolle.
L70|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2014|Am 5. November 2014 fand der diesjährige ifo Branchen-Dialog statt. Nach der Begrüßung durch den Präsidenten der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern, Eberhard Sasse, trugen Hans-Werner Sinn, Präsident des ifo Instituts, zum Thema »Die wirtschaftliche Lage in Deutschland und Europa« und Timo Wollmershäuser, ebenfalls ifo Institut, zum Thema »Mittelfristprojektion für Deutschland« vor. An diese Vorträge schlossen sich die vier Branchenforen an. Zum Abschluss der Veranstaltung diskutierte Gabriel Felbermayr, ifo Institut, die Frage »Transatlantischer Freihandel – Chance oder Bedrohung?« Der Beitrag fasst die Tagung zusammen.
L70|The development and implementation of mineral safeguarding policies at national and local levels in the United Kingdom|Mineral extraction makes an essential contribution to national development and prosperity. However, unlike many other land uses, the location of sites where mineral extraction can take place is limited. The underlying geology dictates where mineral resources occur and other factors, such as economics, environmental considerations, surface land use or technology can limit access. To ensure a continued, steady and adequate supply of the raw materials needed by society, it is important that mineral resources are not needlessly sterilised by new, non-mineral related, development. Although this principle has been part of the UK planning process since the Town and Country Planning Act was introduced in 1947, the mechanisms and policies in place to support it were, until recently, largely ineffective. A more robust mechanism was, therefore, required.
L70|Industrial Policy in Indonesia: A Global Value Chain Perspective|The gains of a country from participating in global value chains (GVCs) will depend on the productive activities taking place in its jurisdiction and their linkages to the domestic economy. Lead firms’ decision on where to locate and how to coordinate production activities is influenced, among others, by industrial policies. On the one side, policy space provides governments with some leverage in guiding economic activities and influencing development outcomes. On the other hand, policy risks have the potential to adversely affect the outcomes. This study focuses on industrial policies in Indonesia, using the mineral sector as a mini case study. The case study assesses the Indonesian Government’s recent effort to boost domestic value addition in the sector. This paper argues that the effectiveness of government policies in maximizing the gains from GVC participation depends not only on policy design, but also on policy consistency and coherence, effective implementation, and coordination.
L70|Econometrics of Ascending Auctions by Quantile Regression|This paper suggests an identification and estimation approach based on quantile regression to recover the underlying distribution of bidders' private values in ascending auctions under the IPV paradigm. The quantile regression approach provides a flexible and convenient parametrization of the private values distribution, with an estimation methodology easy to implement and with several specification tests. The quantile framework provides a new focus on the quantile level of the private values distribution and on the seller's optimal screening level, which can be both useful for bidders and seller. The empirical application on timber auctions suggests that using policy recommendations from seller's expected payoff may be sometimes inappropriate from a seller's point of view due to the low probability of selling the good. This seems to be an important issue specially in auctions with strong heterogeneity among the bidders, since the seller has incentive to screen bidders' participation by setting a high reservation price, which in turn leads to a low probability of selling the good.
L70|New technological path creation: evidence from the British and German wind energy industries|The canonical economic literature on path dependence provides only a limited explanation of why and how new technological pathways are created initially. The motivation of this paper is to address this gap in the literature and argue that evolutionary economics theories of path dependence need to be linked with sociological explanations of how new technological pathways are created in the first instance by knowledgeable inventors and innovators. These arguments are developed by the authors in a hybrid socio-economic theory of new path creation. In this paper these theoretical arguments are illustrated empirically by a comparative analysis of the introduction and diffusion of new wind power technologies in Britain and Germany. The empirical analysis focuses on the key research question of why the introduction of these new technologies started earlier and has diffused sooner in Germany than in Britain. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
L70|Monoculture and polyculture in former industrial regions The case of South Wales and the Silesian Voivodeship|The aim of the article is to compare the economic situation of two former industrial regions – South Wales and the Silesian voivodeship – from the point of view of the type of the economic culture. The cost-effectiveness of their narrow economic specialization is losing raison d’eˆtre today. This is not only a consequence of globalization, but also of economic crises enforcing a flexible adaptation of the regional markets to the requirements of the modern world. Generally, polycultural regions deal with the negative effects of economic difficulties better than monocultural ones. The authors have distinguished 5 indicators to assess how polycultural both regions are.
L70|Cost estimate classification and accuracy for Major Industrial Plant Projects (MIPP) versus building construction in Germany|Ongoing pressure on prices for construction projects adds to the significance of cost estimation accuracy in building construction. Due to competition from Asian entrants, main contractors in the plant engineering industry are starting to face a similar situation. In the present paper, the cost estimation standards for Major Industrial Plant Projects (MIPP) are analyzed and compared with the cost estimation standards for Building Construction (BC). The research method uses a literature and standards review, comparing MIPP cost estimation guidelines by the Association for the Advancement of Cost Engineering (AACE) with a guideline known as the 'cone of cost' following the Official Scale of Fees for Services by Architects and Engineers (German: HOAI) for comparable phases of performance. It is shown that MIPP industry cost estimation guidelines are much more tolerant in terms of accuracy than for Building Construction in Germany, especially in the early phases. With the help of examples (Hot-Briquetted-Iron plant projects versus residential housing projects), a set of possible reasons is identified and categorized by (1) competition intensity incl. technology impact and frequency of project occurrence, (2) demands on cost estimation professionals, (3) materials and supplies used, (4) duration of project execution, (5) Certainty of projected Cash Flows. Finally, the study marks starting points for further research: First, comparing MIPP cost estimation guidelines to non-German Building Construction standards, and second empirically validating and possibly extending the set of explanations.
L70|Opportunities and Constraints for Small Agricultural Exporters in Egypt| This study analyzed specialist small- and medium-sized agricultural export firms in Egypt in order to identify perceived opportunities and barriers regarding present and future export activities. The results indicate that these firms have to deal with stiff foreign competition in terms of price and quality criteria, while lacking relevant knowledge and information on how to deal with these challenges. The firms that perceived most future opportunities from exports were identified as using e.g. digital information sources and were able to source products from export-committed domestic farmers.
L70|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2013|Am 7. November 2013 fand der diesjährige ifo Branchen-Dialog statt. Wie üblich folgten auf die Ausführungen von Hans-Werner Sinn zur allgemeinen wirtschaftlichen Lage und den Perspektiven für das nächste Jahr die vier Branchenforen. Das Schlussreferat hielt Günther Oettinger, der EU-Kommissar für Energie, zum Thema: »Der Weg zur Sicherung unserer Zukunft: eine europäische Energiestrategie«. Der Beitrag fasst die Tagung zusammen.
L70|El conocimiento en la economía global y colombiana|En este trabajo se muestra que el conocimiento juega un papel fundamental en el desempeño de las economías modernas y que Colombia presenta una gran brecha tecnológica en comparación con los países desarrollados y aún con los países Iberoamericanos. Se muestra que un incremento del 0.5% del progreso tecnológico aumentaría el crecimiento del PIB per cápita colombiano en un 2.0% en 5 años. Si tenemos en cuenta que las diferencias internacionales en el uso del conocimiento –en las capacidades innovadoras, en las fuentes y usos de las innovaciones, en las estrategias corporativas y condiciones institucionales– es de fundamental importancia para explicar tanto la contribución de cada país al comercio internacional, como las diferencias internacionales en los niveles de ingreso (Dosi et al, 1993), siendo la situación de la economía colombiana preocupante en este sentido.
L70|The autumn effect of gold|This paper studies recurring annual events potentially introducing seasonality into gold prices. We analyze gold returns for each month from 1980 to 2010 and find that September and November are the only months with positive and statistically significant gold price changes. This “autumn effect” holds unconditionally and conditional on several risk factors. We argue that the anomaly can be explained with hedging demand by investors in anticipation of the “Halloween effect” in the stock market, wedding season gold jewelery demand in India and negative investor sentiment due to shorter daylight time. The autumn effect can also be characterized by a higher unconditional and conditional volatility than in other seasons.
L70|A continuidade do processo de desconcentração regional da indústria brasileira nos anos 2000 [The continuity of the Brazilian industry’s regional decentralization process during the 2000s]|The article continues the debate on the changes in the regional distribution of Brazilian industry in recent decades. Based on industry data for employment and wages for the period 1997/2007, it identifies an intense process of regional decentralization. Using classical indices of concentration, it appears that the trend identified affects all types of industries, whether traditional, commodities, diffuser or durable goods. The article also proposes the use of a new density index, highlighting some meso-regions where it is relatively high. From the values encountered for the density index some meso-regions located in different regions of the country are selected and their results discussed, which illustrates various situations of apparent success.
L70|Evaluating main order contract forms for Major Industrial Plant Projects (MIPP) with respect to completion and performance of design risk allocation|"Contracts should be matched to the unique situation of a Major Industrial Plant Project (MIPP). However, in reality, oftentimes contract forms are chosen that do not fit participant's (owners', contractors') competences and risk capabilities. In this paper, MIPP order contract forms are evaluated for the most common settings of owners and contractors with respect to allocation of completion and performance-of-design risks. The research method takes a qualitative approach by using grounded theory and expert interviews. 39 interviews were conducted with a total of 48 interviewees - professionals from EPC and EPCM contractors, main technical component suppliers, consultants and representatives of owners. Firstly, it is defined what a MIPP is - considering technical as well as monetary terms. Secondly, using concepts of New Institutional Economics (NIE), the international context and the MIPP network of contracts are studied. Based on Project Finance literature, the commercial risks involved in a MIPP are laid-out. Focusing on the main order contract, the involved parties are termed, introducing a ""standard situation"" with typical core competences of owners and contractors. Finally, using results from the expert interviews, the core MIPP order contract forms - ownermanaged, EPC, EPCM, and deviations thereof are evaluated, illustrated by examples. Appropriate contractual risk allocation depends on the specific MIPP situation - to be understood by a thorough analysis of the owner's competences, capacities and experience in relation to the project."
L70|Determinantes del desarrollo de Mercados de Capitales. Estudios de casos de Chile, Colombia y Perú|This paper tries to elicit lessons on the development of domestic financial markets based on case studies of Chile, Colombia and Perú. The three cases show a succesful development of domestic financial markets in the last decades, and are particularly relevant for the case of Uruguay due to the region they belong to, and, particularly in the case of Perú, their structural similarities in the financial sector. We find that factors such as economy size, inflation, macroeconomic environment, institutional quality and financial investors play an important role in the striking development of these countries financial markets.
L70|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2012|Am 7. November 2012 fand der diesjährige ifo Branchen-Dialog statt. Wie üblich folgten auf Ausführungen zur allgemeinen wirtschaftlichen Lage und den Perspektiven für das nächste Jahr vier Foren: zur Industrie, zum Handel, zur Bauwirtschaft und zu den Dienstleistungen. Der Beitrag fasst die Tagung zusammen.
L70|The international competitiveness and target markets of colombian blackberries|absTracTthis document analyzes the international competitiveness of colombianblackberries-raspberries between 2003-2007, as well as its potential marketsworldwide resulting from some theories and concepts related to internationalcommerce and competitiveness given by authors such as bela balassa(1964 y 1970), schwartz, m., et al. (2007), and the corporación colombiainternacional, among others. the result shows that this colombian producthas a worldwide productive and competitive potential that can motivateexporting it to potential countries like canada, usa, the united Kingdomand France.resUmenel documento analiza la competitividad internacional de la mora-frambuesacolombiana durante el período 2003-2007, así como sus mercadospotenciales a nivel mundial, a partir de algunas teorías y conceptosrelacionados con el comercio y la competitividad internacional aportadospor autores como bela balassa (1964 y 1970) y schwartz, m., et al. (2007),la corporación colombia internacional, entre otros. el resultado muestraque este producto colombiano posee un potencial productivo y competitivoa nivel mundial que puede motivar su exportación a países potenciales comocanadá, estados unidos, reino unido y Francia.resUmoo documento analisa a competitividade internacional da amora-frambuesacolombiana durante o período 2003-2007, assim como seus mercadospotenciais a nível mundial, a partir de algumas teorias e conceitosrelacionados com o comércio e a competitividade internacional fornecidospor autores como bela balassa (1964 e 1970) e schwartz, m., et al. (2007),a corporación colombia internacional, entre outros. o resultado mostraque este produto colombiano possui um potencial produtivo e competitivoa nível mundial que pode motivar sua exportação a países potenciais comocanadá, estados unidos, reino unido e França.rÉsUmÉLe document analyse la compétitivité internationale de la mûre-framboiseau cours de la période 2003-2007, ainsi que leurs marchés potentiels àtravers le monde, sur la base de certaines théories et des concepts liés aucommerce international et la compétitivité fournies par des auteurs tels quebela balassa (1964 et 1970) et schwartz, m., et al. (2007), la corporacióninternationale en colombie, entre autres. Le résultat montre que ce produitcolombien possède un potentiel productif et compétitif dans le monde. cepotentiel peut promouvoir son exportation vers des pays comme le canada,les états-unis, le royaume-uni et la France.
L70|The Most Efficient Czech SME Sectors: An Application of Robust Data Envelopment Analysis|This paper analyzes the efficiency of Czech small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). The main focus is on structural analysis of Czech SMEs in manufacturing based on their efficiency. The author uses sectoral data from 2002 to 2005 for 30 manufacturing industries, each divided into five subgroups according to the number of employees. He employs standard and advanced robust data envelopment analysis (DEA) to obtain cross-sectional rankings of individual industries. The results reveal substantial variance in the efficiency scores, variance which is only partly removed by the robust DEA specification. The author found that the majority of sectors operate below full efficiency, with only a few industries belonging to the top performers. The average efficiency lies between 50 and 70 percent of that of the best sectors. He concludes that only a minor proportion of Czech SMEs are able to generate high value added per unit of labor-capital.
L70|Long-Term Development Path of the Second Industry in Central Asia|In this paper, I compile 100-year statistics of the countries of Central Asia using declassified confidential documents of the Soviet Statistical Office obtained from the Russian State Archives and other materials and quantitatively characterize the long-term development path of the second industry in the region. The issue of the possible up-ward bias of the Soviet industrial statistics is also examined. Comparative analysis between the USSR and the Central Asian region and among Central Asian countries basing on the above long-term statistics provides valuable findings including the close relationship between the socialist industrial allocation policy and the growth rate of the second industry for deeper understanding of the economic development history in Central Asia during the socialist era and the following transition period towards a market economy.
L70|The Influence of Increasing Reliability of Belt Conveyors Upon The Productivity of Lignite Quarries|At present belt conveyors have an important role in the mines of lignite quarries because they contribute decisively to achieving an optimum production. From this point of view the management of mines should be constantly preoccupied with ensuring, in optimal conditions, the operation of these elements of fixed capital and, if it is necessary they should maintain constant reliability. In this context, this paper has as theme the relation between the reliability of conveyors and the productivity within lignite quarries.
L70|The determinants of intra-industry trade in the tourism services|Purpose- This manuscript examines the determinants of intra-industry trade (IIT) in the tourism services by Portugal. The trade in this sector between Portugal and 17 countries was examined between 2002 and 2009. Design/methodology/approach- The paper formulates theoretical hypothesis that may explain the intra-industry trade in the tourism services. These hypotheses are tested using a dynamic panel data analysis. Findings- The result show that intra-industry trade occurs more frequently among countries that are similar in terms of factor endowments. The economic dimension and border confirm the positive impact in IIT. Our results also show that intra-industry trade increases if transportation costs decrease. Originality of the research-This article confirms relevant theoretical hypotheses on the causes of intra-industry trade. The results obtained with the Arellano and Bond GMM system estimator suggest that the building of dynamic theoretical models will be of interest to academic researchers in tourism services.
L70|Bivariate K functions as instruments to analyze inter-industrial concentration processes|Während zur Messung von räumlicher Konzentration ökonomischer Aktivitäten verschiedene Verfahren zur Verfügung stehen, sind kaum Methoden zur Beurteilung des Phänomens von Co-Agglomeration und Abstoßung verschiedener Industrien verfügbar. Traditionelle bivariate Konzepte greifen meist zu kurz. Arbia et al. (Empir. Econ. 34(1):81–103, 2008 ) zeigen, dass das Verfahren der bivariaten K-Funktionen zur Analyse von räumlichen Punktprozessen in ökonomischen Zusammenhängen geeignet ist. Innerhalb dieses Artikels nutzen wir das Instrument der bivariaten K-Funktionen zur Aufdeckung gegenseitiger Abhängigkeiten bei der Standortwahl von Firmen des verarbeitenden Gewerbes in Deutschland. Die Ergebnisse der bivariaten K-Funktionen dienen als Basis für Cluster-Analysen, mit deren Hilfe verschiedene Cluster für miteinander verbundene Sektoren für variierende räumliche Distanzen ermittelt werden. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2012
L70|Worldwide Commodities Sector Market-To-Book and Return on Equity Valuation|We analyze panel data for the worldwide commodities sector using a sample of 6,323 firms from 69 countries with annual observations from 1999 to 2010. The effect of return on equity on market-to-book is time-varying and declining across the years in the sample. First, there is positive and strong persistence in the market-to-book of companies in this sector worldwide, but value stocks are more persistent thatn growth stocks in this sector. The effect of the return on equity is positive of about 0.9% on market-to-book per unit of return on equity at the 10th percentile of the market-to-book. This effect becomes negative 0.02% for growth stocks at 90th percentiles. For firms with negative profitability, the effect of return on equity on market-to-book is negative for growth stocks. The effect of the S&P500 volatility index Vix is negative, significant and large in magnitude, but declines in absolute value as the quantiles increase towards the upper 90th percentile.
L70|Twenty-two econometric tests on the gravitation and convergence of industrial rates of return in New Zealand and Taiwan - extended version|We test the hypotheses of industry return rates either gravitating around or converging towards a common value in Taiwan and New Zealand. We adopt various econometric approaches. The results are then nested in a meta-analytic framework together with those of the past literature. Various kinds of limitations to capital mobility can hamper the tendential equalization of return rates. Focusing on those arising from different innovation capabilities across industries can pave the way to collaboration between evolutionary and radical political economics.
L70|The Real Economy Of Romania In 2005 – 2010 (Ii)|The purpose of this study is to give a financial synoptic, annual image of the real economy state using the balance sheets of the economic units. Hence, the paper analyses and evaluates economically some significant indicators (secondary, tertiary, aggregate, etc.) with a higher significance than the known primary indicators; it makes the current calculation of some indicators set by the economic and financial theory which are not currently used. The financial statistics with annual frequency, at the aggregate (national) level are calculated and published in many official documents and reports (NBR, NIS, Government), but most of them are primary macroeconomic indicators which many times do not provide a thorough (structural) image of the studied phenomenon. Within this context, the quantitative and qualitative interpretation of the economic and financial processes from the real economy is rather difficult. It is therefore necessary to process this huge mass of information piled up in the balance sheets of the companies in order to produce significant indicators which reveal more accurately the economic and financial phenomenology of the real economy.
L70|The Real Economy Of Romania In 2005 – 2010|The purpose of this study is to give a financial synoptic, annual image of the state of the real economy, using the annual balance sheets of the economic agents. The objectives of the paper aim to implement some significant indicators (secondary, tertiary, aggregate, etc.) in the economic evaluation, with a higher significance than the known primary indicators, the current calculation of some indicators determined by the economic and financial theory which are not, however, used currently. The financial statistic aspects, with annual frequency and at the aggregate (national) level are recorded and published in official documents and reports (NBR, NSI, Governmental), but most of them are primary, macroeconomic indicators which, mist times, don’t give a structural image of the particular phenomenon. Within this context, the quantitative and qualitative interpretation of the economic and financial processes from the real economy is rather difficult. Hence, it is necessary that this huge mass of information from the accounting balances of the companies is processed with the purpose to produce significant indicators so that the economic-financial phenomenology from the real economy is revealed with more accuracy.
L70|On Typical Materials Acting as the Dividing Standard of the Development Stages of Human Substance Civilization|During more than three million years, the substance civilization of human society went through the Stone Age, the Bronze Age, the Iron Age, the Steel and Cement Age, and the Silicon Age. At the beginning of the new century, the human society has entered into the Nanomaterials Age, which indicates that a completely new substance civilization of human society has started. This paper analyses and discusses why the typical materials serve as the only standard for dividing the eras of the substance civilization of human society. The author argues about the subject of dividing the substance civilization of human society. The goal is to initiate broad and thorough discussion of that subject so as to get a rather thorough understanding about it.
L70|Estimación de las cuentas regionales y sus limitaciones - El caso del agro uruguayo|This document proposes a set of regional indicators which goal is to enrich economic analysis. Those indicators identify links among uruguayan regions considering a regional framework consistent with national accounting concepts and conventions. Agricultural regional statistics were built in a coherent way with national estimations published by Central Bank of Uruguay on a regular annual basis. We also present a descriptive view of agricultural sector since 2005 considering variables such as Production, Gross added value and Employment.
L70|Dynamics of Evolution in the Global Fuel-Ethanol Industry|We employ a value chain analysis approach to examine the forces shaping the industry structure, entry and inter-firm governance modes. Forty largest global and regional companies in the ethanol manufacturing stage have been classified according to their pre-entry industry of origin. Firms with pre-entry history in feedstock supply have shown higher resilient to market shock especially compared to de novo firms. In addition, we observe a trend of dual-directional vertical integration. Firms backward integrate to secure feedstock supply; firms forward integrate to gain access to the retail market. Security of feedstock has been identified as a critical success factor of the manufacturer in this resource intensive industry. Another critical success factor is gaining control over the end user market via forward integration. We propose that critical success factor is the important determinants of inter-firm governance mode.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L70|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2011|Am 26. Oktober 2011 fand der diesjährige ifo Branchen-Dialog statt. Wie üblich folgten auf Ausführungen zur allgemeinen wirtschaftlichen Lage und den Pers­pektiven für das nächste Jahr vier Foren: zur Industrie, zum Handel, zur Bauwirtschaft und zu den Dienstleistungen. Den Abschluss bildete eine Podiumsdiskussion über die wirtschaftlichen Folgen der Energiewende. Der Beitrag fasst die Tagungsergebnisse zusammen.
L70|A Paradox of Environmental Awareness Campaigns|We build a workable game of common-property resource extraction under rational Bayesian learning about the renewal prospects of a resource. We uncover the impact of exogenously shifting the prior beliefs of each player on the response functions of others. What we ?find about the role of environmental conservation campaigns is paradoxical. To the extent that such campaigns instill overly high pessimism about the potential of natural resources to reproduce, they create anti-conservation incentives: anyone having exploitation rights becomes inclined to consume more of the resource earlier, before others overexploit, and before the resources stock is reduced to lower levels.
L70|The Inflationary Effect of Price Increases in Oil Products in Turkey|In this study, the inflationary effect of price increases in oil products was investigated for Turkey’s economy using monthly data for the period 1996 - 2009. According to the empirical evidence obtained from the study made with bounds testing approach developed by Pesaran et al. (2001), co-integration relationship between the variables have been determined. Accordingly, in the long-term analysis, inflationary effect of price increases of oil products was found positive and statistically significant in line with theoretical expectations. In its short-term analysis, coefficient of the error correction term was found statistically significant and negative. Therefore, deviations occured between the variables converge to long-term equilibrium level.
L70|Dynamics of Evolution in the Global Fuel-Ethanol Industry|We employ a value chain analysis approach to examine the forces shaping the industry structure, entry and inter-firm governance modes. Forty largest global and regional companies in the ethanol manufacturing stage have been classified according to their pre-entry industry of origin. Firms with pre-entry history in feedstock supply have shown higher resilient to market shock especially compared to de novo firms. In addition, we observe a trend of dual-directional vertical integration. Firms backward integrate to secure feedstock supply; firms forward integrate to gain access to the retail market. Security of feedstock has been identified as a critical success factor of the manufacturer in this resource intensive industry. Another critical success factor is gaining control over the end user market via forward integration. We propose that critical success factor is the important determinants of inter-firm governance mode.
L70|Modeling an integrated market for sawlogs, pulpwood and forest bioenergy|Traditionally, most applications in the initial stage of forest supply chain deal with sawlogs to sawmills, pulpwood to pulp or paper mills and forest residues to heating plants. However, in the past decades, soaring prices of fossil fuel, global awareness about CO2 emission and increasing attention to domestic resource security have boosted the development of alternative renewable energy, among which forest bioenergy is the most promising and feasible choice for medium- and large-scale heating and electricity generation. Different subsidies and incentive policies for green energy further promote the utilization of forest bioenergy. As a result, there is a trend that pulpwood may be forwarded to heating plants as complementary forest bioenergy. Though pulpwood is more expensive than forest residues, it is more efficient to transport and has higher energy content. The competition between traditional forest industries and wood-energy facilities, expected to grow in the future, is very sensitive for the forest companies as they are involved in all activities. In this paper, we develop a model that all raw materials in the forest, i.e. sawlogs, pulpwood and forest residues, and byproducts from sawmills, i.e. wood chips and bark, exist in an integrated market where pulpwood can be sent to heating plants as bioenergy. It represents a multi-period multi-commodity network planning problem with multiple sources of supply, i.e. pre-selected harvest areas, and multiple kinds of destination, i.e. sawmills, pulp mills and heating plants. The decisions incorporate purchasing the raw materials in harvest areas, reassigning byproducts from sawmills, transporting those assortments to different points for chipping, storing, wood-processing or wood-fired, and replenishing fossil fuel when necessary. Moreover, different from the classic wood procurement problem, we take the unit purchasing costs of raw materials as variables, on which the corresponding supplies of different assortments linearly depend. With this price mechanism, the popularity of harvest areas can be distinguished. The objective of the problem is to minimize the total cost for the integrated market including the purchasing cost of raw materials. Therefore, the model is a quadratic programming (QP) problem with a quadratic objective function and linear constraints. A large case study in southern Sweden under different scenario assumptions is implemented to simulate the integrated market and to study how price restriction, market regulation, demand fluctuation, policy implementation and exogenous change in price for fossil fuel will influence the entire wood flows. Pair-wise comparisons show that in the integrated market, competition for raw materials between forest bioenergy facilities and traditional forest industries pushes up the purchasing costs of pulpwood. The results also demonstrate that resources can be effectively utilized with the price mechanism in supply market. The overall energy value of forest bioenergy delivered to heating plants is 23% more than the amount in the situation when volume and unit purchasing cost of raw materials are fixed.
L70|Productive and cognitive innovation strategy:African framework design|Since the mid 1900’s, economist have come to recognize the role of innovative activity in firms productivity growth, particularly in the competitive market economies. However, the most conducive market environment for innovative activity has also become a subject of interest. Thus, a major constraint on industrial dynamism in African countries is said to be the dearth of indigenous entrepreneurs. This paper therefore argued for the provision of comprehensive innovation policy, in which the government supports the innovators by providing appropriate financial measures; removing regulatory, institutional (competitive) obstacles to innovation; and strengthening the knowledge base through investment in education, research and industrial sites in Africa.
L70|Global Financial and Economic Crisis: Implications for Trade and Industrial Restructuring in South Asia|This study investigates the impact of global crisis shocks on India's trade and industry. The authors use panel data modeling and vector autoregression techniques to understand the dynamic effects of global crisis shocks on Indian industry and trade. Changes in trade composition are positively associated with changes in manufacturing composition in India, controlling for other variables. However, there is no strong indication that Indian industry has been severely harmed by the fall in demand in crisis-affected advanced economies such as the United States, the European Union, and Japan, holding other things constant.
L70|Spatial point pattern analysis and industry concentration|Traditional measures of spatial industry concentration are restricted to given areal units. They do not make allowance for the fact that concentration may be differently pronounced at various geographical levels. Methods of spatial point pattern analysis allow to measure industry concentration at a continuum of spatial scales. While common distancebased methods are well applicable for sub-national study areas, they become inefficient in measuring concentration at various levels within industrial countries. This particularly applies in testing for conditional concentration where overall manufacturing is used as a reference population. Using Ripley’s K function approach to second-order analysis, we propose a subsample similarity test as a feasible testing approach for establishing conditional clustering or dispersion at different spatial scales. For measuring the extent of clustering and dispersion, we introduce a concentration index of the style of Besag’s (1977) L function. By contrast to Besag’s L function, the new index can be employed to measure deviations of observed from general spatial point patterns. The K function approach is illustratively applied to measuring and testing industry concentration in Germany.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L70|An Analysis of Intra-Industry Trade between Japan, Malaysia and China|This paper investigates the bilateral trade pattern between Japan, Malaysia and China (JMC) using the intra-industry trade (IIT) index analysis. Our empirical findings revealed the following. First, China shows a higher degree of IIT relation with Japan vis-à-vis Malaysia. Second, to the extent of whether rapid manufacturing development in China is affecting Malaysia’s export to Japan, our analytical evidence demonstrates that the degree of overlapping exports to Japan by Malaysia and China has increased over time. Although this trend appears to be an indication of increasing competition from China in relation to Malaysia’s products in the Japanese market, our empirical evidence – detailing the degree of product similarity between Malaysia and China using the unit value (UV) measurement – shows that both countries’ exports actually comprise mainly vertically differentiated products or different segments of the market in Japan. Nevertheless, the results also reveal that, compared to Malaysia, China is rapidly increasing its export share in horizontally differentiated products or similar market segments.
L70|Further econometric evidence on the gravitation and convergence of industrial rates of return on regulating capital| The hypotheses of sectoral return rates on regulating capital either gravitating around or converging toward a common value is tested on data for various OECD countries by adopting two panel varying coefficient approaches. The null hypotheses receive some empirical support, which turns out to be stronger once focusing on manufacturing industries only. The paper offers a meta-analytic framework to assess the results obtained in the present contribution as well as in the past literature. Finally, implications for economic policies and future theoretical and empirical research are discussed.
L70|Edgeworth cycles revisited|Some gasoline markets exhibit remarkable price cycles, where price spikes are followed by a series of small price declines: a pattern consistent with a model of Edgeworth cycles described by Maskin and Tirole. We extend the model and empirically test its predictions with a new dataset of daily station-level prices in 115 US cities. Consistent with the theory, and often in contrast with previous empirical work, we find the least and most concentrated markets are much less likely to exhibit cycling behavior both within and across cities; areas with more independent convenience-store gas stations are also more likely to cycle.
L70|Reindustrializarea României: politici şi strategii (I)|Romania has known in the last 20 years a deindustrialisation process (like other Eastern European countries) firstly caused by a profound system crisis. And for the same 20 years, Romania seems like is running away from the idea of industrial policy. But there is nothing wrong with having an industrial policy. The EU has one, and is also promoting it through the Europe 2020 Strategy.
L70|Reindustrializarea României: politici şi strategii (II)|Romania has known in the last 20 years a deindustrialisation process (like other Eastern European countries) firstly caused by a profound system crisis. And for the same 20 years, Romania seems like is running away from the idea of industrial policy. But there is nothing wrong with having an industrial policy. The EU has one, and is also promoting it through the Europe 2020 Strategy.
L70|Reindustrializarea României: politici şi strategii (III)|Romania has known in the last 20 years a deindustrialisation process (like other CEECs) firstly caused by a profound system crisis. And for the same 20 years, Romania seems like is running away from the idea of industrial policy. But there is nothing wrong with having an industrial policy. The EU has one, and is also promoting it through the Europe 2020 Strategy.
L70|"Achieving Sustainable Security Â€"" Vulnerable Public Good In The Context Of A Nonpolar Security Environment. Shifts In The Concept Of Security"|It is important to start our assumptions from the fact that, from some economistsâ€(tm) point of view, most of the cases which were considered examples of actual public goods were found to be wrong. So, what we want to find out is whether, considering the fact that security must not be provided only through private means, we can still talk about an equal distribution of it, or it has shifted to a selective distribution of security. In order to answer the question whether security can still be provided by the state in an equal distributional system, we will use it as a premise and try to prove it. Beginning with the theoretical characteristics of a public good and with the definitions of the present concept of security we will try to find out if one can still speak of security as a public good, and moreover, as a global public good.
L70|The Determinants of Corporate Growth|Corporate Growth is a concept that has been widely treated in a specific way or as part of strategy theories, in definition and in econometric models and has also been studied in many different aspects and approaches. The author describes in depth the main variables affecting corporate growth and the underlying business processes. This empirical research has focused on Sales, Profit-Cash Flow, Risk, Created Shareholder Value, Market Value and Overall Performance econometric models. These panel data models are based on the 500 Companies of the Standard & Poor’s 500. The methodology used has been very strict in identifying exogenous variables, walking through the different alternative econometric models, discussing results, and, in the end, describing the practical implications in today’s business corporate management. We basically assume that the Functions/Departments act independently in the same company, many times with different objectives, and in this situation clear processes are key to clarify the situations, roles and responsibilities. We also assume that growth implies interactions among the different functions in a company and the CEO acts to lead and coach his immediate Directors as a referee of the key conflicts through his Operating Mechanism. The objective of this PhD Dissertation is to clarify the business priorities and identify the most relevant variables in every process leading to the highest efficiency in reaching a sustainable and profitable growth. It covers the lack of academic studies on the nature and specific driving factors of corporate growth and provides a working framework for Entrepreneurs and Management leading to the Company’s success.
L70|An Application of Constant Market Share Analysis for the Study of Firm Profitability|We propose a new decomposition of the return on investment (ROI) – the main accounting measure of firm profitability – to evaluate the contributions of its three components: the return on sales (ROS), the utilization (rotation) of working capital (RCC), and the utilization (rotation) of fixed capital (RCF). By using this decomposition we develop an original variant of the constant market share (CMS) analysis specifically for comparisons of firm average profitability between countries and over time. The proposed CMS methodology allows us to separate the variation of the average ROI over time (or its difference between two countries) in three components: a competitiveness effect – the difference of average ROI assuming the same reference structure for the two terms of comparison – a structure effect – the result of the difference in the internal articulation of the ROI by sector and by size structure within the two terms of comparison – and an adaptation effect, which takes into account the synergies between the two previous components. The decomposition of the ROI in the product of the three terms, ROS, RCC and RCF, plays an original role in the interpretation of the competitiveness effect. An application of the proposed methodology is carried out for the comparison of the average ROI in the industrial sector among Germany, Italy and France and over the years 2006-2008.
L70|The impact of the global economic crisis on non-oil operations of ports in Iran|It is generally accepted that the recent economic crisis of 2007-2010 has caused widespread economic recession in different countries. Since the ports and coastal regions are of great importance to economic infrastructure, this study examined the possible impact resulting from such a global economic crisis on the ports in Iran. First, the annual number of berthing vessels of gross tonnage over a thousand tons as well as loading and unloading of non-oil cargoes and containers were extracted from statistical reports of Ports and Maritime Organization. Then an attempt was made to predict the amount of expected non-oil operation by the advanced quantitative statistical methods in Iran's ports. According to the results obtained from comparing predicted and actual statistics, these ports have been affected by the current economic crisis, but after one-year delay.
L70|The Emergence of Collective Competence in a Brazilian Petrochemical Company|Organizations seek new ways to stimulate collective competences. One possible way this can be done is though self-managing teams. This paper aims to understand the collective competences based on their constitutive elements: interaction, sensemaking and identity. For this study we investigated a Brazilian world-class petrochemical company, recognized by their excellence in working with self-managed teams. Two semi-autonomous teams were studied, distinct in its pattern and performance. The main results point out that the understanding of collective competences is more related to the dynamics and the interaction process itself rather than to the content of this approach and its constitutive elements separately.
L70|On the gravitation and convergence of industry profit rates in Denmark, Finland, Italy and the US|The hypotheses of profit rates gravitating around or converging towards a common value is tested using Danish, Finnish, Italian and US data. Both hypotheses are rejected for all the countries considered. This is interpreted as the result of limitations to capital mobility and of persistent differentials in the innovative performance of industries.
L70|On the gravitation and convergence of industry incremental rates of return in OECD countries|The hypotheses of sectoral incremental rates of returns gravitating around or converging towards a common value are tested on data for various OECD countries relying on an econometric method able to account for residual autocorrelation and cross-sector correlation. Our null hypotheses receive only a mixed empirical support. This is interpreted as the result of limitations to capital mobility and of persistent differentials in the innovative performance of industries.
L70|The Most Efficient Czech SME Sectors: An Application of Robust Data Envelopment Analysis|This paper analyzes the efficiency of Czech small and medium enterprises. We use the data from 2002 to 2005 of thirty manufacturing industries, each divided into five subgroups according to the number of employees. We employ standard and advanced robust data envelopment analysis (DEA) to obtain cross-sectional rankings of individual industries. The results reveal substantial variance in the efficiency scores, which is only partly removed by the robust DEA specification. We found that the majority of firms operate below full efficiency; with only a few companies (industries) belonging to top performers. Average efficiency lies between 50 to 70 per cent of the best sectors. We conclude that only a minor proportion of Czech SME concentrate on high value added production.
L70|Exploration drilling productivity at the Norwegian Shelf|No abstract is available for this item.
L70|A multivariate approach for identification of optimal locations with in Ethiopia’s wheat market to tackle soaring inflation on food price (Extended version)|Using Johansen (1998 and 1991) vector error correction model and related extensions optimal locations where effective stabilization intervention can be done are identified. It is found that producer centers of Shashimiene and Bale Robe and Deficit market of Jimma are the locations where effective stabilization of wheat price can be done with least cost. However the national wheat market seems to have better capacity to process shocks coming from deficit markets and central markets than surplus markets. So targeting surplus markets, though effective in long run, can result on short run increase in volatility. Moreover, even though, distance could be one factor determining the inclusion of additional markets in to the rule of one price, it was not found to be the main factor in Ethiopian wheat markets. This implies that in highly imperfect market cointegration may not be solely related to distance only. Other factors like the level of market failures and the development of complementary institutions may influence the level of cointegration. Fortunately the search procedure for boundary of markets operating under rule of one price followed by earlier papers, though theoretically unsound is observed to work in Ethiopia wheat markets.
L70|Agglomeration within and between regions: Two econometric based indicators|We propose two indexes to measure the agglomeration forces acting within and between different regions. Unlike the existing measures of agglomeration, our model-based indexes allow for simultaneous treatment of both aspects. Local plant diffusion in a given industry is modelled as a spatial error components process (SEC). Maximum likelihood inference on model parameters is dealt with, including the problem of data censoring. The statistical properties of standard agglomeration indexes in the data environment provided by our SEC model are then treated. Finally, our methodology is applied to Italian census data for both manufacturing and service industries.
L70|Exploring The Detailed Location Patterns Of U.K. Manufacturing Industries Using Microgeographic Data|ABSTRACT We use a point‐pattern methodology to explore the detailed location patterns of U.K. manufacturing industries. In particular, we consider the location of entrants and exiters versus continuing establishments, domestic‐ versus foreign‐owned, large versus small, and affiliated versus independent. We also examine colocalization between vertically‐linked industries. Our analysis provides a set of new stylized facts and confirmation for others.
L70|South-South Regionalism And Trade Cooperation In The Asia-Pacific Region|This study of regional South-South (S-S) trade and cooperation in East, South and South-East Asian countries (ESSEA) aims to provide an economic rationale for S-S trade; shed some light on the extent and pattern of S-S trade in the ESSEA region; examine the dynamic forces behind the expansion of such trade, and its shortcomings and vulnerabilities; propose policies for enhancing and strengthening regional cooperation; and identify areas for further research. The main conclusion of the study is that, while the rapid expansion of trade among ESSEA countries has been mainly the result of industrialization and industrial collaboration in the form of production sharing, it has not been driven through the operation of market forces alone. South-South trade can also be used as a policy-driven vehicle for industrialization in lower-income countries, and is linked to the principle of dynamic comparative advantage. The resultant expansion of supply capabilities and diversification of the structure of production and trade, in turn, potentially leads to further expansion of S-S trade and to the geographical diversification of trade for the countries involved, with a positive impact on their bargaining power. However, enhancing S-S trade requires proactive policy measures for cooperation that go beyond tariff reduction and trade agreements. The paper begins by providing a rationale for S-S trade as a vehicle for promoting industrialization and development. It goes on to show that regional trade has expanded rapidly in ESSEA mainly through intra-industry trade in the form of production sharing in electrical and electronic products. The region has become not only the most dynamic area for S-S trade, but also a major force in international trade in general. Nevertheless, intraregional trade among ESSEA countries has led to three main developments that these countries need to consider collectively and address through joint policy initiatives in order to further promote industrialization and development.
L70|Privatization's Impact on Private Productivity: The Case of Brazilian Iron Ore|A major motivation for the wave of privatizations of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the last twenty years was a belief that privatization would increase economic efficiency. There are now many studies showing most privatizations achieved this goal. Our theme is that the productivity gains from privatization are much more general and widespread than has typically been recognized in this literature. In assessing the productivity gains from privatization, the literature has only examined the productivity gains accruing at the privatized SOEs. But privatization may have significant impact on the private producers that often exist side-by-side with SOEs. In this paper we show that this was indeed the case when Brazil privatized its SOEs in the iron ore industry. That is, after their privatization, the iron ore SOEs dramatically increased their labor productivity, but so did the private iron ore companies in the industry. (Copyright: Elsevier)
L70|Mejoramiento de Dieta Porcina por Metodología Simplex|Este artículo presenta los resultados de la continuación de una investigación de tesis de maestría, en la que se generó una mezcla para la alimentación de cerdos por medio de la técnica de Investigación de Operaciones denominada método SIMPLEX. Se generó una mezcla para cada una de las seis etapas de crecimiento recomendadas por el NRC 2001 (National Research Council) por medio de un modelo, el cual integraba maíz, sorgo, harina de pescado, alfalfa, minerales, melaza y soya. El experimento se corrió en dos grupos de cerdos de la raza Duroc-Jersey por un período de 22 semanas en Michoacán, México; el periodo de alimentación fue de septiembre de 2003 a febrero de 2004. Se logró demostrar que es posible generar una mezcla con granos regionales con la que se alcanza una mejor conversión alimenticia en los cerdos y que se reducen los costos; por lo que los modelos son calificados como eficientes
L70|Los métodos de liquidación en las cooperativas hortofrutícolas|The particular nature of Spanish agrarian cooperatives makes it very difficult to carry out an exhaustive analysis of their internal management processes. Nevertheless, the great increase in competition in the European agrarian sector in recent years, mainly from Mediterranean countries, means that these organizations must improve their management information systems. The valuation of products provided by members for processing and marketing by the cooperative is one of the key issues in cooperative management theory. The aim of this study is to review the pricing and payment methods used by Spanish fruit and vegetable cooperatives and to identify the specific characteristics of each one in order to analyze and compare them.
L70|El régimen económico de las sociedades cooperativas: situación actual y apuntes para una reforma|The transitional situation of accounting in the European Union, assuming that an international approach exists, involves highly significant changes in Spain’s legislation on companies and accounting. In fact, reforms have been drawn up that affect accounting aspects of the Code of Commerce and therefore the General Accounting Plan, which will have a bearing on the relatively recently approved adaptation of accounting to the cooperative sector in the form of Order 3614 / 2003 issued by the Ministry of Economy on 16 December. From the economic, financial and accounting point of view it can be seen that there are discrepancies in the criteria of the laws governing cooperatives, which in some cases are suitable and respond to the specific nature of each Autonomous Region, but in other cases are not justified and can therefore not be rationally assumed. The magnitude of these future changes and the minimum cohesion that must be achieved by the complex specific legislation on cooperatives require experts to work closely together on legal and economic issues to achieve coherent and satisfactory goals.
L70|Quality Risk Management – An Integrated Approach in the Mining Industry|The continued development of management system standards into areas such as environment, health and safety, and information security has reinforced the calls for an integrated approach. In the mining field, characterized by a high level of specificity, an integrated approach to underground activities should not omit the influence of the risk factors. In this context QRM can be not just a solution, but also a necessity.
L70|El sector de materiales de construcción en Bogotá-Cundinamarca|ASOGRAVAS ha solicitado a Fedesarrollo el desarrollo de un estudio que permita, a través de un mejor entendimiento del sector, analizar las implicaciones de la Resolución 1197 de 2004 y de la inundación del río Tunjuelo para el desarrollo de esta actividad en la región de Bogotá y Cundinamarca, y dimensionar, de una manera más general, los costos y beneficios que ésta representa para la economía de la región.
L70|Industrial effects on resource acquisition: Immigrant enterprises in Kista, Stockholm|This paper is based on seven in-depth case studies of small businesses in Kista, Stockholm’s most northern district. This district provides an interesting example with its high technology setting, mixed with considerable numbers of immigrants living in the area. All the firms are led by people who have immigrant background, and therefore they all have ethnic minority backgrounds, either in terms of country of origin or as belonging to a definable ethnic group. The guiding question is if one can find differences between high tech and service-based immigrant businesses in terms of how they use ethnic resources in their resource acquisition efforts. In the case studies we explore (i) how ethnic resources contribute to the acquisition of crucial resources for these firms, and (ii) the utilization of ethnic resources indicates the influence and importance of ethnic minority background for immigrant businesses in different industries. The results show differences in what sources these firms use for acquiring resources. The service-based firms utilise ethnic resources to a greater extent than the high tech firms. These differences influence the importance of the business owners’ ethnic minority backgrounds.
L70|Expansion of Asparagus Production and Exports in Peru|Peru is the one of the most important exporters of asparagus in the world. Its export volume of fresh asparagus is ranked number one, and its export volume of preserved asparagus number two, globally. The objective of this paper is to provide an overview of the recent trends in asparagus production and exports around the world and to analyze factors in the development of the Peruvian asparagus industry. The production of asparagus has spread geographically. The center of its production used to be in the principal consuming countries, such as France, Germany and the United States. Afterward, it spread to neighboring countries such as Spain and Mexico where production factors such as climate and labor costs are favorable. After the rise and fall of Taiwan as a major preserved white asparagus exporter, China and Peru replaced its position. Finally, in recent years, Peru expanded its fresh green asparagus exports to the U.S. market by taking advantage of the increasing demand for fresh vegetables and supplying produce in seasons when neither U.S. nor Mexican producers can harvest.In addition to the changing factors in the international market, there are several factors in the development of the industry: high yields of produce due to favorable climatic and soil conditions; the introduction of the drip irrigation system, which enabled desert cultivation; the integration of production and exports, which is indispensable for fresh produce exports; and the collective efforts of the industry with help from the public sector.
L70|Analysis of CDM experience in Morocco and lessons learnt for West African Economic and Monetary Union. Case study: Benin, Burkina Faso, Niger and Togo|This study assesses the CDM potential in Benin, Burkina Faso, Niger and Togo. Morocco has been used as an example, as it is quite advanced in developing an impressive CDM project portfolio. The study focuses not only on the absolute greenhouse gas abatement potential of these countries, but also assesses the comparative CDM endowment on the basis of an holistic analysis of each country, thereby highlighting the relative position of Benin, Burkina Faso, Niger and Togo in the global CDM market. The competitiveness of these four members of the West African Economic and Monetary union is assessed taking into consideration three pillars, namely „Potential supply size – countries‘ facts“, „Country business climate“ and „Country CDM institutions and CDM project experience“. Overall competitiveness is analysed, as well as which activities could best maximize opportunities to convert theoretical mitigation options into real CDM investments. The case study countries have a similar CDM climate, characterised by a low CDM potential, low FDI inflows and low financial support from the international CDM community. These factors help explain the low CDM activities in these countries. Currently, only small-scale CDM projects could be developed in these countries in energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors. As transaction costs and risks are high for these project types, it is likely that in the short- and mid-term, only special CDM project support programmes in LDC such as Community Development Climate Fund (CDCF), Bio Carbon Fund (BioCF) and Africa Assist may provide a chance for participation in the international CDM market.
L70|A Model of the World Wool Market|This paper presents the theoretical and empirical structure of WOOLMOD – a model of the world wool market which treats raw wool and wool products as heterogeneous commodities. The model divides the world wool market into ten geographical regions and production in each region amongst eight major industrial sectors, each representing a different stage of the wool market. The industrial sectors cover the full spectrum of activities from raw wool production to retail garment production. The usefulness of WOOLMOD is demonstrated via an illustrative application: analysing the short-run effects of two to three years worth of total factor productivity growth in the Australian sheep industry – the world’s largest single producer and exporter of raw wool.
L70|Carbon Dioxide Emissions Reductions In New Zealand: A Minimum Disruption Approach|Reductions in carbon dioxide emissions can come from (among other things) changes to the structure of final demands, changes in the use of fossil fuels by industry, and changes to the structure of inter‐industry transactions. This paper examines the nature of the least disruptive changes, that is, the minimum changes to these three components which are consistent with specified overall reductions in carbon dioxide emissions in New Zealand. In examining the minimum changes needed, constraints are imposed on the corresponding changes in GDP growth and aggregate employment.
L70|"Stand und Perspektiven der ""New Economy"" in ausgewählten Mitgliedstaaten der EU aus deutscher Sicht"|"Die vorliegende Studie wurde im ifo Arbeitsbereich Branchenforschung erstellt und im Frühjahr 2005 abgeschlossen. Auftraggeber war das Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Arbeit. Gegenstand der Studie sind der Stand und die Perspektiven der „New Economy"" in Deutschland sowie ein Vergleich mit fünf anderen Mitgliedstaaten der Europäischen Gemeinschaft (Frankreich, Großbritannien, Italien, Niederlande und Schweden) in Hinblick auf die Diffusion und die Wirkungen des Einsatzes moderner Informations- und Kommunikationstechniken (IKT). In methodischer Hinsicht basieren die Analysen auf einem meso-ökonomischen Vorgehen, bei dem vier Branchen beispielhaft untersucht wurden: der Maschinenbau, der Fahrzeugbau, der Bankensektor und der Handel. Die Fragestellung wird interdisziplinär angegangen. Ausgehend von der vorhandenen wissenschaftlichen Literatur zur „New Economy"" wird eine Synopse bisheriger Ergebnisse angefertigt und in Kooperation mit Professor Jan-Egbert Sturm, Universität Konstanz, die wirtschaftstheoretischen Wirkungszusammenhänge, insbesondere die meist nicht explizit genannten Annahmen, aufgedeckt. Mit Hilfe ökonometrischer Schätzansätze werden verschiedene Modelle auf den Zusammenhang zwischen dem Einsatz von IKT und dem Anstieg der Arbeitsproduktivität getestet. Diese Arbeiten wurden von Cambridge Econometrics durchgeführt, einem Kooperationspartner, der über eine europäische, nach Sektoren und Ländern disaggregierte Datenbasis verfügt. Qualitative Untersuchungen, Fachgespräche und die Auswertung von Erhebungen zum Einsatz von IKT haben die Branchenexperten des ifo Instituts geleitet und unter Verwendung der aus den verschiedenen Analysen gewonnenen Ergebnisse eine abschließende Bewertung für jede einzelne Branche erstellt. Aus der Aggregation der Branchenresultate werden Schlussfolgerungen für den Stand der Diffusion der IKT in Deutschland und ihre potenziellen Wirkungen auf Produktivität und Wachstum gezogen."
L70|Steuerlich induzierte Kinderlasten : empirische Entwicklung in Deutschland ; Forschungsvorhaben des Deutschen Arbeitskreises für Familienhilfe e.V|"Die vorliegende Studie untersucht die Existenz der sogenannten ""Kinderstrafsteuern"" für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland für die Jahre 1990 bis 2002 und quantifiziert das damit verbundene Ausmaß der finanziellen Belastung von Familien mit Kindern gegenüber Kinderlosen. - Nach Darstellung der allgemeinen steuerlichen Regelungen und Berechnung der Kinderkosten wird die Quantifizierung auf Basis zuvor definierter Haushaltstypen durchgeführt. Für die Untersuchung wurden die mit dem kindbezogenen Konsum in Verbindung zu bringenden Verbrauchsteuern auf Strom, Brennstoffe, Benzin sowie die Mehrwertsteuer herangezogen. - Aufgrund der Quantifizierungsergebnisse läßt sich festhalten, daß aus steuerlicher Sicht zwischen 1990 und 2002 tatsächlich eine Benachteiligung von Familien mit Kindern gegenüber Kinderlosen existiert. Dabei mussten Familien mit Kindern in diesem Zeitraum insgesamt rund 33 Mrd. Euro Kinderstrafsteuern zahlen. Diese Beträge stellten Steuereinnahmen des Staates dar, die das steuerfrei zu stellende Existenzminimum der Kinder ungerechtfertigt belastet haben. - Als Ergebnis der Untersuchung läßt sich klar erkennen, daß Familien mit Kindern in der Vergangenheit im Vergleich zu Kinderlosen zum Teil deutlich benachteiligt wurden, da die notwendigen Aufwendungen für die Kinder bei der Besteuerung keine ausreichende Berücksichtigung fanden. Mit der Einführung des Betreuungs-, Erziehungs- und Ausbildungsfreibetrags wurde diese Benachteiligung, zumindest aus steuerlicher Sicht, eliminiert. Nichtsdestotrotz sollte in Zukunft überlegt werden, auch andere Familienfördermaßnahmen, insbesondere Betreuungsmöglichkeiten außerhalb, aber auch innerhalb des Haushalts, in Angriff zu nehmen, die beiden Elternteilen in der Wahl der Erwerbstätigkeit vollkommene Entscheidungsfreiheit geben."
L70|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2005|"Am 3. November 2005 veranstaltete das ifo Institut in Kooperation mit der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern und mit Unterstützung des Bayerischen Staatsministeriums für Wirtschaft, Infrastruktur, Verkehr und Technologie zum fünften Mal den ""ifo Branchen-Dialog"". Ziel dieser Arbeitstagung war die Analyse der Gesamtwirtschaft und der konjunkturellen Entwicklungen in der Industrie, in der Bauwirtschaft, im Groß- und Einzelhandel sowie in ausgewählten Dienstleistungssektoren. Nach den Begrüßungsworten von Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Erich Greipl, Präsident der IHK für München und Oberbayern, analysierte Prof. Dr. Dr, h.c. Hans-Werner Sinn die Investitions- und Wachstumsschwäche Deutschlands. Im Anschluss an Prof. Sinns einleitenden Vortrag übernahm Prof. Edward G. Krubasik, Mitglied des Zentralvorstandes der Siemens AG, Präsident des ZVEI, Vizepräsident des BDI und Präsident von Orgalime, das Wort. Einleitend griff Krubasik auf einige Grundverständnisse zurück als Basis für Industriepolitik. Für ihn dürfe Industriepolitik nicht im Sinne einer nationalen oder europäischen interventionistischen Industriepolitik bzw. durch direkte Markteingriffe, wettbewerbsverzerrende Förderungen von Wirtschaftsteilen oder gar firmenspezifische Eingriffe der Politik geschehen, ""sondern durch das Schaffen von Wettbewerbs- und Rahmenbedingungen - einer horizontalen Industriepolitik - die Investitionen in Europa interessant machen."" Am Nachmittag wurden in vier Branchen-Foren die konjunkturellen Tendenzen in den Wirtschaftsbereichen Industrie, Handel, Bauwirtschaft und Dienstleistungen im Detail analysiert und diskutiert. Die Foren wurden jeweils durch eine Einführung von Experten des ifo Instituts eröffnet und die Themen danach durch Beiträge von externen Experten erweitert und vertieft. Eine Zusammenfassung bringt der vorliegende Bericht."
L70|Testing for Localization Using Micro-Geographic Data| To study the detailed location patterns of industries, and particularly the tendency for industries to cluster relative to overall manufacturing, we develop distance-based tests of localization. In contrast to previous studies, our approach allows us to assess the statistical significance of departures from randomness. In addition, we treat space as continuous instead of using an arbitrary collection of geographical units. This avoids problems relating to scale and borders. We apply these tests to an exhaustive U.K. data-set. For four-digit industries, we find that (i) 52% of them are localized at a 5% confidence level, (ii) localization mostly takes place at small scales below 50 km, (iii) the degree of localization is very skewed, and (iv) industries follow broad sectoral patterns with respect to localization. Depending on the industry, smaller establishments can be the main drivers of both localization and dispersion. Three-digit sectors show similar patterns of localization at small scales as well as a tendency to localize at medium scales. Copyright 2005, Wiley-Blackwell.
L70|Competitve Position of The Baltic Sea Region. The Role of Regional Clusters. Potential for Regional Cooperation and Competitiveness-stimulating Intraregional Realocation|Competitve Position of The Baltic Sea Region. The Role of Regional Clusters. Potential for Regional Cooperation and Competitiveness-stimulating Intraregional Realocation
L70|Swedish Industry and Kyoto – An Assessment of the Effects of the European CO2 Emission Permit Trading System|We assess the effects on Swedish industry input and output demands of different climate policy scenarios connected to energy policy induced by the Kyoto protocol. A unique data set containing firm level data on outputs and inputs during the years 1991 – 2001 is used to estimate a factor demand model, which is then simulated for different policy scenarios. Sector specific estimation suggests that the proposed quadratic profit function specification exhibit properties and robustness that are consistent with economic theory; that is, all own-price elasticities are negative and all output elasticities are positive. Furthermore, the elasticities show that the input demands are, in most cases, relatively inelastic. Simulation of the model for 6 different policy scenarios reveal that the effects on Swedish base industry of a EU level permit trade system is dependent on (i) removal or no removal of current CO2 tax, (ii) the established price of permits, and (iii) what will happen to the electricity price. Our analysis show that changes in electricity price may be more important than the price of permits for some sectors.
L70|Rockonomics: The Economics of Popular Music|This chapter considers economic issues and trends in the rock and roll industry, broadly defined. The analysis focuses on concert revenues, the main source of performers' income. Issues considered include: price measurement; concert price acceleration in the 1990s; the increased concentration of revenue among performers; reasons for the secondary ticket market; methods for ranking performers; copyright protection; and technological change.
L70|The Nigerian Coal Corporation: An Evaluation Of Production Performance(1960 1987)|COAL WAS DISCOVERED IN NIGERIA IN 1909 AND COAL MINING STARTED WITH A DRIFT MINE AT OGBETE, ENUGU IN 1915. SINCE 1958/59, WHEN COAL PRODUCTION REACHED ITS PEAK, THERE HAS BEEN A PERSISTENT FLUCTUATION IN THE AMOUNT OF COAL PRODUCED IN SUBSEQUENT YEARS. THIS PAPER THEREFORE INVESTIGATES THE MAJOR CAUSES OF THE DECLINE OF THE NIGERIA COAL INDUSTRY AND PROVIDES A FRAMEWORK FOR GREATER(IMPROVED) PERFORMANCE.
L70|Oil Policy In Nigeria: A Critical Assessment(1958-1992)|OIL AS AN ENERGY PROPELLER, IS THE LARGEST INTERNATIONALLY TRADED COMMODITY THAT SHOWS HIGHLY VISIBLE INTERPLAY OF POLITICS AND ECONOMICS IN THE DETERMINATION OF ITS INVESTMENT, PRODUCTION, TRADE AND PRICING POLICIES. THIS UNIQUENESS, NO DOUBT DEMANDS A WELL ARTICULATED OIL POLICY FOR AN OIL PRODUCING NATION. THUS, THE THRUST OF THE PAPER WAS TO EVALUATE THE STATE OF THE NIGERIA'S OIL POLICY IN THE 1970S/80S. THIS PAPER THEREFORE ARGUES THAT IN THE OIL POLICY FORMULATION PROCESS, WE HAVE TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS WHOSE DECISIONS AND PARTICIPATION HAVE A GREAT IMPACT ON OIL INDUSTRY, AND WHO WANT TO SEE CLEAR TARGETS AND MINIMISE RISKS.
L70|Extração e Comercialização de Folhagens Ornamentais da Mata Atlântica: o Caso da Verdes (Rumohra adiantiformis) no RS| This work shows the results of research on the leather fern (Rumohra adiantiformis (G. Forst.) Ching) trade that it’s extracted at the Atlantic Slope region of Rio Grande do Sul. Besides being considered one of the greatest fern producing regions of Brazil, a signiﬁcant number of local family farmers have in the extraction of this species their main income source. The results of this study allowed us to verify the existence of a very differentiated compensation in different agents involved, emphasizing the predominance of precarious and informal commercial relations, and the inexistence of representation and organization of the involved players. This situation is a consequence of the illegal and clandestine character of this activity, in view of the effective environmental legislation in Rio Grande do Sul State.
L70|Inferring conduct under the threat of entry: the case of the Brazilian cement industry|This paper demonstrates that when an industry faces potential entry and this threat of entry constrains pre-entry prices, cost and conduct are not identified from the comparative statics of equilibrium. In such a setting, the identifying assumption behind the well-established technique of relying on exogenous demand perturbations to empirically distinguish between alternative hypotheses of conduct is shown to fail. The Brazilian cement industry, where the threat of imports restrains market outcomes, provides an empirical illustration. In particular, price-cost margins estimated using this established technique are considerably biased downward, underestimating the degree of market power. A test of conduct is proposed, adapted to this constrained setting, which suggests that outcomes in the industry are collusive and characterised by market division.
L70|Handbuch der umfragebasierten Konjunkturforschung|"Das ifo Instiut hat ein neues Handbuch der umfragebasierten Konjunkturforschung erstellt. Das Handbuch gibt einen Überblick über die regelmäßigen Befragungsaktivitäten des Instituts und zeigt Möglichkeiten der wissenschaftlichen Verwertung der Befragungsergebnisse im Rahmen der Konjunkturanalyse und -prognose auf, um externen Forschern den Zugang zu den ifo-Daten weiter zu erleichtern. Es orientiert sich an der Tradition des 1989 erschienenen ""Handbuchs der ifo-Umfragen"", bietet aber einen sehr viel umfassenderen Überblick über die Daten. Das Handbuch gliedert sich in drei Teile. Im ersten Teil wird die Bedeutung der Unternehmensbefragung für die empirische Konjunkturforschung behandelt. Der zweite Teil stellt die Umfragen im Detail vor. Bekannte Befragungsinstrumente des ifo Instituts wie der Konjunktur- und Investitionstest werden neben neuen Umfragen im Dienstleistungssektor vorgestellt. Die Aussagekraft der Befragungsergebnisse wird im dritten Teil diskutiert. Im Mittelpunkt stehen dabei zwar der Konjunkturtest, doch werden auch die in der Öffentlichkeit weniger wahrgenommenen Ergebnisse anderer Erhebungen des Instituts präsentiert. Das Handbuch widmet der Konjunkturanalyse und -prognose ein besonderes Augenmerk und untersucht, in wie weit die Umfragedaten als Frühindikatoren der Konjunktur verwendbar sind."
L70|Bewegungslose Arbeit, gefesselter Blick : Sehen und Arbeit bei neuen Produktionsmethoden ; sozioökonomische Evaluation des Verbundvorhabens - Entwicklung von Methoden zur Identifikation visueller Ursachen arbeitsbedingter Gesundheitsrisiken ..|Mit dem Wandel der Produktionsstrukturen nimmt der Dienstleistungsanteil der Produktion zu und führt zu einer Vermehrung von Überwachungs-, Kontroll-, Regelungs-, und Büroarbeit. Das Sehen in der Arbeit bekommt ein höheres Interesse. Diese Untersuchung beschäftigt sich mit dem der steigenden Wichtigkeit des Sehens bei der Arbeit, den auftretenden Problemen bei Sehschwächen, und eventuellen Lösungen der Probleme am Arbeitsplatz. Dies Untersuchung trägt dazu bei, den Zusammenhang zwischen Arbeit und Sehen theoretisch und an Beispielen zu erläutern.
L70|La gestión basada en las actividades en cooperativas citrícolas: un enfoque integrador de las prácticas empresariales|Today’s economic scenario makes it necessary for citrus fruit cooperatives to adopt business practices which will achieve a competitive advantage and thus guarantee their continued activity. The cooperative sector has traditionally been unaffected by business management techniques, focusing on specific aspects of management. However, many advantages can be obtained from integrated management of a cooperative with regard to the quality and quantity of the information required for taking decisions. This study considers the use of a management system based on activities as a vehicle for the integrated management of business practices in citrus fruit cooperatives. It suggests a methodology for applying the system and analyses its potential for achieving a competitive advantage.
L70|Uso estratégico de la deuda: un estudio a nivel de empresa para colombia 1995-2003|This work shows if firms use debt strategically in order to stop entry of potential rivals in their industry. Using Generalized Method of Moments estimation (GMM) we evaluate the effect of assets, market share and size as proxies for market revenue, and the entry barriers over indebtedness levels. Our data uses firm level information for Colombia, from 1995-2003. We find that firms use assets to limit entry and indebtedness decreases while firms increase their market share.********************************************************************************************************El presente trabajo intenta estimar si las empresas emplean estratégicamente la deuda para limitar la entrada de potenciales rivales. Mediante la metodología de Método Generalizado de Momentos (GMM) se evalúa el efecto que tienen los activos específicos, la cuota de mercado y el tamaño, como proxies de las rentas del mercado, y las barreras de entrada sobre los niveles de endeudamiento, a nivel de empresa para Colombia, durante 1995-2003. Se encuentra que las empresas utilizan los activos específicos para limitar la entrada al mercado y que el endeudamiento decrece a medida que las empresas aumentan su cuota en el mercado.
L70|Inferring Conduct under the Threat of Entry: The Case of the Brazilian Cement Industry|This paper demonstrates that when an industry faces potential entry and this threat of entry constrains pre-entry prices, cost and conduct are not identified from the comparative statics of equilibrium. In such a setting, the identifying assumption behind the well-established technique of relying on exogenous demand perturbations to empirically distinguish between alternative hypotheses of conduct is shown to fail. The Brazilian cement industry, where the threat of imports restrains market outcomes, provides an empirical illustration. In particular, price-cost margins estimated using this established technique are considerably biased downward, underestimating the degree of market power. A test of conduct is proposed, adapted to this constrained setting, which suggests that outcomes in the industry are collusive and characterised by market division.
L70|Heterogeneity in Convergence Rates and Income Determination across U.S. States: Evidence from County-Level Data|We utilize county-level data to explore growth determination in the U.S. and possible heterogeneity in growth determination across individual states. The data includes over 3,000 cross-sectional observations and 39 demographic control variables. We use a consistent two stage least squares estimation procedure. (We report OLS estimates as well.) The estimated convergence rate across the U.S. is about 7 percent per year – higher than the 2 percent normally found with OLS in cross-country, U.S. state, and European region samples. Estimated convergence rates for 32 individual states are above 2 percent with an average of 8.1 percent. For 29 states the convergence rate is above 2 percent with 95 percent confidence. For seven states the convergence rate can be rejected as identical to at least one other state’s convergence rate with 95 percent confidence. In examining the determinants of balanced growth path heights, we find that government at all levels of decentralization is negatively correlated with economic growth. Educational attainment of a population has a non-linear relationship with economic growth according to our estimates: growth is positively related to high-school degree attainment, seemingly unrelated to obtaining some college education, and then positively related to four-year degree or more attainment. Also, finance, insurance and real estate industry and entertainment industry are positively correlated with growth, while education industry is negatively correlated with growth. Heterogeneity in the effects of balanced growth path determinants across individual states is much harder to detect (or dismiss) than in convergence rates.
L70|An Analysis of Financial Performance Using the EVA Method|The paper considers company performance measures and the development of the Economic Value Added (EVA) indicator in volatile economies, particularly in the case of the Czech Republic. Methods used for pyramidal analysis, their assumptions, and their application possibilities are discussed. A functional method of analysis is derived, and the arguments for the employed application are presented. In addition, logarithmic and functional methods of pyramidal analysis are compared.
L70|Ham Petrol ve Akaryakit Urunu Fiyat Artislarinin Turkiye'deki Enflasyonist Etkileri (= Inflationary Effects of Increases in Prices of Improted Crude-Oil and Oil-Products in Turkey)|Ham petrol fiyatlarindaki artislarin petrol ithalatcisi ulkelerdeki olasi enflasyonist etkileri, ozellikle 1970’li yillarda Dunya’da yasanan iki buyuk petrol krizinden bu yana tartisilir olmustur. Bir ham petrol ithalatcisi olan Turkiye’de de, enflasyonun onemli kaynaklarindan birinin ham petrol ithal fiyatlarindaki artislar oldugu sik sik gundeme gelmektedir. Bu calismanin temel konusunu, Turkiye tarafindan ithal edilen ham petrolun Dunya fiyatinda meydana gelen degismelerin (ham petrolun yerli rafinerilerde islenmesiyle elde edilen LPG, benzin, gazyagi, motorin ve fuel-oil gibi cesitli akaryakit urunlerinin maliyetlerini etkilemek suretiyle) ekonomideki sektorel ve genel fiyat duzeylerini nasil ve ne olcude degistirdiginin analizi olusturmaktadir. Turkiye’deki ham petrol ve akaryakit urunleri sektorlerinin ic uretim, ithalat, ic tuketim, ihracat ve fiyat gelismeleri (1961-1997) acisindan temel karakteristikleri sergilendikten sonra, ham petrol ithal ve yurtici akaryakit urunu fiyat artislarinin Turkiye’de nasil ve ne bicimde enflasyonist etkiler yaratiyor olabilecegi sematik olarak ozetlenmektedir. Daha sonra, Turkiye’deki sektorel ve genel fiyat artislarinin ne olcude ham petrol ve petrol urunlerinin fiyat artislarindan kaynaklandigi, DIE’nin Turkiye icin hesapladigi 1979, 1985 ve 1990 yili girdi-cikti tablolari yardimiyla arastirilmaktadir. Bu analizde ulasilan sonuclarin karsilastirilabilmesi amaciyla, ham petrol ithal fiyatlarindaki artislarin Turkiye’deki enflasyonu ne olcude etkiledigi, Ocak 1986 - Mart 1998 donemine ait aylik veriler yardimiyla ve VAR yontemi kullanilarak incelenmektedir. (This abstract and the paper are in Turkish. Version: April 1999)
L70|Turkiye'de Akaryakit Urunu Fiyat Gelismeleri ve Enflasyon: Yeni Bulgular (= Changes in Prices of Oil Products and Inflation in Turkey: New Evidence)|Ham petrol ithal fiyatlarindaki degismeler dolayisiyla akaryakit urunlerinin yurtici fiyatlarinda meydana gelen degismelerin Turkiye'deki olasi enflasyonist ve/veya deflasyonist etkileri, Kibritcioglu ve Kibritcioglu (1999) tarafindan kuramsal ve olgusal bilgiler isiginda sematik ve ampirik olarak incelenmistir. Soz konusu calismada, Turkiye’deki sektorel ve genel fiyat duzeyi artislarinin ne olcude ham petrol ithal fiyati ve akaryakit urunlerinin yurtici fiyat artislarindan kaynaklandigi, gerek DIE’nin Turkiye icin hesapladigi 1979, 1985 ve 1990 yili girdi-cikti tablolari, gerekse Ocak 1986 - Mart 1998 donemine ait aylik veriler kullanilarak VAR yontemi yardimiyla arastirilmistir. Bu calismada ise, once, Turkiye icin Ocak 1982 - Ocak 1999 donemine ait genel bir aylik akaryakit urunleri fiyat endeksi (FOPP) olusturularak diger arastirmacilarin kullanimina sunulmaktadir. Bu seri, daha sonra, Kibritcioglu ve Kibritcioglu (1999)'u izleyerek bir VAR modeli hesaplamasinda kullanilmaktadir. Burada ulasilan sonuclar, yukaridaki calismanin bulgularini destekleyici niteliktedir. Turkiye'deki enflasyonun olusumu ve surmesinde ham petrol ithal ve akaryakit urunu fiyat gelismelerinin rolu sinirli gozukmektedir. (This abstract and the paper are in Turkish. Version: May 1999)
L70|Evolução das cadeias produtivas Brasileiras na década de 1990|This paper analyses the evolution of the Brazilian manufacturing sector from 1990 to 1999, using inter-sector relations derived from input-output matrixes and production indexes. The main conclusion is that a narrowing of intermediate relations took place on several productive supply chains, in spite of the relative stability of the manufacturing sector structure as a whole. The paper finds also that the most competitive sectors were the same before and after the trade liberalization and were the ones which process raw materials.
L70|Leading Indicators of German Business Cycles. An Assessment of Properties / Frühindikatoren der deutschen Konjunktur. Eine Beurteilung ihrer Eigenschaften|A reliable leading indicator should possess the following properties: (1) The movements in the indicator series should resemble those in the business cycle reference series. (2) The relation between the reference series and the indicator should be statistically significant and stable over time. (3) The inclusion of the indicator in out-of-sample forecasting procedures should improve the predictive power. Our analysis deals with tests for these requirements applied to German data. We used frequency domain analysis, different Granger-causality tests and out-of sample forecasts. Only few indicators passed all tests. Their inclusion into VAR-based forecasts improves the forecast in the very short run. Further research should concentrate on the unsolved problem of the prediction of business cycle turning points.
L70|Monitor koffie. Overproductie drukt koffieprijs|The current slump in world coffee prices is mainly due to a structural oversupply. Instead of introducing price measures, measures aimed at reducing this excess supply would be a more efficient method of increasing coffee producers'incomes.
L70|El deterioro de los precios de los productos básicos de exportación de Bolivia durante el shock externo de 1998 y 1999|El shock adverso en los precios de los productos básicos registrado entre 1998 y 1999, ha recibido escasa atención en comparación con la crisis financiera reciente. En el caso de una economía pequeña, abierta y dependiente de la exportación de productos básicos, como la boliviana, el shock ha significado una fuerte caída en los ingresos reales de exportación. La década de los noventa, si bien es un período temporal relativamente corto, permite analizar el shock adverso reciente, en el cual los precios han tenido un comportamiento cíclico con tendencia decreciente, donde la duración de la fase de auge fue similar a la de la declinación pero la magnitud de la caída de los precios fue mayor que la del alza. La caída reciente de los precios internacionales parece confirmar, -para el caso de canasta exportadora de Bolivia- que la mayoría de los precios de los productos básicos tiende a moverse de manera conjunta en las fases expansivas y contractivas del ciclo. Los shocks permanentes juegan un papel importante al explicar la varianza de los precios de exportación de Bolivia, especialmente en el caso de los metales. A diferencia de otros países en desarrollo se encontró que la diversificación sectorial de las exportaciones de productos básicos no ha permitido atenuar los efectos del ciclo de los precios, es decir no se trató de una diversificación anticíclica. Sin embargo, a nivel de productos se ha encontrado que un tercio de las exportaciones comprende a productos contracíclicos. El índice general de precios de productos de exportación no muestra una alta volatilidad. Empero, considerando los distintos sectores destaca la volatilidad de los precios de combustibles. Entre los productos agrícolas, resalta la volatilidad exhibida por los precios del café, azúcar y algodón. Con la crisis de 1997, la variabilidad aumentó en la mayoría de los productos, sean éstos metales, combustibles o productos agrícolas. Se encontró que en la década de los noventa la incorporación de un nuevo sector exportador de productos básicos, el soyero, no significó una disminución del riesgo total inherente al portafolio de exportaciones. Sin embargo, a nivel de los productos, se identificó un porcentaje relevante de compensaciones intra e intersectoriales. La evidencia empírica sugiere que la política exportadora implícita aplicada por Bolivia en los años noventa, centrada en la diversificación de productos básicos, no permitió -en la reciente crisis- minimizar el riesgo, atenuar los ciclos, disminuir la volatilidad de los precios ni aumentar los ingresos reales de exportación. Ello ratifica la necesidad de diversificar las exportaciones bolivianas mediante una estrategia de exportaciones de manufacturas intensivas en trabajo, que contribuya a disminuir la vulnerabilidad ante shocks externos adversos.
L70|Leading Indicators of Euroland Business Cycles|The introduction of a common monetary policy in eleven European countries increased the need for leading indicators for that area. A reliable leading indicator should possess the following properties: (1) The movements in the indicator series should resemble those in the business cycle reference series. (2) The relation between the reference series and the indicator should be statistically significant and stable over time. (3) The inclusion of the indicator in out-of-sample forecasting procedures should improve the predictive power. Our analysis deals with tests for these requirements applied to Euroland data. We use frequency domain analysis, Granger-causality tests and out-of sample forecasts. Only a few indicators pass all tests, while the non-monetary indicators perform best.
L70|Do probit models help in forecasting turning points of German business cycles?|In this paper we used a data set constructed for a companion paper (Fritsche/Stephan, 2000) where we explored the leading indicator properties of different time series for the German business cycle. Now we test for the ability of different indicator series to forecast recessions by using a probit approach as proposed by Estrella/Mishkin (1997). The dating procedure refers to the study by Artis et. al. (1997). We took into consideration the criticism made by Dueker (1997) who stated that in the probit model the fact that the economy is already in a state of recession must be controlled for. The results of our estimate are unsatisfactory on the whole. Only the ifo institute's business expectation of producers of intermediate inputs, the interest rate spread, the long-term interest rate, and money supply M2 show satisfactory leading properties.
L70|Leading Indicators of Euroland Business Cycles|The introduction of a common monetary policy in eleven European countries increased the need for leading indicators for that area. A reliable leading indicator should possess the following properties: (1) The movements in the indicator series should resemble those in the business cycle reference series. (2) The relation between the reference series and the indicator should be statistically significant and stable over time. (3) The inclusion of the indicator in out-of-sample forecasting procedures should improve the predictive power. Our analysis deals with tests for these requirements applied to Euroland data. We use frequency domain analysis, Granger-causality tests and out-of sample forecasts. Only a few indicators pass all tests, while the non-monetary indicators perform best. Die Einführung einer gemeinsamen Geldpolitik in elf europäischen Ländern erhöhte die Bedeutung von konjunkturellen Frühindikatoren für dieses Gebiet. Brauchbare Frühindikatoren sollten folgende Eigenschaften besitzen: (1) Die konjunkturellen Bewegungen des Frühindikators sollten denen der Referenzreihe folgen. (2) Die Beziehung zwischen den Reihen sollte stabil und signifikant sein. (3) Die Einbeziehung des Indikators sollte die Out-of-sample-Prognose verbessern. Unsere Untersuchung testet diese Anforderungen für Euroland-Daten. Dazu werden Methoden der Spektralanalyse, verschiedene Granger-Kausalitäts-Tests und Out-of-sample-Prognosen verwendet. Nur wenige Indikatoren bestehen die Tests auf die geforderten Eigenschaften, wobei die nichtmonetären Indikatoren besser abschneiden.
L70|Do Probit Models Help in Forecasting Turning Points in German Business Cycles?|In this paper we used a data set constructed for a companion paper (Fritsche/Stephan, 2000) where we explored the leading indicator properties of different time series for the German business cycle. Now we test for the ability of different indicator series to forecast recessions by using a probit approach as proposed by Estrella/Mishkin (1997). The dating procedure refers to the study by Artis et. al. (1997). We took into consideration the criticism made by Dueker (1997) who stated that in the probit model the fact that the economy is already in a state of recession must be controlled for. The results of our estimate are unsatisfactory on the whole. Only the ifo institute's business expectation of producers of intermediate inputs, the interest rate spread, the long-term interest rate, and money supply M2 show satisfactory leading properties. In diesem Artikel wird ein Datensatz benutzt, mit dem auch in einer begleitenden Untersuchung die Frühindikatoreigenschaften verschiedener Reihen für den deutschen Konjunkturzyklus getestet wurden. Um die Fähigkeit, Rezessionen zu prognostizieren, zu testen, wird der von Estrella/Mishkin vorgeschlagene Ansatz benutzt. Für die Einteilung der Konjunkturphasen wurde auf Artis et. al. (1997) zurückgegriffen. Der Einwand von Dueker (1997), dass es wichtig ist, zu kontrollieren, ob die Wirtschaft sich schon in einer Rezession befindet, wurde berücksichtigt. Die Resultate der Schätzung sind insgesamt unbefriedigend. Nur die Ifo-Geschäftserwartungen von Vorleistungsgüterproduzenten, die Zinsdifferenz, die langfristigen Zinsen sowie die Geldmenge M2 zeigen befriedigende Vorlaufeigenschaften.
L70|Leading Indicators of German Business Cycles: An Assessment of Properties|A reliable leading indicator should possess the following properties: (1) The movements in the indicator series should resemble those in the business cycle reference series. (2) The relation between the reference series and the indicator should be statistically significant and stable over time. (3) The inclusion of the indicator in out-of-sample forecasting procedures should improve the predictive power. Our analysis deals with tests for these requirements applied to German data. We used frequency domain analysis, different Granger-causality tests and out-of sample forecasts. Only few indicators passed all tests. Their inclusion into VAR-based forecasts improves the forecast in the very short run.
L70|Leading Indicators of German Business Cycles: An Assessment of Properties|A reliable leading indicator should possess the following properties: (1) The movements in the indicator series should resemble those in the business cycle reference series. (2) The relation between the reference series and the indicator should be statistically significant and stable over time. (3) The inclusion of the indicator in out-of-sample forecasting procedures should improve the predictive power. Our analysis deals with tests for these requirements applied to German data. We used frequency domain analysis, different Granger-causality tests and out-of sample forecasts. Only few indicators passed all tests. Their inclusion into VAR-based forecasts improves the forecast in the very short run. Brauchbare Frühindikatoren sollten folgende Eigenschaften besitzen: (1) Die konjunkturellen Bewegungen des Frühindikators sollten denen der Referenzreihe folgen. (2) Die Beziehung zwischen den Reihen sollte stabil und signifikant sein. (3) Die Einbeziehung des Indikators sollte die Out-of-sample-Prognose verbessern. Unsere Untersuchung testet diese Anforderungen für deutsche Daten. Dazu werden Methoden der Spektralanalyse, verschiedene Granger-Tests und Out-of-sample-Prognosen verwendet. Nur wenige Indikatoren bestehen die Tests auf die geforderten Eigenschaften. Ihre Einbeziehung in VAR-basierte Prognosen verbessert die Prognoseleistung in der sehr kurzen Frist.
L70|Vorlaufeigenschaften von Ifo-Indikatoren für Westdeutschland|Ifo business climate and other Ifo indicators will be investigated to assess its properties. Properties of Ifo indicators either following the old institutional classification or the newer possibility of use classification will be checked against long-term time series according the new statistical classification (NACE or WZ 93). The business cycle component is detrended using an Hodrick Prescott filter. The series are tested for structural stability. The results show structural breaks, but, after the break, the stability of leading properties became stronger. Long-term indicators have no worse stability properties than short-term indicators - that means their use for forecasting is possible. Ifo-Indikatoren werden auf ihre Vorlaufeigenschaften, auf Granger-Kausalität, die Stabilität der Vorlaufbeziehung und einen Strukturbruch untersucht. Da die Ifo-Reihen noch nicht auf die neue Gliederung der amtlichen Statistik (WZ 93) umgestellt wurden, wird erstmals die Eignung der verschiedenen Indikatoren nach institutioneller und Verwendungszweckgliederung gemessen an den umbasierten Produktionsindexreihen nach WZ 93 beurteilt. Ebenfalls neu ist, daß zur Beurteilung der Konjunkturkomponente eine normierte Trendabweichung von einem Hodrick-Prescott-Filter benutzt wurde. Die These der Strukturkonstanz ist zurückzuweisen; die Stabilität der Vorlaufbeziehung in den 90er Jahren ist enger geworden. Die Indikatoren mit längerem Vorlauf (Geschäftserwartungen und Produktionspläne) weisen keine nachweisbar geringere Stabilität auf.
L70|An Environmental Study of Artisanal, Small, and Medium Mining in Bolivia, Chile, and Peru|Governments have revamped mining legislation to enable private investment while becoming more sensitive to environmental factors. In light of this legislation, this report examines the environmental effects of artisanal, small, and medium mines in three Latin American Countries: Bolivia, Chile, and Peru.
L70|Export Expansion And Imported Input Intensity In The Malaysian Manufacturing Sector|The objective of this paper is twofold. First, it aims to evaluate the export performance of Malaysian manufacturing industries and the intensity of their imported input usage. Secondly, this paper aims to examine the validity of various claims that increasing demand for imported inputs in Malaysia has been mainly to cater for the export-oriented industries. This study found that more resource-based industries were export-oriented compared to the non-resource-based industries. It is also found that almost 70 percent of the manufacturing industries were highly imported input dependent, and that 93 percent of these industries were non-resource-based. Domestic-oriented industries were generally more highly dependent on imported inputs compared to the export-oriented industries. The analysis for the non-resource-based industries showed a positive relationship between export share and imported input content. The relationship, however, was negative for the resource-based industries.
L70|A General Equilibrium Evaluation of Aggregate Welfare Effects from Improved Sectoral Efficiency . Empirical Evidence for Norway|This paper discusses and shows how a CGE model can be used to assess welfare effects of structural policy reforms targeting inefficiency problems at micro levels that normally are not captured in operational CGE-models. The CGE approach allows computation of shadow prices which are generally both unobservable due to various price distortions, and endogenous. Moreover, the paper discusses how static measures of sectoral inefficiency can be implemented in a CGE-model that accounts for real world dynamics. Results from CGE-simulations suggest that general equilibrium effects have substantial influence on welfare, at least when the initial waste of resources is as large as reported in sector studies for Norway. More precisely, compared to the CGE-estimate a partial equilibrium approach overestimates the welfare gain by more than 30 percent.
L70|Latin American Economic Perspectives with Special Reference to Finnish Interests and Opportunities| In the 1990's, economic conditions have become substantially better in South America. Many countries in the region have opened their trade policies and privatized their economies. The prospects for growth during the next decade appear encouraging. This, however, will require national and foreign investments beyond current levels. Both the European Union countries and Latin America are implementing measures to increase their mutual economic relations. Finland, like the rest of the EU countries can turn what were previously regarded as marginal economic relations with Latin America into profitable operations. Interviews in Finnish companies and conversations with people from various fields in Latin America showed that there is a growing interest towards expanding economic relations. There is, however, a need for more information on the economic opportunities for Finland and Latin America.
L70|Non-Tariff Barriers - the Achilles' Heel of Trade Policy Analyses|This study demonstrates the quantitative, as well as the qualitative, role of non-tariff barriers (NTBs). The Norwegian nominal tariff and non-tariff barriers are identified and thoroughly quantified. Computations of effective rates of protection (ERP) show that NTBs entirely dominate tariffs as direct contributors to primary factor income, which again is an important determinant in allocation of resources among industries. The indirect input-output effects play a decisive role. This points to the importance of estimating the nominal trade barrier inputs properly; when a biased estimate is spread throughout the input-output system, not even the direction of the miscalculation will be easy to predict. In order to demonstrate the qualitative role, NTBs are categorised into price-oriented and quantity-oriented, respectively. ERP computations illustrate that the conclusions of policy analyses rely critically on the qualitative interdependency between quantity-oriented NTBs and other measures.
L70|From State Factory, to Modern Corporation? China's Shougang Iron and Steel Corporation Under Economic Reform|The main body of the paper analyses the reasons and the nature of Corporation's remarkable growth during the economic reform years since the late 1970s in China.
L70|The Changing Structure of Cost and Demand for the U.S. Telecommunications Industry|This paper formulates a multiproduct structural model to examine the evolution of structure of production and demand and the dynamic interaction between the two in the context of the U.S. telecommunications industry over an extended period, from 1935 to 1987.
L70|CAAA Induced Competition in Coal Markets: A Model of Coal and Allowances|The Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA) of 1990 will have a major impact on U.S. coal markets. We argue that coal suppliers will be able to use the market in sulfur dioxide emissions allowances created by the CAAA to increase the range of their competitive strategies in their core business, coal. Entering the allowance market as a broker enables the coal supplier to bundle emissions allowances with coal. We develop a spatial model of CAAA compliance costs which highlights the impact of allowances on coal markets. This model is used to suggest how a coal supplier may use bundling strategically to improve its market share in coal. Key features of the model include spatial differentiation of electric utilities and coal suppliers, bargaining between electric utilities and coal suppliers, capital costs for CAAA compliance, and transaction costs in the allowance markets. We explore some of the implications and limitations of entry into the allowance market by coal suppliers and discuss questions for future research.
L70|The Evolution of the Bargaining Relationship between the UK Government and Oil Compagnies in Exploiting UK North Sea Oil under Incomplete Contracts|Hold-up problem is identified as the main problem that must be confronted in providing for an efficient contractual relationship between the government and oil companies in exploiting North Sea Oil.
L70|Innovative Construction Schemes: Medium Rise Timber Engineered Frames|This paper highlights the key issues from technical and commercial standpoints that affect the market adoption of midimum rise timber engineered frames and presents an overview of the TF 2000 project to date.
L70|Meeting the Clients Needs: A Risk Management Perspective|This paper has mapped out three current areas of concern for project mana gement as a discipline. These were defined as the management of external influences, integration of the parties into coherent project teams and establishing clear achievable goals known to all.
L70|A Mining Strategy for Latin America and Carabebean|This report looks at specific policies which could result in the sustainable development of the mining industries in the countries of the Latin American and Caribbean region (LAC).
L70|CAAA Induced Competition in Coal Markets: A Model of Coal and Allowances|The Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA) of 1990 will have a major impact on U.S. coal markets. We argue that coal suppliers will be able to use the market in sulfur dioxide emissions allowances created by the CAAA to increase the range of their competitive strategies in their core business, coal.
L70|Costs, Benefits, and Farmer Adoption of Agroforestry. Project Experience in Central America and the Caribbean|No abstract is available for this item.
L70|World and Regional Supply and Demand Balances of Nitrogen, Phosphate, and Potash, 1993/94-1999/2000|No abstract is available for this item.
L70|The CIS Mining Industry in a Transition Period with Special Reference to Finnish Mining Prospects| The structural changes of the CIS mining industry have far-reaching consequences not only for the national economies of the member states but for the entire international metal market. Political instability and absence of a detailed and modern mining legislation make difficult a coordinated strategy for the development of the mining sector. Over the next years up to the year 2000, an accelerated and widespread diffusion of western modern mining technology and big investment into the CIS mining industry seems to be improbable. A comparative view on the common problems of the mining industry on the CIS and in developing countries resembles the latters situation during the 1960's and 1970's. The general objective of Finland's cooperation with the CIS mining sector should be to secure appropriate balance of supply of mineral raw materials. In particular, this will permit further technological development of the mining industry in Finland regarding the specific conditions of the CIS mining sector. Two regions are of particular interest from the Finnish perspective: Karelia and the north-west region of Russia. Cooperation with the CIS mining industry is essential to the long-term security and economic health of Finland.
L70|¿Cusiana, un hecho aislado? Determinantes de la exploración y producción petroleras en Colombia|“La creciente importancia de la producción y exportaciones de hidrocarburos en la economía colombiana hace necesario examinar los determinantes de la actividad exploradora y de la producción petrolera en el país. Las perspectivas de crecimiento económico de mediano y largo plazo dependen críticamente de cuán probable sea que nuevos hallazgos sustituyan la producción de Cusiana cuando este yacimiento entre en declinación. El manejo óptimo de los excedentes generados por Cusiana depende de la respuesta a esta pregunta. Será conveniente ahorrar una mayor proporción de estos recursos en la medida en que sea poco probable que se pueda compensar la declinación futura de la producción de Cusiana. El presente trabajo intenta dar respuesta a algunos interrogantes que se desprenden de las anteriores consideraciones, basados en un modelo econométrico de producción petrolera. La segunda sección presenta una discusión de los posibles determinantes de la actividad exploradora privada y de las relaciones entre exploración, reservas y producción. La tercera presenta y discute los estimativos econométricos. En la cuarta se utiliza el modelo estimado para efectuar proyecciones alternativas del nivel de actividad exploradora y de sus hallazgos probables, utilizando varias proyecciones de la evolución de los precios internacionales. Se presentan además cálculos del efecto probable del descubrimiento del yacimiento de Cusiana sobre los niveles futuros de exploración y hallazgos. Finalmente, la quinta sección contiene las principales conclusiones obtenidas.”
L70|The changing role of international investment in the mining sector - the case of Bolivia|No abstract is available for this item.
L70|Política económica y rentabilidad en el sector minero: 1989-1990|Este documento recoge los resultados de una investigación sobre política económica y rentabilidad en el sector minero. Presenta la metodología para la construcción de un índice de tipo de cambio real minero-indicador que resume los efectos de la política económica y de los precios internacionales sobre la rentabilidad minera- y comenta su evolución durante los últimos cinco años.
L70|Union Raiding: Rivalry in B.C. Mines, Smelters and Metal Industries|No abstract is available for this item.
L70|Toward a Better Measure of Work Experience|No abstract is available for this item.
L70|A Paradox of Environmental Awareness Campaigns|We build a workable game of common-property resource extraction under rational Bayesian learning about the renewal prospects of a resource. We uncover the impact of exogenously shifting the prior beliefs of each player on the response functions of others. What we find about the role of environmental conservation campaigns is paradoxical. To the extent that such campaigns instill overly high pessimism about the potential of natural resources to reproduce, they create anti-conservation incentives: anyone having exploitation rights becomes inclined to consume more of the resource earlier, before others overexploit, and before the resource's stock is reduced to lower levels.
