L71|The Simple Economics of Global Fuel Consumption|This paper presents a structural framework of the global oil market that relies on information on global fuel consumption to identify flow demand for oil. We show that under mild identifying assumptions, data on global fuel consumption help to provide comparatively sharp insights on elasticities and other key structural parameters of the global oil market. The estimated elasticity of global fuel demand in the short run with respect to crude oil prices is around -2 percent, which is considerably more inelastic than estimates of local fuel demand elasticities based on disaggregated data. Our framework is particularly suitable for understanding the evolution of quantities in the global oil market and provides new evidence on the magnitude of different types of oil price shocks and their macroeconomic and environmental impacts.
L71|Consumer myopia in vehicle purchases: evidence from a natural experiment|A central question in the analysis of fuel-economy policy is whether consumers are myopic with regards to future fuel costs. We provide the first evidence on consumer valuation of fuel economy from a natural experiment. We examine the short-run equilibrium effects of an exogenous restatement of fuel-economy ratings that affected 1.6 million vehicles. Using the implied changes in willingness-to-pay, we find that consumers act myopically: consumers are indifferent between $1 in discounted fuel costs and 15-38 cents in the vehicle purchase price when discounting at 4%. This myopia persists under a wide range of assumptions.
L71|Cohesive Institutions and Political Violence|Can institutionalized transfers of resource rents be a source of civil conflict? Are cohesive institutions better in managing distributive conflicts? We study these questions exploiting exogenous variation in revenue disbursements to local governments together with new data on local democratic institutions in Nigeria. We make three contributions. First, we document the existence of a strong link between rents and conflict far away from the location of the actual resource. Second, we show that distributive conflict is highly organized involving political militias and concentrated in the extent to which local governments are non-cohesive. Third, we show that democratic practice in form having elected local governments significantly weakens the causal link between rents and political violence. We document that elections (vis-a-vis appointments), by producing more cohesive institutions, vastly limit the extent to which distributional conflict between groups breaks out following shocks to the available rents. Throughout, we confirm these findings using individual level survey data.
L71|La Guajira: caracterización departamental y municipal|En este documento se describen los activos con que cuenta el departamento de La Guajira en cuanto a sus recursos naturales y talento humano, así como su infraestructura y sus instituciones. De igual forma, se analizan sus indicadores económicos y sociales y se identifican sus brechas internas y con respecto del resto del país. Esta región estratégica para el país, que es parte del Gran Caribe y que tiene frontera con Venezuela, tiene un gran potencial de desarrollo, pero también grandes desafíos en cuanto a ofrecer a su población condiciones dignas de vida y oportunidades para la reducción de la desigualdad, el reconocimiento de su diversidad cultural, el fortalecimiento de sus instituciones y la diversificación de su economía. A las acciones ya emprendidas por el Gobierno Nacional, en el marco de las órdenes dadas por la Corte Constitucional para asegurar la protección de la infancia y la adolescencia wayuu, hay que sumar un plan de inversiones que garantice el desarrollo productivo del departamento, concertado en un contrato plan o en un nuevo Pacto territorial.
L71|Fracking: viabilidad económica y ambiental en Colombia|Conocer el valor del desarrollo de la explotación de hidrocarburos para el sostenimiento de las finanzas de la economía colombiana es de vital importancia para entender cómo las técnicas de extracción no convencionales, como el fracking, pueden ser una alternativa para el crecimiento y complemento de la matriz energética del país. En este sentido, es conveniente evaluar en detalle las múltiples consecuencias económicas y ambientales que trae consigo la aplicación de tales técnicas, que pueden verse magnificadas en un contexto como el colombiano. Este documento se encarga de hacer una revisión histórica sobre la extracción de petróleo en Colombia en las últimas dos décadas enfocada, principalmente, en cómo el desarrollo se vería afectado por la implementación de las técnicas de fracturación hidráulica para la explotación de yacimientos no convencionales. El objetivo principal del artículo es dar a conocer cómo funciona esta técnica y los argumentos a favor y en contra de su implementación; se revisa la experiencia de Estados Unidos y se pretende predecir qué efectos se tendrán en materia social, económica y ambiental para el país. *** Knowing the value of the development of the hydrocarbons exploitation to sustain the finances of the Colombian economy is of vital importance to understand how non-conventional extraction techniques, such as Fracking, can be an alternative for growth and a complement the country's energy matrix. In this sense, it is convenient to evaluate in detail the multiple economic and environmental consequences brought about by the application of such techniques, which can be magnified in a context such as the Colombian one. This document reviews the history of oil extraction in Colombia over the last two decades, focusing mainly on how development would be affected by the implementation of hydraulic fracturing techniques for the exploitation of non-conventional oil deposits. The main objective of the article is to show how this technique works and the arguments for and against its implementation; it reviews the experience of the United States and aims to predict what effects will have in social, economic and environmental matters for the country.
L71|La dinámica de los precios de la gasolina en Colombia, su regulación y estructura tarifaria|El consumo de combustibles refinados en la sociedad actual se comporta como determinante del desarrollo productivo diario de cada individuo, principalmente por su uso en los medios de transporte. Este bien está sujeto a diferentes factores regulatorios en su precio que aseguran que tanto el Estado, la sociedad y los productores se vean beneficiados por su producción y venta. El presente documento estudia la dinámica de los precios de la gasolina en Colombia y cómo se ve es afectada por factores externos como el precio internacional del petróleo. El análisis se lleva a cabo a través de la metodología de determinación de precios comparada con el panorama latinoamericano, por su cercanía y similitudes en costos. Se encuentra que la estructura actual es demasiado compleja e ineficiente si se quiere mejorar la competitividad y los precios en el mercado y que una política clara por parte del Gobierno podría no solo incentivar el sector sino también dinamizar la productividad del país, tomando en cuenta la transición hacia los combustibles renovables. The consumption of refined fuels in our current society works as a determinant in the daily productive development of every person mainly because of the use of transport issues. In this way, this good is subject to different regulatory factors in its price that ensure that the State, society and producers benefits by its production and sale. Thus, this document will study how the dynamics of prices in Colombia works by analyzing the operation of it in comparison with the Latin American panorama, due to its proximity and similarities in costs; and how this dynamic is affected by external factors such as movements in international oil prices. It is found that the current structure is too complex and inefficient if we want to improve competitiveness and prices in the market and that a clear policy by the Government could not only stimulate the sector but also boost the country's productivity taking into consideration the transition to renewable fuels.
L71|Consumer Myopia in Vehicle Purchases: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|A central question in the analysis of fuel-economy policy is whether consumers are myopic with regards to future fuel costs. We provide the first evidence on consumer valuation of fuel economy from a natural experiment. We examine the short-run equilibrium effects of an exogenous restatement of fuel-economy ratings that affected 1.6 million vehicles. Using the implied changes in willingness-to-pay, we find that consumers act myopically: consumers are indifferent between $1 in discounted fuel costs and 15-38 cents in the vehicle purchase price when discounting at 4%. This myopia persists under a wide range of assumptions.
L71|Supply Flexibility in the Shale Patch: Evidence from North Dakota|We analyse if output flexibility in oil production depends on the extraction technology.In particular, we ask to what extent shale oil producers respond to price incentives by changing completion of new wells as well as oil production from completed wells. Using a novel well-level monthly production data set covering more than 15,000 crude oil wells in North Dakota, we find large differences in response between conventional and unconventional (shale) extraction technology: While shale oil wells respond significantly to spot future spreads by changing both well completion and crude oil production, conventional wells do not. Our results indicate that firms using shale oil technology are more flexible in allocating output intertemporally. We interpret such output pattern of shale oil wells to be consistent with the Hotelling theory of optimal extraction.
L71|Consumer Myopia in Vehicle Purchases: Evidence from a Natural Experiment|A central question in the analysis of fuel-economy policy is whether consumers are myopic with regards to future fuel costs. We provide the first evidence on consumer valuation of fuel economy from a natural experiment. We examine the short-run equilibrium effects of an exogenous restatement of fuel-economy ratings that affected 1.6 million vehicles. Using the implied changes in willingness-to-pay, we find that consumers act myopically: consumers are indifferent between $1 in discounted fuel costs and 15-38 cents in the vehicle purchase price when discounting at 4%. This myopia persists under a wide range of assumptions.
L71|Russia’s oil and gas sector in 2018|The oil and gas sector is among the basic ones of the Russian economy and is playing an important role in the income generation for the state budget and Russia’s trade balance. Implementation of the OPEC+ agreement regarding the production restriction has resulted in the world crude oil prices growth. In 2018, the volumes of crude oil production peaked for the entire post-Soviet period and the extraction and export of the natural gas hit all-time high. Under the first stage of tax maneuver in force in the oil industry, the refining depth and increased volumes of export of petroleum products observed before its implementation were replaced by contraction of production and export of fuel oil and by the reduction of crude oil refining and export of petroleum products. Oil refining depth moved up markedly. It was decided to gradually complete tax maneuver in the oil sector and introduce the additional profits tax (windfall tax).
L71|Revisiting the management of stationary fuel supply security and gas diversification in Hungary|This paper aims to assess the security of stationary fuel supply in Hungary by applying the three-dimensional approach, encompassing availability, affordability and sustainability. The main focus is on primary energy fuels in relation to electricity, but the approach is also applied, in part, to electricity itself. It is shown how select influencing factors affect the choices made from among security of supply dimensions. Although providing a source-by-source review, special attention is paid to nuclear energy and natural gas. For a long time, natural gas has been the fuel that Hungary is particularly sensitive to in terms of security of energy supply. Thus, gas diversification has become a key issue, analysed here also by using my own gas diversification scheme. I find that considerable progress has been made in this area. However, along with the 2014 decision on the construction of new units at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant (Paks II), aimed at achieving self-sufficiency in Hungarian electricity supplies, the energy agenda has changed considerably. With Paks II, Hungary’s dependence will both decrease and increase – as new types of risks emerge. In such circumstances, a Nuclear–Solar/Biomass–Natural Gas concept of the electricity mix seems to be emerging in Hungary.
L71|The U.S. fracking boom: Impact on oil prices|"As of late 2008, the steady decline of U.S. crude oil production over the last decades was reversed by the increased adoption of the hydraulic fracturing (""fracking"") technology. Adapting the supply-side model proposed by Kaufmann et al. (2004) to assess OPEC's ability to influence real oil prices, this paper investigates the effect of the increase in U.S. oil production due to fracking on world oil prices. Among our key results obtained from (dynamic) OLS estimations, there is a statistically significant negative long-run relationship between increased U.S. oil production and oil prices."
L71|Cohesive Institutions and Political Violence|Can institutionalized transfers of resource rents be a source of civil conflict? Are cohesive institutions better at managing conflicts over distribution? We exploit exogenous variation in revenue disbursements to local governments and use new data on local democratic institutions in Nigeria to answer these questions. There is a strong link between rents and conflict far away from the location of the resource. Conflict over distribution is highly organized, involving political militias, and concentrated in the extent to which local governments are non-cohesive. Democratically elected local governments significantly weaken the causal link between rents and political violence. Elections produce more cohesive institutions, and vastly limit the extent to which distributional conflict between groups breaks out following shocks to the rents. Throughout, we confirm these findings using individual level survey data.
L71|Costs of Inefficient Regulation: Evidence from the Bakken|Efficient pollution regulation equalizes marginal abatement costs across sources. Here we study a new flaring regulation in North Dakota's oil and gas industry and document its efficiency. Exploiting detailed well-level data, we find that the regulation reduced flaring 4 to 7 percentage points and accounts for up to half of the observed flaring reductions since 2015. We construct firm-level marginal flaring abatement cost curves and find that the observed flaring reductions could have been achieved at 20% lower cost by imposing a tax on flared gas equal to current public lands royalty rates instead of using firm-specific flaring requirements.
L71|Coal Demand, Market Forces, and US Coal Mine Closures|Economic transitions have the potential to displace workers and cause social unrest. Coal mine closures in the eastern United States due to the changing electricity system and the resulting employment losses in rural areas have become salient issues for all levels of government. Previous research has not distinguished among the potential causes of recent mine closures, such as rising production costs and decreasing coal demand from the electricity sector. This analysis utilizes unique data on coal mine and power plant operation to estimate the impact of supply and demand factors on mine closure. We model closure as a function of expected profits, which allows us to compare the effects on mine closure of specific demand and supply shocks to expected mine profits. Our results suggest that each shock substantially affected coal mine employment. Increasing costs of producing Appalachian coal have had the largest impact on closures with lower natural gas prices and lower electricity demand each accounting for a substantial number of closures additionally.
L71|Effects of Stricter Environmental Regulations on Resource Development|As technology and our ability to alter the natural world expand, it may lead to change in the level or type of externalities that economic activity places on society. This may prompt changes in the laws and regulations governing activity to limit the new externalities. While new regulations will change the distribution of rents around, welfare is impacted if the regulations alter the pace of economic activity. This analysis seeks to understand whether changes in oil and gas regulation brought about by the shale revolution have restricted the pace of drilling and production. This hypothesis is tested using data on North Dakota and Montana both before and after North Dakota increased the level of bonding required to operate in the state as well as stricter rules on waste disposal. Using regression discontinuity and difference-in-differences methods, results generally find that the new regulations had no statistical impact on the pace of drilling and production. While the average impact of the regulations on production was statistically indistinguishable from zero, it is found that smaller operators reduced their production and larger operators increased theirs. These results are instructive for policymakers who weigh the loss of economic welfare against improved environmental quality when deciding on new regulations.
L71|Costo económico de la inestabilidad y debilidad institucional de la gestión socio-ambiental de los proyectos de inversión en los sectores de minería energía e infraestructura en Colombia|Foro de un grupo de empresas que analizan el entorno de las inversiones con el propósito de hacer diagnósticos y recomendaciones para la remoción de los obstáculos al buen funcionamiento de los mercados y su regulación. Encomiendan un estudio a Fedesarrollo para determinar el impacto de la debilidad institucional y de la inestabilidad normativa en la gestión socio ambiental de los grandes proyectos de inversión de Colombia. Aquí presentamos únicamente los mineros y de hidrocarburos.
L71|La contribución del petróleo al desarrollo de Colombia. Mirada a las regiones productoras|En los últimos 20 años, el petróleo ha contribuido al desarrollo de Colombia. La contribución de los hidrocarburos a la economía colombiana se da en varios niveles: en el macroeconómico, contribuyen a la dinámica de las exportaciones y de la inversión extranjera, así como a las finanzas públicas; en el mesoeconómico, a través de sus multiplicadores, demanda insumos de otros sectores así como contribuye en la producción de otros bienes y. en el nivel regional, genera actividad y empleo, así como regalías para financiar gasto público.
L71|Evaluación de los impactos causados en las regiones productoras de hidrocarburos y minerales con el actual Sistema General de Regalías|"Este estudio tiene como ""objetivo principal evaluar los impactos causados en las regiones productoras de hidrocarburos y minerales vis a vis las regiones no productoras. Para cumplir los objetivos mencionados este informe está dividido en 6 partes incluyendo esta introducción. El siguiente capítulo presenta el funcionamiento actual del SGR. Primero se presenta las reglas de distribución entre y al interior de los fondos; posteriormente se presentan algunas estadísticas que describen la importancia de las regalías para los entes territoriales (ET); por último, se presentan los hallazgos y percepciones de los actores sobre el funcionamiento del esquema de distribución. Esto último se hace mediante el análisis cualitativo de cerca de 80 entrevistas en todas las regiones del país y sus representantes en la Federación Nacional de Departamentos y Municipios, congresistas y expertos en el tema. El capítulo 3 presenta el núcleo central de la evaluación de impacto y el análisis costo beneficio con el objeto de comparar si los costos están compensados por los beneficios estimados. El capítulo comienza presentando las percepciones que tienen las regiones sobre los impactos de los cambios experimentados a partir del nuevo esquema de distribución desde 2012; con este objetivo se entrevistaron a los secretarios de planeación de las regiones productoras y no productoras para contrastar los efectos no observados entre estas dos tipologías (sección 3.1). La evaluación de impacto cuantitativa recurre a un ejercicio de diferencias en diferencias para comparar la evolución de los municipios productores vis a vis los no productores antes y después de la reforma. Este ejercicio tiene como objeto evaluar la hipótesis de que los municipios productores son “perdedores” de las modificaciones del SGR. Teniendo en cuenta algunas de las críticas que se han hecho al nuevo SGR, en el sentido de la baja ejecución de recursos, el ejercicio se amplía a triples diferencias para conocer el impacto de la reforma sobre los municipios ejecutores de recursos; en este sentido se evalúa si la doble condición de productor y ejecutor tiene efectos positivos sobre las variables de ingresos, empleo, educación y salud de los municipios (variables de desarrollo socioeconómico). Esto último comparando los resultados con i) los productores no ejecutores, ii) no productores ejecutores (ganadores directos), iii) no productores no ejecutores (ganadores que no han aprovechado la reforma Este mismo capítulo presenta un análisis de los costos sociales y ambientales en que incurren los municipios que explotan estos recursos minero-energéticos, a través de la información de la evaluación económica de los impactos que deben presentar todos los proyectos de explotación a la ANLA para recibir las licencias ambientales (sección 3.3). Con los costos reportados a la ANLA se contrasta si las pérdidas del proyecto son mayores a las ganancias (incluidos los impactos estimados mediante el panel de datos mencionados anteriormente). El ejercicio finaliza con las estimaciones de la relación beneficio-costo y la TIR (sección 3.4). Posteriormente se presentan los escenarios de simulaciones cuyo objetivo es identificar aquellas condiciones bajo las cuales la distribución entre fondos alcanza una mayor equidad en la distribución de recursos (capítulo 4). La medición de equidad consiste en sumar a los ingresos tributarios municipales per cápita las asignaciones per cápita de regalías en cada escenario simulado (por ejemplo, al quitarle un porcentaje a un fondo y transferirlo a otro) y recalcular el coeficiente Gini de la distribución original de ingresos tributarios. Así mismo, se hacen simulaciones modificando las condiciones de NBI, población y desempleo que se utilizan al interior de los fondos (por ejemplo, que sucedería con el nuevo Gini si todos los recursos se entregaran por la condición de NBI sin tener en cuenta a la población). El capítulo 5 presenta un análisis comparativo de la compensación a las regiones productoras frente a experiencias internacionales y el capítulo 6 presenta las conclusiones más relevantes del estudio."""
L71|Evaluación de los impactos causados en las regiones productoras de hidrocarburos y minerales con el actual Sistema General de Regalías|Realizar una evaluación de los impactos causados en las regiones productoras de hidrocarburos y minerales con el actual Sistema General de Regalías que permita evaluar su funcionamiento, fórmulas de distribución de las regalías, e identificar los aspectos por mejorar y los cambios a incorporar en la composición y esquema de distribución actual.
L71|Estudio sobre el impacto de la actividad petrolera en las regiones productoras de Colombia. Caracterización departamental Santander|En este trabajo se describe la dinámica de la actividad petrolera y de la industria de refinación, transporte y comercialización de sus productos en el departamento de Santander, así como su contribución al bienestar social y a la economía departamental, en las secciones de caracterización del departamento y de la cadena de valor del downstream. En otra sección se simulan escenarios futuros de la economía nacional y la departamental, con y sin la explotación de los yacimientos no convencionales, y se cuantifican sus impactos en términos de la cuenta corriente y los ingresos fiscales de la nación, así como en el PIB departamental y las cuentas fiscales de Santander.
L71|Time Compression (Dis)Economies: An Empirical Analysis|To investigate time compression dis-economies (TCD), this study estimated time-cost elasticities using 459 oil and gas global investment projects (1997-2010). Results show that the average cost of accelerating investments is negative: a firm could cut $6.3 million in costs of a single project by accumulating asset stocks one month faster. About 88 percent of the projects exhibit negative time-cost elasticities with over 39 percent of unrealized economies of time compression. Only 12 percent of the projects are subject to TCD. These time inefficiencies or frictions do not negate the existence of TCD, but suggest they are less prevalent than assumed in the literature. Management experience, R&D investment, firm size, economic development and political stability are shown to be associated with greater time compression efficiency.
L71|Market Timing with Moving Averages for Fossil Fuel and Renewable Energy Stocks|The paper examines whether the moving average (MA) technique can beat random market timing in traditional and newer branches of an industrial sector. The sector considered is the energy sector, divided into balanced stock portfolios of fossil and renewable energy companies. Eight representative firms are selected for both portfolios. The paper finds that MA timing outperforms random timing with the portfolio of renewable energy companies, whereas the result is less clear with the portfolio of fossil energy companies. Thus, there seems to be more forecastable stochastic trends in sunrise branches than in sunset branches.
L71|Russian oil and gas sector in 2017|The oil and gas sector is playing an important role in the income generation for the state budget and Russia’s trade balance. In 2017, the volumes of crude oil production somewhat fell owing to Russia’s commitments to curb production as a result of the oil output cut agreement between some OPEC and non-OPEC countries. Under the so-called tax maneuver in force in the oil industry, refining depth went up, production and export of fuel oil moved down and export of crude oil, a highly lucrative source of state budget revenues, increased. In 2017, natural gas production and export hit an all-time peak. Despite the plunge of oil and gas world prices, the oil and gas sector continues to constitute over a half of Russian exports.
L71|Managing coal sector transition under the ambitious emission reduction scenario in Poland. Focus on labour|This report presents the main economic facts on the role of coal in the Polish economy, and analyses the implications of the transition away from coal for coal consumption and coal mining employment in Poland. Poland’s energy mix relies on coal, most of which is domestically produced. We argue that issues related to job creation and the cushioning of negative shocks for workers are key for the phasing out of coal in Poland, especially at the regional and local levels. Our simulations show that achieving the Paris Agreement target is feasible in Poland provided hard coal consumption is cut by 20% between 2015 and 2030, and by 55% between 2015 and 2050. We estimate that this reduction in coal consumption would translate into a decline in mining employment of 47% between 2015 and 2030, and of 77% between 2015 and 2050. On the labour supply side, the reduction in employment can be achieved through natural attrition; i.e., through an outflow of workers to retirement and a moderate inflow of new workers. Training programmes, vocational courses, in-work benefits, and social policy instruments should be used to ease the transition.
L71|Security of energy supply and gas diversification in Poland|Poland entered the twenty-first century with an unsustainable energy/electricity mix, strongly over-dependent on coal. This situation seems to be changing very slowly, while there are multiple factors that make it imperative for the issue to be urgently addressed. On the one hand, this paper aims to assess the security of the stationary fuel supply by applying the conventional three-dimensional approach, encompassing availability, affordability and sustainability. On the other, we plan to use our own scheme to analyse gas diversification (Weiner, 2017: 6), i.e. a fuel which, alongside coal, is a very sensitive issue linked to the security of the Polish electric power fuel supply. We demonstrate that the three-dimensional approach is also appropriate for addressing the issue of supply security in the case of a country with a securitized energy agenda based on fears of problems with the availability and affordability of Russian gas supplies. It also highlights Poland’s concern over foreign technological reliance regarding renewables production. We show how the energy perspective, the institutional context, as well as perceptions regarding threat, dependence and Russia influence choices made from among different security of supply dimensions. We find that though the role of coal will surely decrease, there is great uncertainty about Poland’s energy policy and security of supply because of deficiencies in infrastructure and the unknown future role of the particular fuels in the energy/electricity mix, also expected to include nuclear. We can observe that every energy policy step possible is being taken to maintain the role of coal, and Poland moves toward sustainability only as much and as soon as it is required by its EU membership. Not only does the coal industry capture Poland’s energy policy, but also geopolitical considerations cement reliance on coal, providing low energy import dependence. Regarding gas, we find that since the January 2009 Russian–Ukrainian gas crisis, Poland has taken action to diversify its gas supplies, and it has finally achieved results, but there is still a lot of uncertainty surrounding Russian gas imports.
L71|Coal Demand, Market Forces, and US Coal Mine Closures|Economic transitions have the potential to displace workers and cause social unrest. Coal mine closures in the eastern United States due to the changing electricity system and the resulting employment losses in rural areas have become salient issues for all levels of government. Previous research has not distinguished among the potential causes of recent mine closures, such as rising production costs and decreasing coal demand from the electricity sector. This analysis utilizes unique data on coal mine and power plant operation to estimate the impact of supply and demand factors on mine closure. We model closure as a function of expected profits, which allows us to compare the effects on mine closure of specific demand and supply shocks to expected mine profits. Our results suggest that each shock substantially affected coal mine employment. Increasing costs of producing Appalachian coal have had the largest impact on closures with lower natural gas prices and lower electricity demand each accounting for a substantial number of closures additionally.
L71|Analyzing the Risk of Transporting Crude Oil by Rail|In this paper, I combine data on incidents associated with rail transportation of crude oil and detailed data on rail shipments to appraise the relation between increased use of rail to transport crude oil and the risk of safety incidents associated with those shipments. I find a positive link between the accumulation of minor incidents and the frequency of serious incidents, and a positive relation between increased rail shipments of crude oil and the occurrence of minor incidents. I also find that increased shipments are associated with a rightward shift in the distribution of economic damages associated with these shipments; the implied marginal impact of an additional 1,000 rail cars carrying oil between two states in a given month is $1,836. In addition, I find larger average effects associated with states that represent the greatest source of tight oil production.
L71|Learning by Viewing? Social Learning, Regulatory Disclosure, and Firm Productivity in Shale Gas|In many industries firms can learn about new technologies from other adopters; mandatory disclosure regulations represent an understudied channel for this type of social learning. We study an environmentally-focused law in the shale gas industry to examine firms’ claims that disclosure requirements expose valuable trade secrets. Our research design takes advantage of a unique regulatory history that allows us to see complete information on chemical inputs prior to disclosure, along with the timing of information availability for thousands of wells after disclosure takes effect. We find that firms’ chemical choices following disclosure converge in a manner consistent with inter-firm imitation and that this leads to more productive wells for firms that carefully choose whom to copy — but also a decline in innovation among the most productive firms, whose innovations are those most often copied by other firms. Our results suggest there is a long-run welfare trade-off between the potential benefits of information diffusion and transparency, and the potential costs of reduced innovation.
L71|"""Weak"" trends for inference and forecasting in finite samples"|This paper studies the small sample properties of processes which exhibit both a stochastic and a deterministic trend. Whereas for estimation, inference and forecasting purposes the latter asymptotically dominates the former, it is not so when only a finite number of observations is available and large non-linearities in the parameters of the process result. To analyze this dependence, we resort to local-asymptotics and present the concept of a `weak` trend whose coefficient is of order O(T-1/2), so that the deterministic trend is O(T1/2) and the process Op(T1/2). In this framework, parameter estimates, unit-root test statistics and forecast errors are functions of `drifting` Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes. We derive a comparison of direct and iterated multi-step estimation and forecasting of a - potentially misspecified - random walk with drift, and show that we explain well the non-linearities exhibited in finite samples. Another main benefit of direct multi-step estimation stems from some different behaviors of the `multi-step` unit-root and slope tests under the weak and strong (constant coefficient) trend frameworks which could lead to testing which framework is more relevant. A Monte Carlo analysis validates the local-asymptotics approximation to the distributions of finite sample biases and test statistics.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L71|Modeling and Checking the Power Quality of High Pressure Sodium Vapor Lamp|High pressure sodium Vapor lamps due to long service life High Light, as the most comprehensive street lighting and industrial lighting Whose use is increasing day by day. One of the major drawbacks to these lamps is producing a lot of current harmonic. Therefore, check the Power Quality of these lamps becomes necessary. To check the quality of our lamps, it's necessary to express the exact model of these lamps. In this paper, we simulate a high-pressure lamp based on plasma physics equations. With this exact model, the power consumption of these lamps is considered by using THD and the results are compared with the standard values. In this paper, taking into account the magnetic ballast for a high-pressure sodium Vapor lamp, a precise simulation of these lamps was performed using the MATLAB / Simulink software.
L71|Application of Artificial Neural Networks in Cold Rolling Process|Rolling is one of the most complicated processes in metal forming. Knowing the exact amount of basic parameters, especially inter-stand tensions can be effective in controlling other parameters in this process. Inter-stand tensions affect rolling pressure, rolling force, forward and backward slips and neutral angle. Calculating this effect is an important step in continuous rolling design and control. Since inter-stand tensions cannot be calculated analytically, attempt is made to describes an approach based on artificial neural network (ANN) in order to identify the applied parameters in a cold tandem rolling mill. Due to the limited experimental data, in this subject a five stand tandem cold rolling mill is simulated through finite element method. The outputs of the FE simulation are applied in training the network and then, the network is employed for prediction of tensions in a tandem cold rolling mill. Here, after changing and checking the different designs of the network, the 11-42-4 structure by one hidden layer is selected as the best network. The verification factor of ANN results according to experimental data are over R=0.9586 for training and testing the data sets. The experimental results obtained from the five stands tandem cold rolling mill. This paper proposed new ANN for prediction of inter-stand tensions. Also, this ANN method shows a fuzzy control algorithm for investigating the effect of front and back tensions on reducing the thickness deviations of hot rolled steel strips. The average of the training and testing data sets is mentioned 0.9586. It means they have variable values which are discussed in details in section 4. According to Table 7, this proposed ANN model has the correlation coefficients of 0.9586, 0.9798, 0.9762 and 0.9742, respectively for training data sets and 0.9905, 0.9798, 0.9762 and 0.9803, respectively for the testing data sets. These obtained numbers indicate the acceptable accuracy of the ANN method in predicting the inter-stand tensions of the rolling tandem mill. This method provides a highly accurate solution with reduced computational time and is suitable for on-line control or optimization in tandem cold rolling mills. Due to the limited experimental data, for data extraction for the ANN simulation, a 2D tandem cold rolling process is simulated using ABAQUS 6.9 software. For designing a network for this rolling problem, various structures of neural networks are studied in MATLAB 7.8 software.
L71|Measuring Long-Run Price Elasticities in Urban Travel Demand|This paper develops a structural model of urban travel to estimate long-run price elasticities. A dynamic discrete choice demand model with switching costs is estimated, using a panel dataset with public market-level data on automobile and public transit use for Chicago. The estimated model shows that long-run own- (automobile) and cross- (transit) price elasticities are more elastic than short-run elasticities, and that elasticity estimates from static and myopic models are downward biased. The estimated model is used to evaluate the response to a gasoline tax. Static and myopic models mismeasure long-run substitution patterns, and could lead to incorrect policy decisions.
L71|Measuring Long-Run Price Elasticities in Urban Travel Demand|This paper develops a structural model of urban travel to estimate long-run price elasticities. A dynamic discrete choice demand model with switching costs is estimated, using a panel dataset with public market-level data on automobile and public transit use for Chicago. The estimated model shows that long-run own- (automobile) and cross- (transit) price elasticities are more elastic than short-run elasticities, and that elasticity estimates from static and myopic models are downward biased. The estimated model is used to evaluate the response to a gasoline tax. Static and myopic models mismeasure long-run substitution patterns, and could lead to incorrect policy decisions.
L71|Search Frictions and Market Power in Negotiated-Price Markets|We provide a framework for empirical analysis of negotiated-price markets. Using mortgage market data and a search and negotiation model, we characterize the welfare impact of search frictions and quantify the role of search costs and brand loyalty for market power. Search frictions reduce consumer surplus by $12/month/consumer, 28 percent of which can be associated with discrimination, 22 percent with inefficient matching, and 50 percent with search costs. Banks with large consumer bases have margins 70 percent higher than those with small consumer bases. The main source of this incumbency advantage is brand loyalty; however, price discrimination based on search frictions accounts for almost a third.
L71|Market Timing with Moving Averages for Fossil Fuel and Renewable Energy Stocks|The paper examines whether the moving average (MA) technique can beat random market timing in traditional and newer branches of an industrial sector. The sector considered is the energy sector, divided into balanced stock portfolios of fossil and renewable energy companies. Eight representative firms are selected for both portfolios. The paper finds that MA timing outperforms random timing with the portfolio of renewable energy companies, whereas the result is less clear with the portfolio of fossil energy companies. Thus, there seems to be more forecastable stochastic trends in sunrise branches than in sunset branches.
L71|What is the potential of natural resource based industrialisation in Latin America? An Input-Output analysis of the extractive sectors|Several case studies have analysed the potential of natural resource (NR) based industrialisation, a process based on diversification towards high value-added products, in the Latin American region. However, there is limited evidence on how the development of productive linkages - a key aspect of this strategy - behave at the country level. Based on input-output analysis, this paper provides a clearer picture of the extent and evolution of productive linkages of NR sectors across a sample of middle- and high-income countries in Latin America as well as in other developing and developed regions. The paper focuses on the degree to which extractive industries, i.e. oil, gas, and mining, are connected to the rest of the economy by studying both backward and forward linkages using OECD IO data. It also makes a distinction between local and foreign inputs to account for the level of integration that these sectors have into global value chains and/or import dependence. Furthermore, it tries to identify whether the importance of the extractive sectors in exports and total economic output is related to the level of intersectoral linkages. We find that in most countries intersectoral linkages have become smaller despite the expansion of the extractive sector suggesting a higher level of enclaveness as predicted by the resource curse literature.
L71|Unplanned Purchases and Retail Competition|I propose a framework in which asymmetric multiproduct retailers compete for one-stop shoppers who have biased beliefs about their future purchase probabilities (and so make unplanned purchases). One firm carries a full portfolio of products while the other carries an incomplete but endogenous one. Using this framework, I examine the phenomenon of loss leading, the optimal product portfolio of the smaller firm, and the effects of banning loss leading. Among other results, I show that there is a nonpredatory (and possibly procompetitive) justification for the observation that such larger firms may charge below cost on the core product lines of their smaller rivals.
L71|Supply Flexibility in the Shale Patch: Evidence from North Dakota|We analyse if supply exibility in oil production depends on the extraction technology. In particular, we ask to what extent shale oil producers respond to price incentives by changing completion of new wells as well as oil production from completed wells. Using a novel well-level monthly production data set covering more than 15,000 crude oil wells in North Dakota, we find large differences in response between conventional and unconventional (shale) extraction technology: While shale oil wells respond significantly to spot future spreads by changing both well completion and crude oil production, conventional wells do not. Our results suggest that firms using shale oil technology are more exible in allocating output intertemporally. We interpret such output pattern of shale oil wells to be consistent with the Hotelling theory of optimal extraction.
L71|Kurz zum Klima: Flüssiges Gas auf dem Vormarsch|Erdgas ist der Brennstoff, dessen Verbrauch momentan am schnellsten ansteigt. Besonders Flüssigerdgas hat sich in den letzten Jahren zu einem wichtigen Faktor auf dem weltweiten Energiemarkt entwickelt. Seit 2000 hat sich die globale Nachfrage nach Flüssigerdgas jährlich um 6,6% erhöht, und seine Bedeutung wird in Zukunft noch weiter wachsen.
L71|Estudio sobre el impacto de la actividad petrolera en las regiones productoras de Colombia|El presente informe de investigación: “Estudio sobre el impacto de la actividad petrolera en las regiones productoras de Colombia”, hecho por Fedesarrollo para Ecopetrol, consta de varios productos separados así: Caracterización departamental de Arauca. Caracterización departamental de Casanare. Caracterización departamental de Meta. Caracterización departamental de Putumayo. Análisis de impacto Ejercicios econométricos. Y Proyecciones del PIB departamental y regional 2017-2030 bajo tres escenarios de producción y precios del petróleo.
L71|Costo económico de la inestabilidad y debilidad normativa en la gestión socio-ambiental de los proyectos en los sectores minero-energético, de infraestructura y de telecomunicaciones, en el marco del proyecto Norte Claro|Este estudio estima el costo económico social causado por la incertidumbre en la normativa de los procesos de licenciamiento ambiental y las consultas previas en los sectores de minería, hidrocarburos, energía, telecomunicaciones e infraestructura. Con tal fin, el estudio presenta la interacción entre los agentes involucrados en los procesos de licenciamiento ambiental y consultas previas, y a su vez discute el marco institucional y legal, y describe estudios de caso que ilustran los problemas y los costos reales en los sectores mencionados. Para calcular el costo económico, el estudio modeló diferentes impactos por sector usando un modelo de equilibrio general para distintos escenarios.
L71|Contribución fiscal de la industria extractiva del carbón a las finanzas nacionales y territoriales: avances y retos para el departamento de La Guajira 2000-2016|Los tributos pagados por la operación minera de Cerrejón han crecido sustancialmente, tanto a nivel nacional como territorial, en beneficio de las finanzas nacionales y territoriales. Ello debido principalmente al continuado esfuerzo exportador de la compañía, que le permitió elevar sus exportaciones de aproximadamente 20 a 34 millones de toneladas de carbón entre los años 2000 y 2016. Durante estos años Cerrejón logró exportar a los mercados internacionales 482 millones de toneladas del mineral, con importante incidencia en la balanza comercial del país y en otros indicadores de la economía nacional y regional. No obstante, la correspondiente contribución fiscal derivada de las operaciones de producción y comercio exterior de Cerrejón ha estado afectada por las fluctuaciones de los precios internacionales del mineral, las variaciones de la tasa de cambio y los cambios registrados en las regulaciones tributarias. En especial, la disminución de precios promedio de exportación registrada desde el año 2012 se reflejó en el comportamiento de algunos tributos del orden nacional, como el impuesto de renta pagado por dicha operación minera, y en los pagos de regalías con destino a los fondos del nuevo Sistema General de Regalías conformados mediante Acto Legislativo 05 de 2011, como se explicará en este informe. Además de impuestos y contribuciones, Cerrejón apoya con elevadas inversiones a las comunidades del área de influencia de sus operaciones mediante un conjunto de actividades de responsabilidad social corporativa dirigidas a mejorar el bienestar de las comunidades indígenas, el acceso al agua, la generación de proyectos inclusivos en sectores de bienes y servicios diferentes a la producción de carbón, y el fortalecimiento institucional de las entidades a cargo de la planeación y gestión de la inversión social territorial. En este propósito se han desplegado diversos programas y proyectos a través del Sistema de Fundaciones y del grupo de gestión social de la compañía.
L71|Industrialización y desindustrialización en Venezuela. Un análisis histórico|No abstract is available for this item.
L71|Nonlinear and asymmetric pricing behaviour in the Spanish gasoline market|Over the last decades a transition from a state-own monopoly to a private business took place in the Spanish fuel sector. To figure out whether downstream prices react differently to upstream price increases than to price decreases, alternative dynamic nonlinear and asymmetric error correction models are applied to weekly price data. This paper analyse the existence of price asymmetries in the fuel market in Spain during the 2011–2016 period. In comparison with traditional asymmetric price theory literature, this paper introduces a new double threshold error correction (ECM) model (DT-ECM) and new double logistic ECM models and compares them with more common linear ECM, time varying parameter models (TV-ECM), threshold autoregressive models (T-ECM), smooth transition autoregressive (STAR) models and nonlinear error correction (Logistic-ECM) and double threshold Logistic (DT-Logistic ECM). The asymmetric results found in Spain in the oil sector, show that sophisticated bivariate short-run nonlinearities are present in the gasoline market prices and that those price reactions depend on two main aspects; whether the oil price increases or decreases and on the stage (above of below) of the prices of gasoline relative to their long-run expected crude oil prices (error correction term). Those empirical results are consistent with the economic explanations based on market power-collusion and/or with consumer having search costs.
L71|Climate Protection and a New Operator: The Eastern German Lignite Industry Is Changing|According to the German federal government’s climate protection targets, there will be a continuous reduction of lignite-based electricity well before 2030. Simulations show that the currently authorized lignite mines in eastern Germany would not be fully depleted if the climate protection targets for 2030 were complied with. This makes planning for new mines or the expansion of existing ones superfluous. For the planning security of all the actors involved, policy makers should bindingly exclude permits for additional surface mines. In terms of the follow-up costs of lignite mining, the issue is whether or not the companies’ provisions are high enough and insolvency-proof. In this context, the new ownership structures in the eastern German lignite industry, after Vattenfall’s sale of its lignite division to Czech Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding (EPH), have become a matter of importance. Simulations show that only under optimistic assumptions, the current provisions of 1.5 billion euros for the Lusatian lignite region are sufficient to cover recultivation costs. However, alternative scenarios show significant shortfalls. For this reason, policy makers should work toward independent, transparent cost estimates. Additional measures should be considered as required, such as the creation of a public sector fund to permanently protect the general public against being forced to take on the costs of recultivation. This is also animportant theme for the government’s new Commission on Growth, Structural Change, and Regional Development (Kommission Wachstum, Strukturwandel und Regionalentwicklung). Individual federal states also have key roles to play in the creation of a dependable roadmap for a coal phase-out. For example, the government of Brandenburg is now in the process of revising its energy strategy for 2030 (Energiestrategie 2030).
L71|Klimaschutz und Betreiberwechsel: die ostdeutsche Braunkohlewirtschaft im Wandel|According to the German federal government’s climate protection targets, there will be a gradual “lights out” for lignite-based electricity well before 2030. Simulations show that the currently authorized strip mines in eastern Germany would not be depleted of coal if the climate protection targets for 2030 were complied with. This makes planning for new mines or the expansion of existing ones superfluous. For the planning security of all the actors involved, policy makers should stop granting permits for additional surface mines. In terms of the follow-up costs of lignite mining, the issue is whether or not the companies’ reserves are high enough and immune to insolvency as well. Vattenfall, a major power company that also serves Germany, sold its lignite divi-sion to Czech Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding (EPH) last fall. Given this context, the new ownership structures in the eastern German lignite industry have become a matter of importance. Based on the calculations in the simulation and optimistic assumptions, the current reserves of 1.5 billion euros for the Lusatia region are sufficient to cover recultivation costs. However, alternative scenarios show significant shortfalls. For this reason, policy makers should work toward independent, transparent cost estimates. Additional measures should be considered as required, such as the creation of a public sector fund to permanently protect the population against being forced to takeon the costs of recultivation. This is also an important theme for the government’s new Commission on Growth, Structural Change, and Regional Development (Kommission Wachstum, Strukturwandel und Regionalentwicklung). Individual federal states also have key roles to play in the creation of a dependable roadmap. For example, the government of Brandenburg is now in the process of revising its energy strategy for 2030 (Energiestrategie 2030). Den Klimaschutzzielen der Bundesregierung zufolge muss dieBraunkohleverstromung in Deutschland bereits deutlich vor demJahr 2030 kontinuierlich abnehmen. Simulationen zeigen, dass diebereits genehmigten Tagebaufelder in den ostdeutschen Revierenbei einer Einhaltung der Klimaschutzziele bis 2030 nicht vollständigausgekohlt würden. Pläne für neue bzw. zu erweiterndeTagebaufelder erübrigen sich somit. Um Planungssicherheit für alleAkteure herzustellen, sollte die Politik die Genehmigung weitererTagebaufelder daher verbindlich ausschließen.In Hinblick auf die Folgekosten des Braunkohlebergbaus stelltsich die Frage, ob die Unternehmensrückstellungen hoch genugund insolvenzfest sind. In diesem Zusammenhang sind nach demKauf der Braunkohlesparte von Vattenfall durch die tschechischeEnergeticky a Prumyslovy Holding (EPH) auch die neuen Eigentümerstrukturenin der ostdeutschen Braunkohlewirtschaft vonBedeutung. Simulationsrechnungen zufolge könnten die derzeitigenRückstellungen von 1,5 Milliarden Euro für das LausitzerRevier unter optimistischen Annahmen zur Deckung der Rekultivierungskostenausreichen, in anderen Szenarien könnte es jedoch zudeutlichen Fehlbeträgen kommen. Die Politik sollte daher auf unabhängigeund transparente Kostenschätzungen hinwirken.Bei Bedarf könnten weitere Maßnahmen erfolgen wie etwa dieSchaffung eines öffentlich-rechtlichen Fonds, um die Allgemeinheitdauerhaft vor der ungewollten Übernahme von Rekultivierungslastenzu schützen. Dies ist auch ein wichtiges Thema für die neueKommission „Wachstum, Strukturwandel und Regionalentwicklung“der Bundesregierung. Bei der Erstellung eines verlässlichenFahrplans für den Kohleausstieg kommt zudem einzelnen Bundesländerneine wichtige Rolle zu, derzeit beispielsweise der LandesregierungBrandenburg bei der Überarbeitung ihrer Energiestrategie2030.
L71|The cost of endangered species protection: Evidence from auctions for natural resources|This paper examines the effect that endangered species regulation has on natural resource development. Specifically, we use data from competitive auctions to estimate the effect that land-use regulation protecting endangered caribou in the Canadian province of Alberta has on the price producers pay for the right to extract oil. We exploit a regression discontinuity design to evaluate how prices differ along regulation boundaries that constrain resource development. The auction format and the regulation discontinuity allow us to measure the total cost of the regulation. We find that producers pay 24% less on average for oil leases that are regulated and that the total net present value cost of the regulation exceeds $1.15 billion for leases sold between 2003 and 2012, all of which is borne by the government. In spite of these costs, the populations of endangered caribou remain in widespread decline.
L71|On the comparative advantage of U.S. manufacturing: Evidence from the shale gas revolution|This paper provides novel empirical evidence of the effects of a plausibly exogenous change in relative factor prices on U.S. manufacturing production and trade. The shale gas revolution has led to (very) large and persistent differences in the price of natural gas between the U.S. and the rest of the world reflecting differences in endowment of difficult-to-trade natural gas. Guided by economic theory, empirical tests on output, factor reallocation and international trade are conducted. Results show that U.S. manufacturing exports have grown by about 10% on account of their energy intensity since the onset of the shale revolution. We also document that the U.S. shale revolution is operating both at the intensive and extensive margins.
L71|Volatility Spillovers and Causality of Carbon Emissions, Oil and Coal Spot and Futures for the EU and USA|Recent research shows that the efforts to limit climate change should focus on reducing the emissions of carbon dioxide over other greenhouse gases or air pollutants. Many countries are paying substantial attention to carbon emissions to improve air quality and public health. The largest source of carbon emissions from human activities in some countries in Europe and elsewhere is from burning fossil fuels for electricity, heat, and transportation. The prices of fuel and carbon emissions can influence each other. Owing to the importance of carbon emissions and their connection to fossil fuels, and the possibility of [ 1 ] Granger (1980) causality in spot and futures prices, returns, and volatility of carbon emissions, crude oil and coal have recently become very important research topics. For the USA, daily spot and futures prices are available for crude oil and coal, but there are no daily futures prices for carbon emissions. For the European Union (EU), there are no daily spot prices for coal or carbon emissions, but there are daily futures prices for crude oil, coal and carbon emissions. For this reason, daily prices will be used to analyse Granger causality and volatility spillovers in spot and futures prices of carbon emissions, crude oil, and coal. As the estimators are based on quasi-maximum likelihood estimators (QMLE) under the incorrect assumption of a normal distribution, we modify the likelihood ratio (LR) test to a quasi-likelihood ratio test (QLR) to test the multivariate conditional volatility Diagonal BEKK model, which estimates and tests volatility spillovers, and has valid regularity conditions and asymptotic properties, against the alternative Full BEKK model, which also estimates volatility spillovers, but has valid regularity conditions and asymptotic properties only under the null hypothesis of zero off-diagonal elements. Dynamic hedging strategies by using optimal hedge ratios are suggested to analyse market fluctuations in the spot and futures returns and volatility of carbon emissions, crude oil, and coal prices.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to the balance of payments, banking sector, wage arrears, and industrial development
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to Russian oil and gas sector, regional budgets, agricultural sector, and Russia’s industrial output
L71|Russian oil and gas sector in 2016|The oil and gas sector is among principal sectors of the Russian economy and is the driving force in shaping the state budget revenues and the trade balance. In 2016, Russia’s crude oil production hit an all-time peak since 1990, and crude oil exports were close to an all-time high. Under the so-called tax maneuver in force in the oil industry, refining depth went up noticeably, production and export of fuel oil moved down and export of crude oil, a highly lucrative source of the budget revenues, increased.
L71|Managing energy supply security and gas diversification in Hungary - putting theory into practice|For a long time, gas has been the fuel that Hungary is particularly sensitive to in terms of security of energy supply; thus, gas diversification has become a key issue. However, along with the 2014 decision on the construction of new units at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant (Paks-2), the energy agenda has changed considerably. Paks-2 will have a decisive role in ensuring security of supply, and, in fact, it has already begun to perform a role in energy decisions. This paper aims to assess, on the one hand, the security of the stationary fuel supply in Hungary by applying the conventional three-dimensional approach, encompassing availability, affordability and sustainability, and, on the other, use our own gas diversification scheme to analyse the issue of gas diversification. We find that considerable progress has been made on gas diversification, and Paks-2 can also be included in our diversification scheme as a kind of sectoral diversification option. Prior to the Paks-2 decision, Hungary had followed an upward trajectory for its security of supply, despite certain negative developments. With Paks-2, Hungary’s dependence will both decrease and increase – as new types of risks emerge. There is great uncertainty about Hungary’s energy policies and security of supply, with the role of coal, gas and renewables in the energy/electricity mix still not settled. Their future is expected to be heavily dependent on political decisions rather than energy market factors, though energy market uncertainties are also high.
L71|Inter-Regional Coal Mine Competition in the US: Evidence from Rail Restriction|There has been much discussion recently in the U.S. press about the fate of coal mining and its employees, specifically in the Appalachian region. This analysis looks at how Appalachian coal mining responds to changes in coal production from the Western US, whose mines are generally on federal land. Specifically we look at how an unexpected reduction in the ability to move coal from Wyoming to Eastern power plants in 2005-06 impacted the rate of opening and closure of mines in Appalachia. The findings reveal that restrictions in coal from federal lands leads to a reduction in the rate of Appalachian coal mine closure but no impact on the rate of coal mine openings. The results imply inter-regional coal mine substitution possibilities and shed light on the tradeoffs inherent in policies to encourage production in one region.
L71|Crude by Rail, Option Value, and Pipeline Investment|The U.S. shale boom has profoundly increased crude oil movements by both pipelines–the traditional mode of transportation–and railroads. This paper develops a model of how pipeline investment and railroad use are determined in equilibrium, emphasizing how railroads' flexibility allows them to compete with pipelines. We show that policies that address crude-by-rail's environmental externalities by increasing its costs should lead to large increases in pipeline investment and substitution of oil flows from rail to pipe. Similarly, we find that policies enjoining pipeline construction would cause 80-90% of the displaced oil to flow by rail instead.
L71|The Unconventional Oil Supply Boom: Aggregate Price Response from Microdata|"We analyze the price responsiveness of onshore oil supply from conventional versus new unconventional ""tight"" formations in the United States. We separately analyze three key stages of oil production: drilling wells, completing wells, and production from completed wells. We find that the important margin is drilling investment. We estimate drilling responses of approximately 1.6 percent for tight oil and 1.2 percent for conventional oil per 1 percent change in oil prices. In addition, tight oil wells produce about 4.6 times more oil compared to conventional ones. Together, the long-run price responsiveness of supply is about 6 times larger for tight oil on a per well basis, and about 9 times larger when also accounting for the rise in unconventional-directed drilling. Based on our estimates derived from microdata, we conduct aggregate simulations of incremental oil supply at different time frames and price levels. The simulations show that the U.S. supply response is much larger now due to the shale revolution. Given a price rise to $80 per barrel, U.S. oil production could rise by 0.5 million barrels per day in 6 months, 1.2 million in 1 year, 2 million in 2 years, and 3 million in 5 years. Nonetheless, it takes many months before a substantial portion of the full supply response is online, longer than the 30 to 90 days typically associated with the role of ""swing producer"" such as Saudi Arabia."
L71|Crude Oil Price Differentials and Pipeline Infrastructure|Crude oil production in the United States increased by nearly 80 percent between 2008 and 2016, mostly in areas that were far from existing refining and pipeline infrastructure. The production increase led to substantial discounts for oil producers to reflect the high cost of alternative transportation methods. I show how the expansion of the crude oil pipeline network reduced oil price differentials, which fell from a mean state-level difference of $10 per barrel in 2011 to about $1 per barrel in 2016. Using data for the Permian Basin, I estimate that the elimination of pipeline constraints increased local prices by between $6 and $11 per barrel. Slightly less than 90 percent of this gain for oil producers was a transfer from existing oil refiners and shippers. Refiners did not pass on these higher costs to consumers in the form of higher gasoline prices.
L71|OPEC, Saudi Arabia, and the shale revolution: Insights from equilibrium modelling and oil politics|Why did OPEC not cut oil production in the wake of 2014's price fall? This study aims at aiding the mostly qualitative discussion with quantitative evidence from computing quarterly partial market equilibria Q4 2011 – Q4 2015 under present short-term profit maximisation and different competition setups. Although the model performs reasonably well in explaining pre-2014 prices, all setups fail to capture low prices, which fall even beyond perfect competition outcomes. This result is robust with respect to large variations in cost parameters. Rejecting present short-term profit maximisation, as well as a qualitative discussion of Saudi Arabian politics and the shale oil revolution, lead to the conclusion that the price drop of 2014-16 was most plausibly the result of an attempt to defend market shares and to test for shale oil resilience, besides being fuelled by other factors such as rising competitiveness of alternative technologies. Although shale oil might have increased competition permanently (as supported by model results), the agreement of December 2016 should not be misunderstood as an OPEC defeat.
L71|Characteristics, causes, and price effects: Empirical evidence of intraday Edgeworth cycles|Edgeworth cycles represent the leading concept to explain observed pricing patterns on retail gasoline markets and have been subject to numerous empirical investigations on an interday level. In this paper, I present unique evidence of the presence, causes, and price effects of intraday Edgeworth-type cycles for an entire OECD country, using high-frequency price data from German gasoline stations. I find vast evidence of intraday cycles across municipalities in Germany. Cycle asymmetry and intensity is stronger in more concentrated markets and decreases with a higher share of non-major brands. My analysis suggests that intraday cycles are a sign of competition with a price decreasing effect during evening hours, where consumers conscious of their purchase timing can benefit most.
L71|Selling gasoline as a by-product: The impact of market structure on local prices|We use a novel data set with exact price quotes from virtually all German gasoline stations to empirically investigate how a temporary variance in local market structure - induced by restricted opening hours of specific players - affects price competition. We focus on stations selling gasoline as a by-product and find that, during their exogenously determined hours of opening, they have a significant negative price effect on nearby major-brand competitors. Applying a difference-in-difference framework with hourly average prices, our findings explicitly account for counterfactual market scenarios.
L71|Crucial Materials? How Export Restrictions Upstream Boost Manufacturing Exports Downstream|This paper shows both theoretically and empirically how raw material rich countries use export restrictions upstream to give manufacturing sectors downstream a competitive advantage. For young and relatively small industries this can be seen as a type of infant industry protection that takes advantage of the global value chain. Estimating a fixed effect model, I provide evidence that export restrictions on industrial raw materials upstream help promote manufacturing exports downstream.
L71|The Housing Market Impacts of Shale Gas Development: Corrigendum|No abstract is available for this item.
L71|Does Tax-Collection Invariance Hold? Evasion and the Pass-Through of State Diesel Taxes|In simple models, the incidence of a tax is independent of the identity of the remitting party. We illustrate that this prediction fails to hold if opportunities for evasion differ across economic agents. Second, we estimate how the incidence of state diesel taxes varies with the point of collection, where the remitting party varies across states and over time. Moving tax collection upstream from retailers substantially raises the pass-through of diesel taxes to consumers. Furthermore, tax revenues increase when collecting taxes from wholesalers rather than from retailers, suggesting that evasion is the likely explanation for the incidence result. (JEL H22, H25, H26, H71, L71)
L71|The housing market impacts of wastewater injection induced seismicity risk|Using data from a county severely affected by the increased seismicity associated with injection wells since 2009 in Oklahoma, we recover hedonic estimates of property value impacts from nearby shale oil and gas development that vary with earthquake risk exposure. Results suggest that the seismic activity has enhanced the perceived risks associated with wastewater injection but not shale gas production. This risk perception is limited to injection wells within 2 km of the properties.
L71|Price asymmetries in the European gasoline market|Building on the well-established “rockets and feathers” literature, and on the recently developed nonlinear autoregressive distributed lag (NARDL) modelling, we investigate the asymmetries in gasoline pricing on a comprehensive sample of monthly data from twelve Eurozone countries running from 1994:1 to 2014:12. The empirical results feature two robust patterns. Firstly, while the effects of exchange rate variations display a positive asymmetry (i.e., devaluations have a greater impact with respect to revaluations), crude price variations induce negative asymmetry (i.e., reductions in the price of crude oil have a greater impact than price rises). Secondly, the positive asymmetry to exchange rate changes is much stronger in core Eurozone countries. The negative asymmetry with respect to crude oil prices confirms the results of recent empirical research and theoretical models.
L71|Where are natural gas prices heading, and what are the environmental consequences for Latin America?|There was an upward trend in energy commodity prices since 2000, but with the surge in supply coming from unconventional oil and gas resources in North and South America, the trend in natural gas prices has become downward in recent years. However, the exploitation of these resources is generating public concerns due to the possible adverse environmental impacts of using hydraulic fracturing and other techniques on underground water. The purpose of this paper is to address the following questions: are there super cycles in natural gas prices? What are the environmental consequences in Latin America of the exploitation of unconventional gas given the cyclical behavior of gas prices and how can governments implement environmental policies to regulate unconventional gas extraction? Three super cycles in natural gas prices are identified with the last peak occurring in 2006. Our analysis indicates that the instable political situation and institutional weakness, the governmental intervention through asset nationalization and state-owned oil companies, the lack of transparent investment rules, high capital expenditures to develop LNG export projects and the exploration of shale resources, as well as the pre-salt discoveries in Brazil make uncertain that the shale gas boom achieve a large impact in Latin America during the current gas price super cycle.
L71|Impactos Económicos Regionales del “Shale Gas” en la Reforma Energética de México|El estudio tiene como objetivo estimar los impactos económicos de algunos aspectos de la Reforma Energética de 2013 en el Noreste de México, particularmente los relacionados con los recursos de gas de esquisto (lutitas) o de “shale gas”. En específico, el reporte presenta estimaciones preliminares de los efectos de los nuevos proyectos de construcción y operación de gasoductos en la región Noreste. Para medir dichos impactos se construyeron matrices insumo-producto y de contabilidad social regionales. Para ello, se partió de las matrices nacionales del Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía para el año 2012. Al análisis tradicional de insumo-producto se le ha añadido información de cuentas sociales que presentan las transacciones no sólo entre sectores industriales sino que además incluyen a instituciones como los hogares, las sociedades y los trabajadores por cuenta propia.
L71|Gasoline and Diesel Tax Incidence: The 2003 Washington State Nickel Funding Package|This paper considers a previously unexamined increase in excise taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel that were part of Washington State’s Nickel Funding Package of 2003. We fail to reject full pass-through of the amount of the tax increase to retail prices in both products. We find no significant sensitivity of retail pass-through to station locations relative to state borders or to retail competitive conditions as measured by local station density. The expansion of hypermarkets in Washington State during the period was a confounding factor in estimating tax pass-through effects.
L71|Preisgarantien im Kraftstoffmarkt|Der vorliegende Aufsatz untersucht die Auswirkungen der von einigen Mineralölunternehmen gewährten Preisgarantien auf die Benzinpreise. Auf Grundlagen der Daten der Markttransparenzstelle des Bundeskartellamtes wurde anhand einer Differenz-von-Differenzen Analyse untersucht, ob die insbesondere von Shell gewährten Preisgarantien eine preiserhöhende Wirkung haben. Es zeigt sich, dass in den Gebieten um die Shell-Tankstellen die Preise nach Einführung der Preisgarantien signifikant angestiegen sind.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L71|Investissements directs étrangers et industrialisation de l’Afrique : un nouveau regard|This article uses data from fifty-three African countries to discuss the contribution of foreign direct investment (FDI) to the industrialization of the continent. The study period is 1975-2014. The estimation technique is based on the generalized method of moments in system. The results show that?: (i) FDI contributes significantly to the added value of industry to GDP but does not contribute to industrial employment?; (ii) the positive and significant effect was observed in four sub regions except East Africa?; (iii) using a composite index of industrialization, the contribution of FDI is very high. From these results, two main recommendations of economic policies are proposed. The first is to strengthen private investment in order to increase its participation in the structural transformation of the continent. The second is to build specific indicators of the industrialization of Africa. JEL Codes: E23, F21, F41, L71, L73, L74
L71|OPEC vs US shale oil: Analyzing the shift to a market-share strategy|In November 2014, OPEC announced a new strategy geared towards improving its market share. Oil-market analysts interpreted this as an attempt to squeeze higher-cost producers, notably US shale oil, out of the market. Over the next year, crude oil prices crashed, with large repercussions for the global economy. We present a simple equilibrium model that explains the fundamental market factors that can rationalize such a “regime switch” by OPEC. These include: (i) the growth of US shale oil production; (ii) the slowdown of global oil demand; (iii) reduced cohesiveness of the OPEC cartel; (iv) production ramp-ups in other non-OPEC countries. We show that these qualitative predictions are broadly consistent with oil market developments during 2014-15. The model is calibrated to oil market data; it predicts accommodation up to 2014 and a market-share strategy thereafter, and explains large oil-price swings as well as realistically high levels of OPEC output.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L71|The Outlook for U.S. Production of Shale Oil: Working Paper 2016-01|This paper describes an approach to modeling U.S. production of energy from shale resources and the outlook for that production. Production is insensitive to the price of oil in the short run but quite responsive within two to three years.
L71|Fracking: the boost to US manufacturing|Research by Rabah Arezki, Thiemo Fetzer and Frank Pisch shows that the surge in shale gas production - 'fracking' - since the early 2000s has not only made the United States the world's largest producer of natural gas. It has also given a big boost to output, employment, and exports in US manufacturing, particularly in energy-intensive industries. Their study finds that energy prices for US manufacturing firms have plummeted due to fracking, especially relative to Europe. Lower input costs for energy-intensive US industries have made them more globally competitive. What's more, the shale gas boom helped the US economy to recover faster after the financial crisis.
L71|Contribución fiscal de la operación minera de El Cerrejón a las finanzas públicas y situación fiscal de las entidades territoriales de su área de influencia en el departamento de La Guajira 2000-2014|El estudio analiza la evolución de los tributos pagados por la operación minera de El Cerrejón a la Nación, el departamento de La Guajira y los municipios que hacen parte de su área de influencia. Adicionalmente, describe la situación de las finanzas públicas del departamento y de los Índices de Desempeño Fiscal e Integral para los 5 municipios del área de influencia de la operación minera. Por último, presenta las tendencias de la inversión social en La Guajira, con énfasis en las inversiones financiadas con recursos del Sistema General de Regalías –SGR, y detalla algunos mecanismos jurídico-institucionales que contribuirían a financiar, priorizar y coordinar esfuerzos de inversión social en el departamento.
L71|A Model of the International Steam Coal Market (COALMOD-World)|Coal is at the core of the debate about climate change mitigation policies, yet the internationalmarket for it is not well represented in most energy models. This paper presents the COALMODframework which is a model of the international steam coal market that can be readily used toexplore implications of climate policies, but also to analyze market structure or to investigate issue ofsupply security. It features a detailed representation of both domestic and international steam coalsupply, based on endogenously calculated Cost, Insurance, Fright (CIF) costs, and prices that take intoaccount additional rents. It features endogenous investment into production, land transport, andexport capacity, as well as an endogenous mechanism assessing production cost increase due toresource depletion. We provide a detailed model and data description and illustrate the features ofthe model by analyzing to scenarios derived from the IEA World Energy Outlook (New Policies and450ppm scenario), highlighting the functionalities of the model.
L71|North American natural gas model: Impact of cross-border trade with Mexico|Natural gas gained significant attention due to its low carbon emissions and competitive prices in North America relative to other energy sources. The Annual Energy Outlook 2015 projects the U.S. as a net exporter by 2017. Recently, Mexico launched its energy reform, aiming to expand domestic production by opening the market to private investors. The success or failure of these policy changes will impact the development of the natural gas market in North America.
L71|Mitigating Environmental and Public-Safety Risks of United States Crude-by-Rail Transport|We present a medium-term market equilibrium model of the North American crude oil sector via which we develop a scenario analysis to investigate strategies to mitigate the environmental and public-safety risks from crude-by-rail transportation across the United States. The model captures crude oil movements across rail- roads, pipelines and waterways, while distinguishing between light and heavy crude qualities. We find that restricting rail loads or increasing pipeline capacity from areas driving production will significantly reduce rail movements. However, lifting the United States crude oil export ban in isolation will only increase rail transportation volumes. We show that an integrated policy of targeted rail caps, pipeline investments and lifting the export ban sustainably addresses medium-term crude-by-rail risks in the United States.
L71|Economic Problems of Exploring Hydrocarbons in Russian Northern Provinces in the Context of International Interests|The goal of the article is to analyze the present state and perspectives of exploring gas and oil resources of the Russian North in the context of economic interests of a number of foreign countries, to reveal both common things in interests of the both parties, and inconsistencies that must be aligned. The methodology of the research is based on the system approach to estimating the state of gas and oil resources of the Russian North and comprehensive analysis of aligning economic interests of Russia and a number of foreign countries. A complex of general scientific and special methods of research was used, including abstract-logical, balance, statistical analysis and others. The article shows that the Russian North is extremely rich in gas and oil resources that are both currently exploited and promising for reclaiming especially on the shelf of Arctic seas. It analyzes reasons of the decrease in the gas and oil production in the country that has occurred over recent years. It is caused by the fall of the demand for hydrocarbons in the world, sectoral sanctions, and the decrease in the production of the mineral resources base. Gas and oil resources of Russia fall within the interests of a number of foreign countries, mainly West European countries for which stable provision of the economy with raw hydrocarbons becomes one of the most important strategic tasks. Long-term economic interests of Russia coincide with the interests of the European Union (EU), however, not fully. The authors come to the conclusion that in case of supplying hydrocarbons economic interests of Russia and EU countries must be aligned not only in terms of searching for mutually profitable forms of cooperation but also solving basic inconsistencies that lie in the basis of opinions discrepancies.
L71|Energy Imports, Geoeconomics, and Regional Coordination: The Case of Germany and Poland in the Baltic Energy System - Close Neighbours, Close(r) Cooperation?|When the Baltic Sea region is included in debates concerning European energy policy, the focus often lies on the transit of natural gas. However, this focus on gas transit is too narrow to fully grasp the region as a wider element within the complex fabric of the European energy system. This article therefore approaches the energy system of the Baltic Sea region in a holistic manner and discusses flows of natural gas, oil, coal, and electricity. Against this backdrop, the article presents and discusses the energy supply and demand situation of the Baltic Sea littoral states. Focussing strictly on the Baltic Sea region in a narrow geographical sense allows a detailed visualisation of energy flows between individual countries. From a geoeconomic perspective, the article then analyses and compares the positions of Germany and Poland in the regional energy system; furthermore, scenarios concerning the effect of Polish and German national energy policies on regional energy flows are presented and discussed. As most European countries are energy importers, this discussion focuses on the effect of national policies on energy imports and their impact on the regional energy system. Based on this discussion, the article evaluates the geoeconomic implications of these scenarios for Poland and Germany and the prospects for better aligning the two countries’ national energy policies
L71|Assessing market structures in resource markets — An empirical analysis of the market for metallurgical coal using various equilibrium models|The prevalent market structures found in many resource markets consist of high concentration on the supply side and low demand elasticity. Market results are therefore frequently assumed to be an outcome of strategic interaction between producers. Common models to investigate the market outcomes and underlying market structures are games representing competitive markets, strategic Cournot competition and Stackelberg structures that take into account a dominant player acting first followed by one or more players. We add to the literature by expanding the application of mathematical models and applying an Equilibrium Problem with Equilibrium Constraints (EPEC), which is used to model multi-leader–follower games, to a spatial market. Using our model, we investigate the prevalent market setting in the international market for metallurgical coal between 2008 and 2010, whose market characteristics provide arguments for a wide variety of market structures. Using different statistical measures to compare model results with actual market outcomes, we find that two previously neglected settings perform best: First, a setting in which the four largest metallurgical coal exporting firms compete against each other as Stackelberg leaders, while the remainders act as Cournot followers. Second, a setting with BHPB acting as sole Stackelberg leader.
L71|An analysis of the driving factors of energy-related CO2 emission reduction in China from 2005 to 2013|The identification of the driving factors of China's energy-related emissions in the past years is very important to inform the policy design for China's future emission mitigations. Although this topic has been widely discussed in the literature, this paper provides the most recent overall estimation of the emission mitigation factors from both the production side and the consumption side taking into account China's recent energy and economic transformation. This study adopts China's most recent revised energy and economic data from 2005 to 2013 and analyzes it with a logarithmic mean Divisia index (LMDI) decomposition model. We find that the primary emission mitigation contributor is the improvement of energy productivity in the industry sectors, which contributes 72% of the total reduction; household contributes 8.3%. The economic transitions in 2013 are still in an early stage, and the expected economic structure effect is moderately on emission reduction. In the future, China needs to improve the energy productivity in production sectors further by both enforcing energy conservation and promoting industry upgrading. Economic restructure will play a more important role in future emission reduction.
L71|Imperfect cartelization in OPEC|A model of global oil production is applied to study cartelization by OPEC countries. We define a measure for the degree of cooperation, analogous to the market conduct parameter of Cyert et al. (1973), Geroski et al. (1987), Lofaro (1999), and Symeonidis (2000). This parameter is used to assess the incentives of different OPEC members to collude. We find that heterogeneity in OPEC and the supplies of the non-OPEC fringe create strong incentives against collusion. More specifically, OPEC's supply strategy, although observed to be substantially more restrictive than that of a Cournot–Nash oligopoly, is found to still be more accommodative than that of a perfect cartel. The strategy involves allocating larger than proportionate quotas to smaller and relatively costlier producers, as if to bribe their participation in the cartel. This is in contrast to predictions of the standard cartel model that such producers should be allocated relatively more stringent quotas. Furthermore, we demonstrate that cartel collusion is more likely to be sustained for elastic than for inelastic demand. Since global oil demand is well known to be inelastic, this observation provides another structural explanation for why OPEC behavior is inconsistent with that of a perfect cartel. Our study points to multiple headwinds that limit OPEC's ability to mark up the oil price.
L71|The effect of coal combustion byproducts on price discrimination by upstream industries|Price discrimination is often difficult to disentangle from price dispersion due to a lack of transaction level data capable of tracking sales from individual companies to quantifiably heterogeneous groups of consumers. This paper uses mine-mouth prices and transportation prices paid by regulated coal-fired power plants in the U.S. coal market during the time period 2009–2010 to study how coal mines and transportation companies practice price discrimination against electricity plants. Power plants with heterogeneous demand for coal are perfectly identified based upon their ability to market flue-gas desulfurization (FGD) gypsum, which is a byproduct produced from scrubbing SO2 emissions. Because sulfur is the raw material for FGD gypsum byproduct production, gypsum sellers are anticipated to have a more inelastic demand for high-sulfur coal. Results indicate that coal mines and transporters charge higher prices to gypsum sellers in comparison to non-sellers for transactions originating at the same mine during the same month of the same year. Coal-fired power plants capable of selling FGD gypsum byproducts are estimated to pay a 10.3–39.6¢/MMBtu price premium for coal. Coal mines and transportation companies each capture a relatively equal share of the associated rents.
L71|Did China's coal mine regulation positively affect economic growth?|In response to high mortality rates and low productivity in coal mining, China began regulating coal mines in the 1990s, reshaping its coal economy. We investigate the relationship between coal mine regulation and economic growth. Using the difference-in-difference approach to compare the pre- and post-regulation periods as well as regions heavily and lightly affected by regulation, we find that regulation positively affects a regional economy. Results are illustrated by estimations that use mortality rates in coal mining as a proxy for measuring regulation quality. Regulation effects are not limited to the intra-coal industry but also apply to spillover by relieving the crowding-out effects of coal abundance.
L71|Capturing rents from natural resource abundance: Private royalties from U.S. onshore oil & gas production|We study how much private mineral owners capture geologically-driven advantages in well productivity through a higher royalty rate. Using proprietary data from nearly 1.8 million leases, we estimate that the six major shale plays generated $39 billion in private royalties in 2014. There is limited pass-through of resource abundance into royalty rates. A doubling of the ultimate recovery of the average well in a county increases the average royalty rate by 1–2 percentage points (a 6–11 percent increase). Thus, mineral owners benefit from resource abundance primarily through a quantity effect, not through negotiating better lease terms from extraction firms. The low pass-through likely reflects a combination of firms exercising market power in private leasing markets and uncertainty over the value of resource endowments.
L71|Prediction of Gas Concentration Based on the Opposite Degree Algorithm|In order to study the dynamic changes in gas concentration, to reduce gas hazards, and to protect and improve mining safety, a new method is proposed to predict gas concentration, based on the opposite degree algorithm. A priori and a posteriori values, opposite degree computation, opposite space, prior matrix, and posterior matrix are 6 basic concepts of the opposite degree algorithm. Several opposite degree numerical formulae to calculate the opposite degrees between gas concentration data and gas concentration data trends can be used to predict empirical results. The opposite degree numerical computation (OD-NC) algorithm has greater accuracy than several common prediction methods, such as RBF (Radial Basis Function) and GRNN (General Regression Neural Network). The prediction mean relative errors of RBF, GRNN and OD-NC are 7.812%, 5.674% and 3.284%, respectively. The simulation experiments show that the OD-NC algorithm is feasible and effective in practice.
L71|OPEC vs US shale oil: Analyzing the shift to a market-share strategy|In November 2014, OPEC announced a new strategy geared towards improving its market share. Oil-market analysts interpreted this as an attempt to squeeze higher-cost producers, notably US shale oil, out of the market. Over the next year, crude oil prices crashed, with large repercussions for the global economy. We present a simple equilibrium model that explains the fundamental market factors that can rationalize such a “regime switch” by OPEC. These include: (i) the growth of US shale oil production; (ii) the slowdown of global oil demand; (iii) reduced cohesiveness of the OPEC cartel; (iv) production ramp-ups in other non-OPEC countries. We show that these qualitative predictions are broadly consistent with oil market developments during 2014-15. The model is calibrated to oil market data; it predicts accommodation up to 2014 and a market-share strategy thereafter, and explains large oil-price swings as well as realistically high levels of OPEC output.
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown.
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown. .
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, demand for foreign assets, regional development, state of Russian enterprises
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to federal finances, export, import, agro-industrial complex, and regional development
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, demand for foreign assets, regional development, state of Russian enterprises
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to macroeconomic forecast, monetary policy, gas and oil sector, Russian exports, and food embargo
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to Brexit and its impact on world economy, Russian exports, Russian industry, social sphere
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to price growth, export and import,
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to oil and gas sector, monetary policy, regional budgets, oil product output
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown.
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown.
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, income and spending of the people at large, export and import of Russia, investment and industrial growth slowdown. .
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, demand for foreign assets, regional development, state of Russian enterprises
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to federal finances, export, import, agro-industrial complex, and regional development
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to inflation and currency market, demand for foreign assets, regional development, state of Russian enterprises
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to macroeconomic forecast, monetary policy, gas and oil sector, Russian exports, and food embargo
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to Brexit and its impact on world economy, Russian exports, Russian industry, social sphere
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to price growth, export and import
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to oil and gas sector, monetary policy, regional budgets, oil product output
L71|Oil and Gas Sector in Russia in 2015|Oil and gas industry remains the basic sector of Russian economy playing the key role in shaping the state budget revenues and the country’s trade balance. In 2015, the oil sector’s development was marked by positive dynamics. Due to investments made in the previous years, the crude oil production in Russia has reached peak levels since 1990 and crude oil export hit all time maximum. Restructuring of the oil sector taxation system has been launched. The reform envisages significant reduction of the economic role of export duties. Low global crude oil prices together with financial and technological sanctions imposed on Russia have hampered the development of this sector.
L71|Inter-Fuel Competition In Electric Power Generation: Coal Or Natural Gas|One of the most disputable aspects of Russia’s energy markets reform is the feasibility of achieving grid parity between diﬀerent energy sources, of their socalled inter-fuel compe on level indices. Thus, in particular, one of the possible future components of the Russian market for natural gas can be the inter-fuel compe on level reached by natural gas and coal in electric power generation. The results of a simpliﬁed analysis of current electric energy gen era on costs demonstrate that at present, natural gas has a huge competitive advantage over coal in electric power genera on. At the same me, medium-term moderate growth of prices of natural gas in the domes c market will not result in a switchover, by electric power producers, from natural gas to coal.
L71|Межтопливная Конкуренция В Электрогенерации: Уголь Или Газ|Одним из аспектов реформирования энергетических рынков в России, вызывающим наибольшие дискуссии, является целесообразность достижения определенных ценовых паритетов между различными источниками энергии, условно называемыми уровнями межтопливной конкуренции. В частности, одним из возможных будущих элементов российского рынка газа является достижение уровня межтопливной конкуренции между газом и углем в электрогенерации. Результаты упрощенного анализа текущих затрат на производство электроэнергии говорят о том, что в настоящее время природный газ значительно более конкурентоспособен, чем уголь при производстве электроэнергии. При этом умеренный рост цен на природный газ на внутреннем рынке в среднесрочной перспективе не приведет к замещению газа углем со стороны производителей электроэнергии.
L71|Market Power and Collusion on Interconnection Phone Market in Tunisia : What Lessons from International Experiences|"We try in this paper to characterize the state of mobile phone market in Tunisia. Our study is based on a survey of foreign experience (Europe) in detecting collusive behavior and a comparison of the critical threshold of collusion between operators in developing countries like Tunisia. The market power is estimated based on the work of Parker Roller (1997) and the assumption of ""Balanced Calling Pattern"". We use then the model of Friedman (1971) to compare the critical threshold of collusion. We show that the “conduct parameter” measuring the intensity of competition is not null during the period 1993-2011. Results show also that collusion is easier on the Tunisian market that on the Algerian, Jordanian, or Moroccan one."
L71|Dynamic fuel price pass-through: Evidence from a new global retail fuel price database|We estimate the dynamic effects of crude oil price shocks on retail fuel prices, the pass-through, using the local projection approach of Jordà (2005). Using a novel monthly dataset of retail fuel prices in 162 countries over the period from 2000:1 to 2014:12, we find that: (i) retail gasoline prices respond positively to crude oil price shocks, but the responses vary across regions and income groups; (ii) there is also some variation across country groups in the persistence of the effects of crude oil price shocks on retail gasoline prices; and (iii) declines in crude oil prices lead to smaller effects on retail gasoline prices than increases in crude oil prices, pointing to an asymmetry in the fuel price pass-through.
L71|Social and economic impact analysis of Vadinar refinery of Essar oil: The Case of a mega refinery|The paper is a case study of Vadinar refinery in Gujarat. It examines the costs and benefits associated with one of the world's mega refinery projects highlighting the welfare impacts on society. The paper briefly examines whether refining at Vadinar by Essar is of net economic benefit to the region, state and the country by constructing a Social Cost Benefit Analysis of the Vadinar Refinery Project. The paper analyses the local-level economic impacts (on-site labor impacts, local revenue and supply chain impacts and induced impacts) and jobs supported by Vadinar refinery construction and ongoing operations. The paper also analyses the regional (state and country) level economic impacts; multiplier effect of income, tax and savings generated as a result of the refinery operations, including other externalities associated with the project. There is abundance of scope to reflect the strategic food and oil security of India from the macroeconomic perspective; the gradual increase in investor and consumer confidence with respect to self-reliance in production and consumption of oil and natural gas resources in the country and the broader social impact of the project, which may be taken up in subsequent research. A sequel to this paper will explore an approach to integrating the methods with a CGE model framework.
L71|Central and East European diversification under new gas market conditions|The Russo–Ukrainian gas crisis of January 2009 encouraged Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) to diversify away from Russian gas supplies and new gas market conditions have afforded some opportunities for doing so. This paper assesses these achievements, as well as factors preventing CEE countries from benefiting therefrom. The paper addresses four main areas of CEE diversification: (1) gas demand, (2) domestic gas production, (3) transit, as well as (4) gas supply and physical infrastructure for source diversification. There is great variation in the degree of dependence on gas, gas imports, Russian gas and transit countries, across the CEE states. Some progress has been made in diversifying, but the degree of progress and the patterns vary significantly from country to country. Due to long-term gas import commitments and the lack of available import capacity, CEE countries can take only limited advantage of changed gas market conditions. But some countries have genuinely benefited from ongoing developments. Transit-avoidance pipelines can also increase security of supply for CEE consumers by providing the opportunity to arbitrage across gas transit corridors. Despite many criticisms, the EU has taken steps that may help mitigate Russian influence.
L71|Exploring the life of price responses in fuel markets. Mean group data or mean group estimator?|Empirical studies on vertical price transmission in retail fuel markets commonly use mean group data of petrol stations. In this paper a simulation approach is employed to illustrate that, in this case, the persistence of price responses tends to be overestimated. To explore the real extent of the problem, we apply the mean group (MG) and the mean group with common correlated effects (MG-CCE) estimators to individual data from petrol stations. When heterogeneity in the price-setting dynamics is captured by MG and MG-CCE estimators, persistence of retail price responses becomes considerably lower than the typical OLS estimations from mean group data would suggest.
L71|Eu – Russia And The Energy Dimension Of The Eastern Partnership|The Energy Union Strategy, launched in February 2015, is a vast project aiming at identifying a set of common responses to a series of present and future challenges in the field of energy. The question of energy security occupies a central position in EU’s relationships with its neighbours. In this context, economic and political ties with the Russian Federation in its role of major supplier of energy resources to EU member states are of crucial importance. Acquiring a higher degree of independence from the Russian supply of natural gas has been proclaimed as a national priority by several ex-Soviet republics. Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia have recently signed Association Agreements with the EU. We look into the early stages of the implementation of AA’s and analyse their consequences on the EU – Russia relations in the energy field. A series of common characteristics and possible developments in the field of energy are analysed.
L71|Long-term petroleum product supply analysis through a robust modelling approach|Linear programming approach to economic modelling of petroleum refining has important shortcomings that make it less useful and less robust for the purposes of impact assessments of related policies. These have to do with its natural inability to calibrate observed data and obtaining jumpy responses of the decision variables to smooth exogenous shocks due to the large number of substitutions between the refining processes. Relying on positive mathematical programming literature, in this paper we propose a method that solves these issues. The main idea is that a refining model has to have a non-linear objective function via inclusion of an implicit total cost function that captures the aggregated impact of all other relevant factors that are not explicitly modelled. We discuss in some detail the issues relevant for practical implementation of the proposed approach for interested practitioners.
L71|Corporate takeovers in the US oil and gas sector|We examine corporate takeovers in the U.S. oil and gas sector from 1990 to 2008. We test the hypotheses that energy prices and reserves influence takeovers in the energy market for corporate control. We employ these methods: 1. capital asset pricing model, 2. regression analysis, and 3. Granger causality test. Our results show that oil reserves cause takeover deals and affect the value of the merger. High oil prices propel management to acquire oil firms as well as affect the target value. However, the reverse cause-effect mechanism occurs for natural gas prices. That is, takeover activity causes gas prices to decrease. Acquirers are motivated to purchase reserves; whereas, targets are disposed to sell based on energy prices. Hence, our findings imply that countries can consider policies, which address the motivations of the oil and gas industries to facilitate well-functioning takeover markets.
L71|Bayesian Learning and Regulatory Deterrence: Evidence from Oil and Gas Production|This paper proposes a Bayesian learning model of regulatory enforcement. Firms exert compliance effort based on their belief about a regulator's effort level. Firms use regulatory actions to learn about the regulator and update their own compliance efforts accordingly. This theoretical model suggests that deterrence will be most effective when regulators have discretion or when firms are inexperienced. Econometric analysis of inspections of Pennsylvania oil and gas wells supports these hypothesis. This work provides a causal mechanism for the commonly observed phenomenon of general deterrence in which regulatory actions towards one firm lead other fims to increase their own compliance.
L71|Interfirm Learning Economies in Drilling and Environmental Safety|This paper examines interfirm learning economies in improving productivity and environmental safety in Bakken oil drilling. We distinguish between firms accruing match-specific relationship capital, idiosyncratic match quality, and learning about match quality. We find some evidence that firms do accrue relationship-specific capital which improves firm productivity. However, we do not find evidence that firm or interfirm learning leads to increased environmental safety. We do find evidence that idiosyncratic match quality leads to both higher productivity and improved environmental safety.
L71|Trophy Hunting vs. Manufacturing Energy: The Price-Responsiveness of Shale Gas|We analyze the relative price elasticity of unconventional versus conventional natural gas extraction. We separately analyze three key stages of gas production: drilling wells, completing wells, and producing natural gas from the completed wells. We find that the important margin is drilling investment, and neither production from existing wells nor completion times respond strongly to prices. We estimate a long-run drilling elasticity of 0.7 for both conventional and unconventional sources. Nonetheless, because unconventional wells produce on average 2.7 times more gas per well than conventional ones, the long-run price responsiveness of supply is almost 3 times larger for unconventional compared to conventional gas.
L71|Determinants of Russian Retail Petroleum Prices|We study the relationship between petroleum products consumer prices and the cost of their production (such as price of oil) in the Russian market. The hypothesis of the presence of asymmetry in the reaction of oil product prices in response to changes in world oil prices is tested. Point of equilibrium of supply and demand at the regional level is modelled. We also study the effect of spatial factors that reflect the peculiarities of the Russian market (the presence of vertically integrated companies and their interactions) on behavior of the petroleum products prices, as well as the effects of antitrust investigations. It is shown that supply factors of alternative sources (mini-refineries, imports, deliveries through pipelines, etc.) have a significant, albeit lesser effect on the Russian petroleum products retail prices along with the characteristics of VIC's (vertically integrated company) supply and costs. No clear evidence of the asymmetry of the reaction of oil product prices in response to changes in world oil prices was found. The reason appear to be related to the spatial inhomogeneity of the Russian petroleum products market.
L71|Where are natural gas prices heading, and which are the environmental consequences for Latin America?|There was an upward trend in energy commodity prices since 2000, but with the surge in supply coming from unconventional oil and gas resources in North and South America, the trend in natural gas prices has become downward in recent years. However, the exploitation of these resources is generating public concerns due to the possible adverse environmental impacts of using hydraulic fracturing and other techniques on underground water. The purpose of this paper is to address the following questions: are there super cycles in natural gas prices? What are the environmental consequences in Latin America of the exploitation of unconventional gas given the cyclical behavior of gas prices and how can governments implement environmental policies to regulate unconventional gas extraction? Three super cycles in natural gas prices are identified with the last peak occurring in 2006. Our analysis indicates that the instable political situation and institutional weakness, the governmental intervention through asset nationalization and state-owned oil companies, the lack of transparent investment rules, high capital expenditures to develop LNG export projects and the exploration of shale resources, as well as the pre-salt discoveries in Brazil make uncertain that the shale gas boom achieve a large impact in Latin American during the current gas price super cycle.
L71|Unconventional Gas and Oil Development in the United States: Economic Experience and Policy Issues|This paper examines the economic experience of past energy booms and that of current unconventional shale gas and oil development. We focus on key economic characteristics of gas and oil production such as its employment potential, its geography, and its boom-bust nature. This background is used to discuss important economic policy issues arising with unconventional oil and gas development such as taxation, governmental use of those revenues, preemption, and equity in the distribution of costs and benefits. The paper concludes with economic policy recommendations for states and communities affected by such development including not viewing oil and gas development as an effective long-run economic development strategy, leveraging short-run financial gains from the development into permanent advantages, and strengthening the capacity for local governments to understand and manage this activity.
L71|Volatilité des cours des produits miniers et vulnérabilité de l’économie: est-ce que la croissance économique va s’essouffler en RDC?<BR>[Volatility of the prices of the mining products and vulnerability of the economy: will the economic growth be blown in RDC?]|Inspired of the decrease of the prices of oil between January 2014 and January 2016, this article wonders about the capacity of resilience of the congolese economy in relation to the decrease of the mining product prices noticed since June 2015. The econometric analysis teaches that that a decrease of 10% of the export returns entails a reduction of the growth rate of 4% and a decrease of 20% of export returns entails a decrease of 9%. If the tendency observed since June 2015 continues, the economic growth will be blown in 2018 according to our simulations. Thus, we propose the creation of a mining fund to palliate the volatility of the mining product prices.
L71|Trophy Hunting vs. Manufacturing Energy: The Price-Responsiveness of Shale Gas Abstract: We analyze the relative price elasticity of unconventional versus conventional natural gas extraction. We separately analyze three key stages of gas production: drilling wells, completing wells, and producing natural gas from the completed wells. We find that the important margin is drilling investment, and neither production from existing wells nor completion times respond strongly to prices. We estimate a long-run drilling elasticity of 0.7 for both conventional and unconventional sources. Nonetheless, because unconventional wells produce on average 2.7 times more gas per well than conventional ones, the longrun price responsiveness of supply is almost 3 times larger for unconventional compared to conventional gas|No abstract is available for this item.
L71|¿Perdimos la oportunidad con el cobre?|Specific Mining Tax (IEM) was established in Chile in 2005, after a failed legislative discussion process that sought to install the figure of a royalty for the extraction and sale of minerals. However, although due to the significant increase in the price of copper mining was obliged to pay taxes -which had not done in previous years- in practice what made this new IEM was to reduce the overall rate of taxes paid by mining. This paper discusses the mechanism by which this happened, showing the collection figures of IEM in the context of mining production between 2003 and 2012, and simulating what mining really should have paid in contexts where not happen evasion or avoidance that characterized this sector during the copper prices boom.
L71|Improving Efficiency of the Oil and Gas Sector and Other Extractive Industries by Applying Methods of Artificial Intelligence<BR>[Применение Методов Искусственного Интеллекта Для Повышения Эффективности В Нефтегазовой И Других Сырьевых Отраслях]|A considerable decline in commodity prices in recent years, primarily oil prices, is the result of a new equilibrium in the market which, in turn, is a direct consequence of technological innovations. In such circumstances, those producers which can adapt to lower prices by reducing costs and increasing efficiency will gain a strong competitive advantage. Until recently, the main driving force of innovative development of the energy sector had been the “shale revolution”. The situation is changing rapidly — the oil and gas industry is in need of new technological solutions that would allow it to weather the storm of lower prices. Currently, one of the areas where innovation is fastest is artificial intelligence. The article provides a brief overview of the most widespread method within artificial intelligence — artificial neural networks and describes their main applications within the oil and gas sector. In their work the authors distinguish highlight three main applications — interpretation of geological data, hydrocarbon production (smart fields) and price forecasting. The use of artificial intelligence can increase efficiency of both geological exploration and production — it allows to achieve more at a lower cost. Under the new market conditions formed in the energy and mining sectors it is crucially important to utilise all available mechanisms to increase efficiency. Following the drop in commodity prices, it has become of vital for companies to acquire more accurate forecasting methods which would allow to analyze market developments and improve strategic planning.
L71|The Housing Market Impacts of Shale Gas Development|Using data from Pennsylvania and an array of empirical techniques to control for confounding factors, we recover hedonic estimates of property value impacts from nearby shale gas development that vary with water source, well productivity, and visibility. Results indicate large negative impacts on nearby groundwater-dependent homes, while piped-water-dependent homes exhibit smaller positive impacts, suggesting benefits from lease payments. Results have implications for the debate over regulation of shale gas development. (JEL L71, Q35, Q53, R31)
L71|When Does Regulation Distort Costs? Lessons from Fuel Procurement in US Electricity Generation|This paper evaluates changes in fuel procurement practices by coal and gas-fired power plants in the United States following state-level legislation that ended cost-of-service regulation of electricity generation. I find that deregulated plants substantially reduce the price paid for coal (but not gas) and tend to employ less capital-intensive sulfur abatement techniques relative to matched plants that were not subject to any regulatory change. Deregulation also led to a shift toward more productive coal mines. I show how these results lend support to theories of asymmetric information, capital bias, and regulatory capture as important sources of regulatory distortion. (JEL L51, L71, L94, L98, Q35, Q41, Q48)
L71|Unconventional Gas and the European Union: Prospects and Challenges for Competitiveness|This article studies the likely impact of unconventional gas developments in the U.S. on EU competitiveness. We find, first of all, little evidence for a prosperous unconventional gas development in Europe. Second, the U.S. boom has already a strong impact on both world and European energy markets. In particular, lower U.S. gas and coal prices have changed relative energy prices both at home and abroad. Finally, competitiveness impacts in some (sub)sectors will be considerable. These impacts are not only related to production based on gas use as a feedstock but also on the ‘byproducts’ from unconventional gas production, such as ethylene, propane and butane. However, several indirect impacts, such as lower coal import prices, may soften the adverse competitiveness impact in the EU.
L71|Colombia en el comercio mundial (1992-2012): desempeño de las exportaciones colombianas|El documento presenta y examina la estructura y dinámica de las exportaciones colombianas durante las dos últimas décadas, al mismo tiempo que esta se compara con las principales tendencias del comercio mundial. A partir de un conjunto de indicadores ampliamente documentados en la literatura, se evalúan los patrones del comercio exterior colombiano y los mayores cambios que se dieron en la composición de las exportaciones colombianas en este período.
L71|Welfare and Distributional Implications of Shale Gas|"Technological innovations in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing have enabled tremendous amounts of natural gas to be extracted profitably from underground shale formations that were long thought to be uneconomical. In this paper, we provide the first estimates of broad-scale welfare and distributional implications of this supply boom. We provide new estimates of supply and demand elasticities, which we use to estimate the drop in natural gas prices that is attributable to the supply expansion. We calculate large, positive welfare impacts for four broad sectors of gas consumption (residential, commercial, industrial, and electric power), and a negative impact for producers, with variation across regions. We then examine the evidence for a gas-led ""manufacturing renaissance"" and for pass-through to prices of products such as retail natural gas, retail electricity, and commodity chemicals. We conclude with a discussion of environmental externalities from unconventional natural gas, including limitations of the current regulatory environment. Overall, we find that between 2007 and 2013 the shale gas revolution led to an increase in welfare for natural gas consumers and producers of $48 billion per year, but more data are needed on the extent and valuation of the environmental impacts of shale gas production.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
L71|Oil and debt|The total debt of the oil and gas sector globally stands at roughly $2.5 trillion, two and a half times what it was at the end of 2006. The recent fall in the oil price represents a significant decline in the value of assets backing this debt, introducing a new element to price developments. In common with other episodes of retrenchment induced by rapid declines in asset values, greater leverage may have amplified the dynamics of the oil price decline. The high debt burden of the oil sector also complicates the assessment of the macroeconomic effects of the oil price decline because of its impact on capital expenditure and government budgets, and due to the interaction with a stronger dollar.
L71|What Do We Know about Mineral Resource Rent Sharing in Africa?| taxation; mineral tax; resource rent tax; developing countries.
L71|Análisis de la restructuración institucional del sector petrolero ecuatoriano en el período 2007-2012|El presente trabajo presenta un análisis de la nueva configuración institucional en el sector petrolero bajo la interpretación de los diferentes instrumentos de política pública, considerados como condicionantes de las instituciones que moldean las políticas públicas Esto permite, contextualizar y caracterizar los diferentes modelos de instrumentos que se aplican dentro de la configuración institucional. En un primer momento se identifica la arquitectura del Estado con el fin de conocer el papel de intervención de cada organismo dentro de su estructura piramidal, luego se analizan los cambios en el ministerio rector de la política petrolera a partir de la reforma a la Ley de Hidrocarburos del Ecuador vigente desde el 2010 y finalmente el estudio decanta en la configuración de las empresas públicas de hidrocarburos, siendo estas instrumentos de acción y ejecución de la directriz de política pública en el sector.
L71|Earthquakes in the Netherlands Cannot Shake the European Natural Gas Market|The rising number of earthquakes in the northeastern part of the Netherlands has been attributed to the extraction of natural gas from the Groningen field. This has led tostrong opposition to natural gas production from the Dutch population, a matter that is increasingly preoccupying not only policy-makers on the local and provincial levels,but also the central government. In response, the Dutch government has decided a drastic reduction of production from the Groningen gas field, the largest natural gas field in the country. This has an impact on several Western European countries that import natural gas from the Netherlands. Model calculations by DIW Berlin based on a substantially reduced production of natural gas in the Netherlands show that due to diversified imports effects on the European natural gas market would only be small. Even if the lower Dutch production comes in addition to the disruption of the Russian supplies to Europe, it would not result in serious supply shortages or price increases in Western Europe since gas from other regions are possible. However, these supplies of natural gas would come partly from providers whose reliability might be called into question due to an unstable political situation, as for instance in North Africa.
L71|Liquefied Natural Gas Will Have to Play a Larger Role in the Future: Six Questions to Franziska Holz|No abstract is available for this item.
L71|Erdbeben in den Niederlanden können den europäischen Erdgasmarkt nicht erschüttern|The rising number of earthquakes in the northeastern part of the Netherlands has been attributed to the extraction of natural gas from the Groningen field. This has led to strong opposition to natural gas production from the Dutch population, a matter that is increasingly preoccupying not only policy-makers on the local and provincial levels, but also the central government. In response, the Dutch government has decided a drastic reduction of production from the Groningen gas field, the largest natural gas field in the country. This has an impact on several Western European countries that import natural gas from the Netherlands. Model calculations by DIW Berlin based on a substantially reduced production of natural gas in the Netherlands show that due to diversified imports effects on the European natural gas market would only be small. Even if the lower Dutch production comes in addition to the disruption of the Russian supplies to Europe, it would not result in serious supply shortages or price increases in Western Europe since gas from other regions are possible. However, these supplies of natural gas would come partly from providers whose reliability might be called into question due to an unstable political situation, as for instance in North Africa. Die vermehrt auftretenden Erdbeben im Nordosten der Niederlande werden auf die Förderung von Erdgas im Groningen-Feld zurückgeführt. Dadurch entstand erheblicher Widerstand gegen die Erdgasförderung in der niederländischen Bevölkerung, der über die Lokal- und Provinzpolitik hinaus zunehmend auch die Zentralregierung beschäftigt. Inzwischen hat die niederländische Regierung einen starken Rückgang der Förderung aus dem Groningen-Gasfeld, dem größten des Landes, angeordnet. Dies ist für mehrere westeuropäische Länder von Bedeutung, die aus den Niederlanden größere Mengen Erdgas beziehen. Modellrechnungen des DIW mit einer stark reduzierten niederländischen Erdgasförderung zeigen, dass der europäische Markt aufgrund diversifizierter Importe nur geringe Auswirkungen spüren würde. Selbst wenn Russland seine Exporte nach Europa zusätzlich zu der Einschränkung der Erdgasförderung in den Niederlanden einstellen würde, käme es in Westeuropa nicht zu gravierenden Versorgungsengpässen und Preiserhöhungen, da zusätzliche Importe aus anderen Regionen möglich wären. Jedoch würden diese Erdgaslieferungen teilweise von Anbietern kommen, deren Zuverlässigkeit aufgrund instabiler politischer Verhältnisse in Frage gestellt werden kann, beispielsweise Nordafrika.
L71|Flüssiggas wird künftig eine größere Rolle spielen: Sechs Fragen an Franziska Holz|No abstract is available for this item.
L71|Local Consequences of Global Uncertainty: Capacity Development and LNG Trade under Shale Gas and Demand Uncertainty and Disruption Risk|Recent supply security concerns in Europe have revived interest into the natural gas market. Here, we investigate investment behavior and trade in an imperfect market structure under uncertainty in both supply and demand. We focus on three uncertain events: i) transit of Russian gas via Ukraine that may be disrupted from 2020 on; ii) natural gas intensity of electricity generation in OECD countries that may lead to higher or lower natural gas demand after 2025; and iii) availability of shale gas around the globe after 2030. We illustrate how timing of investments is affected by inter-temporal hedging behavior of market agents, such as when LNG capacity provides ex-ante flexibility (e.g., in Ukraine to hedge for a possible Russian supply disruption) or an expost fallback option if domestic or nearby pipeline supply sources are low (e.g., uncertain shale gas resources in China). Moreover, we find that investment in LNG capacities is more determined by demand side pull (due to higher needs in electric power generation) than by supply side push (higher shale gas supplies needing an outlet).
L71|Shaking Dutch grounds won’t shatter the European gas market|The Netherlands have been a pivotal supplier in Western European natural gas markets in the last decades. Recent analyses show that the Netherlands would play an important role in replacing Russian supplies in Germany and France in case of a Russian export disruption. Lately, however, the Netherlands have suffered from a series of earthquakes that are related to the natural gas production in the major Groningen field. By consequence, natural gas production rates – that are politically mandated in the Netherlands – have been substantially reduced, by almost 45% in 2015 compared to 2013-levels. We implement this reduced production path for the next decades in the Global Gas Model and analyse the geopolitical impacts. We find that the diversification of European natural gas imports allows spreading the replacement of Dutch natural gas over many alternative sources, with diverse pipeline and LNG supplies. There will be hardly any price or demand reduction effect. Even if Russia fails to supply Europe, the additional impact of the lower Dutch production is moderate. Hence, the European consumers need not to worry about the declining Dutch natural gas production and their security of supplies.
L71|Shaking Dutch grounds won’t shatter the European gas market|The Netherlands have been a pivotal supplier in Western European natural gas markets in the last decades. Recent analyses show that the Netherlands would play an important role in replacing Russian supplies in Germany and France in case of a Russian export disruption. Lately, however, the Netherlands have suffered from a series of earthquakes that are related to the natural gas production in the major Groningen field. By consequence, natural gas production rates – that are politically mandated in the Netherlands – have been substantially reduced, by almost 45% in 2015 compared to 2013-levels. We implement this reduced production path for the next decades in the Global Gas Model and analyse the geopolitical impacts. We find that the diversification of European natural gas imports allows spreading the replacement of Dutch natural gas over many alternative sources, with diverse pipeline and LNG supplies. There will be hardly any price or demand reduction effect. Even if Russia fails to supply Europe, the additional impact of the lower Dutch production is moderate. Hence, the European consumers need not to worry about the declining Dutch natural gas production and their security of supplies.
L71|Are They Predisposed to the Resources Curse? Oil in Somalia|In many developing countries, natural resources such as oil and gas have had negative impact on economic development. There is a myriad of literature on “the resource curse” which shows an austere relationship: countries endowed with huge deposits of oil and gas usually experience lower economic growth than countries that do not have these resources. As a modern ‘frontier region’ Somalia is one of the most promising countries blessed with oil and gas in the Eastern part of Africa. However, it is faced with political upheavals, weak state structures, physical insecurity, and property rights full of ambiguities; this makes it a challenge to exploit the country of its hydrocarbons. In addition to the present tense conditions within the region, the question that lingers, is whether or not Somalia is set to struggle with the common effect of the ‘resource curse’ and paradox of plenty disorder? Somalia was selected because it provides an ideal laboratory to ascertain if she is predisposed to the ‘resources curse’ disease. To this end, the study examines and also outlines the primary themes that guide the work using the case of Somalia as an addition to the body of empirical knowledge. The study recommends that new governance structures should be built, existing ones should be built, local content and local participation should be enhanced and the security and judicial agencies should be supported.
L71|A Test of the Market Efficiency of the Integrated Latin American Market (MILA) Index in Relation to Changes in the Price of Oil|The purpose of this paper is to study if there is a Granger causality relationship between the price of oil and the prices of the stocks that compose the Integrated Latin American Market (MILA) index. Our analysis found that from the perspective of the efficient market hypothesis, there is no empirical evidence that there is a Granger causality relationship between the price of oil and other commodities and the stocks that compose the MILA index. Therefore, it is possible to conclude that based on the evidence, it is not possible to create an arbitrage strategy based on the price of oil and copper to achieve abnormal returns in the MILA stock market. In order to test for the Granger causality between the underlying variables, we used a leveraged bootstrap test developed by Hatemi (2012).
L71|Fossil fuel producing economies have greater potential for industrial interfuel substitution|This study analyzes industrial interfuel substitution in an international context using a large unbalanced panel dataset of 63 countries. We find that compared to other countries fossil fuel producing economies have higher short-term interfuel substitution elasticities. This difference increases further in the long run as fossil fuel producing countries have a considerably longer adjustment of their fuel-using capital stock. These results imply lower economic cost for policies aimed at climate abatement and more efficient utilization of energy resources in energy-intensive economies.
L71|Refining for export and the convergence of petroleum product prices|The petroleum refining industry has changed over the past decades from one in which capacity primarily served local and regional markets to one in which trade in refined petroleum products has become more widespread. We investigate the hypothesis of increasing globalization by examining the convergence of prices for refined products across different markets. Using data on refined products from market centers in the US and Europe, we test for convergence of prices using standard time-series techniques. The data plainly show that markets for refined petroleum products have become more interrelated as Europe exported its gasoline surplus and global demand for petroleum products approached refining capacity. Econometric evidence supports the hypothesis that the US and European markets for oil and refined products are integrated. We find evidence that a structural break during the financial crisis of 2008 changed the long-run equilibrium price relationships and the short-run price dynamics. Refined product markets are likely to experience continued globalization given trends in the United States and Europe and because of key export-oriented refining capacity investments made to take advantage of access to specific crude oil sources.
L71|Understanding rig rate formation in the Gulf of Mexico|We examine the largest cost component in offshore development projects, rig rates. High rig rates in recent years have restricted development of new oil and gas fields, as well as IOR projects and thus increased the cost for importing countries. Thus, it is important to understand developments in rig rates. Using econometric analysis, we examine the effects on jackup rig rates from gas and oil prices, rig capacity utilisation, contract length and lead time, and rig-specific characteristics like drilling depth capacities and rig classification. Having access to a unique data set from the Gulf of Mexico (GoM), containing contract information, we are able to estimate how contract parameters crucial to the relative bargaining power between rig owners and oil and gas companies affect rig rates. We find that increasing lead times and contract lengths enhance the bargaining power of the rig companies and are likely to be associated with higher rates for new contracts. Further, we find that gas prices are more important for jackup rig rates in the GoM area than oil prices — ten percent increase in gas prices leads to nine percent increase in rig rates in the long run, according to our results.
L71|The impact of outages on prices and investment in the U.S. oil refining industry|This paper considers the effects of refinery outages (due to planned turn-arounds or unplanned events) on current petroleum product prices and future refinery investment. Empirical evidence on these relationships is mixed and highly dependent on the size and duration of the outage, the geographic area considered, the level of inventories available at the time of the outage, and the tightness of the market as measured by the capacity utilization rate. Using a detailed database of plant-level refinery outages for both upstream and downstream refining units, I estimate the effects of outages on product prices controlling for the crude oil price and the ability of operating plants to respond to the outage. I also consider the effect of current market profitability on the likelihood of planned refinery outages and the effects of high utilization rates and planned maintenance on the prospects for unplanned outages. I then use plant-level capacity data to analyze the effects of outages, profitability, and utilization rates on future investment decisions of the refinery.
L71|Long- and short-run price asymmetries and hysteresis in the Italian gasoline market|Using monthly data from 1994 to 2013 we study the long-run relation of the pre-tax retail prices of gasoline with crude price and the nominal exchange rate. We find a strongly significant long-run relation. We then use the nonlinear ARDL (NARDL) model to assess the asymmetries on both the short- and long-run elasticities, as well as the presence of hysteresis in the pricing behaviour. The estimation results confirm the presence of asymmetry in the long-run elasticities, with significant differences between the crude price and the exchange rate, as well as the presence of hysteresis in the relation between the retail price of gasoline and crude oil price.
L71|CO2-emissions from Norwegian oil and gas extraction|Emissions from oil and gas extraction matter for the life cycle emissions of fossil fuels, and account for significant shares of domestic emissions in many fossil fuel exporting countries. In this study we investigate empirically the driving forces behind CO2-emission intensities of Norwegian oil and gas extraction, using field-specific data that cover all Norwegian oil and gas activity. We find that emissions per unit extraction increase significantly as a field's extraction declines. Moreover, emission intensities increase significantly with a field's share of oil in total oil and gas reserves. We also find some indication that oil and CO2-prices may have influenced emission intensities on the Norwegian continental shelf.
L71|Endogenous price commitment, sticky and leadership pricing: Evidence from the Italian petrol market|This article studies dynamic pricing strategies in the Italian gasoline market before and after the market leader unilaterally announced its commitment to adopt a sticky-pricing policy. Using daily Italian firm level prices and weekly average EU prices, we show that the effect of the new policy was twofold. First, it facilitated price alignment and coordination on price changes. After the policy change, the observed pricing pattern shifted from cost-based to sticky-leadership pricing. Second, using a dif-in-dif estimation and a synthetic control group, we show that the causal effect of the new policy was to significantly increase prices through sticky-leadership pricing. Our paper highlights the importance of price-commitment by a large firm in order to sustain (tacit) collusion.
L71|What do we know about the sharing of mineral resource rent in Africa?|Governments that lack the capacity to mine resources themselves have to attract foreign direct investment. However, since resources are not renewable, countries need to capture a ‘fair’ share of mineral resource rent to promote their development. While the sharp rise of the world prices of most minerals multiplied the total natural resources rents by 2.3 between 2002 and 2008 (World Bank, 2015), tax revenue earned by African governments from the non-renewable natural resource sector only grew by a factor of 1.5 (Mansour, 2014).The sharing of mineral resource rent between governments and investors is often criticised for being unfavourable to African governments. But what do we really know about the sharing of mineral resource rent in Africa? The aim of this study is to review theoretical and empirical studies on rent sharing in Africa and to note their limitations regarding knowledge of the actual sharing of mineral rent.
L71|What do we know about the mineral resource rent sharing in Africa?|Governments that lack the capacity to mine resources themselves have to attract foreign direct investment. However, since resources are not renewable, countries need to capture a ‘fair' share of mineral resource rent to promote their development. While the third raw materials super cycle increased the global turnover of the mining sector by a factor of 4.6 between 2002 and 2010, the tax revenues from the non-renewable natural resource sector earned by African governments only grew by a factor of 1.15. The sharing of mineral resource rent between governments and investors is often criticised for being unfavourable to African governments. But what do we really know about the mineral resource rent sharing in Africa? The aim of this study is to review theoretical and empirical studies on rent sharing in Africa and note their limits for the knowledge of the actual mineral rent sharing.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|December 2014 crisis on the currency market as well as measures taken by the monetary authorities and the government aimed at its overcoming (in particular, unprecedented increase of the key rate) created an entirely new macroeconomic situation and formed main risks for the Russian economy in early 2015: sharp growth of inflation and a threat of the banking crisis.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|May economic statistics demonstrate continuation of development of negative trends outlined in April: despite macroeconomic stabilization downturn in the real sector is deepening. Contraction of industrial output in May amounted to 5.5% against May 2014 (in April - 4.5% against April 2014). Second month in a row extracting sector demonstrates negative dynamics and in the manufacturing sector slump has reached 8.3% in annual terms.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|June 2015 became a critical month in the evolution of the current crisis in Russian economy. According to preliminary data released by Rosstat, in June exacerbation of the crisis in the real sector stopped: production index against June 2014 constituted 95.2%, meanwhile in May it constituted 94.5% in annual terms.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|Indicators of Russian economy development in H1 2015 and first data on dynamics of the major macroeconomic indices for July-August 2015 demonstrate ongoing economic slump, reduction of industrial output expect extracting sectors, surge of inflation, deterioration of the social status of the population, growing debt burden on regional budgets which is expected by the end of the year.
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook. Trends and Challenges of Socio-economic Development|In September-October 2015, major factors which predetermined high markets turbulence this summer (crude oil movement, exchange rate, etc.) have partly lost their dynamic which resulted in a relatively equilibrium state of the Russian economy.
L71|Online Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook. Trends and Challenges of Socio-economic Development|Weak business activity coupled with actual loss of external sources of borrowing have objectively raised the role of the state resources and first of all the federal budget.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|Reduction of the key rate by the bank of Russia looks premature and brings risks of further inflation spiral and instability on the currency market. As a result of the record inflation rate in January 2015 which reached 3.9% in monthly terms, key rate in February again became negative.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|At present, Russian economy demonstrates signs of depression rather than crisis. On the one hand, manufacturing statistics at the level of aggregate indicators looks even better than in January 2014. However, investigate this effect as a sign of growth or stabilization seems to be absolutely incorrect.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|In February 2015, inflation demonstrated slowdown (2.2% against 3.9% in January). Ffrom 25 February to 2 March 2015, consumer price index constituted bearly 0.2% (minimum since November 2014). Reduction of demand and tough monetary policy remain factors for price stabilization.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|From mid-March, both government officials and experts stated speaking about signs of economic stabilization in Russia, first of all, about ruble stabilization and inflation rate. Most likely, impact of direct consequences of December 2014 currency crisis is weakening, indeed. However, indirect consequences of devaluation as well as reduction of oil receipts and sharp reduction of external financing of the economy have a long-term trend and their consequences, most likely, have reached its peak yet.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|From mid-March, both government officials and experts stated speaking about signs of economic stabilization in Russia, first of all, about ruble stabilization and inflation rate. Most likely, impact of direct consequences of December 2014 currency crisis is weakening, indeed. However, indirect consequences of devaluation as well as reduction of oil receipts and sharp reduction of external financing of the economy have a long-term trend and their consequences, most likely, have reached its peak yet.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|Despite twofold reduction of crude oil prices, trade balance in Q1 2015 fell not so sharply as it happened, for example, in early 2009. The scale of ruble devaluation in November-December 2014 predetermined drastic reduction of import (over January-February 2015 import constituted 62.1% against January-February 2014).
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|Commenced in April and ongoing in May reduction of inflation rates in annual terms is due to a number of factors: appreciation of the ruble, continued contraction of consumer demand and reduction of the global food prices. Fundamental influence on macroeconomic dynamics still impact growing oil prices: over first three weeks of May average crude oil price for a barrel was up 35% against January 2015.
L71|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|Economic statistical data for April demonstrate substantial acceleration of the slump in the annual terms regarding industry as a whole (-5.5% against April 2014) and especially regarding manufacturing sector (-7.2%) as well as regarding output index across basic types of economic activity which most accurately project GDP dynamics. Index reduction against April 2014 constituted 5.8% against reduction by 2.3% in Q1 2015 against Q1 2014.
L71|What do we know about the mineral resource rent sharing in Africa?|Governments that lack the capacity to mine resources themselves have to attract foreign direct investment. However, since resources are not renewable, countries need to capture a ‘fair’ share of mineral resource rent to promote their development. While the third raw materials super cycle increased the global turnover of the mining sector by a factor of 4.6 between 2002 and 2010, the tax revenues from the non-renewable natural resource sector earned by African governments only grew by a factor of 1.15. The sharing of mineral resource rent between governments and investors is often criticised for being unfavourable to African governments. But what do we really know about the mineral resource rent sharing in Africa? The aim of this study is to review theoretical and empirical studies on rent sharing in Africa and note their limits for the knowledge of the actual mineral rent sharing.
L71|"Putting on the velvet glove: The paradox of ""soft"" core values in ""hard"" organizations"|Following New Public Management and Reinventing Government reforms, public sector organizations are expected to pursue values such as efficiency, performance, and accountability, reflecting a ‘hard’ identity as managed organization. By examining the contents of 394 core value statements retrieved from U.S. federal agencies, this study examines the importance of these values relative to other values reflecting alternative identities. It finds that the agencies prefer to rely on ‘soft’ values such as integrity, respect, openness, and customer orientation to express their identities. The paper discusses the implications of these findings for our understanding of organizational actorhood in a public sector context.
L71|Oil Exploration Economics: Empirical Evidence from Indonesian Geological Basins|Oil exploration has been subject to economic research for decades. Earlier studies of exploration models are mostly discussed the behavior of exploration at the macro-level analysis such as field, firm, region, and continental. This paper then focuses on the geological and economic factors that determine the well-drilling decision at the micro-level using disaggregated panel data of 32 geological basins in Indonesia over the period of 2004–2013. This study shows that the number of drilled wells is determined significantly by the lag of success rate, lag of discovery size, lag of global oil price, and regional location of geological basin.
L71|Natural Gas Prices and Coal Displacement: Evidence from Electricity Markets|We examine the environmental impact of the post-2005 natural gas glut in the United States due to the shale gas boom. Our focus is on quantifying short-term coal-to-gas switching decisions by different types of electric power plants in response to changes in the relative price of the two fuels. In particular, we study the following entities: investor-owned utilities (IOUs) and independent power producers (IPPs) in restructured markets coordinated by Independent System Operators, as well as IOUs in traditional vertically-integrated markets. Using alternative data aggregations and model specifications, we find that IOUs operating in traditional markets are more sensitive to changes in fuel prices than both IOUs and IPPs in restructured markets. We attribute our findings to differences in available gas-fired generating capacity with the most cost-efficient technology: electricity generators reduced their rate of investment in the restructured markets post restructuring. The heterogeneity in the response of fuel consumption to prices has implications for carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions for the entities considered. Using simple back-of-the-envelope calculations, the almost 70% drop in the price of natural gas between June 2008 and the end of 2012 translates to as much as 33% reduction in CO2 emissions for IOUs in traditional markets, but only up to 19% for IOUs in restructured markets.
L71|The Development of the Oil Sector in Russia|The article considers the development of the oil sector of the Russian economy, which plays a?leading role in forming state budget revenues and the country’s trade balance. It analyzes the main trends and the results of development of the Russian oil sector since 1990, including the production and refining of oil, oil export, domestic consumption of oil, the prices for oil and petroleum products, tax regulation. The author suggests measures for further development of the oil sector, including the improvements in the tax system.
L71|The Outsourcing-based Model of Organization of Oil and Gas Industry in Russia: Problems and Ways of Solving|The paper contains an analysis of advantages and disadvantages of oil service outsourcing for national oil and gas industry. It is demonstrated that the dependence on foreign oil service providers may lead to technological obsolescence of national oil and oil service industries and enables foreign operators to regulate implicitly the effectiveness of the national economy. It is shown that the dependence of Russian oil companies on foreign oil service providers in 2014 is not corporate, but sectoral. This fact, due to high importance of oil and gas industry, produces high risks for Russia’s economy in general. Main ways of development of the Russian oil service industry under sectoral sanctions are described.
L71|Policy Monitor—Bonding Requirements for U.S. Natural Gas Producers|Natural gas producers are constantly making tradeoffs between money, time, and environmental risk. The private costs and benefits of drilling are realized immediately, but the external costs are not. This means that by the time external costs are well understood, producers may no longer exist or may not have sufficient resources to finance necessary cleanups or to compensate those who have been adversely affected. Because producers do not face the total cost of potential external damages, they may take too many risks. This article discusses alternative regulatory approaches for mitigating moral hazard in U.S. natural gas production. Particular emphasis is given to bonding requirements, which have tended to receive less attention from policy makers than other approaches but have a long history. Although the use of bonding has important limitations, this approach is quite well suited to addressing many of the environmental risks in this market. (JEL: K32, L71, Q48, Q58)
L71|A Global Perspective on the Future of Natural Gas: Resources, Trade, and Climate Constraints|Natural gas plays an important role in the global energy system as an input to power generation, heating, and industry. This article identifies key drivers and uncertainties for natural gas markets in the coming decades. These include the availability of natural gas from conventional and unconventional sources, the role of international trade, and the impact of climate policies. We build on model-based research as well as an up-to-date survey of natural gas resource availability. We find that natural gas is an abundant fossil fuel and that the Asia-Pacific region will be most important in future global natural gas markets, especially under stringent international climate change mitigation. This means that an increasingly large share of future natural gas trade flows and infrastructure expansions will be directed to the Asia-Pacific region and that the role of liquefied natural gas will continue to increase globally. (JEL: C61, L71, Q33, Q37, Q54)
L71|Global raw materials issues and their impact on polish economy|This research concentrate on an irregular distribution of energy resources in the world and also on the problem of scarcity of non-renewable raw materials, such as petroleum, natural gas, charcoal. The main purpose of the article is to describe a topical fossil fuels market’s situation and to present prognosis about the future of natural resources’ extraction. The consequences of limited energy resources using in Poland is also an important issue. The author carried out an analysis of a secondary data that is published in annual British Petroleum reports: “Energy Outlook 2035: February 2015” and “BP Statistical Review of World Energy”, that are about energy production, consumption and trade. Along with the limited resources increase, the price increase as well. By the end of 2013 year, a petroleum’s barely cost 110 USD, whereas 10 years ago the cost was 30 USD. Even though the recent world’s energy demand has decreased, within next 50-60 years petroleum and gas loads may exhaust, being an effect of an intensive extraction. A difficult situation on an fossil fuels market also has its effects on polish economy. Due to a high dependency on an abroad load supply (especially of natural gas – 70% and oil – 99%) and a constantly growth of the prices, energy safety in Poland is seriously endangered.
L71|A Literature Review on the Sediment Transport Process in Shallow-Grade Culverts and Storm Sewers|Sedimentation of fine muddy material in culverts and storm sewers becomes an important issue in Texas coastal plain shallow-grade drain systems. It leads to a reduction inflow capacity with time and an associated high cost of cleaning. It may not be possible to maintain the required 2 feet per second along sewer in time. The objective of study is to conduct an extensive literature review, and field survey to implement physical experiment for quantifying the sediment transport process in shallow grade culverts and storm sewers. The previous studies indicate that culverts or sewers should be designed to transport fine grains as a suspended load and transport granular sediments as a bed load, and to erode the sediment deposition with high flow velocity to achieve self-cleaning. The suspended load, bed load and bed erosion sediment transport equations have been developed as the function of the sediment grain size, the sediment concentration, the slope of the culverts or sewers, the bed roughness. To quantify the sediment characteristics, three samples were collected from the culvert, the ditch and the sewer located in Orange County of southeast Texas. The sieve analysis indicates that d50 are greater than 0.5mm and d65 are greater than 1mm for all the samples. However, more fine particles are included in the sewer sump and ditch than that in the culvert. The ongoing study is to set up a physical model based on the key variables in the previous transport equation to study the transport process in shallow grade culverts and storm sewers.
L71|Oil and its markets|Oil markets are extremely complex, characterized by an interplay of economic, political, technological and ecological issues. The paper begins by pointing to the high ratio between fixed and variable costs as a characteristic of the oil sector in all its production stages. Then the story of the sector is sketched, since the expansion of Rockefeller’s Standard Oil Trust in the late Nineteenth century. Anti-trust intervention and collusion characterize the first part of the story; the notion of “trilateral oligopoly” (oil companies, producing and consuming countries) is then utilized in interpreting the developments since the Second World War. An illustration and a critique of the role played by financial markets in the determination of oil prices is accompanied by a critique of the theories interpreting oil prices as determined by its nature as a scarce natural resource. Recent trends in the oil sector, with the development of shale oil, are briefly considered.
L71|Editorial: Paolo Sylos Labini (1920-2005)|The article introduces to the September 2015 issue of the Review. In a few weeks will fall the tenth anniversary of the passing away of Paolo Sylos Labini (PSL), to whom the name of the PSL Quarterly Review is dedicated (Roncaglia, 2008). The article briefly recalls the relation between PSL and the old series of this journal.
L71|Macroeconomic effects of high interest rate policy: Mexico’s experience|We study the effects on the price level and on GDP and its components, of the high interest rate policy implemented in Mexico under the inflation targeting (IT) scheme. We specify a macroeconomic model inspired by the theory of the effective demand, and on this basis we demonstrate, through comparative statics, the complex set of relationships between the variables involved, and the chain of reactions that a shock to the interest rate is likely to provoke. Our main conclusions show that the interest rate rise may be instrumental to control inflation. However, this rise contributes to appreciate the exchange rate, which is the main channel through which inflation is tamed. Currency appreciation raises the share of wages in GDP even as it reduces the debt service of firms indebted in dollars. It follows that the interest rate rise may have, under certain conditions, an indirect positive impact on output. Thus, our results diverge from those entailed by the theory that is at the basis of the inflation-targeting strategy, and even from some contemporary non-conventional approaches.
L71|Oil wealth, ethno-religious-linguistic fractionalization and democracy in the Middle East and North Africa|We empirically examine the effect of oil wealth and ethno-religious-linguistic fractionalization on democracy in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), by using two different estimation strategies and alternative measures of societal heterogeneity for the period, 1950 to 2008. We show that oil wealth and the three distributional measures of ethnic fractionalization, religious fractionalization, and linguistic fractionalization are significant correlates of democracy in the region. While oil wealthy and more ethnically fractionalized countries are more likely to experience less democracy, religiously and linguistically fractionalized countries are more likely to experience more democracyin the region. Wealso find that countries with population size, having British legal origin or colonial heritage, and having a supportive institutional environment in the form of maintenance of the rule of law are more democratic. Our results also show that the sub-regions of the Middle East and North Africa are different in important respects, including the fact that the Middle East consistently fails to favor democratic development.
L71|Assessing Market Structures in Resource Markets - An Empirical Analysis of the Market for Metallurgical Coal Using Various Equilibrium Models|The prevalent market structures found in many resource markets consist of high concentration on the supply side and low demand elasticity. Market results are therefore frequently assumed to be an outcome of strategic interaction between producers. Common models to investigate the market outcomes and underlying market structures are games representing competitive markets, strategic Cournot competition and Stackelberg structures that take into account a dominant player acting ﬁrst followed by one or more players. We add to the literature by expanding the application of mathematical models and applying an Equilibrium Problem with Equilibrium Constraints (EPEC), which is used to model multi-leader-follower games, to a spatial market. Using our model, we inves- tigate the prevalent market setting in the international market for metallurgical coal between 2008 and 2010, whose market characteristics provide arguments for a wide variety of market structures. Using diﬀerent statistical measures and comparing with actual market outcomes, we ﬁnd that two previously neglected settings perform best: First, a setting in which the four largest metallurgical coal exporting ﬁrms compete against each other as Stackelberg leaders, while the remainders act as Cournot followers. Second, a setting with BHPB acting as sole Stackelberg leader.
L71|El posible desenlace de la Ronda Uno de la reforma energética|Medium-term prospects for energy reform 2013-2014 as from the results of the first phase of Round One tenders, conducted on July 15 and September 30 2015 and associated with 19 hydrocarbon blocks in water shallow southeast of the country are analyzed. In doing so it is taken into account the context of the global hydrocarbon that spans from mid-2014 on and also the lack of interest shown by international oil companies to support the reform by which struggled both to explore and extract hydrocarbons in the Mexican territory. This resulted, well into 2015, in the breach of the purposes for which people were convinced to support the reform, and affects the current situation and prospects of such an industry and the economy as a whole. Therefore, social pressure of various kinds are becoming evident, including the possibility that opposition parties redouble their insistence both in the country and abroad regarding the right of society to decide by referendum the future of an industry which represents too much in terms of the Mexican Revolution fulfillment
L71|Анализ влияния ресурсных и нересурсных факторов на рост экономики Томской области с применением когнитивного подхода. Analysis of resource and non-resource factors’ influence on economic growth of Tomsk region using cognitive approach|В статье рассматриваются ключевые проблемы социально-экономического развития Томской области и факторы, определяющие экономический рост в регионе, характеризующемся высокой степенью ресурсозависимости. Обосновывается целесообразность применения когнитивного подхода для исследования и прогнозирования развития социально-экономической системы региона в условиях неопределенности. Приводятся и содержательно интерпретируются результаты моделирования среднесрочного прогноза с использованием нечеткой когнитивной карты. Полученные результаты, с одной стороны, подтверждают теоретические соображения о необходимости конвергенции различных факторов при формировании стратегии регионального развития. С другой стороны, выявляется необходимость построения нормативной модели, показывающей, какой должна быть региональная экономика. Это позволит более отчетливо представить направление движения от современного состояния к желаемому и определить требуемые контуры экономической политики. This article introduces the key problems of social-economic development of Tomsk region and factors that influence economic growth in highly resource-dependent region. Authors prove the advisability of using cognitive approach for investigation and forecasting of social-economic system development in conditions of uncertainty. Also results of simulation are given medium-term forecast. They are interpreted by means of fuzzy cognitive map. Obtained results, on the one hand, confirm the theoretical considerations about the need of convergence between various factors in the regional development strategy. On the other hand, it’s revealed the need to build a normative model, showing what the regional economy should be. This will allow to conceive more clearly the direction of movement from the modern position to desired one and to determine required contours of the economic policy.
L71|Применение методов современной оценки активов для анализа экономической эффективности проектов в российском нефтегазовом секторе. Applications of modern asset pricing methods to project valuation in oil and gas industry|"Для большинства проектов в нефтегазовом секторе характерны длительные сроки окупаемости капитальных вложений и наличие множества разнообразных рисков. Оценка эффективности подобных проектов являет собой сложную задачу вследствие необходимости учета и структурирования различных типов неопределенности. В данной статье кратко проанализированы возможности и особенности применения методики «современной оценки активов» для устранения недостатков традиционного метода дисконтирования денежных потоков применительно к экономической оценке проектов нефтегазовой сферы. Рассмотрены примеры оценивания проектов в нефтедобыче (на базе ретроспективных показателей) и мегапроекта по освоению ресурсов гелия на востоке Российской федерации. В первом случае была выполнена прямая проверка двух методов на предмет адекватности результатов оценки в сравнении с динамикой расчетно-фактических показателей. Проведенная проверка показала, что метод «современной оценки активов» в целом дает более точные результаты (по верификации с фактическими) и не занижает показатели эффективности — в отличие от обычного метода дисконтирования, склонного к излишнему детерминизму. Во втором случае исследовался сложный «сверхдолгосрочный» проект, оценка которого с помощью стандартных методик в текущих организационно-экономических и технологических условиях зачастую дает неутешительные результаты, что противоречит здравому смыслу и успешному опыту развития гелиевой промышленности в других странах мира. Важным результатом является следующий: моделирование гелиевого мегапроекта с помощью методов «современной оценки активов» позволяет не только получить более адекватные представления о его экономической эффективности, но и по-новому взглянуть на подходы к реализации. Investment projects in oil & gas sector are usually characterized by long payback periods and a considerable number of risks involved. Thus, valuation of E&P projects is a complicated task implying structuring and estimation uncertainty. This paper analyses and provides examples of application “modern asset pricing” for mitigating drawbacks of DCF-method in valuation E&P projects. Essay gives examples of evaluation of projects in the oil industry (based on historical figures) and the mega-project to develop the helium resources in the east of the Russian Federation. In the first case direct verification of two methods was performed — for assessing the adequacy of the results in comparison with the dynamics of actual figures. The audit shows that ""modern asset pricing"" method generally gives more accurate results (with actual verification) and doesn’t underestimate the project efficiency indicators — in opposite to the conventional discounting method, which is prone to excessive determinism. In the second case, we study complicated ""super long"" project whose evaluation with use of standard techniques under current organizational, economic and technological conditions often gives disappointing results, which is contrary to common sense and the successful experience of helium industry in other countries. An important result is the following: modeling of helium megaproject using the methods of ""modern asset pricing"" allows you to not only get a more adequate estimate of the economic efficiency, but also take a new view at the approaches to implementation."
L71|Price formulation and the law of one price in internationally linked markets: an examination of the natural gas markets in the USA and Canada|The degree to which the law of one price holds (integration) along with determining each individual markets’ role in price discovery is examined for 11 major natural gas markets, six from the USA and five from Canada. Deregulation, technological advances, and trade agreements have opened the USA’s and Canada’s natural gas market to new and extensive interactions. The 11 natural gas market prices are tied together with ten long-run co-integration relationships with all markets included in the co-integration space, providing evidence the markets are integrated. The degree of integration varies by region. Markets geographically adjacent to each other tend to be more highly integrated than markets separated by distance. Further results indicate that there is no clear price leader among the 11 markets. Including more US and Canadian markets than previous studies, show markets in both eastern and western USA and Canada are important in the price discovery process. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
L71|Modelling and forecasting rig rates on the Norwegian Continental Shelf|We analyze rig rate formation of floaters operating on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. We first develop a simple bargaining model for rig markets. Then we examine empirically the most important drivers for rig rate formation in the period 1991q4 to 2016q1. We consider reduced form time series models and report conditional point and interval forecasts for rig rates in a reference case based on constant real oil price and with some increase in the capacity utilization. According to our results, rig rates increase very modestly in this reference case. We also consider alternative simulations, e.g., featuring a higher real crude oil price (in 2010 USD) gradually increasing to 100 USD per barrel in 2022q4. In this case, the rig rates become about 41 percent higher in 2022q4 than in the reference case. If in addition capacity utilization increases more rapidly, and to a higher level than in the reference simulation, the rig rate is 48 percent higher. In the last alternative simulation, we explore the effects of opening new Arctic areas for petroleum activity, in which case forecasted rig rates in 2022q4 are 26 percent higher than in the reference simulation.
L71|Volatility Spillovers Across Petroleum Markets|By using our newly defined measure, we detect and quantify asymmetries in the volatility spillovers of petroleum commodities: crude oil, gasoline, and heating oil. The increase in volatility spillovers after 2001 correlates with the progressive financialization of the commodities. Further, increasing spillovers from volatility among petroleum commodities substantially change their pattern after 2008 (the financial crisis and advent of tight oil production). After 2008, asymmetries in spillovers markedly declined in terms of total as well as directional spillovers. In terms of asymmetries we also show that overall volatility spillovers due to negative (price) returns materialize to a greater degree than volatility spillovers due to positive returns. An analysis of directional spillovers reveals that no petroleum commodity dominates other commodities in terms of general spillover transmission.
L71|Fuel Prices and Station Heterogeneity on Retail Gasoline Markets|We empirically investigate how and why price levels differ across gasoline stations, using the first full year from a novel panel data set including price quotes from virtually all gas stations in Germany. Our analysis specifically explores the role of station heterogeneity in explaining price differences across gasoline stations. Key determinants of price levels are found to be ex-refinery prices as key input costs, a station's location on roads or highway service areas, and brand recognition. A lower number of station-specific services implies lower fuel price levels, as does a more heterogeneous local competitive environment.
L71|Price dispersion and station heterogeneity on German retail gasoline markets|Price levels and movements on gasoline and diesel markets are heavily debated among consumers, policy-makers, and competition authorities alike. In this paper, we empirically investigate how and why price levels differ across gasoline stations in Germany, using eight months of data from a novel panel data set including price quotes from virtually all German stations. Our analysis specifically explores the role of station heterogeneity in explaining price differences across gasoline stations. Key determinants of price levels across fuel types are found to be ex-refinery prices as key input costs, a station's location on roads or highway service areas, and brand recognition. A lower number of station-specific services implies lower fuel price levels, so does a more heterogeneous local competitive environment.
L71|The Effect of Uncertainty on Investment: Evidence from Texas Oil Drilling|This paper estimates the response of investment to changes in uncertainty using data on oil drilling in Texas and the expected volatility of the future price of oil. Using a dynamic model of firms' investment problem, I find that: (1) the response of drilling activity to changes in price volatility has a magnitude consistent with the optimal response prescribed by theory, (2) the cost of failing to respond to volatility shocks is economically significant, and (3) implied volatility data derived from futures options prices yields a better fit to firms' investment behavior than backward-looking volatility measures such as GARCH.
L71|Gasoline Taxes and Consumer Behavior|Gasoline taxes can be employed to correct externalities from automobile use and to raise government revenue. Our understanding of the optimal gasoline tax and the efficacy of existing taxes is largely based on empirical analysis of consumer responses to gasoline price changes. In this paper, we examine directly how gasoline taxes affect gasoline consumption as distinct from tax-inclusive retail gasoline prices. We find robust evidence that consumers respond more strongly to gasoline tax changes under a variety of model specifications. We discuss two potential reasons for our main findings as well as their implications.
L71|Oil price effects on land use competition: an empirical analysis| The increasing use of food commodities for biofuel production may intensify the competition for arable land. To test this hypothesis we analyze the effects of crude oil prices on prices, areas and quantities of selected food commodities empirically. On the world level the crude oil price Granger causes an increasing area use for the production of maize, soybean oil, sugar and wheat. For the U.S., we find that the maize price is the key variable influencing the total area used for cereal production. In Indonesia and Malaysia the palm oil price has effects on the cultivated area for rice.
