L73|Agency in regional path development: Towards a bio-economy in Värmland, Sweden|Despite significant interest in regional industrial restructuring in economic geography, surprisingly scarce attention has been paid to the changing role of agency over time. The current paper develops a framework for understanding the role of multiple types of agents and the agency they exercise for new path development. The framework is employed in a longitudinal study of industry development in Värmland, Sweden, from forestry towards a bio-economy. The analysis highlights how actors exercise very different types of agency in different periods of path development.
L73|Optimal Environmental Targeting in the Amazon Rainforest|This paper sets out an empirically-driven approach for targeting environmental policies optimally in order to combat deforestation. We focus on the Amazon, the worldâ€™s most extensive rainforest, where Brazilâ€™s federal government issued a â€˜Priority Listâ€™ of municipalities in 2008, to be targeted with more intense environmental monitoring and enforcement. In this setting, we first estimate the causal impact of the Priority List on deforestation using â€˜changes-in-changesâ€™ (Athey and Imbens, 2006), a flexible treatment effects estimation method, finding that it reduced deforestation by 40 percent and cut emissions by 39.5 million tons of carbon. Second, we develop a novel framework for computing targeted ex-post optimal blacklists. This involves a procedure for assigning municipalities to a counterfactual list that minimizes total deforestation subject to realistic resource constraints, drawing on the ex-post treatment effect estimates from the first part of the analysis. Accounting for spillovers, we show that the ex-post optimal list resulted in carbon emissions over 7.4 percent lower than the actual list, amounting to savings of more than $900 million, and emissions over 25 percent lower (on average) than a randomly selected list. The approach we propose is relevant for assessing both targeted counterfactual policies to reduce deforestation and quantifying the impacts of policy targeting more generally.
L73|Forest Industry In Republic Of Bulgaria: State And Prospects|The paper attempts to characterize the performance and problems in Forest Industry in Republic of Bulgaria. It contains general characteristic like technological and economic characteristics of the Forest Industry in Bulgaria, technological operations and wood processes, trends of the furniture in EU as a main final product in the Forest Industry. It presents the largest enterprises and the biggest foreign suppliers also and countries for export and import. The paper also presents the performance of the Forest industry enterprises in Bulgaria in strategical management areas like quality, ICT, financing, marketing, internet, internationalization and innovations.The methods applied include statistical analyses of production, value added and employee, expert assessments as well as generalization survey's results from a focus group of managers of Forest industry SMEs, provided in 2016. Some recommendations are drawn in areas of strategic management (technologies and information, innovation cooperation) and in areas of production and operations management.
L73|Forest-based industrial network: Case of the French timber market|Following the literature on automation, we model the industrial network of the forest-based sector, with random demands, in the presence of supply contracts. The economic network is composed of upstream, instream and downstream agents. Through the resolution of the variational inequality model, we investigate the network equilibrium flows and compute the prices at which the former can be attained. With respect to other results on optimal pricing of timber and wood products in France, the model outputs show that forest resources are overvalued, while manufactured products are undervalued. At last, we explicitly state the equilibrium conditions in case of vertical integration between the upstream and instream agents.
L73|A Blockchain Application in Energy|Abstract This report documents a blockchain application developed for the energy sector that enables distributed market coordination for decentralized energy systems. As its core element, it utilizes Ethereum-based smart contracts to facilitate market matching between individual producers and consumers of electricity. The motive for this application was to understand the process of developing blockchain applications with industrial partners. Moreover, the purpose of this exercise was to examine whether Ethereum-based smart contracts could be effectively utilized for similar applications in industry and society at large. The application and the discussions during its development indicate that similar horizontal market structures may spring up in value chains in which the dynamicity of the market is growing and in which the roles of the market actors are shifting from fixed roles towards switch-role markets.
L73|Distributed Workflow Management with Smart Contracts|Abstract This report documents a blockchain application developed for the real estate sector. The application enables distributed workflow management in a complicated transaction process: the selling of a share of stocks in a housing corporation. As its core element, the application utilizes Ethereum-based smart contracts to facilitate the interaction of various parties involved, as well as the Interplanetary File System (IPFS) to combine data from a number of separate information pools. The motive for this application has been to understand the process of developing blockchain applications with industrial partners. Moreover, the purpose of this exercise has been to examine whether Ethereum-based smart contracts could be effectively utilized for applications in industry and finance. The application and the discussions during its development indicate that similar, market-driven workflow structures may appear in value chains where the number of parties is high and where the sources of information are numerous yet disconnected.
L73|Bailouts and the Preservation of Competition: The Case of the Federal Timber Contract Payment Modification Act|We estimate the value of competition in United States Forest Service (USFS) timber auctions, in the context of the Reagan administration's bailout of firms that faced substantial losses on existing contracts. We use a model with endogenous entry by asymmetric firms, allowing survivors to respond to the exit of bailed-out firms by entering more auctions and for these marginal entrants to have lower values than firms that would choose to enter in any event, a selective entry effect. Observed asymmetries and selective entry contribute to us finding that the bailout may have increased USFS revenues in subsequent auctions quite substantially.
L73|Investissements directs étrangers et industrialisation de l’Afrique : un nouveau regard|This article uses data from fifty-three African countries to discuss the contribution of foreign direct investment (FDI) to the industrialization of the continent. The study period is 1975-2014. The estimation technique is based on the generalized method of moments in system. The results show that?: (i) FDI contributes significantly to the added value of industry to GDP but does not contribute to industrial employment?; (ii) the positive and significant effect was observed in four sub regions except East Africa?; (iii) using a composite index of industrialization, the contribution of FDI is very high. From these results, two main recommendations of economic policies are proposed. The first is to strengthen private investment in order to increase its participation in the structural transformation of the continent. The second is to build specific indicators of the industrialization of Africa. JEL Codes: E23, F21, F41, L71, L73, L74
L73|Public Goods and Ethnic Diversity: Evidence from Deforestation in Indonesia|This paper shows that the level of deforestation in Indonesia is positively related to the degree of ethnic fractionalization. To identify a causal relation, we exploit the exogenous timing of variation in the level of ethnic heterogeneity due to the creation of new jurisdictions. We provide evidence consistent with a lower control of politicians, through electoral punishment, in more ethnically fragmented districts. Our results are consistent with the literature on (under)provision of public goods in ethnically diverse societies.
L73|Carbon mitigation potential of the French forest sector under threat of combined physical and market impacts due to climate change|(1) To quantify the contribution of the French forest-wood product chain in terms of carbon sequestration and substitution when accounting for both the physical impacts (shifts in tree growth and mortality rates) and the market impacts (increased demand of harvested wood products (HWP)) of climate change (cc) and the subsequent forest managers adaptations; (2) To assess the uncertainty of the impacts on the above carbon balance and on forest allocation; and (3) To assess the role of managers’ expectations toward these future, uncertain but highly anticipated, impacts.
L73|Optimal forest management with sequential disturbances|Previous work in forest management under uncertainty has been based on the assumption that landowners face a risk of only one damaging event during any forest rotation, with the main result being that landowners choose shorter rotation ages. These models are universal in an assumption that, should the disturbance arise in a given rotation, the landowner salvages what is possible through a harvest and replants to begin a new rotation. However, a real possibility exists that multiple disturbances may occur in one rotation, with the landowner retaining the damaged stand thereby waiting through the first or even a subsequent disturbance to harvest and begin a new rotation. We develop a new approach for rotations models and choices that allows more than one event and flexibility in the timing of harvest, where tree recovery and damage may make continuance of the rotation, rather than starting over, a rent maximizing strategy. We thereby generalize the highly-cited body of literature based on Paul Samuelson's and William Reed's seminal contributions. Results demonstrate that failure to consider these new features leads to suboptimal harvest decisions and highly suboptimal land rent values. Important parameters are found to be arrival rates of future disturbances and survival proportions and growth rates after each disturbance.
L73|Global paper market forecasts to 2030 under future internet demand scenarios|The Global Forest Products Model (GFPM) was applied to forecast the effect of increased per capita Internet adoption on the global paper products industry to 2030. Two scenarios were examined: (a) full per capita Internet adoption by 2100, and (b) more rapidly by 2050. Global newsprint consumption is estimated to be 34.2–37.1 million tonnes lower in 2030 than in the US Forest Service 2010 Resources Planning Act report, and the 2010 report from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Similarly, global printing and writing paper consumption is forecasted to be 76.7–87.1 million tonnes lower by 2030. By including controls for per capita Internet use in the demand equations for print based media, this article reflects the recent declines in global paper product consumption. Out-of-sample forecasts over a two-year period indicate global model prediction errors from 0 to 3%, depending on the product and exogenous assumptions. The results highlight the importance of considering market evolution in long-term global forecasting, and a failure to account for future rates of Internet adoption will result in an upward bias on paper product market forecasts.
L73|Behavioral determinants of supply chain integration and coexistence|Economic theory considers physical production characteristics and related property rights as key determinants of the organization of an industry. Yet, we frequently observe coexisting governance modes within industries and firms, even when the transaction attributes of a commodity are homogenous. We test whether risk and time preferences, price expectations, and trust in supply chain types can explain variations and coexistence in governance. Specifically, we experimentally elicit economic preferences of forest managers in the Swiss wood sector. We find that all behavioral dimensions are related to the choice of sales channel. Most importantly, trust and expectations are key determinants in transferring property rights, while risk aversion, patience, and ownership structure explain the existence of plural forms at the firm level.
L73|Nash bargaining and renegotiation with social preferences: case of the roundwood log supply contracts in the French timber market|By considering the French forest-based sector, we study both negotiation and renegotiation between a public timber and roundwood log supplier, which can be either public-interest-oriented or profit-maximizing, and a profit-maximizing lumber manufacturer. We first prove that the Nash bargaining game yields a unique equilibrium log supply contract, at which the negotiation takes only place on the prices. We then find that the expected profit-maximizing is achieved when the supplier's public interest and the manufacturer's bargaining power are strategic substitutes. The renegotiation reveals the presence of a memory effect over the quantities issued from bargaining. Our results can be generalized to all economic settings that revolve around public interest and commodity risk management.
L73|Technological innovation systems for biorefineries – A review of the literature|The concept of a bioeconomy can be understood as an economy where the basic building blocks for materials, chemicals and energy are derived from renewable biological resources. Biorefineries are considered an integral part of the development towards a future sustainable bioeconomy. The purpose of this literature review is to synthesize current knowledge about how biorefinery technologies are being developed, deployed, and diffused, and to identify actors, networks and institutions relevant for these processes. A number of key findings can be obtained from the literature. First, investing more resources in R&D will not help to enable biorefineries to cross the ‘valley of death’ towards greater commercial investments. Second, while the importance and need for entrepreneurship and the engagement of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) is generally acknowledged, there is no agreement how to facilitate conditions for entrepreneurs and SMEs to enter into the field of biorefineries. Third, visions for biorefinery technologies and products have focused very much on biofuels and bioenergy with legislation and regulation playing an instrumental role in creating a market for these products. But there is a clear need to incentivize non-energy products to encourage investments in biorefineries. Finally, policy support for biorefinery developments and products are heavily intertwined with wider discussions around legitimacy and social acceptance.
L73|Estimating Auctions with Externalities: The Case of USFS Timber Auctions|This paper studies how bidding strategies and auction outcomes are affected by downstream competition, particularly for USFS timber auctions. This is done by extending the auction estimation literature to a model where outside competition affects bidding behavior in that bidders are then not only concerned with whether they win the auction, but also the identity of the winner if it is not them. Applying the estimation technique to the case of timber auctions, I find that downstream competition in the lumber industry affects the bidding behavior of mill bidders, sometimes leading to the misallocation of timber tracts.
L73|Affiliation and Entry in First-Price Auctions with Heterogeneous Bidders: An Analysis of Merger Effects|We study the effects of mergers in timber sale auctions in Oregon. We propose an entry and bidding model within the affiliated private value (APV) framework and with heterogeneous bidders, and establish existence of the entry equilibrium and existence and uniqueness of the bidding equilibrium when the joint distribution of private values belongs to the class of Archimedean copulas. We estimate the resulting structural model, and study merger effects through counterfactual analyses using the structural estimates. We evaluate how merger effects depend on affiliation, entry, and the auction mechanism and find that the seller may benefit from some mergers. (JEL C57, D44, G34, L11, L73)
L73|Innovations in the Enterprises from the Furniture Industry|The results from studies of innovation in furniture enterprises for the period 2006-2012 are monitored more than 600 small and medium-sized enterprises for the production of furniture in Bulgaria. As a result, they are characterized specific innovation activities and results, and compared with the average performance. Highlighted are the barriers to innovation and recommendations are made in the observation of innovation in the furniture industry.
L73|Sustainability of biojet-fuel in Malaysia|Aviation represents a small but growing share of global CO2 emissions (2-3%), and Southeast Asia is where this industry grows the fastest. The industry targets 50% reduction in net CO2 emission by 2050, and will need at least 2 million tonnes of biofuel by 2020. The book examines various pathways from biomass to bio-jetfuel. It assesses potential feestocks and other non-aviation biofuels. Malaysian oil palm, paddy, rubberwood, sugarcane, coconut, and wood biomasses are detailed, analysed and quantified. Best feedtsocks for bio-jetfuel are ranked according to sustainability. Life Cycle Analysis is detailed with the case of paddy. Logistics and transportations botlenecks are discussed. The socio-political at Malaysia and international scale are examined in order to put these results in perspective.
L73|Mémento du forestier tropical|La forêt tropicale est un sujet majeur des grands débats planétaires, au cœur des questions de développement durable pour des enjeux écologiques, autant qu’économiques et sociaux. Ses impacts sont multiples tant sur les équilibres climatiques et biologiques que sur le bien-être des populations, à l’échelle locale et mondiale. Après un état des lieux des écosystèmes forestiers tropicaux et de l’environnement institutionnel, le Mémento du forestier tropical aborde les questions et les concepts incontournables pour s’orienter vers une gestion durable des forêts, face aux menaces actuelles et futures. Il détaille l’ensemble des méthodes et des processus et préconise de bonnes pratiques. Cet ouvrage fournit aux décideurs, aux praticiens et à tous les acteurs de la filière un ensemble de savoirs et de savoir-faire pour gérer durablement les forêts tropicales. L'ouvrage comporte une clé USB comprenant la version électronique enrichie d’informations détaillées, d’une bibliographie complète et de plus de 1 000 illustrations en couleur.
L73|Le commerce des bois tropicaux|Le commerce international des bois concerne essentiellement les bois d’œuvre et d’industrie, très peu le bois-énergie sous toutes ses formes et le charbon de bois. Les axes du commerce du bois ont profondément évolué entre les années 1950 et 2015. La Chine et l’Inde ont bouleversé le commerce des bois tropicaux. Coûts d’information et de transaction, flexibilité et compétitivité sont devenus essentiels dans l’organisation de la production, et les réseaux d’entreprises deviennent des acteurs incontournables. Un continuum entre clusters non localisés et systèmes de production localisés qui prend en charge le commerce des bois tropicaux. Le commerce intérieur et informel des bois tropicaux sont sous estimés et sont d’un ordre de grandeur nettement plus important que celui du commerce international.
L73|Les forêts tropicales dans l’économie mondiale|En 2015, les forêts tropicales ont pris une place importante au sein de toutes les concertations nationales qui débattent des tentatives de stratégies et de règlements mondiaux pour imposer une gestion durable des ressources naturelles afin de sauvegarder la planète. Ce chapitre décrit l’évolution des forêts tropicales soumises à l’évolution des activités humaines. Il montre que les bois tropicaux sont d’abord consommés dans les pays en tropicaux. Le cas particulier des forêts tropicales humides est détaillé. Les ressorts du commerce des bois tropicaux sont expliqués. Désormais la consommation occidentale ne représente plus que de l’ordre de 1 à 1,5% de la consommation des bois tropicaux. Le rapport entre globalisation économique et bois tropicaux est examiné. Le devenir des bois tropicaux est discuté.
L73|Deciphering Corporate Governance and Environmental Commitments among Southeast Asian Transnationals: Uptake of Sustainability Certification|Promoting tropical forest sustainability among corporate players is a major challenge. Many tools have been developed, but without much success. Southeast Asia has become a laboratory of globalization processes, where the development and success of agribusiness transnationals raises questions about their commitment to environmental concerns. An abundance of literature discusses what determines the behavior of Asian corporations, with a particular emphasis on cultural factors. Our hypothesis is that financial factors, such as ownership structure, may also have a fundamental role. We analyzed the audited accounts of four major Asian agribusiness transnationals. Using network analysis, we deciphered how the 931 companies relate to each other and determine the behavior of the transnationals to which they belong. We compared various metrics with the environmental commitment of these transnationals. We found that ownership structures reflect differences in flexibility, control and transaction costs, but not in ethnicities. Capital and its control, ownership structure, and flexibility explain 97% of the environmental behavior. It means that existing market-based tools to promote environmental sustainability do not engage transnationals at the scale where most of their behavior is determined. For the first time, the inner mechanisms of corporate governance are unraveled in agricultural and forest sustainability. New implications such as the convergence of environmental sustainability with family business sustainability emerged.
L73|Unpacking investment decisions in biorefineries|The development and diffusion of biorefineries is a central factor in the transition towards a bioeconomy. Such biorefineries, which produce multiple products based on biological material, are heralded as an important opportunity for renewal of the pulp and paper industry in developed countries, facing increasing competition and environmental requirements. However, pulp and paper firms have only made few investments in biorefineries. Examining investment decision in Swedish and Finnish pulp and paper firms, this paper highlights the importance of considering decision-making processes within companies in order to understand the limited diffusion of biorefinery technologies. Further, the paper identifies organisational innovations in the form of new divisions, forward vertical integration, and creation of new value chain relations as central to commercialisation of biorefinery technologies. Theoretically, it argues that the technological innovation systems framework should be complemented with insights on decision-making processes within companies in order to understand the development of emerging technologies.
L73|Forest-Based Industrial Network|Following the literature on automation, we model the industrial network of the forest based sector, with random demands, in presence of supply contracts. The economic network is composed of upstream, instream and downstream agents. Through the resolution of the variational inequality model, we investigate the network equilibrium flows and attempt to compute the prices at which the former could be attained. With respect to other results on optimal pricing of timber and wood products in France, the model outputs show that the forest resources may be overvalued by the market, while the manufactured products may be undervalued. The analysis in a dynamic setting corroborates these results. In case of network disequilibrium, the expected profits switch from increasing monotonic s-shaped functional forms to non-monotonic bell-shaped functional forms. Finally, we explicit the equilibrium conditions in case of vertical integration between the upstream and instream agents.
L73|Applying Triple Helix Concept To Develop Wood Sector In Vukovar-Srijem County|Wood sector is important development sector in Vukovar-Srijem County. Existing resources of high quality raw wood material, tradition of wood processing and good geographic location have potential for attracting investment, raising competitiveness and increasing employment. This paper accentuates the necessity of establishing strong collaboration between public, private and academic sector in order to develop new technologies and new products with high added value. After brief analysis of wood sector on national and regional level, basic indices for establishing Triple Helix institution are given.
L73|The Canada-U.S. Productivity Puzzle: Regional Evidence of the Pulp and Paper Industry, 1971-2005|We analyze the total factor productivity (TFP) of the pulp and paper industry in three Canadian provinces (British Columbia, Ontario, and Quebec) and in three U.S. states that are contiguously located south of the border (Washington, Illinois, and Maine) over the period of 1971 to 2005. We find that the industry in the three Canadian provinces had much higher TFP growth rates in the era following the Free Trade Agreement (FTA), signed in 1988. In terms of productivity trend, this relative TFP surge has allowed the industry in the three Canadian provinces to move ahead of Illinois and Washington and closer to Maine which is the U.S. leader in the sample. Our results in this particular case do not support the commonly accepted view that Canada has a productivity problem relative to the U.S.
L73|La internacionalización de las empresas familiares en el negocio corchero mundial: los casos de Reynolds, Mundet y Corticeira Amorim|The internationalization of family firms has become an important field of economic research, which could be addressed from different theoretical approaches. In all of them, historical perspective is a very useful tool, since a long-term approach allows a deeper understanding of the internationalization process and their geographic, economic and social implications. The purpose of this work is to analyze the processes of internationalization followed by family firms, with an emphasis on factors linked to them which favor their success in the global markets. In particular, we present a historical analysis of three relevant family firms in the world cork business history; first, the Reynolds family firm, which is a paradigm of commercial success in the cork business until the last quarter of the nineteenth century, and of failure thereafter; second, the Mundet & Sons company, which, despite having become a leading company in the world cork business, is also a paradigmatic example of failure because of its final outcome in the 1980s; and third, Corticeira Amorim, an example of success and leadership in the international market since the mid-twentieth century to today.
L73|Selling timber in Poland|The paper looks at how the foresters try to reconcile sustainable management practices with economic viability of their operations within the legal framework they operate in. In particular, we compare prices received by the State Forest Enterprise in Poland in two types of timber auctions: constrained and unconstrained ones. While the latter allow for higher revenues, the former are maintained for political reasons. The authors verify alternative hypotheses regarding market behaviour of timber buyers. The data from timber auctions in 2011-2012 demonstrate that winning prices are determined by starting prices and by the market power of the State Forest Enterprise (diversified with respect to specific timber varieties), as well as by price expectations. Based on the modelling results the paper makes policy recommendations with respect to the design of timber auctions and – more broadly – with respect to striking a balance between timber and non-timber benefits from the forestry in Poland.
L73|Trading Forests: Quantifying the Contribution of Global Commodity Markets to Emissions from Tropical Deforestation - Working Paper 384|This paper aims to improve our understanding of how and where global supply-chains link consumers of agricultural and forest commodities across the world to forest destruction in tropical countries. A better understanding of these linkages can help inform and support the design of demand-side interventions to reduce tropical deforestation. To that end, we map the link between deforestation for four commodities (beef, soybeans, palm oil, and wood products) in eight case countries (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Papua New Guinea) to consumption, through international trade. Although few, the studied countries comprise a large share of the internationally traded volumes of the analyzed commodities: 83% of beef and 99% of soybean exports from Latin America, 97% of global palm oil exports, and roughly half of (official) tropical wood products trade. The analysis covers the period 2000-2009. We find that roughly a third of tropical deforestation and associated carbon emissions (3.9 Mha and 1.7 GtCO2) in 2009 can be attributed to our four case commodities in our eight case countries. On average a third of analyzed deforestation was embodied in agricultural exports, mainly to the EU and China. However, in all countries but Bolivia and Brazil, export markets are dominant drivers of forest clearing for our case commodities. If one excludes Brazilian beef on average 57% of deforestation attributed to our case commodities was embodied in exports. The share of emissions that was embodied in exported commodities increased between 2000 and 2009 for every country in our study except Bolivia and Malaysia.
L73|Safeguarding species richness vs. increasing the use of renewable energy—The effect of stump harvesting on two environmental goals|Deadwood is recognized as one of the most important resources affecting forest biodiversity. Its absence from the forest landscape is, therefore, of concern, such that one official Swedish environmental objective is to increase the volume of deadwood. However, increasing the use of renewable energy sources, another environmental goal, is likely to work against this biodiversity objective. In this study we utilize a regional economic forest sector model, focusing on northern Sweden, in order to estimate the effect of a large scale introduction of stump harvest on the future use of forest fuel. In addition, an ecological model, describing the relationship between the availability of stumps and the abundance of saproxylic beetles, is linked to the economic model.
L73|Potential impact of a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership on the global forest sector|The effects of a transatlantic trade agreement on the global forest sector were assessed with the Global Forest Products Model, conditional on previous macroeconomic impacts predicted with a general equilibrium model. Comprehensive tariff elimination per se had little effect on the forest sector. However, with deeper reforms and integration consumption would increase twice as much in percent in the US as in the EU. Net trade decreased in the US more than in the EU while it increased in Asia. Consumers and producers’ welfare increased by $7000 million in the EU and $14,000 million in the US, but decreased in some third countries, especially in Asia.
L73|A expansão do setor de celulose de mercado no Brasil: condicionantes e perspectivas<BR>[Expansion of the pulp sector in Brazil: constraints and perspectives]|The Brazilian pulp industry has been highlighting globally, especially in the last three decades. In 2012, the country held the first position in volume produced and exported. The know-how in the development of short fiber pulp from eucalyptus, the availability of land for the formation of monoculture tree plantations, the favorable environmental conditions of the region and low costs of labor are identified as important determinants of this expansion. With the completion of major new projects in the sector, the Brazilian production capacity will rise significantly. In order to better analyze this expansion the article lists some important and enlightening aspects of the evolution of the Geography of Cellulose.
L73|Industrialisation et présentation de la filière bois au Cameroun<BR>[Industrialization and sustainability of the wood industry in Cameroon]|Les pays en développement tels que le Cameroun axent leurs politiques économiques sur l’extraction et l’exportation des matières premières. Disposant d’un potentiel forestier important, les difficultés pour le pays se situent davantage dans l’adéquation des compétences techniques que dans le manque d’investissement. En complétant la filière bois on peut aboutir à une émergence économique sectorielle. Ce secteur est composé de nombreux acteurs informels intervenant dans la phase d’extraction et de transformation basique du bois. La formation aux métiers du bois va répondre à la faiblesse en ressources humaines qualifiées. La transformation structurelle nécessaire en matière de formation appelle un modèle économique sectoriel plus complet pour le pays.
L73|Efficiency of investment stimulation methods in a timber industry complex: An econometric research|We study the efficiency of state stimulating methods to attract investments into the timber industry development by logit, probit and tobit panel data models. Оur estimates reveal the most efficient stimulating methods of attracting investments into the wood sector. The approach can be widespread to other sectors of the economy.
L73|Entrepreneurial risk as consequence of contradictions of economic interests in forestry in Russia|The paper presents the results of the research of entrepreneurial environment in the forest sector. Complex and simple groups of risks, defining entrepreneurial activity in the forestry sphere, are determined. The most dangerous risky factors are spotted and their profile is obtained in respect of forestry entrepreneurship. A methodical approach to assessment of business risks in forestry is formulated, by using criteria values of the consequences of risk manifesting and probability of risk manifesting. Critical consequences for the forestry entrepreneurship, in the case of risk realization, are the following: enterprise insecurity with own financial resources, increase of rental rates and payments, qualified personnel flow out, disposal of key workers. It is explained that internal imbalancing of forest relations, including economic interests of the state, entrepreneurs forest managers, ecologists and population, which is expressed in distortion of real forest revenues, inefficient forestry running, deterioration of forest production quality, decrease of investment attractiveness of forest sector, leave of especially valuable forest for lumbering, replacement of forms and methods of lumbering and forest management, decrease of reforestation quality, etc., is an prerequisite for forestry entrepreneurial risks arising.
L73|Campesinos, Estado y mercado. La conflictividad forestal en el Noroeste de España, León (1870­ ‐1936)|"In the 19th Century the Spanish State privatised large areas of common lands and took over management of common wastelands and woodlands, thus stripping the peasants of all the control they had over them. Just as in many other parts of Spain, State intervention in wastelands and woodlands in León was a controversial issue because it was a symptom of conflicting visions or interests: between the State that promoted forestry uses and the peasants whose livelihood, based on agriculture and cattle, depended on common lands. The aim of this paper is to study the motivation behind peasant resistances to State intervention in Northwest Spain in the period 1870-1936. Although the conflicts have been explained from different perspectives (as resistance to market penetration, as ""weapons of the poor"", or as environmental conflicts), here we argue that the tensions and disputes over the common lands represent the peasants' defence of their livelihoods as well as the struggle for the ""opportunities"" the market offered."
L73|Factors Determining The Quality Of Products Made From Recycled Paper Materials|The quality of products from recycled paper materials is determined by factors, which upon their interaction contribute to the formation of a complex of consumer properties of the end-products. The underlying factors are in a state of interconnectedness and interdependence formed by the peculiarities of the processes of recycling paper. The relation can be presented as follows: waste paper – supplementary chemical substances – technological processing – quality of the end-product. The degree of purity of paper, its composition and rate of recycling, the technological stages of milling and drying as well as the adding of small amounts of HBs contribute in the highest degree to improving the strength and optical properties of the products from recycled paper materials. The objective of the present article is to identify the main factors and the effect they have on the quality of products from recycled paper materials.
L73|Determinants of success and failure in the internationalisation of the cork business: A tale of two Iberian family firms|The trajectories of internationalisation followed by family firms can be viewed from several theoretical approaches ? phases of the internationalisation process; international entrepreneurship, sociological perspective, family business theory. An historical perspective of the internationalised family firms, allowing the integration of these several approaches, is useful to a deep understanding of the internationalisation process of different sectors and countries. The main purpose of this paper is to identify the facilitating and the restricting factors during the internationalisation path of family firms, considering their competitive advantages, the ownership structure and management attitudes, innovation and intangible assets and other relevant factors, internal and/or external to the firm. It makes a long run analysis (more than one century) of two companies acting in the cork business in Spain and Portugal: Mundet and Amorim & IrmÃ£os. One of these companies - Mundet ? has been closed in the 1980s and the other - Amorim & IrmÃ£os ? became, and is by now, the leading company in the cork worldwide business. The careful comparison of these two stories, one of failure and the other of success, allows an accurate identification of the determinants of a successful internationalisation. In fact, it is useful for understanding several characteristics of both firms, some similar and other different, allowing the test of several hypothesis in the context of the theoretical approach to the internationalisation of family firms. First of all, both are family firms operating in the same business and since their origin orientated to foreign markets. Second, their story went along much of the twentieth century and so both faced similar national and international constraints but in the end both became leading firms in the cork business, although in different time periods. Third, their location choices were different and, although in both cases benefiting from agglomeration forces in certain phases of the business, they were also important determinants of the opposite destinies of these two emblematic Iberian cork family firms.
L73|When Should Sellers Use Auctions?|A bidding process can be organized so that offers are submitted simultaneously or sequentially. In the latter case, potential buyers can condition their behavior on previous entrants' decisions. The relative performance of these mechanisms is investigated when entry is costly and selective, meaning that potential buyers with higher values are more likely to participate. A simple sequential mechanism can give both buyers and sellers significantly higher payoffs than the commonly used simultaneous bid auction. The findings are illustrated with parameters estimated from simultaneous entry USFS timber auctions where our estimates predict that the sequential mechanism would increase revenue and efficiency.
L73|Set-Asides and Subsidies in Auctions|Set-asides and subsidies are used extensively in government procurement and resource sales. We analyze these policies in an empirical model of US Forest Service timber auctions. The model fits the data well both within the sample of unrestricted sales used for estimation, and when we predict (out-of-sample) outcomes for small business set-asides. Our estimates suggest that restricting entry substantially reduces efficiency and revenue, although it increases small business participation. An alternative policy of subsidizing small bidders would increase revenue and small bidder profit, with little efficiency cost. We explain these findings by connecting to the theory of optimal auction design. (JEL D44, H57, L73, Q23)
L73|Asymmetric transmission between factory and wholesale prices in fiberboard market in Korea|This paper extends the estimation of price relationships in wood processing and empirical assessment of asymmetric price transmission by incorporating time lags in both explanatory and dependent variables. Each of the models developed and estimated in this article reveals the existence of asymmetric price transmission between factory and wholesale prices of fiberboard in Korea. Estimation results indicate that wholesalers earn additional profits by exploiting price fluctuations in the markets. The empirical findings in this study suggest the potential for lower wholesale prices of fiberboard with more competition in wholesale marketing.
L73|Mechanisms of capability evolution in the Finnish forest industry cluster|In recent years researchers have shown increasing interest in capabilities as the foundation of competitive advantage in the forest industry. However, we still do not know how these capabilities change in the firms and in their interactions. Therefore we ask: through what mechanisms do capabilities evolve in the forest industry context? The study was conducted by interviewing 30 forest industry experts and the data was analyzed qualitatively. We find that the main mechanisms of capability evolution include capability gaps, capability selection, capability development and capability outcomes. The study contributes through a rich description of capability evolution and by identifying theoretically meaningful mechanisms through which capability evolution takes place. Furthermore, several implications for practitioners are presented.
L73|Forest carbon benefits, costs and leakage effects of carbon reserve scenarios in the United States|This study evaluated the potential effectiveness of future carbon reserve scenarios, where U.S. forest landowners would hypothetically be paid to sequester carbon on their timberland and forego timber harvests for 100 years. Scenarios featured direct payments to landowners of $0 (baseline), $5, $10, or $15 per metric ton of additional forest carbon sequestered on the set aside lands, with maximum annual expenditures of $3 billion. Results indicated that from 1513 to 6837 Tg (Teragrams) of additional carbon (as carbon dioxide equivalent, CO2e) would be sequestered on U.S. timberlands relative to the baseline case over the next 50 years (30–137 Tg CO2e annually). These projected amounts of sequestered carbon on timberlands take into account projected increases in timber removal and forest carbon losses on other timberlands (carbon leakage effects). Net effectiveness of carbon reserve scenarios in terms of overall net gain in timberland carbon stocks from 2010 to 2060 ranged from 0.29tCO2e net carbon increase for a payment of $5/tCO2e to the landowner (71% leakage), to 0.15tCO2e net carbon increase for a payment of $15/tCO2e to the landowner (85% leakage). A policy or program to buy carbon credits from landowners would need to discount additions to the carbon reserve by the estimated amount of leakage. In the scenarios evaluated, the timber set-asides reduced timberland area available for harvest up to 35% and available timber inventory up to 55%, relative to the baseline scenario over the next 50 years, resulting in projected changes in timber prices, harvest levels, and forest product revenues for the forest products sector.
L73|A review of recent developments and applications of partial equilibrium models of the forest sector|Recent history has seen an increase in the utilization of partial equilibrium based forest sector models to identify potential impacts of various policies or timber market shocks. These models are particularly useful in that they employ economic theory to capture the interaction of supply and demand in a framework where commodity prices are endogenous to the policy or shock simulated. We present recent developments and linkages between models and review applications of these models to forest policy questions over the previous decade. We conclude with a discussion of potential future directions for such research.
L73|Consequences of carbon offset payments for the global forest sector|Long-term effects of policies to induce carbon storage in forests were projected with the Global Forest Products Model. Offset payments for carbon sequestered in forest biomass of $15–$50/t CO2e applied in all countries increased CO2 sequestration in world forests by 5–14 billion tons from 2009 to 2030. Limiting implementation to developed countries exported environmental damage from North to South, as developing countries harvested more, decreasing their stored CO2e. Substantially more CO2e was sequestered by allocating a given budget to all countries rather than to developed countries only. As offset payments increased wood prices relatively more than they decreased production, timber revenues generally increased. In the few countries with timber revenues losses they were more than compensated by the offset payments.
L73|Perceptions Of Organizational Climate In The Production Of A Personal Common Land Forest In Mexico La Percepcion Del Clima Organizacional En El Personal De Producciã“N De Un Ejido Forestal En Mexico|In this paper, we studied four of the nine dimensions of organizational climate defined under the model proposed by Litwin and Stringer. These are structure, rewards, relationships and identity. We specifically examine the area of production of forest common land in El Brillante, Durango, Mexico in 2012. We surveyed 70 workers in the production area. The measuring instrument assessed four dimensions on the Likert scale. The Cronbach Alpha coefficient was determined with a 0.935 reliability. Dimensions were identified according to the staff evaluation of the organization. The results lead us to conclude that in the structure dimension, the staff agrees with the organizational common land structure. As for the reward dimension, it was identified that the common land has contributed positively in their motivation and provides the necessary training for the development of their work. For the relationship dimension it was observed that they are in harmony and have clear, precise and fluid communication. In the identity dimension, the staff feels as an important part that contributes to the achievement of common land goals and they enjoy working within it.
L73|The Economic Performance of Clustered and Non Clustered Firms along the different Phases of the Cluster Life Cycle: The Portuguese Cork Industry Case|This paper is about the relative economic performance of clustered and non-clustered companies in the different phases of the cluster life cycle. It starts with the explanation of a puzzling localization behaviour, namely that most of the Portuguese cork manufacturing firms are concentrated in Santa Maria da Feira, a small county in the north of the country, whereas the bulk of the cork is produced in the south (Alentejo and Ribatejo). The historical roots and past and path dependence of the trajectory of this cluster are examined, as well as the identification of its life cycle phases. A comparative analysis of the economic performance of firms localized in Santa Maria da Feira and in other regions of the country is then made, using labour productivity data for a long time span of several decades. This exercise is a quantitative illustration of the crucial importance of history for the understanding of cluster dynamics, as well as many other (evolutionary) economic phenomena.
L73|Bankruptcy in the pulp and paper industry: market’s reaction and prediction|This paper examines North American pulp and paper company bankruptcies that occurred between 1990 and 2009. We demonstrate that shareholders suffer substantial losses (37 %) during the month a bankruptcy occurs. Encouragingly, we show that financial ratios are useful in predicting firm failure and that failed firms are less profitable, more liquidity constrained and higher in debt leverage. Using a binary logit model in the spirit of Ohlson (J Acc Res, 19, 109–131, 1980 ), we predict financial distress for pulp and paper firms 1 to 2 years ahead of the bankruptcy. We also adapt and re-estimate the empirical model on a sample of pulp and paper firms and perform in-sample and out-of-sample forecasts. For the out-of-sample analysis, our re-estimated Ohlson models correctly predict 93 % of bankruptcy and non-bankruptcy outcomes. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
L73|Regional Integration And Business Location: Evidence From The Cork Industry In The Iberian Pensinsula|The cork sector is a relevant case study given the economic importance of this industry for some regions (value added, employment and rural development). This industry is also important because of its contribution to environmental sustainability as it uses a natural renewable raw material. Portugal and Spain are the most important producers of cork and exporters of manufactured cork products (stoppers and agglomerates). The main purpose of this paper is to study the economic integration and the historical changes of cork business localization in the Iberian Peninsula. We start by studying the historical roots, motivations and economic consequences of the delocalization of Catalonian firms to Portugal during the first quarter of the 20th century. Then a comparison is made with the recent process of delocalization of an anchor firm of Aveiro industrial district (Corticeira Amorim) to Spain. The theoretical framework of this study is the industry and cluster life cycles as well as the recent insights from the evolutionary economic geography.
L73|La valoración de arbolado en España. Una revisión| En este trabajo se realiza una revisión de los principales métodos de valoración de arbolado empleados en España. La metodología se agrupa atendiendo a las principales utilidades del arbolado: frutal, forestal, medioambiental y ornamental. Se pretende ofrecer una panorámica sobre cuáles han sido y son las principales aplicaciones de dichos métodos y plantear cuáles son las principales líneas de trabajo futuras.
L73|Innovativeness of the Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises Manufacturing Furniture|The paper discusses the contribution, role and innovation activity of SME for the economy of the country in a particular business sector – wood processing and furniture industry, with focus on the furniture sector. The authors use official statistical information of NSI concerning the innovative furniture enterprises, the tendencies drawn out from studies of a quota excerpt from furniture enterprises, as well as those from the activity of 16 enterprises labeled “tested Bulgarian furniture”.
L73|The Political Economy of Deforestation in the Tropics| Tropical deforestation accounts for almost one-fifth of greenhouse gas emissions and threatens the world's most diverse ecosystems. Much of this deforestation is driven by illegal logging. We use novel satellite data that tracks annual deforestation across eight years of Indonesian institutional change to examine how local officials' incentives affect deforestation. Increases in the number of political jurisdictions lead to increased deforestation and lower timber prices, consistent with Cournot competition between jurisdictions. Illegal logging and local oil and gas rents are short-run substitutes, but this effect disappears over time with political turnover. The results illustrate how local officials' incentives affect deforestation and show how standard economic theories can explain illegal behavior. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.
L73|La Apertura Al Exterior Del Sector Del Mueble Andaluz.An Opening To The Outside World Of The Andalusian Furniture Sector|Este trabajo examina el escenario actual de los mercados de exportación del sector del mueble andaluz, considerando los mercados destino y las singularidades propias del sector. El estudio nace de la observación realizada sobre la progresiva tendencia del contexto empresarial específico del mueble hacia el comercio exterior. This paper explores the current situation of export markets in the furniture industry in Andalucía, we have considered the target markets and the peculiarities of this sector. The study starts from the observation of the progressive tendency of the specific furniture context to the foreign trade.
L73|Customer preferences for customized household furniture|In the context of market globalization, furniture manufacturers attempt to differentiate their products to attain competitive advantages. Mass customization is one strategy enabling such differentiation. This study measured, through a choice-based conjoint analysis, the value that US American consumers assign to the availability of customization when buying furniture. Roughly 50% of consumers’ product choice is driven by price, 20% by product customization, 20% by delivery time, and 10% by the time needed to customize the product. Thus, while there is a customer segment driven by price, there also is a segment, consisting mainly of females, that values product customization.
L73|Ownership, autonomy, incentives and efficiency: Evidence from the forest product processing industry in China|Using enterprise-level data from China's Northeast-Inner Mongolia state-owned forest area for the year 2004, this paper investigates the technical efficiency of forest product processing mills and the relationship between institutional and managerial practices and efficiency. A two-stage procedure proposed by Simar and Wilson (2007) is adopted. In the first stage, a bootstrapped data envelopment analysis (DEA) model is used to compute the efficiency scores. In the second stage, the bootstrapped DEA scores are estimated over a set of mills’ institutional and managerial systems and other characteristics with a bootstrapped truncated regression. The results show that there is a wide dispersion in the technical efficiency among mills. Private ownership, autonomy and mill size have statistically significant positive impacts on efficiency. These results provide support for the ongoing reform and implications for future development of this area.
L73|Population growth and forest sustainability in Africa| Recent distressing trends in climate change, population explosion and deforestation have inspired this paper, which completes the existing literature by providing empirical justification to hypothetical initiatives on the impact of population growth on forest sustainability in Africa. Using three instruments of forest exploitation, the study shows how rural, agricultural and national population growths affect forest-area and agricultural-land. In this particular study, the findings indicate that instruments of forest exploitation do not explain changes in forest-area and agricultural-land beyond population growth mechanisms. Hence, population growth channels are a major driving force by which forest-area and agricultural-land are depleted and expanded, respectively. As a policy implication in the process of deforestation, a balanced approach is needed to take account of the interests of both; a green economy promoting sustainable development and the growing population needs.
L73|A New Method for Estimating Market Power with an Application to Norwegian Sawmilling|No abstract is available for this item.
L73|The European market for eco-building products|This market research aims to provide an overview of the Eco Building (or Green) activity in the European market. Energy efficiency is today at the top of the European political agenda, as from the analysis of chapter one (Legal Framework). It is part of the triple goal of the '20-20-20' initiative adopted by the European Union in 2008, which aims to achieve by 2020 a saving of 20% in primary energy consumption, a reduction of 20% in greenhouse gas emissions and an increase of 20% in renewable resources of energy. The CSIL multiclient report The European Market for Eco building products is the result of: analysis of the legislative frame network at the EU level (first chapter); analysis of the existing stock of available statistics on the building activity in Europe (most of it is reported in the second chapter of the Report); a number of simplified simulations of cost/benefit analyses for specific actions on energy saving, for residential and commercial buildings; desk research and field research (this last on the Italian market);data mining (turnover, employees, web address) for a wide number of industrial companies involved in Eco-building. Countries covered from the statistical analysis (building and economic indicators): Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom. The attached Excel spreadsheet is useful for the qualitative calculation of both the energy and the economic savings of the main actions that can be taken, making some assumptions. Chapter 5 shows the last available turnover, employment, web address for over 1000 players in this field, according to different categories: architectural and engineering companies, builders and developers, manufacturer of prefabricated buildings, water management, photovoltaic systems, renewable energy, building automation, industrial controls.
L73|China’s wood furniture manufacturing industry: industrial cluster and export competitiveness|China is the largest furniture exporter in the world. Its wood furniture industry has become an important part of the country’s forestry economic development. Hence, investigating China’s furniture industry cluster and export competitiveness is favorable for the sustainable development of China’s forestry industry. This study indicates that, under the guidance of the export-oriented strategy of China’s reform and opening up for 30 years, the country’s furniture industry has formed three big industry areas, namely, the Eastern Pearl River Delta, the Yangtze River Delta, and the Bohai Rim Region. As the strategy shifts from export orientation to a focus on domestic demand, the Midwest area will take over China’s industrial transfer. At present, China’s furniture products have an important position in the world market. In 2010, furniture exports accounted for 27% of the world’s total exports, with wood furniture accounting for $10.6 billion worth of exports, or 58% of China’s total exports of furniture. Among the main export markets, the United States accounted for 39% of China’s total exports. In terms of international furniture trade, an important mutual influence exists between China and the United States. China’s office furniture and kitchen furniture have price advantages, whereas the bedroom furniture lacks price advantages. The production and export of mahogany furniture face the pressure of raw material shortage because of the protection of tropical forest resources. Hence, this challenge puts China’s furniture industry in future competition from emerging countries such as Malaysia.
L73|Competitiveness and future challenges of Pohjois-Savo - A report for The Regional Council of Pohjois-Savo (in Finnish with English abstract and summary)|The turnover of the companies in North Savo in 2011 was nearly 10 billion euros, of which industry accounted for just under a third. The industrial structure of the region is not strong, but on the other hand it is not alarmingly thin either, because it does have certain successful niches. North Savos production and export growth has been on par with the average of other regions. The region is specialized in forestry and machinery industries as well as food production. The forest and machinery industries are export-oriented. Promising growth businesses include biopharmaceutical research, testing and production. These segments will be the engines of growth for the region in the future. In the forest industry the wood products industry is strong and its special products, such as heat treated wood, glue-laminated timber and hardwood floors, are selling well. Pulp and paper production have suffered losses, but the carton is in demand. In the machinery industry, power plant boilers, forestry tractors and mining machinery are global successes. Their production networks include a considerable number of local sub-contractors. Counterflow strategies will be the key to future development. The forest industry will evolve into a biotechnology industry, where decentralized local bio-oil production instead of large plants will play a large role. Clusters can be built around wooden apartment buildings. The key skills of the machinery industry should be kept as Savos own secret, but the network of services and output should go global. In addition to timber, milk is one of the regions precious raw materials, the production of which should be safeguarded in the future. Research can facilitate processing of milk and timber into more lucrative products with higher value-added. Fresh, local and organic food production can be promoted via entrepreneurial training, product development, and use of competitive bidding in purchases of fresh food products by public institutions. Development of the pharmaceutical industry is following a dual strategy : the development of the biopharmaceutical industry is based on synergies and investing in research, entrepreneurship and the raising of risk capital. Neighbouring Russia is investing in the development of its pharmaceutical industry. Kuopios medical cluster could participate by helping in the development of medicines, approval process, manufacturing and packaging, as well as marketing to Western markets. Industrial development requires close-knit co-operation with government departments. The University of Eastern Finland, the Savonia University of Applied Sciences, vocational schools, research institutes and laboratories, Kuopio University Hospital and the Finnish Medicines Agency as well as authorities responsible for business development and funding are key players is this development.
L73|Deforestation and welfare : evidence from Africa|This paper examines the effects of deforestation on the welfare of rural communities in the Congo Basin. Using moment conditions of agricultural and forest exploitations, findings indicate deforestation significantly improves welfare both at overall-rural and agricultural household per capita income levels. As a policy implication, in the process of forest exploitation a balanced approach is needed to take account of the interests of both rural communities, timber companies and international forest-sustainability standards. This should require among other things, the development and implementation of sustainable forest management plans by timber companies, exclusion from harvesting species that are important to local communities, compensation of timber companies for compliance with management plans as well as involvement of rural communities in monitoring the activities of timber companies.
L73|Annual use, economic life and residual value of cut-to-length harvesting machines|Recognizing the absence of up-to-date empirical data on the economic life, the annual use and the residual value of dedicated cut-to-length (CTL) harvesting machinery, the authors gathered a large database of second-hand machine sale offers containing over 1000 records, coming from Europe and North America. The statistical analysis of these data pointed at an economic life in the vicinity of 18,000h for both harvesters and forwarders, which confirms previous assumptions. The average annual use for the machines in the database is 1424 and 1581h year−1, respectively for the harvesters and the forwarders. Nordic users achieve a higher annual use than central European users, and the difference is statistically significant. Nevertheless, the average annual use recorded for both groups falls below the levels commonly adopted in current estimates, which may therefore represent ideal reference figures rather than actual averages. Residual value is strongly related to machine age, and the authors calculated some simple functions for estimating it. The study points at a better retention of the original value, compared to the figures reported in previous literature. At 5 years of age the harvesters and forwarders in the study keep respectively 38% and 44% of the new value. The information contained in the study is crucial to machine rate calculation, which has often been based on rule-of-thumb assumptions, in the absence of empirical data.
L73|Modeling an integrated market for sawlogs, pulpwood and forest bioenergy|Traditionally, most applications in the initial stage of forest supply chain deal with sawlogs to sawmills, pulpwood to pulp or paper mills and forest residues to heating plants. However, in the past decades, soaring prices of fossil fuel, global awareness about CO2 emission and increasing attention to domestic resource security have boosted the development of alternative renewable energy, among which forest bioenergy is the most promising and feasible choice for medium- and large-scale heating and electricity generation. Different subsidies and incentive policies for green energy further promote the utilization of forest bioenergy. As a result, there is a trend that pulpwood may be forwarded to heating plants as complementary forest bioenergy. Though pulpwood is more expensive than forest residues, it is more efficient to transport and has higher energy content. The competition between traditional forest industries and wood-energy facilities, expected to grow in the future, is very sensitive for the forest companies as they are involved in all activities. In this paper, we develop a model that all raw materials in the forest, i.e. sawlogs, pulpwood and forest residues, and byproducts from sawmills, i.e. wood chips and bark, exist in an integrated market where pulpwood can be sent to heating plants as bioenergy. It represents a multi-period multi-commodity network planning problem with multiple sources of supply, i.e. pre-selected harvest areas, and multiple kinds of destination, i.e. sawmills, pulp mills and heating plants. The decisions incorporate purchasing the raw materials in harvest areas, reassigning byproducts from sawmills, transporting those assortments to different points for chipping, storing, wood-processing or wood-fired, and replenishing fossil fuel when necessary. Moreover, different from the classic wood procurement problem, we take the unit purchasing costs of raw materials as variables, on which the corresponding supplies of different assortments linearly depend. With this price mechanism, the popularity of harvest areas can be distinguished. The objective of the problem is to minimize the total cost for the integrated market including the purchasing cost of raw materials. Therefore, the model is a quadratic programming (QP) problem with a quadratic objective function and linear constraints. A large case study in southern Sweden under different scenario assumptions is implemented to simulate the integrated market and to study how price restriction, market regulation, demand fluctuation, policy implementation and exogenous change in price for fossil fuel will influence the entire wood flows. Pair-wise comparisons show that in the integrated market, competition for raw materials between forest bioenergy facilities and traditional forest industries pushes up the purchasing costs of pulpwood. The results also demonstrate that resources can be effectively utilized with the price mechanism in supply market. The overall energy value of forest bioenergy delivered to heating plants is 23% more than the amount in the situation when volume and unit purchasing cost of raw materials are fixed.
L73|AHP-TOPSIS Yontemine Dayali Tedarikci Secimi Uygulamasi|The decision of the supplier selection is very important for a company to be successful. Selecting the right suppliers will decrease company’s purchasing cost, increase customer satisfaction and improve the competition capacity. This paper is dealt with supplier selection problem. AHP and TOPSIS, multiple criteria decision making methods, are applied together to select the most suitable supplier for a business firm. Quality, cost, delivery and service criteria that are mostly used in literature are defined as main criteria in the paper, and also their sub-criteria are defined. AHP method is used to determine the importance degree of main criteria and sub-criteria, TOPSIS method is developed to rank the suppliers. In AHP method, the weights of criterion and inconsistency rate are obtained by Super Decision 2.0.8 program. Microsoft Excel 2007 is used in TOPSIS method. Finally, the most important criterion is determined as “quality” and among the present suppliers of the business firm, “A2 supplier” is selected as the one which has the highest score.
L73|Deforestation and Welfare: Evidence from Africa|This paper examines the effects of deforestation on the welfare of rural communities in the Congo Basin. Using moment conditions of agricultural and forest exploitations, findings indicate deforestation significantly improves welfare both at overall-rural and agricultural household per capita income levels. As a policy implication, in the process of forest exploitation a balanced approach is needed to take account of the interests of both rural communities, timber companies and international forest-sustainability standards. This should require among other things, the development and implementation of sustainable forest management plans by timber companies, exclusion from harvesting species that are important to local communities, compensation of timber companies for compliance with management plans as well as involvement of rural communities in monitoring the activities of timber companies.
L73|The tropical timber industry in Gabon: a forward linkages approach to industrialisation|The breadth and depth of forward linkages in the tropical timber industry of Gabon is a result of three inter-acting drivers: the nature of final markets, ownership of production, and sector-specific policy. The Forestry Code set explicit domestic processing targets built on the trajectory of French processors. Still, while this is theoretically in line with European market demands for wood products, the forced beneficiation resulted in Chinese, Malaysian, and Gabonese producers, whose prime activity is the exploitation of logs for processing industries in China, to limit their participation in forward linkages to the sawnwood sub-sector, characterised by low entry barriers and negative producer margins. Gabon's comparative advantage lies in the exploitation of its natural resource tropical timber for export markets. Logging is also a 'superior' technology allowing the appropriation of resource rents. These are largely diluted in processing due to production cost penalties such as high reservation wages, inadequate infrastructure, lack of skills, and the political economy of Gabon. The conflict between the envisaged forward linkages approach to industrialisation (in light of falling oil reserves), industry actors' market focuses, motivations, and capabilities, as well as conclusions drawn about comparative advantages and linkage-blockages, has significant consequences for industrial development.
L73|Analiza kluczowych sektorów województwa podlaskiego. Sektor producentów wyrobów z drewna i mebli<BR>[Analysis of Key Sectors of the Podlaskie Voivodeship: The Sector of Producers of Wooden and Furniture Products]|Polish Abstract: Istotą projektu była szczegółowa analiza kluczowego sektora województwa podlaskiego, uwzględniająca dane z rynku pracy charakterystyczne dla sektora producentów wyrobów z drewna i mebli - Sekcja C (PKD 2007), w grupach 16.1, 16.2, 31.0. Raport ma stanowić narzędzie pomocnicze w podejmowaniu decyzji strategicznych, taktycznych i operacyjnych dla: przedsiębiorstw, instytucji powiązanych z danym sektorem i rynkiem pracy, władz regionalnych. English Abstract: The essence of the project was a detailed analysis of the key sector of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, taking into account labor market data specific to the sector of producers of wooden and furniture products - Section C (PKD 2007), in groups 16.1, 16.2, 31.0. The report is to be an auxiliary tool in making strategic, tactical and operational decisions for: enterprises, institutions related to a given sector and the labor market, regional authorities.
L73|The Use of Violence in Illegal Markets: Evidence from Mahogany Trade in the Brazilian Amazon|We provide evidence on the effect of market illegality on violence. Brazil was historically the main exporter of mahogany. Starting in the 1990s, trade was restricted and eventually prohibited. We build on previous evidence that mahogany trade persisted after prohibition and document relative increases in violence in areas with natural occurrence of mahogany. We show that as illegal activity receded in the late 2000s so did the relative increase in violence. We describe an experience of increase in violence following the transition of a market from legal to illegal and contribute to the evaluation of prohibition policies under limited enforcement.
L73|Measuring spatial co-agglomeration patterns by extending ESDA techniques|An emerging topic in spatial statistics is the analysis of agglomerations within a regional context. Often, these ‘spatial clusters’ are formed by effects of spatial co-agglomeration. This article introduces an extended bivariate Moran’s I statistic in a case study of German furniture industries. It allows to jointly account for the clustering of two different industries. The method is integrated into the context of Exploratory Spatial Data Analyses. Results show that the approach is a suitable tool for the detection and delineation of co-agglomerations in space by adding self-inclusion of cluster cores and by offering measures of statistical significance. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2011
L73|Foreign ownership and investment: do firms locate investments close to the headquarter?|No abstract is available for this item.
L73|Energy Production, Ecological Footprint and Socio-Economic Transformation of the Territory in an Organic Economy. The Case Study of Early Modern Madrid|The aim of this paper is to evaluate the impact of Madrid’s fuel demand on the near surrounding territory in the early modern period, both from an economic and an ecological viewpoint. Fuel supply (charcoal and timber) to Madrid required the raising of resources from a vast territory of inland Spain, and caused a process of specialization of forests in fuel extraction and commercialization. The economic structures of the villages of Castile adapted to the rising needs, and rural populations could take an active part in transportation of fuel and charcoal production. This paper also aims to define the area affected by the city’s charcoal production in order to analyze the ecological footprint in an organic economy.
L73|Análisis municipal de los determinantes de la deforestación en Bolivia|Este documento presenta evidencias de que las características ambientales, la infraestructura vial, los derechos propietarios y los aspectos demográficos son determinantes de la deforestación en Bolivia. Para ello, se realizaron estimaciones por mínimos cuadrados ordinarios y posteriormente se comprobó la existencia de interdependencia entre las regiones examinadas, estimándose en este último caso un modelo espacial de retardos.
L73|La “revolución vitivinícola” y sus efectos sobre el negocio corchero|Desde mediados del siglo XX, ha aumentado la importancia del tapón de corcho en la industria corchera, porque el corcho ha sido sustituido en muchas de sus anteriores aplicaciones por otros materiales, principalmente sintéticos. Así que actualmente la industria corchera está muy cerca de ser una industria de un solo producto con una sola aplicación, ya que casi todos los tapones se destinan a cerrar botellas de vino de calidad. Por ello, la evolución del negocio vinícola tiene una gran influencia en la marcha de las actividades corcheras. Y, como en las últimas cinco o seis décadas, ha tenido lugar una auténtica “revolución vitivinícola”, el objeto de este trabajo es responder a la siguiente pregunta: ¿Qué efectos tienen en el negocio corchero los cambios que están experimentando la producción, distribución y consumo de vino en el mundo? En el texto se describen las características de la “revolución vitivinícola” desde el lado de la oferta y de la demanda, comparando los Países Vinícolas Tradicionales con los Nuevos Países Vinícolas. Luego, se exponen los efectos de la “revolución vitivinícola” en el negocio corchero, y en las conclusiones se sintetizan los resultados obtenidos. Además, se presenta un anexo, sobre el consumo de cierres de botellas de vino.
L73|La microeconomía de la producción y tráfico de cocaína en Colombia|Este capítulo presenta una radiografía detallada de la microeconomía de la producción y tráfico de cocaína en Colombia. El capítulo presenta una breve descripción de la evolución en el tiempo de las cifras agregadas sobre producción de cocaína y luego seconcentra en describir en detalle cada eslabón de la cadena de producción. En particular, se describen los principales costos e ingresos en cada eslabón y, con base en la información disponible, se presenta una estimación de los flujos de recursos que semueven en la economía colombiana producto de estas actividades ilegales. Las fases de producción del clorhidrato de cocaína comprenden desde procesos de economía campesina, que incluye transformaciones de bajo valor agregado, producción a baja ymediana escala de base de coca, participación de actores armados ilegales en los eslabones de mayor generación de valor agregado, y complejas redes de distribución de precursores y control sobre las rutas del narcotráfico. Nuestros estimativos indican que, con datos a 2008, el tamaño del negocio de producción y tráfico de cocaína en Colombia es de aproximadamente $13.6 billones de pesos (2.3% del PIB), valor agregado que se distribuye así: $1.2 billones corresponden al valor de la hoja de coca producida; $0.8 billones al valor agregado de la base de coca; $2 billones al valor agregado de la transformación de base en clorhidrato de cocaína; y $9.6 billones alvalor generado en el eslabón del tráfico.
L73|Forest-mill integration: A transaction cost perspective|In Canada, where public ownership of forestland is prevalent, a central decision facing policy makers is how to allocate timber resources to private forest companies. Debates tend to focus around what proportion of the annual harvest should be devoted to markets as opposed to long-term contracts. To give a guide to policy makers, we surveyed forest firms from New Zealand and Sweden where this decision is based purely on a commercial basis. On average, mills source fifty percent of their fibre from the market. However, using a fractional logit model, we test whether theories from transaction cost economics influence this decision. Results are consistent with transaction cost economics; firms decrease the proportion of fibre sourced from a market with increasing fibre specificity, capital intensity, forest ownership concentration and uncertainty.
L73|Gouverner les forêts Africaines à l’ère de la mondialisation|De nombreux pays dans le monde sont engagés dans des processus de décentralisation et la plupart des Etats africains sont confrontés à de graves problèmes de gouvernance forestière, depuis la répartition des avantages à l’illégalité et à la gestion durable des forêts. Ce livre reésume les expériences à ce jour concernant l’ampleur et la nature de la décentralisation ainsi que les conséquences de celle-ci.
L73|Governing Africa's forests in a globalized world|Many countries around the world are engaged in decentralization processes, and most African countries face serious problems with forest governance, from benefits sharing to illegality and sustainable forest management. This book summarizes experiences to date on the extent and nature of decentralization and its outcomes - most of which suggest an underperformance of governance reforms - and explores the viability of different governance instruments in the context of weak governance and expanding commercial pressures over forests. Findings are grouped into two thematic areas: decentralization, livelihoods and sustainable forest management; and international trade, finance and forest sector governance reforms. The authors examine diverse forces shaping the forest sector, including the theory and practice of decentralization, usurpation of authority, corruption and illegality, inequitable patterns of benefits capture and expansion of international trade in timber and carbon credits, and discuss related outcomes on livelihoods, forest condition and equity. The book builds on earlier volumes exploring different dimensions of decentralization and perspectives from other world regions, and distills dimensions of forest governance that are both unique to Africa and representative of broader global patterns. The authors ground their analysis in relevant theory while drawing out implications of their findings for policy and practice.
L73|Chainsaw milling: supplier to local markets|Chainsaw milling, the on-site conversion of logs into lumber using chainsaws, is supplying a large proportion of local timber markets with cheap lumber. while it offers socio- economic opportunities to local people, it is very often associated with corruption and illegalities. regulating and controlling the practice is a challenge due to the mobility of these chainsaw milling operations. with this issue of ETFRN News, Tropenbos international, together with Cifor, wishes to contribute to the discussion on how to address the domestic timber trade effectively and equitably at international and national levels.
L73|The chainsaw economy in Tanimbar archipelago, indonesia|The Tanimbar islands are of great interest for their biodiversity (lidon and kartiwa 2005). located in the province of maluku, indonesia, their main city, saumlaki, is also a district capital. The islands were extensively studied during the Tanimbar land-use planning project, funded by the European Commission, which covered land-use planning, biodiversity protection and biodiversity enhancement through participatory approaches (Jewell et al. 2006; astawa et al. 2006). The project team analyzed the wood production system in the southern part of Yamdena island (lidon and kartiwa 2005), where chainsaw activi- ties supply most of the wood to local villages, saumlaki, other indonesian islands, and abroad. Two villages of south Yamdena, wermatan and ilngei, specialize in chainsaw milling, although at a very rudimentary level. wermatan is accessible only by sea and has an economy shaped by its traditional social structure. ilngei, which is very close to saumlaki and connected to it by a paved road, has a comparatively advanced state of economic development that is reflected in its wood production system (shantiko et al. 2004).
L73|The chainsaw supply chain in cameroon: the northern trail|Cameroon has the largest forest area in africa. industrial logging operations export timber products to Europe, america and asia, and informal chainsaw milling (CSM) operations supply the domestic market and many other african countries. The “northern trail” is an informal supply chain that supplies northern Cameroon and other african markets as far as nigeria, niger, Chad, sudan, Egypt, libya and algeria. This supply chain is organized by ethnic business networks, and represents more than 40,000 m3/year of chainsawn timber, with a cash flow of more than 6 billion FCFa/year.
L73|Commodity Chains: what can we learn from a business history of the rubber chain? (1870-1910)|The literature on the rubber boom applied a Dependendist view of rubber production in the Brazilian Amazon. Even though a sizable surplus was generated in the rubber chain, it was mostly appropriated by foreigners. This view is in tune with the Global Commodity Chain approach that argues that manufacturing/core economies absorb the bulk of surplus generated in the commodity chain. This paper challenges both frameworks and asks for a more careful examination of the business history of commodity chains: it is a first step in this direction through an analysis of the relationship between two nodes of the rubber chain.
L73|Bailouts and the Preservation of Competition|Governments rescue private companies partly to prevent other firms from gaining excessive market power. However, if failing firms exit, new entry may limit remaining firms' market power if there are potential entrants who can be as effective competitors as the firms leaving the market. We quantify these effects in the case of the 1984 bailout of timber companies that faced substantial losses on existing federal timber contracts. We predict that the bailout substantially increased sale prices in subsequent auctions because firms that might have might have been induced to enter without the bailout tended to have relatively low values.
L73|Study on China's timber resource shortage and import structure:natural forest protection program outlook,1998 to 2008|The state of China's ecological environment has improved to some extent since the Chinese government initiated the Natural Forest Protection Program (NFPP) in 1998. The logging prohibition and limitation policies adopted by the NFPP, however, have reduced domestic timber supply. Together with the thriving economy, decreasing domestic timer supply continues to widen the gap between supply and demand. Importation is considered to be the primary solution to this issue, making China the world's largest timber importer. China's major timber suppliers are Russia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, New Zealand, and Gabon, among which Russia accounts for more than 61 percent of China's total timber imports. The relatively cheaper conifers imported from Russia account for more than 60 percent of all imported timber, with volumes continually increasing because of the rapid pace at which China has been implementing its infrastructure projects. In addition, as living standards continue to improve, requirements for home decor and furniture also grow, further increasing the demand for tropical to temperate timber. In the long term, imports will remain the main solution to the insufficient domestic timber supply in China.
L73|The new kid in the forest: the impact of China's resource demand on Gabon's tropical timber value chain|This dissertation is anchored in the disruptive impact of China’s resource-based economic expansion over the last two decades. Whilst the country’s economic growth follows traditional patterns of development, the size of China’s population challenges the small-country assumption inherent in many macroeconomic trade models. The recent commodity boom and the seeming reversal of commodity exporting countries’ terms of trade are a result of China’s non-marginal impact of consumption. This thesis uses examples from the tropical timber industry in general and primary data from Gabon in particular to examine the impact of Chinese consumption of tropical timber forest products on a producer industry in the South. The global value chain framework is used as a method to study the likely changes in the organisation of production and trade. The research examines the possible re-direction of tropical timber trade flows away from the OECD towards China. It can be expected that the access to the Chinese market is defined over different standards, as buying decisions in traditional consumer countries vary from Chinese ones based on their stages of industrialisation and per capita incomes. The analysis also investigates whether the shift in markets leads to changes in the division of labour, the income distribution and the usage of domestic factors of production in Gabon. Additionally, the growing presence of Chinese producers in Southern resource industries has the potential to accentuate structural changes in the organisation of production, because Chinese actors’ activities are said to be concentrated in the extractive rather than the processing stages of production, often in disregard of socio-environmental consequences. Research results obtained in this dissertation, with respect to possible changes in the organisation of production and trade, plus knowledge about the impact of China’s significant consumption of natural resources on global commodity prices and the terms of trade movement, enable us to draw conclusions with respect to theoretical discussions about the role of natural resources in economic development, the implications for industrial and economic policy formulation, and the global value chain framework as a research method.
L73|Deforestación en Bolivia: una aproximación espacial|Este documento presenta evidencias de que las características ambientales, la infraestructura vial, los derechos propietarios y los aspectos demográficos son determinantes de la deforestación en Bolivia. Para ello se realizaron estimaciones por mínimos cuadrados ordinarios, y posteriormente se comprobó la existencia de interdependencia entre las regiones examinadas, estimándose en este último caso un modelo espacial de retardos.
L73|Stretching the Inelastic Rubber: Taxation, Welfare and Lobbies in Amazonia, 1870-1910|This paper examines the effect of government intervention via taxation on domestic welfare. A case-study of Brazilian market power on rubber markets during the boom years of 1870-1910 shows that the government generated 1.3% of GDP through an export tax on rubber but that it could have generated 4.7% in total, had the government set the tariff at the optimal level. National, regional and local constraints prevented the government from maximizing regional welfare. In a context of lobbies, government budget maximization may have differed from regional welfare maximization.
L73|Damned if you do, Damned if you don't – Reduced Climate Impact vs. Sustainable Forests in Sweden|The main objective of this paper is to analyze the potential goal conflict between two of Sweden’s environmental objectives: Sustainable Forests and Reduced Climate Impact – or, more precisely, the conflict between forest conservation and the supply of wood fuel. To accomplish this, we use a forest sector model that includes the suppliers and major users of roundwood. The econometric results, based on a data set that spans 40 years, show that all the own price elasticities have the expected signs. Among the three forestry products, the supply and (long-term) demand of forest fuel seems to be most sensitive to a price change. In a second step, the estimated model is used to simulate the effect of increased forest conservation -- the Sustainable Forest objective -- on the supply of wood fuel. If oil is used as a substitute, Swedish emissions of greenhouse gases will increase by almost 0.92 percent, which indicates a clear conflict with the Reduced Climate Impact objective.
L73|L’évolution de la commercialisation des bois publics français : entre dépendance au chemin et rupture institutionnelle|The evolution of the French Public Timber Sales Mechanisms: Between Path Dependence and Path Breaking This article suggests applying the “path dependence” and “path breaking” concepts to the study of merchant institutions through which timber is sold in France. The aim is to analyze the consequences of a new law on timber industry. First we remind, the features which led to the appearance of a path dependence situation around the auction. Then we describe the exogenous and endogeneous factors in favour of a change in the institutional trajectory, due to the raise of supply contracts sales by private agreements. Finally, we present all the arguments given by part of the timber industry to maintain the auction as the main sales method.
L73|The Organizational Evolution of Markets for Wood Products in the Southern United States| This paper represents the first case study attempt to develop a transaction cost conceptual model to describe industry evolution of the paper and lumber industries in the Southern United States around the late 1800s and early 1900s. We use transaction cost theory to explain the co-evolution of markets for wood products noting that variation in the level and type of investments made in physical and human capital assets needed to manage paper and lumber miller operations had a significant influence on the use of wood dealer systems compared to more vertically organized business arrangements. We identify some testable hypotheses and areas of future research.
L73|Capacity constraints and irreversible investments: defending against collective dominance in UPM Kymmene/Norske Skog/Haindl|Scrutiny of potential mergers by the European Commission often focuses on unilateral effects or single firm dominance. But some cases have involved concerns over coordinated effects: the concern that the merger could increase the likelihood of consumer harm through tacit collusion by the reduced number of firms in the industry (this is known as collective dominance). The economic and legal issues are far less certain in these cases and a particular challenge is how to bring empirical evidence to bear on the decision. In this chapter we examine a case in newsprint and magazine paper - UPM Kymmene/Norske Skog/Haindl . Here, coordinated effects were at the centre of the Commission’s concerns. We discuss how collusion theory and evidence were used to help clear the merger without remedies in the final Decision.
L73|Capacity Constraints and Irreversible Investments: Defending Against Collective Dominance in UPM Kymmene/Norske Skog/Haindl|Scrutiny of potential mergers by the European Commission often focuses on unilateral effects or single firm dominance. But some cases have involved concerns over coordinated effects: the concern that the merger could increase the likelihood of consumer harm through tacit collusion by the reduced number of firms in the industry (this is known as collective dominance). The economic and legal issues are far less certain in these cases and a particular challenge is how to bring empirical evidence to bear on the decision. In this chapter we examine a case in newsprint and magazine paper - UPM Kymmene/Norske Skog/Haindl . Here, coordinated effects were at the centre of the Commission's concerns. We discuss how collusion theory and evidence were used to help clear the merger without remedies in the final Decision.
L73|Carbon Sequestration and Forest Sector: Implementing an Additional Product Based on Wood Products in the Construction Sector|The aim of the paper is to analyse the implementation of a climate change mitigation strategy for the forest sector. We suggest a strategy based on an increased storage capacity in wood products. An additional resource is provided by recycling and a reallocation of timber usages. In the first part of the paper, the additionality notion (“Kyoto meaning”) is discussed (environmental and economic aspects). Then a case study is conducted on the “Landes de Gascogne forest”. The project is assessed on the basis of additional carbon storage and on the basis of avoided emissions, as wood can replace CO2 intensive materials (concrete, steel). Results will be useful in view of the discussions dealing with the post 2012 Kyoto period and the possible inclusion of wood products in the carbon stocks.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L73|Carbon sequestration in forestry: rotation lengths, wood products and carbon storage optimisation (In French)|The aim of the paper is to analyse the impact of rotation lengths on carbon storage in the forest, but also on carbon storage in wood products. The software Co2Fix has been used to undertake the simulations. A case study has been conducted on the “Landes de Gascogne” forest. On a long time scale, the analysis shows that carbon storage in wood products is significant. The study also shows that the implementation of long rotations although it allows to increase forests carbon stocks reduces timber production, and is not finally the best strategy. Results will be useful in view of the discussions dealing with the post 2012 Kyoto period and the possible inclusion of wood products in the carbon stocks.
L73|Carbon sequestration and the forest sector: Implementing an additional project based on wood products in the construction sector|The aim of the paper is to analyse the implementation of a climate change mitigation strategy for the forest sector. We suggest a strategy based on an increased storage capacity in wood products. An additional resource is provided by recycling and a reallocation of timber usages. In the first part of the paper, the additionality notion (“Kyoto meaning”) is discussed (environmental and economic aspects). Then a case study is conducted on the “Landes de Gascogne forest”. The project is assessed on the basis of additional carbon storage and on the basis of avoided emissions, as wood can replace CO2 intensive materials (concrete, steel). Results will be useful in view of the discussions dealing with the post 2012 Kyoto period and the possible inclusion of wood products in the carbon stocks.
L73|Links between sustainability-related innovation and sustainability management|This paper analyses the link between sustainability-related innovation and sustainability performance and the role that family firms play in this. This theme is particular relevant from a European point of view given the large number of firms that are family-owned. Governments often support environmentally and socially beneficial innovation with various policy instruments with the intention is to increase international competitiveness and simultaneously support sustainable development. In parallel, firms use corporate social responsibility (CSR) and environmental management systems partly in the hope that this will foster such innovation in their organisation. Hence the main research question of this paper is about the association of CSR and environmental management with environmentally and socially beneficial innovation and its determinants. Based on panel data, the paper analyses the link of corporate sustainability performance with sustainability innovation and the effect of being a family firm using panel estimation techniques. The paper discusses the results of the analysis, which point to a moderating role of family firms on the link of sustainability innovation and performance and assesses the policy implications of this insight.
L73|The Effects of Customer Value on Loyalty and Profits in a Dynamic Competitive Market|No abstract is available for this item.
L73|Consequences of the IPPC’s BAT Requirements for Emissions and Abatement Costs: A DEA Analysis on Norwegian Data|No abstract is available for this item.
L73|Capital intelectual y resultados empresariales en la cadena de la madera de Oberá (Argentina)|This paper seeks to analyze the impact of intellectual capital on business performance. A model is elaborated to study organizations located in developing countries areas. The investigation was conducted using a survey to the timber value chain firms in Oberá, Misiones (Argentine).The main conclusions are that it exists a direct relationship between relation capital and business performance and indirect between this and human capital and structural capital. El objetivo de este trabajo es analizar el impacto del capital intelectual sobre los resultados empresariales, desarrollando un modelo que es posible aplicar a organizaciones ubicadas en zonas de países en vías de desarrollo. Para el estudio se llevó a cabo un proceso de encuestación a las empresas del primer y segundo eslabón de la cadena de la madera del Departamento Oberá, en la provincia de Misiones (Argentina). Se concluye que existe una relación directa entre el capital relacional y los resultados empresariales e indirecta entre el capital humano y el capital estructural con aquellos.
L73|The Effect of Mergers on Consumer Prices: Evidence from Five Selected Case Studies|In this paper we propose a method to evaluate the effectiveness of U.S. horizontal merger policy and apply it to the study of five recent consumer product mergers. We selected the mergers from those that, from the public record, seemed to be most problematic for the antitrust agencies. Thus we estimate an upper bound on the likely price effect of completed mergers. Our study employs retail scanner data and uses familiar panel data program evaluation procedures to measure price changes. Our results indicate that four of the five mergers resulted in some increases in consumer prices, while the fifth merger had little effect.
L73|The Effect of Mergers on Consumer Prices: Evidence from Five Selected Case Studies|In this paper we propose a method to evaluate the effectiveness of U.S. horizontal merger policy and apply it to the study of five recent consumer product mergers. We selected the mergers from those that, from the public record, seemed to be most problematic for the antitrust agencies. Thus we estimate an upper bound on the likely price effect of completed mergers. Our study employs retail scanner data and uses familiar panel data program evaluation procedures to measure price changes. Our results indicate that four of the five mergers resulted in some increases in consumer prices, while the fifth merger had little effect.
L73|Forests in Post- Conflict Democratic Republic of Congo: Analysis of a Priority Agenda|Forests are ubiquitous in the Democratic Republic of Congo; they touch the cultural and economic life of most of the population and have enormous global environmental significance. After years of conflicts and mismanagement, reconstruction is key to improving living conditions and consolidating peace. At the same time, better roads and trade bring risks—threatening forests and biodiversity by facilitating logging, land conversion, and the seizure of forest rights by vested interests. Anticipating these threats, in 2002, the transitional government started a Priority Reform Agenda. This report analyses the soundness of this Agenda, the progress achieved to date, and the priorities for the future. It emphasises the nature of forests as a public good; and the importance of the rule of law, transparency and public participation in managing natural resources. It highlights the multiplicity of claims on forests; calls for multipurpose participatory land-use planning; and emphasises the need to secure traditional user rights. Beyond the risks, the return of peace to the DRC also offers a unique opportunity to take a fresh look at the second-largest rainforest in the world, and to implement innovative strategies that give priority to the environment and to local people.
L73|La mondialisation: l'intégration des pays en développement|Pour la quasi-totalité des populations du globe, la mondialisation est une expérience quotidienne. L'introduction de politiques économiques de libéralisation cause des tensions. Les nouvelles technologies de l'information et de la communication changent pour tous les rapports à la distance. Explorer la réalité des pays en développement au temps de la mondialisation, c'est mettre en avant leurs particularités mais aussi la diversité des situations à l'échelle des pays comme des grandes régions en développement. Mobilité, urbanisation et littoralisation des populations, renforcement des migrations internationales, mutation nécessaire dans la gestion de l'espace, diversification des activités, spécialisation des territoires : autant de problématiques qui menacent les équilibres environnementaux. Par une double approche thématique et régionale, les auteurs proposent, en seize chapitres, autant d'analyses concises nourries par leurs expériences de terrain.
L73|Atlas Industri Mebel Kayu Di Jepara, Indonesia|"Dokumen ini merupakan kajian terhadap sentra industri di Kabupaten Jepara, Indonesia, yang mengkhususkan diri pada produksi mebel untuk dipasarkan dalam negeri maupun luar negeri. Kami mengambil kesimpulan dari ciri-ciri utama dan dinamika yang terjadi pada berbagai perusahaan di Jepara dengan menggunakan analisis kuantitatif terhadap alur yang terjadi antara perusahaanperusahaan tersebut dan dengan pasar di tempat lain. Suatu metode analisis spasial telah dirancang khusus, dan digabungkan dengan metode lain yang sudah ada untuk menganalisa jaringan produksi hutan serta jaringan sosial. Metode tersebut memungkinkan adanya pertimbangan serta evaluasi yang lebih tepat dan akurat terhadap jumlah bengkel-bengkel kecil (lebih dikenal dengan sebutan ""brak"" atau workshop) yang tidak dapat dievaluasi dengan menggunakan metode-metode klasik. Tulisan ini menunjukkan bahwa statistik resmi dan berbagai tulisan yang sudah ada tentang Jepara selama ini ternyata memberikan taksiran yang terlalu rendah terhadap jangkauan industri kayu dan kegiatan di Jepara. Hasilnya disajikan melalui peta sintesis. Sebanyak 15.271 unit produksi telah diidentifikasi di Jepara, yang memperkerjakan sekitar 170.000 orang. Kegiatan tersebut menghasilkan pendapatan yang cukup besar, yaitu nilai tambah antara Rp 11.900 - 12.300 miliar/ tahun (sekitar Euro 1 miliar/tahun), atau Rp 70 - 78 juta/pekerja/tahun. Konsumsi kayu bulat di Kabupaten Jepara adalah sebesar 1,5 hingga 2,2 juta m≥/tahun, dengan kata lain, 9 m≥ kayu bulat dapat menyokong pekerjaan 1 pekerja tetap selama satu tahun. Penataan produksi di daerah ini sama seperti di sentra industri lainnya, di mana hubungan dan sistem sub kontrak antara sesama unit produksi serta tingkat spesialisasi tergolong tinggi, dan unit ukuran kecil dan sangat kecil menjadi cukup dominan dalam berbagai tahap produksi dibandingkan dengan unit terpadu yang lebih besar."
L73|Atlas of wooden furniture industry in Jepara, Indonesia|In this document, we study the industrial district of Jepara, Indonesia. It is specialised in furniture production, for Indonesian consumption as well as for worldwide exports. We summarize the main features of the dynamics of the firms involved in the Jepara industrial complex with a quantitative analysis of flows among them, and between them and markets elsewhere. A specific method of spatial analysis was designed, and merged with existing methods for the analysis of forest production networks and social networks. This method allows to take into account and to accurately assess the number of very small workshops that cannot be evaluated by classical methods. We demonstrate that both the official statistics and the existing literature about Jepara considerably underestimate the extent of the wood industry and its activities. We present the results through synthesis maps. A total of 15 271 units of production have been identified, employing approximately 170 000 workers in Jepara. The activity generates considerable revenue: between 11 900 and 12 300 billion Rp/year of added value (about 1 billion euros/year), that is to say between 70 and 78 million Rp/worker/year. The district of Jepara consumes between 1.5 and 2.2 million m3/year of roundwood, and in other words, we found that the use of around 9 m3 of roundwood sustains one full-time employee for a year. The organisation of the production is typical of an industrial district, featuring a high level of intertwined relationships and subcontracting among highly specialised production units and a prevalence of small and very small units in various steps of the production rather than bigger, integrated units.
L73|L’économie globale du bois tropical|En prenant comme modèle la production et le commerce international des bois tropicaux, cet article analyse la mondialisation. Dans un premier temps les forêts tropicales sont resituées face à l'évolution des activités humaines et des opinions publiques. Contrairement aux idées recues, il est montré que les bois tropicaux sont d'abord consommés dans les pays tropicaux. Cette analyse est nuancée dans le cas particulier des forêts tropicales humides. Les ressorts du commerce et les évolutions de l'économie des bois tropicaux sont étudiés. La nouvelle économie des bois tropicaux est discutée : quand la globalisation se fait par le Sud. Les bois tropicaux représente un remarquable cas de la production flexible en réseau. Enfin, le devenir des bois tropicaux et ses conséquences sont envisagés.
L73|A short analysis on the stricter European regulations on tropical hardwood imports and their side effects|This paper analyses the side effects of the stricter regulation on tropical hardwood or timber imports. It considers the place of Europe within the global timber market, where Europe accounts only for a very limited share. It also explains the high selectivity of European markets, with its consequences. While tropical wooden furniture and other secondary processed products are not considered as timber here, their question is also discussed. The number of empirical studies specifically dealing with the side effects of EU regulations is limited, but the results are converging, showing that these regulations have a general adverse effect, contrary to the initial aim of promoting the sustainability of tropical timbers. These side effects are essentially to divert the trade towards countries with lower standards, and to add a burden on most of the producing countries which have already a set of comparative disadvantages for the production of legal or sustainable timber. The effects are positive on a limited number of companies which markets are very dependent of Europe. The question is then analysed from a broader perspective, replacing the effects of the EU regulations as an incidental factor compared to the increasing consumption of tropical timber by the three developing giants: Brazil, India and China.
L73|A short analysis on the stricter European regulations on tropical hardwood imports and their side effects|This paper analyses the side effects of the stricter regulation on tropical hardwood or timber imports. It considers the place of Europe within the global timber market, where Europe accounts only for a very limited share. It also explains the high selectivity of European markets, with its consequences. While tropical wooden furniture and other secondary processed products are not considered as timber here, their question is also discussed. The number of empirical studies specifically dealing with the side effects of EU regulations is limited, but the results are converging, showing that these regulations have a general adverse effect, contrary to the initial aim of promoting the sustainability of tropical timbers. These side effects are essentially to divert the trade towards countries with lower standards, and to add a burden on most of the producing countries which have already a set of comparative disadvantages for the production of legal or sustainable timber. The effects are positive on a limited number of companies which markets are very dependent of Europe. The question is then analysed from a broader perspective, replacing the effects of the EU regulations as an incidental factor compared to the increasing consumption of tropical timber by the three developing giants: Brazil, India and China.
L73|An approach to health and safety in E.U. forestry operations – Hazards and preventive measures|Forestry in general and logging in particular continue to be among the three most hazardous sectors in European countries. The aim of this article is to characterize health and safety problems and solutions in E.U. forestry operations, and particularly in Portuguese operations. Forest types, production, employment and ownership are used to characterize the forest sector. Forestry accidents and health problems data are mentioned. Typical hazards associated to the nature of logging operations are systematized. Preventive measures, focused on a wide spectrum of measures, making safety considerations an integral feature of all operational activities from planning to organization to execution and supervision of work are emphasized in this article.
L73|A Socio-economic Analysis of French Public Timber Sales|This socio-economic study aims to better understand the functioning and the evolution of timber sales held by the French public forest service. The auction mechanism is the historical institution which has been used in France for centuries. The recent will to develop supply contracts through private agreements is a major change in the French timber industry. It accurately raises questions about the timber prices issue.
L73|The Emergence of new Successful Export Activities in Uruguay|El proyecto “El surgimiento de nuevas actividades exportadoras exitosas en América Latina” busca identificar los elementos claves en el proceso de descubrimiento de nuevas oportunidades de exportación en diferentes países de la región, con el objetivo de proponer políticas y reformas que permitan aumentar el ritmo de descubrimientos, en particular teniendo en cuenta la importancia relativa de diversas fallas de mercado. El enfoque general del estudio puede resumirse en que “los mercados se desempeñan bien al brindar señales de la rentabilidad de actividades que ya existen, pero su desempeño es pobre cuando se trata de actividades que podrían existir pero no existen. Aun si estas actividades no son nuevas en el sentido de que están presentes en economías más ricas, los productores se ven enfrentados a una considerable incertidumbre respecto a los costos y la productividad bajo las condiciones del mercado local. Introducirse en estos nuevos sectores típicamente requiere un inversor pionero, que indica a otros la rentabilidad de dichas actividades. Llamamos a este proceso de descubrir la estructura de costos interna de la economía auto-descubrimiento” (Hausmann y Rodrik, 2003). “En el proceso de auto-descubrimiento abundan las externalidades de información, debido a que la información de costos descubierta por un empresario no puede conservarse en forma privada. Si la empresa pionera resulta rentable, esto es fácilmente observable por otros. Los imitadores entran entonces en la actividad, la renta del productor establecido se disipa y se establece un nuevo sector. Si, por el contrario, el pionero quiebra, las pérdidas son soportadas en su totalidad por el empresario. En consecuencia, la actividad empresarial de esta naturaleza no es una actividad con alta recompensa: las pérdidas son privadas mientras las ganancias se socializan. Por tanto, los mercados no proporcionan suficiente actividad empresarial en actividades nuevas” (Hausmann, Rodríguez-Clare y Rodrik, 2006). El estudio realizado para Uruguay consistió en analizar cuatro actividades exportadoras nuevas para el país, en el contexto del marco teórico propuesto por el BID y siguiendo la metodología común establecida para todos los casos incluidos en el proyecto regional. Asimismo, en el marco de este estudio se construyó una base de datos armonizada de las exportaciones uruguayas de bienes a nivel de producto y empresa, que permite analizar la actividad exportadora a nivel de empresa, producto y mercado de destino en las últimas dos décadas. La disponibilidad de series de tiempo consistentes permitió superar las limitaciones de información que provocaban en las estadísticas los cambios introducidos en la clasificación de productos en cuatro oportunidades (1985, 1993, 1997, 2002). Este estudio busca una mejor comprensión de estos problemas en el caso de Uruguay, presentando, en primer término, una visión de conjunto del desempeño exportador de Uruguay y su política comercial, y un análisis de la actividad exportadora a nivel de firma. En segundo lugar se analizan en profundidad cuatro sectores: software, forestal, caviar y esturión, y vacunas de origen animal a partir de los cuales se extraen lecciones de políticas públicas.
L73|Un modèle d'estimation de la valeur des lots de bois à partir de résultats d'enchères avec invendus|Timber stumpage appraisal is an important issue for Public Forest Services so as to set a relevant reserve price and to obtain a fair market value. The hedonic price function approach is a useful method to infer the appraisal timber value given that many characteristics may influence the stumpage price. We adopt the transaction-evidence timber appraisal method using a data set including timber auctions. An econometric problem arises from the fact that a large number of lots remain unsold at the end of the sales. In addition, the seller reserve price is not announced in French timber auctions. We study the variables that determine the probability that a lot will be sold or not and the implicit prices of the characteristics of the lots. We correct the bias due to the existence of unsold lots using the sample selection model of Heckman. Classification JEL : D44, C24, L73, Q23
L73|La propriété intellectuelle dans les biotechnologies agricoles : quels enjeux pour quelles perspectives ?|Within the framework of agricultural biotechnologies, there was an evolution of the intellectual property rights: the implementation of the patents on living organism, the evolution of the legislation on the Plant breeder’s right from the Union for the Protection of plant varieties, or the implementation of intellectual property rights at a world level within the framework of Trips agreements (Article 27/3 B.) of WTO. In this context of evolutionary intellectual property rights, the markets of the agricultural genetic resources are based on goods and services related to the management of agro biodiversity. The markets related to the genetic resources will depend on the way in which the actors will jointly reach: technologies; biological and genetic material; information and knowledge as well on the material as on technologies; agricultural markets that it is on a local, national, regional or world level. This is why in this paper we will analyze, whatever the statute of the genetic resources is, the conditions of access to the biological materials, the innovations and the markets and their consequences on the activities of research and development in the field of agricultural biotechnologies. JEL code – L51, L65, L73, L88, 034.
L73|Índice de peligro de incendios forestales de largo plazo|A long term forest fire danger index is described. Such an index is based on the principle that forest fires follow a self organized critical behavior. This behavior implies that under a wide variety of circumstances, forest fires exhibit a power-law dependence of occurrence frequency on burn area over many orders of magnitude. The paper describes the principle of a self organized critical behavior of forest fires. Then after, based on the records of burned area and number of forest fires occurred every year in each state in Mexico within the period 1970-2005 an empirical proof that the total number of forest fires occurred every year in every state covering a defined area maintain a power law relationship with the burned area is performed. This behavior is used to define a long term forest fire danger index. Results show that forest fires in each state indeed follow a frequency-size distribution that exhibit a power-law dependence. Finally, the danger indexes are estimated for each state providing additionally a measure of fire danger in relative terms. Some uses of the fire danger index in public administration are described.
L73|Bequest Motive for Conservation in Forest Production Communities|The study confirms the existence of a bequest motive, or intergenerational value, closely related to the conservation of forests in poor rural communities with communal forests under logging. A survey with contingent valuation type of questions was applied to the households of two populations living in two contrasting forest communities. Results show that 83% and 71% of head of households declared a willingness to make an altruistic sacrifice for the subsequent enjoyment of their children from this forest resource, measured in different ways. Variables such as age, gender, income, education and forest type are closely related to the bequest motive, as other literature has found to be the case regarding private forest owners. Differences among communities show that the larger the benefits they obtain from the forest resources they own, the larger the bequest motive.
L73|Evaluación de la productividad de sitios multiespecíficos a través de funciones de distancia|A methodology to estimate relative productivity in forest sites with several species throughout an efficiency index derived from radial and directional distance functions is described. The paper introduces the distance function as a measure of relative efficiency in the use of resources by mixed populations. The estimation procedure is described either when several inputs and outputs are included as well as when the estimates are based on one or several products (species). A methodology to isolate the effect of density to estimate total volume productivity is also introduced and used to compare different estimates of site quality including the traditional site index. Results show that estimation of productivity in multi species sites depends on the site composition since sites become more efficient as they are composed by more species. They also show that the traditional site index estimate is not a good estimate of total site productivity in multi species sites and that the best estimates of efficiency under these conditions, in terms of their relationship with actual productivity are those derived from radial distance functions when all species are incorporated in the estimation. Some deficiencies of the procedure are also discussed as well as some directions to future research on the topic.
L73|Cambodia Feeding China's Expanding Demand for Wood Pulp|After decades of war, Cambodia is one of the world's poorest nations, its economy and its political life are still suffering from the civil war that racked the country during the latter part of the 20th century. Rice and rubber were traditionally the principal exports of Cambodia, but exports fell sharply after the onset of the civil War, which put most of the rubber plantations out of operation. By the 1990s, however, rubber plantings had been undertaken as part of a national recovery program, and rubber and rice were again being exported. The fishing industry has also somehow been revived, but some food shortages continue. From this period, the largest source of export income has been timber, until the Cambodian government set up a log export ban in 1995. With a rather limited national environment supporting the development of an internationally competitive wood processing industry, this industry sector has not benefited from this ban. Wood material exports have continued under a limited processed form, i.e. squared logs and thick boards. Up to now, no development of any wood pulp or chipping industry has been impossible in Cambodia. Additionally, in 2002, any logging activity has been suspended for any forest companies, until the approval of their new forest concessions. Some forest companies which had old logs (harvested before 2001) were still authorized to process them. Further, in 2003, a large portion of the territory (about 24%) was declared as protected area. The industrial growth of the country is now mainly sustained by the garment and tourism sectors. But until now, inadequate transportation hampers the development of national industries, except in some development pockets. This poor transportation is a major impediment for the development of pulp wood plantations or pulp and chipping industries in Cambodia.
L73|Vietnam Feeding China's Expanding Demand for Wood Pulp|"Regarding the forest sector, in a context of substantial areas of denuded and bare lands (initially around 25% of Vietnam area), forestry rehabilitation and development plans have been continuously on the focus in Vietnam since the end of the war. The first projects were planned under an existing broader program, the United Nations World Food program (1975-200). These projects essentially concerned agro-forestry and demonstrations trials. Vietnam started its economic renovation policy (known as ""Doi Moi"") in 1986 with a series of major economic programs and industrial development plans. Among them, the program 327 (1993-1998) was initially planning substantial effort to rehabilitate forest degraded lands. It soon shifted to focus on forest protection in critical zones. Finally, the program 661 (1998-2010), also known as ""Five million hectares reforestation program"" (5MHRP), really put the emphasis on a substantial increment of the nation's forest areas. By the end of this program, the national forests are expected to cover more than 14 million hectares. The program includes both protection of existing forests and reforestation. Initially, Most of the production plantations were planned to be established with fast growing exogenous species (i.e. eucalyptus). Now, the government is promoting the development of indigenous species as much as possible."
L73|Malaysia Feeding China's Expanding Demand for Wood Pulp|"Malaysia has a total capacity pulp and paper production at over 1 million T/year. The country is a net importer of pulp, paper, and paper board, and progressively tends to decrease its dependency. However, the self-sufficiency is growing at a slow rate. All the paper mills of the country are small by the world industry standards, none producing more than 300 000 T/Year. The Malaysian government has identified this particular industry sector as one of the priority areas for investment in the second industrial master plan (IMP2). The strategy is to achieve a state of self sufficiency, to reduce import, and to encourage foreign capital inflow. The industry was one of the industries to survive the economic downturn resulting from the ""Asian crisis"" in 1997, as much as the softening of the economy following the September 11th, 2001 event. No paper mill was closed down or taken over by larger companies at these occasions. The paper mills survived by remaining small but efficient, while cutting the cost of production at the same time. The industry also managed to remain buoyant by focusing on niche markets at the national scale. The Malaysian pulp and paper industry is heavily dependant on imported fibre, particularly virgin pulp, and is also facing the need to find a new source of fibre to strengthen and retain the quality of secondary fibres as the use of recycled paper is growing in Malaysia. As for the other wood-based Malaysian industries, further development of integration of downstream activities is highly promoted. The utilisation of wood waste is promoted through the emphasis on R&D and technology improvements. Meanwhile, more forest plantation projects are planned to ensure a sufficient and steady source of fibre supply in the long run. Other sources of supply are non-wood materials, such as oil palm residues; Kenaf (Hibiscus cannabinus) are also presented as alternatives to wood fibre."
L73|Geographic Indications for Javanese Teak: A constitutional change|The central issue addressed in this paper is whether geographic indication (GI) can be applied as a tool to encourage some furniture industries and teak producers to take collective action to improve teak product quality and increase global market competitiveness. This paper explores the possibility of implementing GI on teak as a means to improve local community rights to manage teak resources, Perum Perhutani revenues and the perception of teak wood products on national and international markets, as well as employment in the furniture industry. The paper also discusses the institutional arrangement necessary to enable GI implementation on teak. After the 1998 financial crisis, Javanese furniture industries experienced a boom, but illegal logging in state forests surged as well. Unfortunately this development was disconnected from forest resources capacities. Stakeholders made a living from bad practices and misuse of forest resources. Furniture was rejected because of its bad quality, and wood was wasted. Instead of producing high-quality teak products, Java turned to mass production of cheap furniture for national and international markets. As a result wood supply was shrinking, putting many furniture enterprises and their hundreds of thousands of employees in jeopardy. Indonesian furniture is getting a bad reputation on the international market. Indonesians by culture have the perception that teak wood is something special, and on the world market teak is the best-known tropical species. In other good news, local community enthusiasm for planting teak is growing. Building on this we expect that GI to help maintain a common interest among stakeholders. GI designation is a sign that goods have a specific geographic origin and possess qualities or have a reputation because of that place of origin and the knowledge of local communities. Most commonly, a GI consists of the name of the place of origin of the goods. Agricultural products typically have qualities that derive from their place of production and are influenced by specific local factors, such as climate and soil.
L73|Cambodia Report : Feeding China's Expanding Demand for Wood Pulp|"After decades of war, Cambodia is one of the world's poorest nations, its economy and its political life are still suffering from the civil war that racked the country during the latter part of the 20th century. Rice and rubber were traditionally the principal exports of Cambodia, but exports fell sharply after the onset of the civil war, which put most of the rubber plantations out of operation. By the 1990s, however, rubber plantings had been undertaken as part of a national recovery program, and rubber and rice were again being exported. The fishing industry has also somehow been revived, but some food shortages continue. From this period, the largest source of export income has been timber, until the Cambodian government set up a ""log export"" ban in 1995. With a rather limited national environment supporting the development of an internationally competitive wood processing industry, this industry sector has not benefited from this ban. Wood material exports have continued under a limited processed form, i.e. squared logs and thick boards. Up to now, no development of any wood pulp or chipping industry has been impossible in Cambodia. Additionally, in 2002, any logging activity has been suspended for any forest companies, until the approval of their new forest concessions. Some forest companies which had old logs (harvested before 2001) were still authorized to process them. Further, in 2003, a large portion of the territory (about 24%) was declared as protected area. The industrial growth of the country is now mainly sustained by the garment and tourism sectors. But until now, inadequate transportation hampers the development of national industries, except in some ""development pockets"". This poor transportation is a major impediment for the development of pulp wood plantations or pulp and chipping industries in Cambodia."
L73|Teak Furniture And Business Responsibility: A Global Value Chain Dynamics Approach|Teak furniture business development aims at achieving the three millennium development goals of global partnership, poverty alleviation and environmental sustainability. A value chain of teak furniture connects teak growers with furniture retailers in Europe, the United States and Japan. It distributes value added along the chain, but it produces imbalance of income distribution and pressure on teak plantation sustainability. This paper integrates value chain analysis and systems dynamic approach to observe baseline trends and glimpse future scenarios of teak forest and incomes to various actors participating in the teak business. Future scenarios to obtain premium prices through Fair Trade and business responsibility of international furniture retailers will not only restore the teak furniture business but also foster great leaps in teak plantation sustainability and the livelihoods of teak growers and small to medium-sized teak furniture enterprises. Collective action among them in defining rules and a low level of land conflicts are necessary conditions for success.
L73|Toward Globalization of the Forest Products Industry: Some Trends|This paper examines the hypothesis that changes have been brought about in the forest industry that allow it to participate fully in globalization. The forest industry has undergone profound changes in recent years in large part by new technologies. Whereas traditionally it was primarily an extractive industry that relied on local sources for its basic resource—raw, industrial wood—today, intensively managed planted forests are replacing natural forests as the basic source of the wood resource, and modern biotechnology is being applied to create trees that both grow rapidly and have traits desired in industrial wood. These changes eliminate the traditional ties between forest processing and locations with abundant natural forests. Today, globalization allows investments, capital flows, and emerging technologies to move easily into regions where they are expected to be particularly productive. It also provides for the ready utilization of the human resources of foreign countries. Thus, offshore outsourcing is closely associated with globalization. The easy flow of productive factors results in the production of goods and services based on a mix of in-country and external contributions to production. In forestry, this process takes on an additional dimension in which the basic resource itself, the forest, can be relocated to capitalize on the cost advantages of particular regions. Additional changes have been driven by modern biotechnology, which has dramatically increased the variety of areas where productive forests can be grown, as well as overall forest productivity. We find that there is substantial evidence in this country-level forestry data to support our hypotheses of how globalization has begun to reshape the forest products industry. However, the evidence suggests that the changes have been more prominent in the pulp industry than in the structural wood sector.
L73|Capacity Utilization in a Generalized Malmquist Index Including Environmental Factors: A Decomposition Analysis|Productivity measures ignoring environmental effects may give misleading information on total productivity growth. Further, business cycles in the form of capacity utilization may significantly influence productivity measures. We develop an overall Malmquist productivity index and decompose changing efficiency rates into a contribution from environmental factors, capital, and capacity utilization. Our new combined capacity utilization element contributes to the literature in that it also takes into account the restriction for producing negative externalities. Empirical applications illustrate that the choice of inputs influences the overall productivity measure and its decomposition into efficiency changes and technical changes, and the capacity utilization element.
L73|Forest Certification: Toward Common Standards?|The forestry industry provides a good illustration of the active roles that industry associations, environmental nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), national governments, and international organizations can play in developing and promoting codes of conduct that are formally sanctioned and certified. It also reflects some of the challenges of disseminating codes of conduct in developing countries and ensuring market benefits from certification. We describe the emergence of forest certification standards, outline current certification schemes, and discuss the role of major corporations in creating demand for certified products. We also discuss the limited success of certification and some of the obstacles to its adoption in developing countries. The current diversity of forest certification programs and ecolabeling schemes has created a costly, less-than-transparent system that has been largely ineffective in terms of the initial goals of reducing tropical deforestation and illegal logging. Some steps have been taken toward harmonization of different certification criteria as well as endorsement and mutual recognition among existing forest certification programs. However, it is unlikely that standardization alone can overcome other, more serious barriers to certification in developing countries.
L73|Commercial Forestry: An Economic Development Opportunity Consistent with the Property Rights of the Wik People to Natural Resources| Wik people on Cape York Peninsula, Queensland, aspire to economic independence. Commercial processing of native forest timbers is seen by Wik people as a culturally appropriate engine for economic development; however, much uncertainty surrounds their property rights to native forest timber. The granting of native title over some traditional Wik land in 2000 and 2004 was seen as a coup by Wik people, but some economists have argued that the inalienable and communal nature of native title is an obstacle to development in indigenous communities. An assessment of Wik property rights to timber resources reveals that a commercial forestry industry is consistent with their rights. In comparison with social and cultural factors, the inalienable and communal characteristics of native title are second-order development constraints for Wik people.
L73|Forests in the global balance - changing paradigms|The present book gives cause for some reflection on the changing paradigms that have become apparent in the field of forestry over the past two decades. The new social values and perceptions have been integrated into a holistic approach for the study of forest related issues, from an intersectoral and wider angle including social, economic, end environmental factors.
L73|Forests for the New Millennium - MAKING FORESTS WORK FOR PEOPLE AND NATURE|THE WAYS IN WHICH FORESTS ARE PERCEIVED AND USED HAVE CHANGED DRAMATICALLY OVER RECENT YEARS. FORESTS ARE NO LONGER SEEN SIMPLY AS A SOURCE OF TIMBER, BUT AS COMPLEX ECOSYSTEMS WHICH SUSTAIN LIVELIHOODS AND PROVIDE A RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES. IT IS NOW WIDELY RECOGNISED THAT FORESTS CAN CONTRIBUTE TO RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION.
L73|Des Forêts pour le Nouveau Millénaire - DES FORêTS à GéRER DANS L'INTéRêT DES GENS ET DE LA NATURE|LA FAçON DONT LES FORêTS SONT PER«UES ET LEURS UTILISATIONS ONT BEAUCOUP CHANGé AU COURS DES DERNIèRES ANNÉES. LES FOR TS NE SONT PLUS CONSIDéRéES COMME ÉTANT UNIQUEMENT DES SOURCES DE BOIS MAIS DES éCOSYStèMES COMPLEXES QUI PERMETTENT à DES COMMUNAUTéS DE SE DéVELOPPER ET OFFRENT TOUTE UNE GAMME DE PRODUITS ET DE SERVICES ENVIRONNEMENTAUX. ON RECONNAiT AUJOURD'HUI QUE LES FORêTS PEUVENT CONTRIBUER AU DéVELOPPEMENT RURAL ET à LA LUTTE CONTRE LA PAUVRETé.
L73|Bosques para el Nuevo Milenio - BOSQUES QUE BENEFICIEN A LA GENTE Y SUSTENTEN LA NATURALEZA|LAS MANERAS DE PERCIBIR Y USAR LOS BOSQUES HAN CAMBIADO DRAM¡TICAMENTE DURANTE LOS ⁄LTIMOS A—OS. YA NO SE CONSIDERA M¡S A LOS BOSQUES S”LO COMO UNA FUENTE DE MADERA, SINO COMO ECOSISTEMAS COMPLEJOS QUE SUSTENTAN LAS FORMAS DE VIDA HUMANA Y SUMINISTRAN UNA GAMA DE PRODUCTOS Y SERVICIOS AMBIENTALES. AHORA ES AMPLIAMENTE RECONOCIDO QUE LOS BOSQUES PUEDEN CONTRIBUIR AL DESARROLLO RURAL Y AYUDAN A ALIVIAR LA POBREZA.
L73|Forest-based Livelihoods and poverty reduction : new paths from local to global scales|No abstract is available for this item.
L73|Effects of Increased Demand for Biofuels: A Dynamic Model of the Swedish Forest Sector|In this paper, we estimate the dynamic effects on the forest sector of an increased demand for biofuels. This is done by developing a partial adjustment model of the forest sector that enables short, intermediate, and long run price elasticities to be estimated. It is relevant to study the effects of increased demand for biofuels as the Swedish government has committed to an energy policy that is likely to further increase the use of renewable resources in the Swedish energy system. Four subsectors are included in the model: the forest owners, who supply sawtimber, pulpwood and forest fuels; the sawmills which demand sawtimber; the pulp and paper industry which demands pulpwood; and the energy industry which demands forest fuels. The results show that the short run elasticities are fairly consistent with earlier studies and that sluggish adjustment in the capital stock is important in determining the short and intermediate run responses. Simulation shows that an increase in the demand for forest fuels has a positive effect on the equilibrium price of all the three types of wood, and a negative effect on the equilibrium quantities of sawtimber and pulpwood.
L73|Bioenergy, Pollution, and Economic Growth|This thesis consists of four papers: two of them deal with the effects on the forest sector of an increase in the demand for forest fuels, and two of them concern the relation between economic growth and pollution. Paper [I] is a first, preliminary study of the potential effects on the Swedish forest sector of a continuing rise in the use of forest resources as a fuel in energy generation. Sweden has made a commitment that the energy system should be sustainable, i.e., it should be based on renewable resources. However, an increasing use of the forest resources as an energy input could have effects outside the energy sector. We consider this in a static model by estimating a system of demand and supply equations for the four main actors on the Swedish roundwood market; forestry, sawmills, pulpmills and the energy sector. We then calculate the industries' short run supply and demand elasticities. Paper [II], is a development of the former paper. In this paper, we estimate the dynamic effects on the forest sector of an increased demand for forest fuels. This is done by developing a partial adjustment model of the forest sector that enables short, intermediate, and long run price elasticities to be estimated. It is relevant to study the effects of increased demand for forest fuels as the Swedish government has committed to an energy policy that is likely to further increase the use of renewable resources in the Swedish energy system. Four subsectors are included in the model: forestry, sawmills, pulpmills and the energy industry. The results show that the short run elasticities are fairly consistent with earlier studies and that sluggish adjustment in the capital stock is important in determining the intermediate and long run responses. Simulation shows that an increase in the demand for forest fuels has a positive effect on the equilibrium price of all three types of wood, and a negative effect on the equilibrium quantities of sawtimber and pulpwood. In paper [III] a Shephard distance function approach is used to estimate time series of shadow prices for Swedish emissions of CO2, SO2, and VOC for the period 1918 - 1994. The shadow prices are in a next step regressed on GDP per capita. The objective of the study is closely linked to hypothesis of environmental Kuznets curves. We conclude that the time series of the shadow prices from this approach can not be used to explain the EKCs found for Swedish emissions. In paper [IV], we calculate time series of shadow prices for Swedish emissions of CO2, SO2, and VOC for the period 1918 - 1994. The shadow prices are in a next step related to income, to explain the EKCs previously found for Swedish data on the three emissions. Newly constructed historical emission time series enable studying a single country's emission paths through increasing levels of economic activity. A directional distance function approach is used to estimate the industry's production process in order to calculate the opportunity costs of a reduction in the emissions. The time series of the shadow prices show support for EKCs for the Swedish industry.
L73|Forestry Sector Reform and Distributional Change of Natural Resource Rent in Indonesia|After the collapse of the centralized Soeharto regime, deforestation caused by over-logging accelerated. To tackle this problem, an IMF/World Bank-led forestry sector reform program adopted a market-friendly approach involving the resumption of round wood exports and raising of the resource rent fee, with the aim to stop rent accumulation by plywood companies, which had enjoyed a supply of round wood at privileged prices. The Indonesian government, for its part, decentralized the forest concession management system to provide incentives for local governments and communities to carry out sustainable forest management. However, neither policy reform worked effectively. The round wood export ban was reimposed and the forest management system centralized again with cooperation from a newly funded industry-led institution. In the midst of the confusion surrounding the policy reversal, the gap between the price of round wood in international and domestic markets failed to contract, although rent allocations to plywood industries were reduced during 1998-2003. The rents were not collected properly by the government, but accumulated unexpectedly in the hands of players in the black market for round wood.
L73|Evaluating the Role of Brown v. Board of Education in School Equalization, Desegregation, and the Income of African Americans| The public profile of the Brown v. Board of Education decision tends to overshadow the well-established fact that racial disparities in school resources in the South began narrowing 20 years before the Brown decision and that school desegregation did not begin on a large scale in the Deep South until ten years after the Brown decision. We instead view Brown as a highly visible marker of public policy's mid-century reversal on matters of race. When we examine the labor market outcomes of male workers in 1990, we find that southern-born blacks who would have finished their schooling just before effective desegregation occurred in the South fared poorly compared to southern-born blacks who followed behind them in school by just a few years, relative to northern-born blacks in same age cohorts. Copyright 2006, Oxford University Press.
L73|Forest Certification: Toward Common Standards?| The forestry industry provides a good illustration of the active roles that industry associations, environmental nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), national governments, and international organizations can play in developing and promoting codes of conduct that are formally sanctioned and certified. It also reflects some of the challenges of disseminating codes of conduct in developing countries and ensuring market benefits from certification. We describe the emergence of forest certification standards, outline current certification schemes, and discuss the role of major corporations in creating demand for certified products. We also discuss the limited success of certification and some of the obstacles to its adoption in developing countries. The current diversity of forest certification programs and ecolabeling schemes has created a costly, less-than-transparent system that has been largely ineffective in terms of the initial goals of reducing tropical deforestation and illegal logging. Some steps have been taken toward harmonization of different certification criteria as well as endorsement and mutual recognition among existing forest certification programs. However, it is unlikely that standardization alone can overcome other, more serious barriers to certification in developing countries.
L73|La gestión privada de los montes públicos en España. El caso del empresario Echevarrieta (1920-1933)|This article deals with a businessman who exploited the Spanish public forest land during the inter-war period. This study helps to fill a gap in the history of Spanish forestry, suffering from a general shortage of examples such as the one presented here. I will detail the various stages of his forestry endeavour, set against the background of his other businesses, and point to possible causes of his failure. In order to accomplish this, I will use a first-hand source, the Echevarrieta y Larrinaga collection in the Civil War Section of the Spanish National Historic Archive. Finally, I have come to the conclusion that the difficulties in the felling process itself, market complexity, transportation problems together with the lack of protection are the main factors that explain why private enterprise did not always fair well in the forestry business.
L73|Consequences of the IPPC-directive's BAT requirements for abatement costs and emissions|The Integration Pollution and Prevention Control (IPPC) directive from the European Union implies that the regulatory emission caps should be set in accordance with each industry's Best Available Techniques (BAT). The directive is under implementation in Norway, and it represents a refocus of the Norwegian environmental regulations away from economic efficiency towards a BAT principle. We examine the effect of this implementation with respect to expected emission reductions and increases in costs. Data Envelopment Analyses (DEA) is used to construct a frontier of all efficient plants. This provides us with two alternative interpretations of BAT. First, we assume that all the plants emit in accordance with the best practice technology, represented by the frontier, by reducing all inputs proportionally. Second, we assume that all plants emit in accordance with the best practice technology by reducing emissions only. Both interpretations reveal substantial potential for emission reductions. Further, abatement cost estimates indicate that considerable emission reductions can be achieved with low or no social costs, but that the implementation of BAT for all plants involves substantial costs.
L73|Certification Systems as Tools for Natural Asset Building: Potential, Experiences to Date, and Critical Challenges|Certification systems are becoming important tools to encourage and reward social and environmental responsibility. This paper explores whether these systems, which generally have not been designed for the explicit aim of poverty reduction, can assist poor people, either individually or in community-based and small-to-medium production units, to build their natural assets as a basis for sustainable livelihoods. The paper examines two leading certification systems – the Forest Stewardship Council™ and the Fair Trade Certified™ system – and emerging systems in tourism and mining. The results to date have been mixed. In the forestry sector, poverty reduction benefits of certification have been modest relative to its environmental benefits. In the agricultural commodity trade, where certification systems have been designed with a stronger focus on reducing poverty, the benefits have been greater. The long-term challenge is to ensure that the rapid global uptake and ‘mainstreaming’ of certification systems does not create new hurdles for low-income individuals and communities.
L73|Optimal Timber Utilisation Strategies for Wik People on Cape York Peninsula| A forestry industry based on the native Darwin stringybark forests of Cape York Peninsula has been identified as a potential generator of employment and income for Wik people. Information appropriate for examining potential Wik timber utilisation strategies is scarce, necessitating primary data collection activities in north Queensland. A mixed-integer, single-period goal program is developed to produce a suite of ‘optimal’ timber utilisation strategies from the perspective of Wik people. Optimal forestry strategies predicted by the goal programming model are financially viable and suggest, in general, that relatively low-technology forestry activities are likely to best satisfy Wik forestry objectives.
L73|Designing, Developing and Testing Financial Model for Non-industrial Private Forestry| This paper describes experiences in the development and testing of three distinct financial models to support farm forestry decisions involving non-traditional tree species in northern Australia and in the Philippines. A variety of options were examined with respect to model design, yield prediction, computing platform, forestry performance criteria and other features. Two of the models focus on the forestry enterprise in isolation, while the third evaluates forestry within the context of the overall farm business. It is found that choice of model design depends on the particular type of application intended and availability of financial data for this application. Some complementarities were gained in replicating features when progressing from one model to the next. Model construction and testing were challenging tasks requiring considerable funds and for two of the models proceeding over a number of years. Validation involved the gradual gaining of confidence in a model as it progressed through various versions. For the more complex models, greater effort in development of the user interface was found to be warranted. The models have proved more suitable for use by extension agents than individual landholders. Even with major resource inputs into model development, a number of desirable additional features can be identified.
L73|A Wik Forestry Industry on Cape York Peninsula: Visions and Realities| The large, unutilised native forest timber resource on traditional Wik land on Cape York Peninsula, Australia, could be managed for timber production to contribute to Wik socio-economic objectives. Wik elders have a set of forestry objectives and envisage that these will be best achieved by a timber industry selling unprocessed logs and woodchips. On the other hand, Balkanu Cape York Development Corporation, an indigenous community development organisation, anticipate that an industry utilising high-technology equipment and producing dried and dressed finished products including strip-flooring will best satisfy Wik forestry objectives. The Wilderness Society envisages small-scale, community development activities such as portable sawmilling and niche market furniture manufacture as being appropriate types of forestry activities on Wik land. Goal programming analysis of forest use opportunities indicates that Wik forestry objectives are unlikely to be best satisfied by adopting the timber utilisation opportunities espoused by any one of the stakeholders.
L73|Communautarist networks in African rainforests|Since the 1970s world trade in unprocessed wood or preprocessed wood reached a stable level between 150 and 200 million m3, while, since 1985, world consumption varies between 3.2 and 3.4 billion m3 annually1. Thus, woodwork networks seem to be caught between two worlds with virtually independent structures, on the one hand, in developed countries, and, on the other hand, in developing countries. However, this apparent period of stabilization was undoubtedly a period of development, preparing the implementation of new organizations of production, whose forerunners emerge since the mid-1990s. The determining criteria are the ability to react and the rigorous response to demand. The very flexible strategies of supply and the mobility of capital are organized by companies on a global scale, which casts doubts on forest policies.
L73|Factor Demand and Market Power|This thesis consists of five self-contained papers on factor demand and market power. The main objective of Paper [I] is to analyze potential effects on the Swedish forest sector of a continuing rise in the use of forest resources as a fuel in energy generation. The background to the problem can be found in the commitments Sweden has made concerning energy policy. Two such commitments are the phase-out of nuclear power, and a decision that the Swedish energy system should be sustainable. However, an increasing use of forest resources as an energy input may have effects outside the energy sector. In this paper we attempt to consider this by estimating a system of demand and supply equations for the four main actors on the Swedish roundwood market; forestry, sawmills, pulpmills, and the energy sector. In Paper [II], we specify and estimate a dynamic factor demand model for the Swedish pulp industry. The model is estimated using firm specific Translog cost functions, and panel data from 1972 to 1990. We find weak evidence of adjustment costs for capital. Short- and long-term elasticities are calculated and the variances are estimated using the bootstrap technique. The results suggest that the user cost of capital is a significant determinant of pulp industry investments, while output level is not. We also find that pulp industry investments are insensitive to variations in the price of electricity. Paper [III] proposes a flexible form of adjustment cost function, which allows for constant, linear, concave, or convex costs of adjustment. An empirical illustration shows that the flexible form can detect both convex and non-convex adjustment costs. Furthermore, the flexible form permits testing for the experience effect on adjustment cost. The objective of paper [IV] is to analyze the price development and price formation for wood fuel used by the Swedish district heating sector. According to previous research there is a significant potential for increasing the use of wood fuel in Sweden, at a fairly moderate cost. The basic question raised in this paper is then why this potential is not realized. Specifically we propose a methodology for testing whether the reason is that market imperfections are present. According to our results we cannot reject the efficient market hypothesis for all years. The objective of Paper [V] is to test for market power on the market for biofuels. To achieve our objective we employ a statistical model and make use of the idea of Granger causality. We use a panel data set of plant specific input prices and quantities of wood chip covering a sample of Swedish district heating plants. If past values of quantity contribute significantly to the determination of price, quantity is said to Granger cause price, which we will treat as a sign of market power. According to our findings this effect is present and we conclude that the investigated plants to some degree has market power in the market for wood chips.
