L74|Determinantes de los precios relativos de la vivienda: Bogotá versus Medellín|No abstract is available for this item.
L74|Efectos del crédito hipotecario sobre el precio de la vivienda nueva NO VIS en Medellín|No abstract is available for this item.
L74|Efectos del crédito hipotecario sobre el precio de la vivienda nueva NO VIS en Medellín|No abstract is available for this item.
L74|Procurement Centralization in the EU: the Case of Italy|This paper analyzes the process of centralization of public procurement in Europe, with an emphasis on the Italian case. It illustrates the main normative and regulatory reforms that took place between 2000 and 2016 at both EU and Italian levels. It then empirically evaluates the potential distortions induced by the most recent wave of centralization reforms. Using procurement data on all Italian public contracts awarded between 2015 and 2017, it finds that administrations expecting to lose their ability to contract independently game the centralization requirements in three ways. In the short run, they anticipate their purchases to avoid delegating to a central body. In the longer run, they both manipulate contract values, breaking down purchases into smaller lots of amounts below the thresholds driving centralization requirements, and, when given the option, aggregate into the smallest types of centralized purchasing bodies. These three distortions partially offset the potential benefits of the centralization reforms.
L74|Worsening Workers' Health by Lowering Retirement Age: The Malign Consequences of a Benign Reform|In 2003, the retirement age of Swiss construction workers was lowered from 65 to 60. This reform has been intended to improve their health. Our study shows the opposite outcome. The human capital theory suggests that investments in employees’ productivity by the employer and the employees themselves depend on the time remaining until their retirement. Hence, we hypothesize that pension reforms that reduce employees’ working horizon decrease investments in work-related human capital, which translates into a higher prevalence of sickness absences, a longer absence duration, and worse health. By econometrically comparing pre- and post-reform cohorts of construction workers with other blue-collar workers, we find that among 56–60-year-old construction workers, their sickness absences increase from 3.2% to 5.6%, their sickness duration increases by 33%, and their probability of having health problems increases from 9% to 12.7% due to the reform.
L74|The labour demand effects of residential building retrofits in Poland|This paper analyses the potential direct impact of intensifying residential energy retrofitting on the Polish labour market. We distinguish eight building classes, for which we quantify the labour intensity of improvements to building insulation and heating systems. We account for work performed by low-, medium- and high-skilled workers. We define the baseline scenario of maintaining the current rate of retrofitting and three scenarios of its acceleration (up to two times) and increased comprehensiveness. We estimate the resulting additional labour demand and changes to the unemployment rate at the country and NUTS2 region level. Our results show that the most ambitious scenario of increased energy retrofitting would see the creation of approx. 100,000 additional jobs nationwide per year, with the majority of this added demand concerning low-skilled persons. This effect is predominantly caused by energy retrofits to single-family buildings. The effect of building insulation retrofits on the labour demand is 3-4 times greater than the effect of heating and hot water system upgrades.
L74|Worker Flows, Entry and Productivity in the New Zealand Construction Industry|The 21st century global decline in productivity growth is not well understood. One possible contributor is a decline in economic dynamism. We explore the contribution of firm formation and employee movement to productivity using administrative data on the population of New Zealand construction firms from 2001-2012, along with linked data on their employees and working proprietors, to study the relationships among entry, worker flows and firm productivity. Entrants are more productive than pre-existing firms. Firms that enter and stay exhibit a persistent productivity advantage that averages about seven percent, but which grows as experience accumulates. We find that job churn is prevalent in construction, with around 60 percent of firm-worker pairs not existing previously or not existing subsequently. Firms with new employees are more productive than those with no change in workforce, in part because of knowledge flows from other construction firms. In our preferred specification, with firm fixed effects, a standard deviation increase in the productivity of new employees' previous firms is associated with a 0.6 percent increase in productivity. The entry and worker-knowledge-flow phenomena are distinct, in that the entry effect is not explained by employee composition, and non-entrant firms also benefit from worker knowledge flows.
L74|Worker flows, entry, and productivity in New Zealand’s construction industry|We use administrative data on the population of New Zealand construction firms from 2001-2012, along with linked data on their employees and working proprietors, to study the relationships among worker flows, entry, and firm productivity. We find that job churn is prevalent in construction, with around 60 percent of firm-worker pairs not existing previously or not existing subsequently. The data also show that firms gaining or losing any labour are more productive than static firms, and that firms gaining labour from other construction firms are 4-6 percent more productive than the industry average in a given year. Our analysis suggests such firms are productive in part because of knowledge flows from other construction firms; in our preferred specification, with firm fixed effects, a standard deviation increase in the productivity of new employees’ previous firms is associated with a 0.6 percent increase in productivity. New entrants are more productive than pre-existing firms. Firms that enter briefly and disappear exhibit high productivity for that brief period, and firms that enter and persist exhibit a persistent productivity advantage that averages about 5%, but which grows as experience accumulates. The entry and worker-knowledge-flow phenomena are distinct, in that the entry effect is not explained by employee composition, and non-entrant firms also benefit from worker knowledge flows.
L74| Private Investment in a Mining Export Economy: A Model for Peru| This paper presents a theoretical model about investment in the mining sector and the housing sector. The demand for investment in mining, a demand derived from mining production, limited by a non-renewable production factor, is financed at the interest rate fixed by the world market. In the housing sector, the price and volume of investment are determined in the local market, by supply and demand. The model shows the strong dependence on mining investment and the housing of international conditions. Likewise, the existence of a non-renewable mining production factor implies that, with the passage of time, if new mines are not discovered, investment in mining and housing should be reduced. JEL Classification-JEL: E22 , L72 , L74
L74| The determinants of private investment in a mining export economy. Peru: 1997-2017| Peru is an economy where about 60 percent of exports are mineral, of which copper, in turn, represents half. What is the weight of international factors and domestic factors in determining private investment in this mining export economy? In this paper, we identify the dominant influence of international conditions on the evolution of private investment in Peru, as well as the enormous individual weight of the price of exports in this evolution. In the period 1997-2017, external factors explained 54, 64 and 44 percent of the variance in the growth rate of total private investment, mining investment, and non-mining investment, respectively; while more than half of the weight of external factors was explained by the price of exports. On the other hand, internal factors explained 46, 36 and 56 percent of the variance in the growth rate of total private investment, mining investment. and non-mining investment; while about 40 percent of the weight of domestic factors was explained by public investment. These findings are important because they show the price of exports to be the main channel connecting private investment in Peru with the world economy, and public investment as the most effective policy variable affecting it. JEL Classification-JEL: C32 , E22 , E32 , H54 , L72 , L74
L74|Modeling and Checking the Power Quality of High Pressure Sodium Vapor Lamp|High pressure sodium Vapor lamps due to long service life High Light, as the most comprehensive street lighting and industrial lighting Whose use is increasing day by day. One of the major drawbacks to these lamps is producing a lot of current harmonic. Therefore, check the Power Quality of these lamps becomes necessary. To check the quality of our lamps, it's necessary to express the exact model of these lamps. In this paper, we simulate a high-pressure lamp based on plasma physics equations. With this exact model, the power consumption of these lamps is considered by using THD and the results are compared with the standard values. In this paper, taking into account the magnetic ballast for a high-pressure sodium Vapor lamp, a precise simulation of these lamps was performed using the MATLAB / Simulink software.
L74|Bid Rigging And Entry Deterrence In Public Procurement: Evidence From An Investigation Into Collusion And Corruption In Quebec|We study the impact of an investigation into collusion and corruption to learn about the organization of cartels in public procurement auctions. Our focus is on MontrealÂ’s asphalt industry, where there have been allegations of bid rigging, market segmentation, complementary bidding and bribes to bureaucrats, and where, in 2009, a police investigation was launched. We collect procurement data and use a difference-in-difference approach to compare outcomes before and after the investigation in Montreal and in Quebec City, where there have been no allegations of collusion or corruption. We find that entry and participation increased, and that the price of procurement decreased. We then decompose the price decrease to quantify the importance of two aspects of cartel organization, coordination and entry deterrence, for collusive pricing. We find that the latter explains only a small part of the decrease.
L74|Features of teaching economic disciplines for students of architectural and construction specialties in the Republic of Belarus|"In the article features of teaching of economic disciplines for students of architectural and building specialties in higher educational institutions of the Republic of Belarus are presented on an example of calculation of the total estimated cost of construction products. It should be noted that the formation of prices in construction is one of the important stages in the preparation of design estimates, therefore the development of a unified approach to the calculation of cost, taking into account the dynamics of its development is fundamental in the process of teaching economic disciplines.It is important to take into account that in the current conditions of intensive implementation of various software complexes for the calculation of building structures, in particular based on BIM-technologies, the corresponding programs for the preparation of budget documentation are also widely used. In this situation, at the teaching stage it is important to form the understanding of the principles of drawing up the estimate documentation for the learner, because a correct assessment of the adequacy of the resulting ""automated"" solutions is the key in determining the competence of any specialist.Important in teaching the course ""Construction economics"" has a close relationship of the principles of formation of the value of construction products with the basics of technology and the organization of construction. In this connection, when presenting theoretical material on the ""Construction economics"", information about the technology and organization of construction production should be largely provided. It should be noted that the teaching of special economic disciplines takes place at the final courses of study, i.e. after completing the relevant specialized courses ""Technology of construction"" and ""Organization of construction"", which allows you to freely consider those or other features of the construction process in the aspect of economic evaluation. In general, the main purpose of accounting for the principles of construction production in the teaching of economic disciplines is the correct definition of labor, machinery and material resources, taking into account the selected production technology. At the same time, it is important to note that the study of the basics of calculating the cost of construction products in conjunction with the technology of production of works allows the future specialist to exclude errors in the selection of norms and quotations as much as possible, to reduce the amount of information entered and, as a result, to improve the quality of the estimated budget and resource documentation."
L74|Does regulation trade-off quality against inequality? The case of German architects and construction engineers|We exploit an exogenous price increase by about 10% for architectural services to answer the question how price regulation affects income inequality and service quality. Using individual-level data from the German microcensus for the years 2006 to 2012, we find a significant reform effect of 8% on personal net income for self-employed architects and construction engineers. This group moved from the second lowest to the highest quintile of the net income distribution. This increase in inequality is associated with a deterioration of service quality. The reform reduced average scores of a peer ranking for architects by 18%.
L74|Does Regulation Trade-Off Quality against Inequality? The Case of German Architects and Construction Engineers|We exploit an exogenous price increase by about 10% for architectural services to answer the question how rice regulation affects income inequality and service quality. Using individual-level data from the German microcensus for the years 2006 to 2012, we find a significant reform effect of 8% on personal net income for self-employed architects and construction engineers. This group moved from the second lowest to the highest quintile of the net income distribution. This increase in inequality is associated with a deterioration of service quality. The reform reduced average scores of a peer ranking for architects by 18%.
L74|Can the Private Sector Ensure the Public Interest? Evidence from Federal Procurement|We empirically investigate the effect of oversight on contract outcomes in public procurement. In particular, we stress a distinction between public and private oversight: the former is a set of bureaucratic checks enacted by contracting offices, while the latter is carried out by private insurance companies whose money is at stake through so-called surety bonding. We analyze the universe of U.S. federal contracts in the period 2005-2015 and exploit an exogenous variation in the threshold for both sources of oversight, estimating their causal effects on costs and execution time. We find that: (i) public oversight negatively affects outcomes, in particular for less competent buyers; (ii) private oversight has a positive effect on outcomes by affecting both the ex-ante screening of bidders - altering the pool of winning firms - and the ex-post behavior of contractors.
L74|Efficiency versus transaction costs in multidimensional auctions: the case of Brazilian oil and gas lease auctions|In Brazil, a scoring auction decides which firm has the right to explore oil and gas in a region. One of its dimensions is the amount of local content that firms are willing to implement. However, local content programs are subject to significant uncertainty and complexity so mal-adaptation costs are relevant. We characterize players’ bidding behavior when they have information on local content implementation and when they do not. We test those predictions using historical bids. Our tests suggest that the mechanism would be more efficient if the definition of local content programs was left out of the auction.
L74|Using output-based allocations to manage volatility and leakage in pollution markets|Output-based allocations (OBAs) are typically used in emission trading systems (ETS) with a fixed cap to mitigate leakage in sectors at risk. Recent work has shown they may also be welfare enhancing in markets subject to supply and demand shocks by introducing some flexibility in the total cap, resulting in a carbon price closer to marginal damage. We extend previous work to simultaneously include both leakage and volatility. We study how OBA permits can be implemented under an overall cap that may change with the level of production in contrast with a design that deducts OBA permits from the overall permit allocation as is the current practice in the EU-ETS and California. We show that introducing OBA permits while keeping the overall cap fixed would only increase price fluctuations and induce severe welfare losses to non-OBA sectors.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Weiter steigende Planungsaufträge für Wohngebäude|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts hat sich das Geschäftsklima bei den freischaffenden Architekten zu Beginn des ersten Quartals 2017 sichtlich verbessert.
L74|Efectos de mecanismos institucionales en el precio de la vivienda nueva en Medelli?n|El objetivo de esta investigacio?n es determinar el impacto que tienen los mecanismos de trasmisio?n de la poli?tica pu?blica en la determinacio?n del precio de la vivienda nueva en Medelli?n, Colombia. Utilizando un modelo de Vectores Auto Regresivos Estructural los principales resultados evidencian que el impacto de un choque de la Unidad de Valor Real (UVR) sobre el precio de la vivienda nueva en Medelli?n es que el precio del metro cuadrado es ela?stico ante variaciones en la UVR en el corto plazo. Adema?s, por medio de un modelo de ecuaciones simulta?neas, estimado por Sistema de Ecuaciones Aparentemente no Relacionadas y Mi?nimos Cuadrados en Tres Etapas, el Fondo de Reserva para la Estabilizacio?n de la Cartera Hipotecaria (FRECH) presenta una relacio?n positiva sobre la demanda de vivienda, mientras que la tasa de intere?s hipotecaria tiene una relacio?n negativa con la demanda. En la medida en que se implementan subsidios como estos, la demanda de vivienda tiende a incrementarse y, a su vez, genera una presio?n al alza del precio de la vivienda nueva. En este sentido los mecanismos institucionales son un incentivo fundamental para el buen desempen?o del sector de la construccio?n.
L74|Unraveling the Energy use Network of Construction Sector in Turkey using Structural Path Analysis|Input-output (I-O) analysis provides a useful framework for examining the direct and the indirect changes in the energy use. The purpose of this study is to gain a better understanding of the energy use network in Turkish construction (CON) sector. To do this, a particular type of network analysis, structural path analysis is conducted. Sectoral energy use data provided by World I-O database is used for the elaboration of energy paths. Mediating sectors underlying backward energy linkages are identified. Results show that energy use of CON increased both in absolute terms and that of rank among other industries. The magnitude and complexity of the coke and refined petroleum path decreased. Due to the expansion in natural gas powered energy production, relative importance and complexity of the electric, gas and water supply path increased. Energy use paths are discussed with reference to current account deficit and growth issues in Turkey
L74|Housing market in Russia in 2016|According to the data released by the Bank of Russia, as of July 1, 2016, the number of credit institutions issuing residential loans (RL) and housing mortgage loans (HNL) fell to 680 and constituted 85.3% of their number as of July 1, 2015 (Table 16). Herewith, the number of credit institutions issuing RL came to 522 and those extending HML – 499, and those attracting refinancing on the HML secondary market – 34. Moreover, the number of credit institutions extending housing mortgage loans secured by the right of foreclosure on agreements of participation in shared construction came to 212 as of July 1, 2016.
L74|We study pollution permit markets in which a fraction of permits are allocated to fi rms based on their output. Output-based allocations, which are receiving increasing attention in the design of carbon markets around the world (e.g., Europe, California, New Zealand), are shown to be optimal under demand and supply volatility despite the output distortions they may create. In a market that covers multiple sectors, the optimal design combines auctioned permits with output-based allocations that are speci fic to each sector and increasing in its volatility. When fi rms are better informed about the latter or must self select, the regulator resorts to some free (i.e., lump-sum) allocations to sort firms out|No abstract is available for this item.
L74|Can television bring down a dictator? Evidence from Chile’s “No” campaign|Can televised political advertising change voting behavior in elections held in authoritarian regimes? We study the case of Chile, where the opposition used television campaigns weeks before the election that ended the seventeen-year dictatorship known as the Pinochet regime. Using national surveys conducted before the election and administrative electoral data, we provide evidence of a positive effect of television exposure on opposition votes. When compared to similar estimates in democracies, the effect of campaigns in Chile appear large. These results suggest that televised political campaigns can help to defeat dictators at the polls.
L74|Enterprise promotion in the road construction sector in a conflict-ridden area in Kenya : a solution for the nexus of developmental problems?|Overcoming the missing middle syndrome by promoting growth of micro and small enterprises through training is a key to solve the nexus of problems including industrial stagnation, inequality, and ethnic confrontation in Africa. We focus on collaborative interventions by an international NGO and the Kenyan government to disseminate labor-based technology of road construction and strengthen managerial skills of youth self-help groups in a county ridden by an ethno-political conflict, called the Post-Election Violence. They tried to help groups formalize as corporations and develop their businesses through training. Our research reveals that ethnically homogenous groups might have better chances to obtain construction contracts but the reason would be trust among permanent members lowering internal transaction costs, rather than ethnicity itself. In conclusion, development of micro and small firms are to some extent determined by education of leaders and internal trust. Trainings could contribute in case groups are equipped with those conditions.
L74|Sustainability of the domestic consumption of construction materials in Colombia, 1990-2013|In order to assess the sustainability of the consumption of construction materials in Colombia, we analyze the patterns of consumption of these materials between 1990 and 2013. We use domestic consumption of materials, consumption of materials per capita, and intensity of consumption of construction materials as sustainability indicators. Results show that the domestic consumption of construction materials has increased since 1998 until reaching a share in the domestic consumption of materials only inferior to the share of biomass. We find that the ratio of domestic material consumption to GDP decreased during the period of analysis and that changes in construction techniques partially explain the diminishing intensity of consumption of construction materials in Colombia.
L74|The role of stakeholders in the process of building a competi-tive advantage with the example of development companies|"Research background: Contemporary companies are faced with opportunities as well as dangers resulting from relationships with their environment. It is therefore important to define stakeholders and manage relations with them by implement-ing organizational principles and practices that take into account stakeholders' concerns and objectives, but are also consistent with a company's strategy and its economic goals (Banks, Vera, Pathak, Ballard, 2016, pp. 18-27). Purpose of the article: The aim of this article is a diagnosis of a sort of the theory of stakeholders present in the relevant literature. In addition, stakeholder identifi-cation was presented along with their role in the process of building a competitive advantage of a development company. Methodology/methods: An analysis of secondary sources was verified by empiri-cal studies. An analysis of the role of stakeholders in the functioning of an enter-prise was made using the so-called 'brainstorming method'. The study was con-ducted with the students of faculties at the Faculty of Management of the Bi-alystok Technical University in December 2012 and in the years 2014-2016. Findings & Value added: In the first part of the article, the key assumptions of the stakeholder theory and their impact on the competitiveness of entities are discussed, and the term ""a development company"" is defined. The second part presents conclusions from empirical research. These made it possible to formulate a list of main stakeholders who contribute to building a competitive advantage for developers. These entities are included in several groups: customers, suppliers, strategic partners, regulators and current and potential competitors."
L74|Effects of ISO 9001 Standard on Critical Factors of Project Management in Construction Industry|This paper provides a significant contribution to the knowledge by identifying the impact of ISO 9001 implementation on the most vital factors of project management within large scale (AAA) construction firms in Metro Manila, Philippines. Thus, the study was accomplished an extensive literature review for identifying the main factors of project management, ISO 9001 standard, and other concepts, for developing an appropriate survey instrument. Then the questionnaires were distributed randomly among selected ISO 9001:2008-certified projects of large-scale (AAA) construction firms. For data analysis, the study adopted the descriptive and inferential statistics analysis, in order to find the results and conclusions. Lastly, the findings indicated that ISO 9001 certification can statistically affect the two main factors of project management, except time length of projects in Metro Manila, Philippines.
L74|Impact of ISO 9001 Standard on the Quality Costs of Construction Projects in the Philippines|Since past two decades, ISO 9001 standard has shown its capabilities to lower cost, increase productivity, and satisfy stakeholders (customers) in the organizations. Although ISO 9001 standard has proven its benefits to different sectors in all over the world. But there is still debate among researchers and practitioners concerning the usefulness of applying ISO 9001 in construction projects. However, it seems that among different methods, quality cost analysis is an excellent technique to indicate how much ISO 9001 is able to improve effectively quality performance, and reduce costs in the projects. Thus, the main purpose of this study is to assess the effects of ISO 9001 implementation on quality cost in construction projects. For this aim, a literature review was conducted to design a structured questionnaire in a sample of the 67 respondents from ISO 9001:2008-certiﬁed projects of large-scale (AAA) construction companies in Metro Manila, Philippine. As a quantitative research, the inferential statistics analysis used to test the hypotheses of this study. Lastly, the results reported that ISO 9001 standard significantly affects the reduction of quality cost within construction projects in Metro Manila, Philippines.
L74|A new model of free global positioning system using triple DME|This paper introduces a new scheme of global positioning system (GPS) without using of satellites or GPS- Free positioning. It is based on using triple distance measurement equipment (DME) which can be implemented with a map includes; determined longitude and latitude on the user`s receiver. First, advantages, previous studies and activities which are related to this subject is described as well as the DME properties are presented. Then, a practical model of triple DME and implementation of mathematical model on the map for finding the positions are discussed. Finally, the results of simulations are shown as well as the future of GPS- Free project and its prospective is stated.
L74|Experimental survey of energy dissipation in nappe flow regime in stepped spillway equipped with inclined steps and sill|Stepped spillway increases the hydraulic resistance against flow by using of step-made spillway floor and when the flow of water passing on steps, a significant part of energy dissipates and also reduces the risk of cavitation. In this experimental research, in order to increase the energy dissipation of stepped spillway, Steps has a reverse gradient and in other part of this tests in addition to create a reverse gradient in the steps at the same time the sill is also installed on the edge of the steps. Height, thickness of the sills is considered variable. The results show that in both Nappe Flow Regime and Skimming Flow Regime Change of gradient, sills height, thickness are effective to increase the energy loss but the effect of these parameters on the Nappe Flow Regime is much greater than Skimming Flow Regime. By analyzing the results of the experiments and compared with results from other studies, the research showed that the method used in this study has a better energy loss than other methods used in prior researches.
L74|The European Construction Value Chain: Performance, Challenges and Role in the GVC|Several years after the global slump, the construction industry and many countries and sectors with construction-related activities and firms tied to them still feel the impact of that financial and economic crisis. In contrast, several years prior to the crisis, there had been a major construction bubble. This report outlines the significance of the construction sector for the EU economy, given its potential in job creation in micro and small enterprises as well as its role as a major consumer of intermediate products and related services. Developments within the industry have wide-reaching implications for the nature of growth that can be achieved, not least in terms of achieving the ambition of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that is at the heart of the Europe 2020 strategy. Furthermore, a modernisation of the sector and improvements in the efficiency of building construction are also key aspects for the transformation of the EU’s energy system as pointed out in the ‘Energy Roadmap 2050’. In this context, the Commission introduced its ‘Strategy for the sustainable competitiveness of the construction sector and its enterprises’ that contained a proposed Action Plan Construction 2020 aimed at addressing challenges within the 2020 time horizon. This Action Plan focuses on five thematic priorities which aim to address economic, skills, environmental, regulatory, and international challenges. This study provides an assessment of the role and dynamics of the construction industry in the European Union and its interlinkages with other industries over the last fifteen years. The report draws a picture of a sector in transformation, partly still suffering from the ramifications of the global crisis, and points to the new foundations from which the sector and the whole value chain can develop towards the future.
L74|Fallstudie Nachhaltiges Bauen und Lead Markets in Österreich|Around half of total private energy consumption is used for housing. Thus, ambitious emission reduction targets can only achieved by pushing innovation in construction. This case study looks at the diffusion of passive houses in Austria, which is the leading country in this innovation. The Austrian case shows that a combination of regulation and promotional activities, together with measures for information diffusion and grass-root entrepreneurial activity have led to the highest density of passive houses worldwide in the country. However, this domestic strength could not be transferred into higher exports. Factors that hamper exports are the complex characteristics of passive houses, the importance for producers to be present in exporting markets, and the small size of many firms in the Austrian passive house sector.
L74|Investissements directs étrangers et industrialisation de l’Afrique : un nouveau regard|This article uses data from fifty-three African countries to discuss the contribution of foreign direct investment (FDI) to the industrialization of the continent. The study period is 1975-2014. The estimation technique is based on the generalized method of moments in system. The results show that?: (i) FDI contributes significantly to the added value of industry to GDP but does not contribute to industrial employment?; (ii) the positive and significant effect was observed in four sub regions except East Africa?; (iii) using a composite index of industrialization, the contribution of FDI is very high. From these results, two main recommendations of economic policies are proposed. The first is to strengthen private investment in order to increase its participation in the structural transformation of the continent. The second is to build specific indicators of the industrialization of Africa. JEL Codes: E23, F21, F41, L71, L73, L74
L74|The Preservation of Historic Districts - Is it Worth it?|I investigate the welfare effect of conservation areas that preserve historic districts by regulating development. Such regulation may improve quality of life but does so by reducing housing productivity - the efficiency with which inputs (land and non-land) are converted into housing services. Using a unique panel dataset for English cities and an instrumental variable approach, I find that cities with more conservation areas have higher house prices for given land values and building costs (lower housing productivity) and higher house prices for given wages (higher quality of life). The overall welfare impact is found to be negative.
L74|Europäische Bauwirtschaft: Stärkeres Wachstum in den Jahren 2016 und 2017 – Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der EUROCONSTRUCT-Winterkonferenz 2015|Nach den aktuellen Analysen der Experten aus den 19 Mitgliedsländern des ­EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerks schreitet die Erholung der Baunachfrage in Europa voran. So ist das Bauvolumen in den 19 EUROCONSTRUCT-Mitgliedsländern im vergangenen Jahr zum zweiten Mal in Folge gestiegen. 2016 dürfte der Umfang der Bauleistungen mit 3% sogar fast doppelt so stark zunehmen wie im zurückliegenden Jahr. 2017 wird das Wachstum dann voraussichtlich etwas schwächer ausfallen. Im laufenden Jahr dürfte die Bautätigkeit in insgesamt sieben Ländern – nämlich in Frankreich, Irland, den Niederlanden, Norwegen, Polen, Portugal und Spanien – um rund 4% bzw. sogar noch deutlich stärker zulegen. Im gesamten EUROCONSTRUCT-Gebiet zeigen sich derzeit keine allzu großen Unterschiede, was die Entwicklung in den einzelnen Baubereichen angeht. Während der Wohnungsbau in Europa 2016 um mehr als 3% expandieren dürfte, wird für den Nichtwohnhochbau ein Zuwachs von knapp 3% und für den Tiefbau von gut 2½% prognostiziert. Zu den Impulsgebern für die europäische Baunachfrage zählen die wieder positivere wirtschaftliche Entwicklung, die überaus günstigen Finanzierungskosten sowie die vergrößerten Ausgabenspielräume von Seiten etlicher Staaten. Daneben spielen aber auch demographische Aspekte – wie die ausgeprägte Zu- bzw. Binnenwanderung – und die immense Bauzurückhaltung, die in den vergangenen Jahren in einigen europäischen Regionen zu beobachten war, eine wichtige Rolle.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Weiterhin hohe Auftragsbestände|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts hat sich das Geschäftsklima bei den freischaffenden Architekten zu Beginn des ersten Quartals 2016 verbessert. Die Architekten beurteilten ihre derzeitige Geschäftslage besser als im Vorquartal; die Einschätzung der Entwicklung in den kommenden sechs Monaten war von Optimismus geprägt.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Architekten genießen ein erfreulich günstiges Geschäftsklima|Nach den Ergebnissen der vierteljährlichen Umfrage des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des zweiten Quartals 2016 erneut sichtlich verbessert. Dabei beurteilten die Architekten ihre aktuelle Geschäftslage sogar so gut wie noch nie seit Beginn dieser Umfrage im Jahr 1981.
L74|Europäische Baunachfrage: Erholung schreitet voran – Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der EUROCONSTRUCT-Sommerkonferenz 2016|Die Experten des EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerks gehen bei ihrer aktuellen Einschätzung des europäischen Bauvolumens von einem verstärkten Wachstum aus. So wird der Zuwachs der Bauleistungen in den drei Jahren bis 2018 insgesamt rund 8% betragen. Im Tiefbausektor dürfte die zukünftige Entwicklung leicht überdurchschnittlich ausfallen. Im Nichtwohnhochbau werden die Bauleistungen bis 2018 insgesamt um »lediglich« 7% zulegen. Die Wohnungsbauaktivitäten dürften im Prognosezeitraum insgesamt um etwa 8% ausgeweitet werden.
L74|Wohnungsbauaktivitäten in Europa: Neubau legt 2016 kräftig zu – Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der EUROCONSTRUCT-Sommerkonferenz 2016|Nach Ansicht der Experten des EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerkes wird der europäische Wohnungsbau dieses Jahr voraussichtlich um mehr als 3% wachsen. Die Impulse kommen dabei maßgeblich aus dem Neubaubereich. So wird der Wohnungsneubau in den 19 Mitgliedsländern 2016 um insgesamt gut 5½% ausgeweitet. Vor einem halben Jahr wurde allerdings noch mit einem Plus von mehr als 6% gerechnet. Nach den aktuellen Revisionen hat sich der Neubau im vergangenen Jahr jedoch deutlich besser entwickelt, als zunächst errechnet. Das Plus erreichte nämlich fast 3%. Die Maßnahmen im Wohnungsbestand, die üblicherweise wesentlich stabiler verlaufen als der Neubau, werden 2016 wohl um knapp 1½% zulegen. Gegenwärtig sind die Rahmenbedingungen für den Wohnungsbau überaus günstig. So dürften unter anderem die verbesserten Wirtschaftsaussichten, die niedrigen Hypothekenzinsen, eine ausgeprägte Zu- und Binnenwanderung sowie staatliche Anreize dafür sorgen, dass der Umfang der Wohnungsbauleistungen in den drei Jahren bis 2018 um insgesamt 8% zunehmen wird. Positiv stechen dabei vor allem die Länder Irland (+ 54%), Ungarn (+ 30%) und Portugal (+ 27%) heraus. Während in Irland die kräftig anziehende Bauproduktion dennoch nicht mit der deutlich gestiegenen Wohnraumnachfrage mithalten kann, ist in Italien mittelfristig mit keiner wesentlichen Marktbelebung zu rechnen.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Leichte Abkühlung des Geschäftsklimas|Nach den Ergebnissen der vierteljährlichen Umfrage des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des vierten Quartals 2016 leicht abgekühlt; es ist aber immer noch ausgesprochen gut. Nach fünf aufeinander folgenden Quartalen mit zum Teil deutlichen Verbesserungen ist eine leichte Eintrübung fast überfällig. Bezüglich ihrer Geschäftsaussichten in den nächsten sechs Monaten waren die Urteile zurückhaltender als in den beiden vorangegangenen Quartalen. So ging im Berichtsquartal nur noch jeder siebte Architekt von einer eher günstigeren Auftragssituation in etwa einem halben Jahr aus. Der Anteil der freischaffenden Architekten, die im Verlauf des dritten Quartals 2016 neue Verträge abschließen konnten, lag mit 56% nur knapp unter dem Wert des Vorquartals. Das geschätzte Bauvolumen aus den neu abgeschlossenen Verträgen lag im Durchschnitt aller Bundesländer im dritten Quartal 2016 nur geringfügig über dem des Vorquartals. Dabei waren die Volumina im Wohnungsbau um etwa 3% kleiner und im Nichtwohnbau um rund 6% größer als im Vorquartal.
L74|Determinantes del precio de la vivienda nueva No VIS en Medellín: un modelo estructural|Esta investigación a diferencia de otras realizadas en el sector busca a través de la utilización de un modelo de ecuaciones estructurales, en el cual se utilizan variables observables y no observables, identificar los determinantes del precio de la vivienda nueva No VIS en Medellín, entre 2009-2014, con el fin de explicar la formación de precios desde la organización industrial del sector. Los resultados indican que el empleo, el crecimiento económico y las políticas públicas (subsidios) influyen directamente –la inflación tiene injerencia negativa– sobre las condiciones del mercado de vivienda (CMV); simultáneamente, las CMV afectan la oferta y la demanda, fuerzas que, a su vez, inciden en la formación de los precios de mercado. Los principales hallazgos de la investigación se centran en la consolidación de un esquema que permite integrar la interdependencia entre variables para la explicación de la formación de precios y la identificación de la incidencia de las políticas públicas en el aumento de los precios.
L74|Sostenibilidad del consumo doméstico de materiales de construcción en Colombia, 1990-2013|Resumen: Con el fin de evaluar la sostenibilidad del consumo de materiales de construcción en Colombia, en este artículo se analizan los patrones de consumo de dichos materiales entre los años 1990 y 2013. Los indicadores de sostenibilidad evaluados son el consumo doméstico, el consumo doméstico per cápita y la intensidad de consumo. Se encuentra que el consumo doméstico de materiales de construcción aumentó desde 1998 hasta alcanzar una participación en el consumo doméstico de materiales relativamente inferior a la de la biomasa. Los resultados indican que la relación consumo doméstico de materiales de construcción/PIB disminuyó durante el periodo de análisis, y que la aplicación de nuevas técnicas de construcción explica en parte los cambios en la intensidad del consumo de estos materiales
L74|Time-to-plan lags for commercial construction projects|Gestation lags have long been understood to be an important feature of the investment process. However, previous research has focused on the time-to-build part of the gestation period and has provided little information on the earlier time-to-plan period during which key decisions are made about the project's scope and financing. We develop new estimates of time-to-plan lags for commercial construction projects in the United States, using a large project-level dataset that allows direct measurement of planning lags. We find that these time-to-plan lags are long, averaging about 16months when we aggregate the projects without regard to size and about 26months when we weight the projects by their construction cost. The full distribution of time-to-plan lags is very wide, and we relate this variation to the characteristics of the project and its location. In addition, we show that time-to-plan lags lengthened by 3 to 4months, on average, over our sample period (1999 to 2010). Regulatory factors are associated with the variation in planning lags across locations, and we present anecdotal evidence that links at least some of the lengthening over time to heightened regulatory scrutiny.
L74|Towards a Requisite Regulatory Management System: Philippines|Part One of this paper explores the evolution of regulation in the Philippines since the post-martial rule regime. This paper tracks the macroeconomic and regulatory reforms, and the political and economic history. It explores the existence of a regulatory management system in the Philippines, identifying that the Philippines does not have a coherent regulatory management system, but does has some of the parts of such a system. Parts Two explores how some aspects of a regulatory management system were applied in the successful case study of regulatory change in the establishment of the National Competitiveness Council, a public private partnership, while Part Three looks at another successful case in the regulatory reforms of Quezon City’s Business Permit and Licensing System.
L74|Multiple Standards: the Case of the French Building Industry|The building sector is simultaneously characterized by regulation pervasiveness, by the superposition and overlapping of technical standards, and by a profusion of labels. This paper analyzes the rationale for such a multiplicity of mandatory and voluntary standards. The main consequences are the risk of confusion in the minds of buyers and the rise in prices due to the additional costs imposed by the continuous progression of requirements and the need to comply with many different standards. Both effects seriously hamper the penetration of the market by the products with the most demanding labels. The simplification of this regulatory and normative package would likely improve the economic efficiency of the sector.
L74|Housing mortgage lending in Russia in 2015|In 2015, according to the data released by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, credit institutions extended 691,943 housing mortgage loans (HML) to the tune of Rb 1,147.339bn, which constituted 68.32% of the total amount of HML extended in 2014 and 65.04% in monetary terms. In the same period, 706,786 housing loans were originated totaling to Rb 1,168.222bn, which in quantity of loans comes to 66.71% and in monetary terms 64.14% of the extended loans.
L74|The market of land plots in Russia in 2015|According to the data released by the Rosreestr, the area of land plots owned by Russian nationals keeps decreasing and as of 1 January 2015 amounted to 115,400,000 ha or 6.8% of the land of the Russian Federation against 117m ha (6.84%) as of 1 January 2014. On the contrary, the area of land in public and municipal ownership and ownership of legal entities keeps growing. Within a year, the area of land plots owned by legal entities increased by 1.3m ha and amounted to 17.2m ha or 1.0% of the land of the Russian Federation. The area of land plots in public and municipal ownership increased by 37,900 ha. As of 1 January 2015, Russian nationals’ land shares decreased by 3.0m ha and amounted to 5.2% (89.3m ha) of the country’s land or 67.3% of land in private ownership. A decrease in the area of land in shared ownership is regarded as positive factor as land plots in shared ownership by virtue of incompleteness of that title are used inefficiently.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In November 2015|Over 10 months of 2015, entities of all patterns of ownership have built 792,000 fl ats with total fl oor space of 58.9 million sq. m., which climed to 104.2% of fl oor area commissioned as of 1 November 2014. For the category “all fl ats” the rate of accessibility decreased in 2015 on the primary and secondary housing markets to 2.49 and 2.54 years, respectively. Compared to 9 months of 2014, the number of registered plots of land by individuals for the same period of 2015 (429,157 certificates) down 12.61%. In comparison with last year, the number of housing mortgage loans (HML) for 10 months 2015 fell by 33.93% in quantitative terms (526,757 mortgages) and down 37.07% in value terms (Rb 872.82bn). As of 1 November 2015, the HML quality portfolio denominated in roubles has deteriorated: outstanding debt in percent to residual debt has moved up by 0.17 p.p. to 1.02%. Nevertheless, from March 2015, average weighted rate on rouble loans down 1.82 p.p. to 12.89%.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In November 2015|The volume of housing mortgage loans (HML) (Rb 985.29 bn) originated during January–November 2015 fell against the volume of HML originated over the same period of 2014 by 32.66% in quantitative terms and by 35.92% in monetary terms. The share of past-due debt in residual debt on HML for November 2015 has gone up in ruble loans by 0.02 p.p. to 1.05%, and on foreign currency loans – by 0.71 p.p. to 19.41%. Weighted average rate on HML in rubles extended during the month, for November 2015, has come to 12.29%, down 0.60 p.p. against October 2015 and down 2.42 p.p. maximum level posted in February 2015. The latter is due to the effective State program.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In December 2015|In 2015, 691943 housing mortgage loans (HML) were originated totaling to Rb 1.15 trillion, which demonstrate a reduction against 2014 in quantitative terms by 31.68% and in value terms – by 34.96%. The HML portfolio quality deteriorate. In 2015 against 2014, outstanding debt denominated in rubles as a share of residual debt went up by 0.19 p.p. to 1.04% and in foreign currency – by 7.81 p.p. to 20.37%. In 2015, weighted average ruble rate on HML for the year against 2014 moved up by 0.88 p.p. to 13.33%, and weighted average rate in foreign currency moved up by 0.57 p.p. to 9.82%.
L74|Austerity: A Trend Across Russia’S Region|The year of 2015 was marked by a few troublesome trends in the crisis unfolding in Russia’s regions. The overwhelming majority of Russia’s territories ran a budget deficit while regional and municipal debts were piling up. A new trend towards drastic shrinking of consumption took hold. Furthermore, investment continued to decline for three consecutive years. On the other hand, the industrial sector downturn was moderate and geographically localized, and the unemployment rate continued to grow at slowest pace. The outlook for 2016 is negative: the adverse trends are expected to worsen.
L74|The Real Estate Market In The Russian Federation In Q1 2016|In Q1 2016, 224,000 ﬂats were built totaling to 15.6 mn sq. m, which constitutes 84% of the ﬂ oor space commissioned in Q1 2015. In Q1 2016, the vol ume of land mortgage loans extended to individuals exceeded by 52.8% the volume of land mortgage loans extended to individuals in Q1 2015 and its volume came to 79.13% of the total number of mortgage loans originated in Q1 2016. In Q1 2016, credit institutions extended to borrowers 188,300 housing mortgage loans (HML) totaling to Rb 323.4 bn, which by 48% exceeded the amount of housing mortgage loans originated in Q1 2015. As of 1 April 2016, outstanding debt on HML denominated in rubles in percent to residual debt went up by 0.06 p.p. against 2015 and constituted 1.08% Average weighted rate for March 2016 on HML denominated in rubles came to 12.86% against the maximum value of 14.71% for February 2015.
L74|The real estate market in the Russian Federation in H1 2016|As for 1 August 2016, since the turn of the year 521,600 apartments were built totaling to 37.2 mn sq. m, which constitutes 92.6% of the floor area commissioned during the same period of 2015. Decline in the volumes of commissioned housing in 2016 was owing, first of all, to a reduction of housing floor area constructed by individuals. In H1 2016, the number of registrations of land mortgage loans extended to individuals exceeded by 33.6% the number of registrations of land mortgage loans extended to individuals in H1 2015 and constituted 79.02% of the total number of mortgages extended during 2016. In H1 2016, credit institutions issued 389,800 housing mortgage loans (HML) totaling to Rb 664.5bn, which by 44.2% exceeded the amount of housing mortgage loans originated in H1 2015. As of 1 July 2016, outstanding debt on HML denominated in rubles in percent to residual debt went up by 0.03 p.p. against 2015 and constituted 1.11%. Average weighted interest rate for June 2016 on HML denominated in rubles came to 12.99% exceeding by 0.48 p.p. interest rates of February 2016.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|За 10 месяцев 2015 г. организациями всех форм собственности построено 792 тыс. квартир площадью 58,9 млн кв. м, что соста- вило 104,2% к площади, введенной на 1 ноября 2014 г. Для категории «все квартиры» коэффициент доступности жилья (КДЖ) сни- зился в 2015 г. на первичном и вторичном рынках соответственно до 2,49 и 2,54 лет. По сравнению с 9 месяцами 2014 г. количество зарегистрированных ипотек земельных участков для физических лиц за аналогичный период 2015 г. (429157 актов) снизилось на 12,61%. В отличие от предыдущего года объем предоставленных ИЖК за 10 месяцев 2015 г. уменьшился на 33,93% по количеству кредитов (526757 кредитов) и на 37,07% в денежном выражении (872,820 млрд руб.). На 1 ноября 2015 г. качество портфеля ИЖК в рублях ухудшилось: просроченная задолженность в процентах от остаточной поднялась на 0,17 п.п. до 1,02%. Тем не менее, начиная с марта 2015 г., средневзвешенная ставка по кредитам в рублях снизилась на 1,82 п.п. до 12,89%.м.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|Объем предоставленных за январь–ноябрь 2015 г. ИЖК (985,29 млрд руб.) снизился по отношению к объему предоставленных за такой же период 2014 г. ИЖК на 32,66% по количеству и на 35,92% в денежном выражении. Доля просроченной задолженности в остаточной задолженности по ИЖК за ноябрь 2015 г. увеличилась по кредитам в рублях на 0,02 п.п. до 1,05%, а по кредитам в иностранной валюте – на 0,71 п.п. до 19,41%. Средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях, выданным в течение месяца, за ноябрь 2015 г. составила 12,29%, что на 0,60 п.п. меньше, чем за октябрь 2015 г. и на 2,42 п.п. меньше, чем максимальное значение в феврале 2015 г. в связи с действием программы Правительства РФ.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|В 2015 г. предоставлены 691943 ИЖК на сумму 1,15 трлн руб., что свидетельствует о снижении по сравнению с 2014 г. количественного объема на 31,68% и в денежном выражении – на 34,96%. Качество портфеля ИЖК ухудшилось: просроченная задолженность за 2015 г. относительно 2014 г. в долях от остаточной задолженности увеличилась в рублях на 0,19 п.п. до 1,04%, а в иностранной валюте – на 7,81 п.п. до 20,37%. В 2015 г. средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК за год относительно 2014 г. поднялась в рублях на 0,88 п.п. до 13,33%, а средневзвешенная за год ставка в иностранной валюте выросла на 0,57 п.п. до 9,82%.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости В Рф|В I квартале 2016 г. построено 224,0 тыс. квартир площадью 15,6 млн кв. м, составляющих 84% от площади в I квартале 2015 г. В I квартале 2016 г. объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами на 52,8% превысил объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами в I квартале 2015 г., и его объем составил 79,13% от общего количества ипотек в I квартале 2016 г. В I квартале 2016 г. кредитные организации предоставили заемщикам 188,3 тыс. ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на общую сумму 323,4 млрд руб., что на 48% превысило сумму за ИЖК в I квартале 2015 г. На 1 апреля 2016 г. просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах к остаточной задолженности увеличилась на 0,06 п.п. относительно 2015 г. и составила 1,08%. Средневзвешенная ставка за март 2016 г. по ИЖК в рублях составила 12,86%, против максимального значения в 14,71% за февраль 2015 г.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Российской Федерации В Первой Половине 2016 Г|На 1 августа 2016 г. с начала года построено 521,5 тыс. квартир площадью 37,2 млн кв. м, что составляет 92,6% от площади, введенной за тот же период 2015 г. Снижение введенного жилья в 2016 г. вызвано, прежде всего, уменьшением площади построенного индивидуального жилья. В 1-ом полугодии 2016 г. объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами на 33,6% превысил объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами в 1-ом полугодии 2015 г. и составил 79,02% от общего количества ипотек за 2016 г. В 1-ом полугодии 2016 г. кредитные организации предоставили заемщикам 389,8 тыс. ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на общую сумму 664,5 млрд руб., что на 44,2% превысило сумму ИЖК в 1-ом полугодии 2015 г. На 1 июля 2016 г. просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах к остаточной задолженности увеличилась на 0,03 п.п. относительно 2015 г. и составила 1,11%. Средневзвешенная ставка за июнь 2016 г. по ИЖК в рублях составила 12,99%, превысив данные за февраль 2016 г. на 0,48 п.п.
L74|Output-based allocations in pollution markets with uncertainty and self-selection|We study pollution permit markets in which a fraction of permits are allocated to firms based on their output. Output-based allocations, which are receiving increasing attention in the design of carbon markets around the world (e.g., Europe, California, New Zealand), are shown to be optimal under demand and supply volatility despite the output distortions they may create. In a market that covers multiple sectors, the optimal design combines auctioned permits with output-based allocations that are specific to each sector and increasing in its volatility. When firms are better informed about the latter or must self select, the regulator resort to some free (i.e., lump-sum) allocations to sort firms out.
L74|Output-based allocations in pollution markets with uncertainty and self-selection|We study pollution permit markets in which a fraction of permits are allocated to firms based on their output. Output-based allocations, which are receiving increasing attention in the design of carbon markets around the world (e.g., Europe, California, New Zealand), are shown to be optimal under demand and supply volatility despite the output distortions they may create. In a market that covers multiple sectors, the optimal design combines auctioned permits with output-based allocations that are specific to each sector and increasing in its volatility. When firms are better informed about the latter or must self select, the regulator resort to some free (i.e., lump-sum) allocations to sort firms out. Numerical exercises illustrate the policy relevance of our results: the gains from considering output-based allocations can be substantial.
L74|Productivity distribution and drivers of productivity growth in the construction sector|This study draws on firm-level data from the Longitudinal Business Database to examine productivity in the New Zealand construction industry. It finds that over the period 2001–2012, on average labour productivity in this industry grew by 1.7 percent annually and multi-factor productivity by 0.5 percent annually, compared with 0.5 and 0.1 percent annually respectively for firms in the overall measured sector. Within the construction industry, productivity growth rates vary markedly by sub-industry and other firm characteristics. Labour productivity is more widely dispersed across the construction industry than is multi-factor productivity. High-productivity firms tend to be younger, more likely to be a new start-up, to belong to a business group, and to locate in Auckland than low-productivity firms. Working-proprietor-only firms are slightly less productive on average than employing firms, and also exhibit much greater productivity variation. Overall, however, productivity variation or dispersion is no greater in construction than in other industries. We decompose productivity changes over time into that due to changes at continuing firms, to reallocation of output from low- to high-productivity firms, and to entry and exit. In the ‘Building construction’ and ‘Heavy and civil engineering and construction’ industries, productivity was enhanced by net entry and reallocation, but reduced by an overall decline in the productivity of continuing firms. In the ‘Construction services’ industry, net entry, reallocation, and productivity improvement of continuing firms all contributed to positive productivity growth.
L74|Past Performance and Procurement Outcomes|Reputational incentives may be a powerful mechanism for improving supplier performance. We analyze their role in contract awarding, exploiting an experiment run by a firm which introduced a new vendor rating system scoring suppliers' past performance and linking it to the award of future contracts. We study responses in both price and performance to the announcement of the switch from price-only to price-and-rating auctions. Across the 136 parameters scored, overall compliance improves from 25 percent to 80 percent. Improvements involve all parameters and suppliers, but are more pronounced for parameters receiving a higher weight in the announced scoring auction. Prices do not significantly change overall, but we find some evidence of lower prices right after the announcement when suppliers compete to win contracts to get scored, and of higher prices once they have established a good reputation. Even under an upper bound estimate for this price increase, however, the cost of the policy is below its lower bound benefit estimate, which derives from a reduction in fatal accidents driven by improvements on the subset of parameters involving worksite safety.
L74|Policy measures to improve energy efficiency in Russian buildings: Forecast up to 2050|The article presents a long-term forecast of costs and benefits associated with the implementation of additional energy efficiency policies in Russian buildings. In Russia, buildings are directly and indirectly responsible for 38% of primary energy use; at the same time, they have a large energy efficiency potential. The 10 assessed scenarios of implementing packages of policy measures to improve energy efficiency illustrate that it is possible to halve fossil fuel use while providing energy services to the buildings stock which is expected to double by 2050. Additional benefits are considered, such as reduced greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution and improved indoor comfort, employment growth, improved affordability of housing services for both residents and the public sector. The paper estimates the costs and economic benefits of the implementation of energy efficiency measures and policies in the buildings sector. It shows that a new model of economic growth in Russia should be based on improving the overall economic efficiency, including energy efficiency.
L74|Ein Bayes-Netz zur Analyse des Absturzrisikos im Gerüstbau<BR>[A Bayesian network for analysing the risk of falling from height in scaffolding]|Falling from height while erecting a scaffold is one of the most prominent operative risks of a scaffolding company. Proper estimates of conditional fall probabilities considering all influencing factors are a crucial concern in assessing and implementing suitable risk control measures. This paper proposes an approach to designing a Bayesian network by which the following presumptions can be reviewed: 1. The risk of falling from height is more sensitive to length than to height of a scaffold 2. Project staff changes during running projects generally increase fall probability 3. The fall probability decreases systematically as the erecting process progresses These presumptions will be discussed and scrutinised on the basis of a Bayesian network that provides suitable hypotheses about the relations between fall probability and its most relevant influencing factors. Theoretical implications, occurring problems, and present solutions in designing and applying the risk model will be presented in detail.
L74|Developing an Appropriate Performance Measurement Framework for Total Quality Management in Construction, and other Industries|Total quality management (TQM) is a set of opinions and ideas that widely called “management philosophy”. This management technique is able to assist the construction firms in improving continuously the organization's performance, in order to satisfy customers and survive in the market. The success of TQM implementation is tightly dependent on identifying and selecting the appropriate critical success factors (CSFs), quality tools, and performance measures (KPIs) within TQM framework. Doubtlessly, a set of suitable performance measures (indicators) has a significant role to verify and ensure that TQM implementation can successfully achieve its aims in the organization. Thus, the main purpose of this paper was to develop a suitable framework to assess the effects of TQM implementation on organization's performance in construction industry. For this aim, the study was conducted a comprehensive literature review to specify the existing key performance indicators (KPIs) from 26 TQM frameworks that formulated by scholars. In data analysis, the only 20 KPIs were found of 26 TQM studies. The extracted KPIs (20) classified based on four dimensions of balanced scorecard (BSC), and then arranged from highest to lowest frequency for each perspective of BSC. Finally, a total of ten KPIs were determined and presented within BSC system as an appropriate performance measures framework, which enables evaluating critical areas that very vital to the success of TQM implementation in construction firms at project and enterprise levels.
L74|Identification of A Set of Appropriate Critical Success Factors for Successful TQM Implementation in Construction, and Other Industries|Total quality management (TQM) is a management philosophy that emphasizes on non-stop quality improvement within all aspects of the organizations. Its main aims are to satisfy customers and survive in the market. Thus, it is very vital to specify the factors that cause implementing TQM successfully. Specially, the identification of the TQM critical success factors (CSFs) is more important in the construction firms than other industries, because the majority of construction organizations are confusing related to TQM CSFs, and often they do not develop a proper framework with right and essential factors for TQM implementation. Numerous studies showed construction companies usually fail to implement TQM and achieve performance excellence at project and enterprise levels. The main purpose of this study is to determine these factors as critical success factors of TQM implementation in construction industry. For this aim, the study carried out an extensive literature review to specify the most frequently used CSFs from TQM frameworks of 37 empirical studies in different industries, in order to propose a set of appropriate TQM CSFs. So, Pareto analysis was employed to analyze comprehensively the 37 TQM frameworks. Finally, the findings of this study revealed the seven CSFs, which are as most vital elements in developing an effective model for successful TQM implementation in construction industry.
L74|Impact of ISO 9001 Certification on the Projects' Success of Large-Scale (AAA) Construction Firms in the Philippines|The general aim of the study was to identify the effects of ISO 9001 certification on project success, and its main criteria into large-scale construction companies in Metro Manila, Philippines. For this aim, the research was conducted an in-depth literature review for identifying the main variables first. Subsequently, a survey questionnaire was designed, and distributed randomly among 67 managers working in ISO 9001:2008-certified projects of large-scale construction firms. Then the descriptive and inferential statistics analysis employed, in order to find the results and conclusions. Finally, the findings revealed that ISO 9001 certification can significantly affect the construction project success and its main criteria, except time length of projects in Metro Manila, Philippines
L74|Effectiveness of Quality Management System (QMS) on Construction Projects|Quality management system (QMS) provides generic guidance and requirements for establishing an appropriate quality management procedure, in order to lower cost, increase productivity, customer's satisfaction, and market share in the organizations since the last two-decade. In construction industry, it can assist the companies to achieve successfully their objectives, and ensure that all phases of construction project consistently meet client's requirements (need). The main aim of this article was to evaluate the impact of QMS implementation on main factors of construction projects in Metro Manila, Philippines. For this intention, the study was conducted an in-depth literature review from different books, journals, and websites, in order to understand profoundly quality management system, identify the characteristics of the vital factors of construction projects, and the findings of empirical studies concerning the effects of QMS on construction projects. Subsequently, a questionnaire was designed based on previous studies and then distributed randomly among the 37 managers with the aim of collecting data. Finally, the analysis of data was accomplished by descriptive statistics to find the results and conclusion. The findings have shown that the implementation of QMS can be affected mostly on customer's satisfaction, followed by cost, and time respectively, while minimum effectiveness of QMS was on scope (quality) through QMS implementation in construction projects in Metro Manila.
L74|Construction Industry and Payment Discipline in the Czech Republic|The paper deals with payment discipline in the building industry in the Czech Republic. The aim of this paper is to identify, compare and evaluate the financial situation of building companies with different payment practices in the Czech Republic in the period 2010 - 2014. The paper uses enterprise and statistical methods. The payment discipline of companies is expressed by a payment index, which is constructed by Bisnode. The results are based on analysis of 1374 companies which are operated in the building industry. The analysis shows that payment habits increase with higher index IN05, Taffler´s model, index IN99 and with larger size of the firms. Payment habits of building companies are very good. However, about 2 % of solvent companies have poor payments habits.
L74|Dynamics of a facilitator’s role: Insights from the Danish construction industry|A facilitator is used in many different business capacities. In the construction industry, the role of facilitator is usually carried out by a stakeholder, often the architect. Facilitation embodies different roles, competences and activities. The present research addresses how a facilitator may have and make use of different roles during different phases of a process. This paper is based on a theory-building approach that combines existing theory and cases. Three cases demonstrate other stakeholders’ involvement in the process and the impact of this involvement on the facilitator’s role. The research in the three cases applied is based on workshops, interviews and observations. The cases are viewed from role and network perspectives, offering both possibilities and limitations for innovations in different stages of construction projects. Construction process facilitators fill the role of assisting and enabling the process. To achieve project success, they align the activities of various stakeholders. They reach alignment by influencing the other stakeholders, based on competences and the role taken and made. This paper contributes to the understanding of the facilitator’s role, the changes in this role over time and this role’s importance in construction industry projects.
L74|Constructability and plant utilisation: the case of facade scaffolding system selection|In the process of selecting options of construction methods and organisation of works, buildability is one of key issues that affect project outcomes. The decisions in this respect affect not only the duration of construction processes, but also plant utilisation rates, productivity of crews, work safety and, eventually, economic efficiency. Some systematic procedure of buildability assessment is likely to support the planners in the process of selecting options under a number of criteria and providing aggregated scores that point to the best solution.The paper puts forward a method of multi-attribute assessment for buildability analysis. The proposed procedure of analysis is illustrated by a case of selecting a facade scaffolding. On the basis of opinion surveys among construction engineers, scaffolding systems were assessed and ranked in terms of buildability.
L74|Multicriteria optimization of building renovation|The choice of the right technologies for the repair of a residential building is a difficult and complex decision-making problem, which requires from a manager extensive knowledge, skills and experience. Nowadays, due to the variety of available repair technologies and because of the need of taking into account the increasing number of requirements to fulfill for residential buildings, including technical, economic, functional, etc., the choice becomes more difficult. Bearing in mind also financial constraints, the choice of repair technology of a building deals with the implementation of two opposing objectives, ie. the building?s renovation providing an adequate ( assumed) level at the lowest possible performance cost. Searching for repair technology that enables optimal renovation of a building requires the application of appropriate computational tools. The authors proposed a method to support a manager in making renovation decisions. It will allow assessing repair technologies as well as their selection (for accepted assumptions regarding cost and building?s use value). It is based on such computational tools as, for exmple, multi-criteria decision support methods and linear programming. The proposed approach is an understandable and comprehensive tool that can be useful for managers at the maintenance stage of multi-family residential buildings.
L74|IWH-Bauumfrage zum Jahresauftakt 2016: Wohnungsbau im Jahr 2016 der entscheidende Impulsgeber|Das Baugewerbe in Ostdeutschland dürfte das Jahr 2015 nach einem witterungsbedingt guten Start, einer Abschwä-chung im Sommerhalbjahr und einer zuletzt wieder einsetzenden Kräftigung insgesamt mit einem Minus abge-schlossen haben. Die vor Jahresfrist geäußerten Erwartungen der Unternehmen sind damit zu einem Großteil nicht in Erfüllung gegangen. Die Ertragslage der Bauunternehmen hat sich gegenüber dem Vorjahresstand leicht ver-schlechtert. Während sie im Hoch- und Ausbaubereich aber immer noch als gut bezeichnet werden kann, stellt sie sich im Tiefbau eher ungünstig dar. Für das Jahr 2016 sind die 300 vom IWH befragten Unternehmen allerdings zuversichtlich. Insgesamt überwiegen bei den Umsatzerwartungen für das Baugewerbe die Hoffnungen auf eine Expansion gegenüber der Furcht vor Rückgängen, was alles in allem auf eine Ausweitung der Bauproduktion im Jahr 2016 hindeutet. Die Hoffnungen richten sich auf den Wohnungsbau, der vor allem den Hoch- und Ausbauunternehmen zugutekommen dürfte: Die Salden aus den Auf- und Abwärtserwartungen der Unternehmen fallen hier sowohl hinsichtlich der Umsatz- als auch der Beschäftigungsentwicklung klar positiv aus. Bedenken äußerten die Bauunternehmen dagegen hinsichtlich der Nachfrage im Wirtschaftsbau und im öffentlichen Bau, auch wenn die Skepsis etwas weniger ausgeprägt ist als vor einem Jahr.
L74|Potential Demand of Primary Dwellings|The paper uses the headship rate method to draw up various scenarios of net household formation and, by extension, of the demand for primary dwellings in Spain to 2029. INE’s Household Projection is taken as a baseline scenario and different scenarios are prepared, under different assumptions about the pace of household formation and immigrant inflows. All the scenarios present a potential demand for dwellings far removed from the figure of 427,000 recorded between 2002 and 2008, placing the range between 63,000 and 236,000 dwellings per year.
L74|The real estate market, the supply chain and credit: the effects of the great recession|The supply chain of the real estate sector accounts for one fifth of Italian GDP; its importance for the banking system is even greater: lending to this sector accounts for more than one third of total loans to the private sector. The crisis in the construction and real estate sector started even before the global financial crisis of 2008 and hit firms in the sector and the banks that finance them. The fall in turnover and profitability has greatly increased the economic and financial vulnerability of firms, undermining their ability to repay their debt, particularly, in the case of large and highly leveraged firms. Due to the increase of loans classified as bad debts, the banking system has tightened conditions on new loans to this sector
L74|Highway to Economic Growth? Competition in Public Works Tenders in the Democratic Republic of Congo| The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is one of the poorest countries in the world. The construction sector will play an essential part to bring the country on the path of economic growth, and competition within the sector is crucial to achieve this goal. In this paper, we analyse the effect of competition in public works tenders in the DRC, using a unique and newly assembled database on public works contracts. We find that the number of participating bidders significantly reduces contract prices, confirming our prior hypothesis that competitive pressure can enhance the overall performance of the sector. Further, we account for the possibility of heteregenous tender participants, finding that the competition effect can vary with the degree of bidders' heterogeneity.
L74|Europäische Bauwirtschaft schaltet 2015 einen Gang höher: Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der EUROCONSTRUCT-Winterkonferenz 2014|Nach den aktuellen Analysen der Experten aus den 19 Mitgliedsländern des EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerks werden im laufenden Jahr die gesamten Bauleistungen um mehr als 2% zunehmen. Ähnlich große Zuwächse werden auch für die Jahre 2016 und 2017 erwartet. Mit einem Anstieg um wahrscheinlich gut 7½% dürfte sich im Dreijahreszeitraum bis 2017 wiederum der Tiefbau am günstigsten entwickeln. Die Wohnungsbauleistungen werden bis zum Ende des Prognosezeitraums mit voraussichtlich 6½% etwas langsamer wachsen. Dies liegt aber weniger an der Neubaunachfrage, die sich wieder spürbar beleben dürfte, sondern an der verhaltenen Entwicklung der Bauaktivitäten an bestehenden Gebäuden. Ganz im Gegensatz zum Neubaubereich werden diese dennoch bereits 2017 wieder das Vorkrisenniveau von 2007 erreichen. Der dritte Baubereich, der Nichtwohnhochbau, wird in den drei Jahren bis 2017 mit rund 6% wohl den geringsten Anstieg aufweisen. Ursache hierfür ist die noch immer ungünstige wirtschaftliche Situation in vielen Ländern Europas, die sich dort auch nur langsam verbessern dürfte. Infolgedessen werden sich die Unternehmen weiterhin mit der Beauftragung von Bauvorhaben zurückhalten.
L74|Europäischer Wohnungsbau: Bestandsmaßnahmen 2017 wieder auf Vorkrisenniveau – Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der EUROCONSTRUCT-Winterkonferenz 2014|Nach den neusten Prognosen der Mitglieder des EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerks dürfte im laufenden Jahr der Umfang der Wohnungsbaumaßnahmen in den 19 EUROCONSTRUCT-Ländern voraussichtlich um fast 2% steigen. 2016 und 2017 dürften die Zuwächse noch etwas höher liegen. Ab dem kommenden Jahr wird der Neubaubereich spürbar an Schwung gewinnen. Allerdings dürfte das Neubauvolumen im letzten Jahr des Prognosezeitraums noch um fast 40% unter dem Rekordniveau des Jahres 2006 liegen. Im Gegensatz dazu wird dann der Teilbereich Instandhaltung und Modernisierung seinen Spitzenwert aus dem Jahr 2007 in etwa wieder erreichen.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Reichweite der Auftragsbestände wieder über sechs Monate|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts hat sich das Geschäftsklima bei den freischaffenden Architekten zu Beginn des ersten Quartals 2015 verbessert. Dies ist ausschließlich auf eine optimistischere Einschätzung der Entwicklung in den kommenden sechs Monaten zurückzuführen, während sich die Lageurteile sichtlich eintrübten.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Weiterhin erfreulich gute Geschäftslage|Nach den Ergebnissen der vierteljährlichen Umfrage des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des zweiten Quartals 2015 gegenüber den beiden Vorquartalen kaum verändert. Es ist somit weiterhin recht gut.
L74|Baunachfrage in Europa gewinnt etwas an Fahrt – Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der EUROCONSTRUCT-Sommerkonferenz 2015|Die Experten des EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerks gehen bei ihrer aktuellen Einschätzung des europäischen Bauvolumens von einer kontinuierlichen Aufwärtsentwicklung aus, so dass am Ende des Prognosezeitraumes 2017 das Niveau von 2011 wieder erreicht sein wird.
L74|Genehmigungen für Wohngebäude ziehen in Europa 2015 spürbar an|Nach Ansicht der Experten des EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerkes wird der europäische Wohnungsbau seine Erholung fortsetzen. In 16 der 19 EUROCON­STRUCT-Mitgliedsländer dürfte der Umfang der Bauleistungen im laufenden Jahr zunehmen; in neun Ländern wird der Zuwachs voraussichtlich sogar die 3%-Marke übertreffen. Im Teilsegment Bestandsmaßnahmen werden die Wachstumsraten, vor allem wegen des inzwischen erreichten hohen Niveaus, bis einschließlich 2016 kontinuierlich sinken. Das Neubausegment wird dagegen mittelfristig merklich an Schwung gewinnen. Für 2015 gehen die Experten des EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerkes davon aus, dass die Zahl der genehmigten Wohnungen in neu errichteten Wohngebäuden um mehr als 100 000 Einheiten zulegen wird.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Anhaltend gutes Geschäftsklima|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten ist das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des dritten Quartals 2015 weiterhin recht gut. Die konjunkturelle »Schönwetterlage« hält sich somit bei den Architekten bereits seit gut zwei Jahren.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Ausgezeichnete Geschäftslage bei den freischaffenden Architekten|Nach den Ergebnissen der vierteljährlichen Umfrage des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des vierten Quartals 2015 weiter aufgehellt. Dies ist umso bemerkenswerter, als sich im langjährigen Durchschnitt das Klima zu dieser Jahreszeit eigentlich immer etwas verschlechtert. Berücksichtigt man diesen saisonalen Einflussfaktor, so ist die Verbesserung des Geschäftsklimas – bei einer bereits recht guten Ausgangssituation – sogar besonders hervorzuheben.
L74|Cash Flow – An Instrumet For Annalysing And Determining The Value Of An Enterprise|The purpose of this thesis is to understand the logic of the approach based on income and the methods included in this approach. Reading through this paper must provide us with the ability to choose and correctly apply the methods presented in order to estimate the enterprise value. Understanding the method cash - flow update – is conditioned by the differentiation between collection and income, fees and expenses. The profit is the result of comparing revenues and expenses. Not all revenue generate collection at the same time; not all expenses generate payments. Their registration into accounting is delayed. Cash-flow is the evolution of the availability of funds in itself of the company, the evolution of the net treasury. In summary, we note that approach based on income estimates an enterprise value by converting future streams of income in the present value of an enterprise which can generate those cash flows.
L74|Renegotiation of public contracts: An empirical analysis|Using a dataset of public contracts awarded in Italy between 2000 and 2007, we document two facts: (i) both price and time renegotiations are systematic, but nearly uncorrelated to each other; (ii) renegotiations are linked to the project design stage.
L74|Comparative life cycle assessment of four insulating boards made with natural and recycled materials|"Purpose. This paper quantifies and compares the environmental impacts calculated with Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for four different insulating boards made with natural or recovered fibers: recycled PET, recycled textile, hemp and sheep wool fibers. Methods. The environmental impacts of the different boards are compared using as functional unit 1 R of thermic resistance and the system boundaries are taken from cradle to grave. Moreover, the length of the use phase necessary to balance the CO2 emissions linked to the life cycle of each insulating board has been assessed. Results and discussion. The results of the comparative LCA and a contribution analysis are reported in order to highlight the main sources of environmental impact. The insulating boards made with sheep wool and recycled textile show the lowest environmental impact for almost all the impact categories considered in the analysis and require the shortest use time in order to balance the CO2 emissions of the life cycle (5 months). If the CO2 uptake from the atmosphere is included in the calculation, the insulating board made with hemp outperform the other boards in impact category ""climate change"" and in the ""offsetting period"" (less than 1 month). Conclusions. The paper concludes that the use of insulating boards, in particular made with recycled or natural materials, can represent an important step towards the increase of the sustainability of the building sector. In addition, LCA results should increasingly be included in rating systems and schemes in the building sector in order to effectively lead this sector toward sustainability."
L74|Finance and Housing Provision in Portugal|In the last forty years, Portugal has experienced an extraordinary quantitative and qualitative transformation in housing provision, reflecting the rapid urbanisation of the country. These transformations were guided by a construction boom fuelled by rising mortgage debt resulting in a significant rise of homeownership. The paper analyses these changes through a Systems of Provision (SoP) approach, examining the interests, actions and interactions between different agents and how these have determined the dynamics and outcomes of the Portuguese housing SoP. It is argued that the financialisation of the Portuguese economy is central to account for the dynamics and specificities of the housing sector. Finance is an integral part of the boom in the second half of the 1990s and of the slow burn crisis since the turn of the millennium. The financialisation of the Portuguese housing SoP has had very mixed impacts both on production and consumption. In the construction sector, asymmetry is visible between small contracting companies and big companies, with the latter taking advantage of the possibilities opened up by eased access to external finance, expanding their activities to new national and international markets. It has also contributed to the amplification of inequalities between those included and excluded from the mortgage markets, as housing loans have been heavily concentrated on the better-off segments of the Portuguese population, which has not experienced a housing bubble like some of their European counterparts, accessing to new homes at affordable prices while at the same time accumulating wealth.
L74|The Market of Land Plots in Russia in 2014|This paper deals with a wide range of issues related to the land market in Russia.
L74|Russia’S Real Property Market In January-November 2014|In January–October 2014, entities of all the forms of ownership built 729,400 apartments with the total fl oorspace of 56.1m sq. m. which is equal to 123.7% on the respective period of 2013. Despite the macroeconomic situation, in 2014 in the country the ratio between the price of housing and households’ income points to higher aff ordability of housing both on the primary and the secondary market. In 2014, the weighted average rate on MHL in rubles extended within a month rose from the minimum value of 11.97% in March to 12.84% in October. As of October 1, 2014, the debt on MHL amounted to 6.19% of the respective GDP which value is 1.21 p.p. higher than that as of October 1, 2013.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In December 2014|Despite worsening of the fi nancial and economic situation, within 11 months of 2014 the volume of mortgage housing loans (MHL) (Rb 1530.3bn) exceeded by 22.2% and 30.2% in quantitative terms and monetary terms, respectively, the volume of MHL extended within the respective period of 2013. As of December 1, 2014, the share of overdue debt in the outstanding debt on MHL fell to 0.8% and increased to 14.5% as regards loans in rubles and loans in foreign currency, respectively. However, in November 2014 the weighted average rate on MHL in rubles extended within a month amounted to 12.6% against 11.9% in November 2013.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In December 2014|Despite worsening of the fi nancial and economic situation, within 11 months of 2014 the volume of mortgage housing loans (MHL) (Rb 1530.3bn) exceeded by 22.2% and 30.2% in quantitative terms and monetary terms, respectively, the volume of MHL extended within the respective period of 2013. As of December 1, 2014, the share of overdue debt in the outstanding debt on MHL fell to 0.8% and increased to 14.5% as regards loans in rubles and loans in foreign currency, respectively. However, in November 2014 the weighted average rate on MHL in rubles extended within a month amounted to 12.6% against 11.9% in November 2013.
L74|Housing Mortgage In The Russian Federation In January 2015|In 2014, the volume of housing mortgage lending (HML) in the Russian Federation continued to grow despite the development of crisis phenomena in the Russian economy. The volume of housing mortgage credits (HMC) allotted in 2014 (Rb 1.762 trillion) was 30.18% above the same index for 2013, while their number grew by 22.7% on the previous year. The quality of the ruble-denominated HMC portfolio improved: the amount of stale debt against HMC denominated in rubles shrank by 0.15 p.p. on 2013, to 0.86%. The quality of the HMC portfolio denominated in foreign currencies also improved: the amount of stale debt against HMC denominated in foreign currencies shrank by 0.12 p.p., to 12.57%. Over the course of the year, the average monthly weighted interest rate on HMC denominated in foreign currencies grew by 1.06 p.p. on 2013, to 13.16% for December 2014. The average weighted interest rate on HMC denominated in rubles shrank by 0.35 p.p. on 2013, to 9.25%.
L74|The Real Estate Market In The Russian Federation In January-February 2015|In January–February 2015, 155,900 apartments were commissioned and their total fl oorspace of 12.3m sq. meters exceeded by 40.6% the result of January–February 2014. According to the data of the Rosreestr, in 2014 the volume of registered titles to land plots (6735253 registration certificates), including the individuals’ titles exceeded by 1.69% the result of 2013. For the first time since 2010, growth in mortgage housing landing gave way in 2015 to a decrease: 43025 loans for the total amount of Rb 70.52bn extended in January 2015 were 9.85% and 11.07% lower in quantitative and monetary terms, respectively, than in January 2014. As of 1 February 2015, the overdue debt on MHL in rubles as percentage of the outstanding debt fell 0.12 p.p. as compared to 1 February 2014 and amounted to 0.87%. In January 2015, the weighted average rate on MHL in rubles amounted to 14.16%, which is 2.19 p.p. higher than the lowest value of the rate in 2014.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In Q1 2015|In Q1 2015 credit institutions provided Rb 218.13bn worth of 135184 mortgage housing loans (MHL) which was 31.76% and 34.85% lower in quantitative and monetary terms, respectively, as compared to Q1 2014. In 2015, the average weighted rate on MHL in rubles increased substantially: as regards MHL extended from the beginning of the year and those in March it rose by 2.08 p.p. to 14.53% and 1.53 p.p. to 14.7%, respectively.
L74|The Real Property Market In The Russian Federation In Q1 2015|In January–April 2015, entities of all the patterns of ownership built 295,100 apartments with the total fl oorspace of 23.4m sq. meters which is equal to 128.4% as compared to the respective period of 2014. In Q1 2015, the average actual cost of building of a sq. meter of housing rose by 1.25% as compared to Q1 2014 and amounted to Rb 39,790. In Q1 2015, the volume of registration of individuals’ titles to land plots (1,358,000 certifi cates) increased by 8.23% as compared to Q1 2014. In January–April 2015, 184426 mortgage housing loans (MHL) for the total sum of Rb 297,819bn were extended (it is 36.75% and 39.66% lower in quantitative and monetary terms, respectively as compared to January–April 2014). In April 2015, the weighted average rate on MHL extended within a month in rubles amounted to 14.05% against 14.7% in March.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In January-May 2015|Within the fi rst fi ve months of 2015, a decrease in the volume of mortgage housing lending (MHL) as compared to the respective period of 2014 amounted to 38.34% and 40.96% in quantitative and monetary terms, respectively. Within the above period, Rb 372,754bn worth of 228,230 MHL was extended. As of 1 June 2015, the outstanding debt on MHL rose by 20.51% as compared to 1 June 2014 and amounted to Rb 3,586 trillion. In 2015 the share of the overdue debt in the outstanding debt rose as of 1 June to 0.96% and 15.63% as regards MHL in rubles and foreign currency, respectively. The weighted average rate on MHL in rubles extended within a month amounted to 13.46% in May 2015 having fallen by 1.25 p.p. as compared to the maximum value in February 2015. In 2015 the total number of MHL in foreign currency amounted to 43 loans.
L74|Housing mortgage in the russian federation in q2 2015|In Q2 2015, housing mortgage loans (HML) totaling to Rb 242.53bn were originated which was 44.23% lower than the same index for Q2 2014. The volume of residual debt on HML as of 1 July 2015 constituted Rb 3.608 trillion. The share the ruble stale debt on HML in the residual debt came to 0.98% as of 1 July 2015 against 0.92% as of 1 April 2015. As of 1 July 2015, the share of debt on default HML with past-due payments of 180 days and more went up to 2.08% of the total debt amount. The weighted average interest rate on ruble-denominated HML issued in June 2015 constituted 13.29% and the weighted average interest rate for half year – 14.4%. In the course of Q2 2015, in the framework of the state program of subsidizing interest rates of the residential mortgage loans extended for purchasing accommodation in the new housing construction sector (interest rate not more than 12%) a total number of 52 thousand loans were originated totaling to Rb 90bn which constitute 38% of the total HML amount originated over this period.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In H1 2015|In January–August 2015, 40.01 million m sq. of housing was constructed up 9.25% compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. Average actual construction cost of a square meter of residential housing in H1 2015 down 9.83% against H2 2014 and amounted to Rb39.44 and ration between the cost of a square meter of fl oor area on the primary housing market and the construction cost of a square meter up 6.48% for the same peri-od and came to 132.35%. In January–July 2015, 3338,569 housing mortgage loans (HML) totaling Rb557461bn were originated which was 60.12% lower in monetary terms against the same period of 2014. The ruble stale debt on HML as of 1 August 2015 amounted to Rb34.86bn. At the same time, its share in the residual debt up 0.1 p.p. against 1 August 2014. According to CBR, in July 2015, HML average rate extended over a month in rubles fell ag ainst its maximum value of 1 March 2015 by 1.27 p.p. to 13.44%.
L74|Mortgage In Russian Federation In September 2015|Since the turn of the year to 1 September 2015, 396,198 mortgage loans (ML) totaling Rb 653.25 bn were originated. This is below the volume of loans extended for the corresponding period of 2014 in numerical terms (by 36.24%) and in monetary terms (by 39.14%), the volume of residual debt of ML amounts to Rb 3.7 trillion and by 15.64% exceeded indebtedness registered as of 1 September 2014. Outstanding debt on ML less past-due payments as of 1 September 2015 up to Rb 3.47 trillion, and in percent to the overall volume of indebtedness down 0.3 p.p. and amounted to 93.73%. Monthly weighted average interest rate on ML in rubles from 1 April 2015 to 1 September down 0.75 p.p. and equaled 13.78%.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In October 2015|Over three quarters of 2015, 461,232 mortgage loans (ML) totaling Rb 761.8bn were originated which is below the volume of loans extended for the corresponding period of 2014 in monetary terms down 38% and in numerical terms down 35%. As of 1 October 2015, the share of ruble ML in the volume of consumer credit came to 18.73% which is by 0.65 p.p. less than the corresponding share as of 1 October 2014. Outstanding debt on ruble ML in percent to the residual debt as of the same date has gone up by 0.17 p.p. to 1.02%. The weighted average interest rate across the Russian Federation on ruble mortgage loans originated in September 2015 came to 13.12% against the maximum indicator of 14.71% in February 2015.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|В январе – октябре 2014 г. организациями всех форм собственности построено 729,4 тыс. квартир площадью 56,1 млн кв. м, что составило 123,7% к соответствующему периоду 2013 г. Несмотря на макроэкономическую ситуацию в стране, соотношение между ценой жилья и доходами населения в 2014 г. свидетельствует об увеличении доступности жилья как на первичном, так и на вторичном рынках. Средневзвешенная ставка по выданным в течение месяца ИЖК в рублях в 2014 г., начиная с минимального значения в 11,97% в марте, увеличилась до 12,84% в октябре. Задолженность по ИЖК на 1 октября 2014 г. составила 6,19% от соответствующего ВВП, что на 1,21 п.п. превышает значение на 1 октября 2013 г.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|Несмотря на ухудшение финансово-экономической ситуации, объем предоставленных за 11 месяцев 2014 г. ипотечных жилищных кредитов (1530,3 млрд руб.) превысил объем предоставленных за такой же период 2013 г. ИЖК на 22,2% по количеству и на 30,2% в денежном выражении. Доля просроченной задолженности в остаточной задолженности по ИЖК уменьшилась на 1 декабря 2014 г. по кредитам в рублях до 0,8% и увеличилась по кредитам в иностранной валюте до 14,5%. Тем не менее средневзве- шенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях, выданным в течение месяца, составила 12,6% за ноябрь 2014 г. про- тив 11,9% за ноябрь 2013 г.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|В 2014 г. рост ипотечного жилищного кредитования (ИЖК) продолжился несмотря на кризисные явления в экономике. Объем предоставленных в 2014 г. кредитов (1,762 трлн руб.) превысил объем 2013 г. на 22,7% по количеству и на 30,18% в денежном выражении. Качество портфеля ИЖК улучшилось: просроченная задолженность за 2014 г. в процентах от остаточной задолженности уменьшилась относительно 2013 г. для ИЖК в рублях на 0,15 п.п. до 0,86%, а для ИЖК в иностранной валюте – на 0,12 п.п. до 12,57%. Средневзвешенная за месяц процентная ставка по ИЖК в рублях за год прибавила 1,06 п.п. до 13,16% за декабрь. Средневзвешенная за год процентная ставка по ИЖК в иностранной валюте в 2014 г. снизилась относительно 2013 г. на 0,35 п.п. до 9,25%.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|В январе–феврале 2015 г. введено 155,9 тыс. квартир, общая площадь которых (12,3 млн кв. м) пре- вышает результат января–февраля 2014 г. на 40,6%. По данным Росреестра, в 2014 г. объем зареги- стрированных прав собственности на земельные участки (6735253 регистрационных акта), включая права физических лиц, превысил результаты 2013 г. на 1,69%. Впервые с 2010 г. рост ипотечного кре- дитования сменился в 2015 г. снижением: предоставленные в январе 2015 г. 43025 кредитов на сумму 70,52млрд руб. меньше на 9,85% по количеству и на 11,07% в денежном выражении, чем в январе 2014 г. На 1 февраля 2015 г. просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах к остаточной задол- женности уменьшилась на 0,12 п.п. относительно 1 февраля 2014 г. и составила 0,87%. Средневзве- шенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях за январь 2015 г. составила 14,16%, что на 2,19 п.п. больше наимень- шего значения ставки за 2014 г.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|В 1 кв. 2015 г. кредитными организациями предоставлено 135184 ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на сумму 218,13 млрд руб., что меньше на 31,76% по количеству и на 34,85% по сумме предоставленных кредитов в 1 кв. 2014 г. В 2015 г. происходит существенное увеличение средневзвешенной ставки по ИЖК в рублях: по выданным с начала года до 14,53% на 2,08 п.п. и выданным в течение марта до 14,7% на 1,53 п.п.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|В январе – апреле 2015 г. организациями всех форм собственности построено 295,1 тыс. квартир площадью 23,4 млн кв. м, что по площади составляет 128,4% к соответствующему периоду 2014 г. Средняя фактическая стоимость строительства 1 кв. м общей площади жилых домов в I кв. 2015 г. выросла на 1,25% по сравнению с I кв. 2014 г. и составила 39,79 тыс. руб. Объем регистрации прав фи- зических лиц на земельные участки (1,358 млн акта) в I кв. 2015 г. увеличился по сравнению с I кв. 2014 г. на 8,23%. В январе – апреле 2015 г. предоставлено 184426 ИЖК на сумму 297,819 млрд руб., что меньше ИЖК, выданных в январе – апреле 2014 г. по количеству кредитов на 36,75% и в денежном выражении – на 39,66%. В апреле 2015 г. средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК, выданным в течение месяца в рублях, составила 14,05% после 14,7% в марте.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|За пять первых месяцев 2015 г. снижение объема ипотечного жилищного кредитования (ИЖК) по сравне- нию с соответствующим периодом 2014 г. составило 38,34% по количеству предоставленных кредитов и 40,96% в стоимостном выражении. За этот срок предоставлено 228230 ИЖК на сумму 372,754 млрд руб. Остаточная задолженность по ИЖК на 1 июня 2015 г. выросла на 20,51% по сравнению с 1 июня 2014 г. и составила 3,586 трлн руб. В 2015 г. доля просроченной задолженности в остаточной задолжен- ности повысилась на 1 июня по ИЖК в рублях до 0,96%, а по кредитам в иностранной валюте за этот же период до 15,63%. Средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях, выданным в течение месяца, составила 13,46% в мае 2015 г., снизившись по сравнению с максимальным значением в феврале текущего года на 1,25 п.п. В 2015 г. общее количество ИЖК в иностранной валюте составило 42 кредита.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|Объем ИЖК, предоставленных во II кв. 2015 г., составил 242,53 млрд руб., что на 44,23% меньше объ- ема ИЖК за II кв. 2014 г. Величина остаточной задолженности по ИЖК на 1 июля 2015 г. достигла 3,608 трлн руб. Доля просроченной задолженности по ИЖК в рублях в остаточной задолженности состави- ла 0,98% на 1 июля 2015 г. против 0,92% на 1 апреля 2015 г. Доля задолженности по дефолтным ИЖК, с просроченными свыше 180 дней платежами, относительно общей задолженности на 1 июля 2015 г. увеличилась до 2,08%. Средневзвешенная ставка по выданным в июне 2015 г. ИЖК в рублях составила 13,29%, а средневзвешенная за полгода – 14,04%. В рамках государственной программы субсидирова- ния процентных ставок по ипотечным кредитам на покупку жилья в новостройках (ставка не более 12%) за II кв. 2015 г. выдано 52 тыс. кредитов на сумму более 90 млрд руб., что составляет 38% объема предоставленных за этот период ИЖК.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|В январе–августе 2015 г. построено 45,01 млн кв. м жилья, что на 9,25% больше, чем за соответствующий период предыдущего года. Средняя фактическая стоимость строительства 1 кв. м общей площади жилых домов в 1-м п/г 2015 г. снизилась на 9,83% по сравнению со 2-м п/г 2014 г. и составила 39,44 руб., а соотношение между ценой 1 кв. м жилья общей площади на первичном рынке жилья и стоимостью строительства 1 кв. м жилья увеличилось за тот же срок на 6,48% и достигло 132,35%. В январе–июле 2015 г. предоставлено 338569 ИЖК на сумму 557461 млрд руб., что на 60,12% в денежном выражении меньше, чем за тот же период 2014 г. Просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях на 1 августа 2015 г. составила 34,86 млрд руб., при этом ее доля в остаточной задолженности увеличилась на 0,10 п.п. относительно 1 августа 2014 г. По данным ЦБ РФ, в июле 2015 г. средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК, выданным в течение месяца в рублях, снизилась относительно ее максимального значения 1 марта 2015 г. на 1,27 п.п. до 13,44%.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|С начала года до 1 сентября 2015 г. предоставлено 396198 ИЖК на сумму 653,25 млрд руб. Это меньше объема кредитования за соответствующий период 2014 г. по количеству (на 36,24%) и в стоимост- ном выражении (на 39,14%), остаточная задолженность по ИЖК в 3,7 трлн руб. на 15,64% превысила задолженность на 1 сентября 2014 г. Задолженность по ИЖК без просроченных платежей на 1 сентя- бря 2015 г. увеличилась до 3,47 трлн руб., в процентах от общей суммы задолженности уменьшилась на 0,3 п.п. и составила 93,73%. Средневзвешенная за месяц ставка по ИЖК в рублях с 1 апреля 2015 г. по 1 сентября уменьшилась на 0,75 п.п. и стала равной 13,78%.
L74|Ипотека В Российской Федерации|За три квартала 2015 г. Предоставлено 461232 ИЖК на сумму 761,8 млрд руб., что ниже объема кредитов за соответствующий период 2014 г. в денежном выражении на 38% и на 35% по количеству кредитов. На 1 октября 2015 г. доля ИЖК в рублях от объема потребительских кредитов составила 18,73%, что ниже на 0,65 п.п. соответствующей доли на 1 октября 2014 г. Просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах от остаточной задолженности на ту же дату увеличилась на 0,17 п.п. до 1,02%. Средневзвешенная ставка по Российской Федерации по ИЖК в рублях, выданным в сентябре 2015 г., составила 13,12% против максимального значения в 14,71% за февраль 2015 г.
L74|Good and bad innovations in the housing sector - General background and a policy proposal|"Purpose – The purpose is to propose a classification system for techniques to increase awareness of the uncertainties and risk connected to new techniques and materials, especially when the buyer is a non-professional client. The new classification system should increase information flow and decrease the problem occurring in principal-agent relationships in terms of moral hazard. The aim is also to shift the focus of the discussion from the quantity of innovations to how incentives can be created to further ""good"" innovations and to reduce the risk of ""bad"" innovations. The paper explores how housing firms in Sweden, municipal and private firms, are positioning themselves to implement new techniques and contracts in the construction sector. Design/methodology/approach – The paper combines a literature review with an on-line questionnaire in combination with three face-to-face semi-structured interviews. The key data were collected from actors that build for their own management. Findings – The paper reports two main findings. First, actors that build for their own management are risk-averse. Second, it seems that a classification system could be a good way to handle the uncertainties and risk connected to innovations in the housing construction sector. The study also underlines the need for an active public sector which takes responsibility for helping the sector to open up for more firms that will invest in the right kind of innovations. Originality/value – The paper is one of the few that focus on discussing the potential of shifting the focus from the quantity of innovations to how incentives can be created to further ""good"" innovations and to reduce the risk of ""bad"" innovations. Also, it proposes a two-step classification system for new technical innovation to achieve increased transparency and reduced information asymmetry in the construction sector."
L74|Corporate Social Responsibility In Small Businesses Construction Companies From Puebla, Mexico Responsabilidad Social Empresarial En Las Pequenas Empresas Constructoras De Puebla, Mexico|This research examines Corporate Social Responsibility in small construction companies located in Puebla Mexico. This research was applied to support the theoretical framework and empirical research. The sample was composed of 53 small construction companies. A questionnaire was applied. We found the practice of common actions of Corporate Social Responsibility. These include operating with a code of business ethic; as well as considering the consumption of water and energy for the protection of the environment.
L74|Strategic Analysis For Development Of Brick Producers In Saltillo City, Coahuila, Mexico, Analisis Estrategico Para El Desarrollo De Los Productores De Ladrillo En La Ciudad De Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico|The manufacture of handmade bricks in Saltillo, Coahuila, has not modernized its processes and continues to pollute. In 15 years, 60% of producers have disappeared. The main objective of this research is to analyze factors that influence business management, to contribute to the design of public policies and strengthen decision-making. The survey instrument was applied to 74 owners. The research design was not experimental. The study is descriptive and transversal. The results show that 84% do not have basic services. 89% have no landline, however 88% have cell; 62% have no email; 95% do not use online banking and 100% have no website. Informality prevails, and 91% do not bill. The most pressing needs were found in formalization, business management, marketing, finance and production. If appropriate measures are not taken, this activity is not sustainable for the regional environment that involves constant degradation of ecosystems.
L74|Construction corrupts: empirical evidence from a panel of 42 countries|The construction sector, whether privately or publicly financed, is characterized by potentially large rents and government intervention making it vulnerable to corruption. Consistent with this, both case-study and survey evidence has been provided highlighting the problem of malfeasance in this sector. In this article, we test the proposition that a bigger construction sector is likely to be inimical to clean government based on a panel of 42 countries over the period 1995–2011. We control for a range of potentially confounding variables and the expectation that corrupt public officials may favor the development of this sector because it increases the volume of rents available to them. Our empirical evidence shows that a larger construction sector will tend to increase perceptions of the extent to which public power is exercised for private gain. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L74|Is Your Boss Really Smarter Than You Are? The Influence of the Length of Employment and the Level of Hierarchy on Employee Knowledge about Risk Management|This research paper deals with knowledge about risk management; in particular, it examines employee knowledge about handling risks in the construction sector. A survey was conducted among personnel working in the construction business; research methodology is based on a standardised questionnaire. Respondents from all levels of hierarchy and with different lengths of employment are compared in order to find out the influence of these factors on know-how and skills. In the second step data was analysed with statistical methods, such as standard deviation or correlation of different variables. As a main result with regard to the length of service, two groups of employees can be distinguished: Employees with less and employees with more than two years in a company. Two years of service form a kind of threshold, up to which the knowledge increases markedly, while after that it only grows at a slower pace. In terms of the level of hierarchy an almost linear trend was observed, confirming that there is a strong relationship between position within the company and knowledge about risk management: The higher the level of hierarchy, the greater the knowledge of the employees.
L74|Dynamics of the Main Economic Indicators in the Construction Sector in Bulgaria, 2009-2013|The article examines trends of key eco­nomic indicators that characterize the con­struction sector in Bulgaria. Such indicators are the number and structure of enterprises, revenue by type and activities of these enter­prises, production, value added at factor costs, and staff salaries, the number of employees in construction, labor productivity etc. Analyzed is the impact of various factors on these indi­cators. The conclusions may be summarized as follows – the main economic indicators characterizing the construction sector for the analyzed period 2009-2013, form the trend of absolute and relative decline as a result of the negative impact of the unfolding financial and economic crisis. In the analyzed period, the revenue from the construction in the GDP of Bulgaria is declining.
L74|Стан Та Перспективу Розвитку Будівельного Ринку України<BR>[The state and prospects of development of Ukraine building market]|Трансформаційні процеси та високий рівень біфуркацій у зовнішньому соціально-економічному середовищі обумовили потребу у проведенні дескриптивних маркетингових досліджень будівельного ринку України для зниження рівня інформаційної невизначеності. Своєчасну поінформованість автор розглядає як конкурентну перевагу провайдера будівельного ринку, тому що забезпечення керівництва фірми аналітичними висновками про зміну маркетингового середовища або ефективності маркетингових інструментів сприяє зниженню ризику при прийнятті управлінських рішень та удосконалюванню системи маркетингового управління.
L74|A Literature Review on the Sediment Transport Process in Shallow-Grade Culverts and Storm Sewers|Sedimentation of fine muddy material in culverts and storm sewers becomes an important issue in Texas coastal plain shallow-grade drain systems. It leads to a reduction inflow capacity with time and an associated high cost of cleaning. It may not be possible to maintain the required 2 feet per second along sewer in time. The objective of study is to conduct an extensive literature review, and field survey to implement physical experiment for quantifying the sediment transport process in shallow grade culverts and storm sewers. The previous studies indicate that culverts or sewers should be designed to transport fine grains as a suspended load and transport granular sediments as a bed load, and to erode the sediment deposition with high flow velocity to achieve self-cleaning. The suspended load, bed load and bed erosion sediment transport equations have been developed as the function of the sediment grain size, the sediment concentration, the slope of the culverts or sewers, the bed roughness. To quantify the sediment characteristics, three samples were collected from the culvert, the ditch and the sewer located in Orange County of southeast Texas. The sieve analysis indicates that d50 are greater than 0.5mm and d65 are greater than 1mm for all the samples. However, more fine particles are included in the sewer sump and ditch than that in the culvert. The ongoing study is to set up a physical model based on the key variables in the previous transport equation to study the transport process in shallow grade culverts and storm sewers.
L74|Nappe flow regime energy loss in stepped chutes equipped with reverse inclined steps: experimental development|With advances in technology and the invention of the Roller-Compacted Concrete (R.C.C) technique, stepped spillway construction has become much faster than in the past. Due to this, designers have become more interested in using this kind of chute as one of the best energy dissipaters. Along with the increasing use of stepped spillways, researchers have focused on increasing the efficiency of this hydraulic structure. They have proposed different methods to achieve this. Step geometry optimization, regarding flow regime type, is one of these efforts. In this experimental research, reverse inclined steps have been applied for three degrees (7o, 10 o, and 12o) to investigate their effect on the energy dissipation rate in the Nappe Flow Regime of stepped spillways. Energy loss rates obtained from the reverse inclined steps have been compared with the energy loss rate in a horizontal step. Results indicate a slight increase in the energy loss rate when the reverse inclined steps have been applied in the Nappe Flow Regime of stepped spillways.
L74|The Effects of School Construction on Student and District Outcomes: Evidence from a State-Funded Program in Ohio|I study an ongoing state-subsidized program of rebuilding and renovating Ohio's K-12 public schools and investigate the effect of improved facility quality on student and school district outcomes. The completion of a project increases public school enrollment and district property values. Test scores do not measurably improve upon completion and suffer significant reductions during construction. The implied willingness to pay for a project is lower than total costs but greater than the cost borne by district residents. While the program led to a narrowing in expenditures across district wealth, I find little evidence that it reduced disparities in student outcomes.
L74|L’usage du bois dans l’éco-construction. Matériau complémentaire et/ou substituable pour la réduction de l’impact environnemental du bâtiment<BR>[The use of wood in green building: a complementary and/or a substituable material for reducing the environmental impact of buildings]|Le bâtiment est un des secteurs les plus polluants, mais il représente aussi aujourd’hui un des secteurs les plus prometteurs en termes d’économie d’énergie. Cela se traduit par la mise en place de solutions innovantes dans un nouveau cadre : l’éco-construction. L’éco-construction impose un cahier des charges très strict. Une des meilleures réponses est venue d’un matériau présent depuis la sédentarisation, le bois. Celui-ci a su se « réinventer » pour venir répondre avec brio à ces nouveaux défis.
L74|A Study On The Use Of Construction Standard Information In The Planning Stage Of The National Road Constructio|The safety and quality of national road facilities must be guaranteed in the project implementation process. So the proper use of the construction standards in the project management planning process is a key success factor of a construction project. This study suggested a way for promote the use of the construction standards. For this purpose, this study was conducted to propose an information structure for construction standards based on WBS and CBS information structures used in the Standard for Digital Quantity Calculation of South Korea and the code numbering system of Korea Construction Standard. And the proposed structure was defined as XML schema so that the project participants could easily exchange or reuse the information and contents of the construction standards.
L74|Barriers Affecting The Project Managers’ Competencies In The Nigerian Construction Industry|This paper aims to determine the barriers affecting the competencies of project managers in the Nigerian construction industry. Project management in the Nigerian construction industry tend not to be of so much adoption, due to that it reflects on the projects. In reflection to understanding the underlying factors that contribute to the barriers faced by the project managers in the construction projects a quantitative approach was used in obtaining the data and the respondents are the project managers. To assist in identifying the factors contributing to the barriers, the Relative Importance Index (RII) was used as analytical tool. As findings, the study revealed that ‘limited understanding of project management, conflicts between project manager and other parties and improper construction methods implementation, delay in sub-contractor’s work’ are the effective factors of the Barriers. It is hoped that this study will become the foundation of further research in the area of project manager’s measures in the Nigerian construction industry.
L74|Effectiveness Of Public Private Partnerships Procurement For Sustainable Development Of Water Supply Projects In Nigeria|Water supply services provision and availability in Nigeria is in poor state. Financing system is not reliable while the services provided remain inferior with inadequate maintenance and repair. This paper is attempted to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of Public private partnerships for sustainable development of water supply in Nigeria, taking Bauchi metropolis. A quantitative approach was adopted to carry out this study. A total of 100 questionnaires were distributed out of which 71 were returned, yielding a response rate of 71% which is considered to be an appropriate. The respondents were selected using simple purposive sampling. The study concluded that ?acceleration of project development?, ?Improve Sustainability? and ?Technology transfer to local project are the most attractive factors towards adopting PPP for the provision of sustainable water supply?. The research has further proved that PPP can be applied to solve the existing water supply problem in the study area and other states of the federation. This research eventually contributes to the present day knowledge in various ways and to the academia in general, this is achieved by identifying the factors that make PPPs attractive to achieved effectiveness and sustainability in water supply sector.
L74|Determining The Key Competitiveness Indicators For Local Construction Contractors In The Libyan Construction Industry|The enhancement of the competitiveness of a construction company is one of the most important strategic tasks in construction industry and the concept of competitiveness has become a centre of attraction both locally and internationally. This study attempts to determine the key competiveness indicators of the local construction contractors in the construction industry based on three important indictors namely management skills, technical ability and corporate image of the local construction contractors. Questionnaire survey was administered to 120 contractors randomly. Of these, only 93 were returned and analyzed. The findings of this study could succeed in determining some useful indicators for the local construction contractors’ competitiveness from the 3 used indicators “management skills aspect, technical ability aspect or even corporate image aspect. For instance, the two important factors that are perceived to be of greatest importance in determining the level of competitiveness with regard to the category of “management skills of the local construction contractors” was ranked the first important “Previous records about construction delays” with “RII=0.868”, followed by “Number of quality awards and punishments” was ranked the second with “RII=0.793”. The study was also suggested several strategies one of these strategies is “increasing the communication and coordination among functional departments”.
L74|Determining The Factors Affecting The Performance Of Construction Projects In Libya|This paper aimed to determine the factors affecting the performance of construction projects in Libya. The study was precisely conducted in the city of Misurata located in the west part of Libya. A structured questionnaire was designed to serve as the instrument for the collection of data which was administered on 50 randomly selected indigenous construction firms. Out of the 50 questionnaires sent out, only 42 were retrieved representing a response rate of 84%. Based on the finding, five among the 9 identified factors were chosen by the respondents as the most important factors affecting the performance of construction projects. The five factors identified are those with the highest RII ranking. They include: risk management, quality management, communication management, cost management, and human resource management. It was also found that the common attributes or factors that affected the project performance in projects are mostly caused by poor risk management (30%). This means that 30% of the factors affecting the project performance of Misurata Libyan construction companies are risk management related. And the fact is that this area should not be neglected but should be given more attention.
L74|What does Brunei teach us about using Human Development Index rankings as a policy tool?|The Bruneian Government has set an ambitious target to achieve a top 10 ranking on the United Nations Development Programme's (UNDP) Human Development Index (HDI) by 2035. To achieve its objective (described in a national strategy document called the Wawasan 2035), Brunei's economy needs to grow by 6% to 7%. Is setting an HDI target a good way to govern Brunei's policyâ€ making? Is it a good way to govern any country's policyâ€ making? In this article, we look at the role of HDIâ€ rank targets in economic and fiscal policy. We show that such a headline target (much like a profit target in a private company) automatically sets targets for growth in various economic sectors and fiscal policy targets. As such, HDIâ€ rank targeting may provide a useful mechanism for coâ€ ordinating development policies and for monitoring progress against a wide range of development goals using only one number.
L74|IWH-Bauumfrage zum Jahresauftakt 2015: Hoffnungsträger Wohnungsmodernisierung|Das Baugewerbe in Ostdeutschland dürfte das Jahr 2014, ausgehend von einem witterungsbedingt starken Start und einer anschließenden Abschwächung im Verlauf des Jahres, insgesamt mit einem leichten Plus abgeschlossen haben. Das liegt vor allem am Wohnungsbau, wenngleich sich auch dieser im Verlauf ab-schwächte. Einen Dämpfer hat insbesondere der Wirtschaftsbau erhalten, nachdem sich die Unternehmen infolge der generell schwächeren Konjunktur mit Investitionen zurückgehalten haben. Die Ertragslage der Bauunternehmen hat sich in etwa auf dem Vorjahresstand gehalten. Für das Jahr 2015 ist die Stimmung unter den vom IWH befragten Unternehmen verhalten optimistisch. Insgesamt überwiegen bei den Umsatzerwartungen für das Baugewerbe die Hoffnungen auf eine Expansion gegenüber der Furcht vor Rückgängen, aber eben nur schwach. Besondere Hoffnungen liegen auf der Wohnungsmodernisierung: Der Saldo aus den Auf- und Abwärtserwartungen fällt klar positiv und sogar höher aus als für das Jahr 2014. Hinsichtlich des Wohnungsneubaus bleiben die Unternehmen ebenfalls überwiegend optimistisch, allerdings fällt der Anteil der skeptischen Stimmen etwas höher aus als im Jahr zuvor. Bedenken haben die Bauunternehmen dagegen hinsichtlich der Entwicklung im Wirtschaftsbau und im öffentlichen Bau.
L74|Bidding for Incomplete Contracts: An Empirical Analysis of Adaptation Costs|Procurement contracts are often renegotiated because of changes that are required after their execution. Using highway paving contracts we show that renegotiation imposes significant adaptation costs. Reduced form regressions suggest that bidders respond strategically to contractual incompleteness and that adaptation costs are an important determinant of their bids. A structural empirical model compares adaptation costs to bidder markups and shows that adaptation costs account for 7.5-14 percent of the winning bid. Markups from private information and market power, the focus of much of the auctions literature, are much smaller by comparison. Implications for government procurement are discussed.
L74|Challenges to the Housing Policy in Bulgaria|In Bulgaria the housing of the population is higher than EU average, and the property of homes is at the record level of 96%. However, on the other hand, most of the homes (especially panel ones) are small-sized, not maintained over the years and energy ineffective. Since 2004 the country has a National housing strategy, but none of its three main priorities has had any substantial development. Over 700 000 homes need a complete renovation. The share of uninhabited homes continuously increases up to almost 25% of all. At the same time about 48% of the homes are over-populated. The paper reasons the radical need for establishing a fund of public rented homes. It outlines that an adequate housing policy in the country could not exist in isolation – in conditions of EU lowest tax revenues with GDP.
L74|The World Bank's procurement competition and the Italian construction industry|The World Bank's procurement sector performs yearly operations ranging from $20 to $40 billion, half of which financing civil works. The share of contracts assigned to Italian firms peaked at 4 per cent in 2007-2012 (6 per cent in the civil works sector), significantly improving the level of the previous 2001-2006 period; Italy ranked as the fourth country in overall value. These projects are carried out by a small number of firms, are large in size, situated in relatively close markets (Eastern Europe and Central Asia) and mainly related to transportation. The World Bank's procurement procedures are currently under revision. Both opportunities and risks may arise for Italian firms. Projects will be assessed by looking beyond the initial bid price: quality and life-cycle profitability will be more relevant, representing a potential advantage to Italian firms used to managing large, complex projects. On the other hand, a more widespread use of national procurement procedures could result in a comparative disadvantage for non-local firms.
L74|Der Erklärungsgehalt der regionalen ifo-Indikatoren am Beispiel der Industrie- und Bauumsätze|Der ifo Geschäftsklimaindex für die gewerbliche Wirtschaft Deutschlands gilt als wichtigster und meist-beachteter Frühindikator zur Beurteilung der aktuellen Konjunkturlage in Deutschland. Wenig bekannt ist, dass die ifo-Indikatoren auch für Ostdeutschland und Sachsen zur Verfügung stehen. Aufgrund der schlechteren Datenverfügbarkeit auf der subnationalen Ebene kommt den regionalen ifo-Indikatoren eine noch stärkere Bedeutung als Konjunkturindikatoren zu. Der vorliegende Artikel untersucht, ob die regional vom ifo Institut erhobenen Befragungsergebnisse einen Erklärungsgehalt für die branchen-spezifische Umsatzentwicklung aufweisen. Im Ergebnis wird deutlich, dass die ifo-Indikatoren ihre Aufgabe als Frühindikatoren auch im Verarbeitenden Gewerbe sowie im Bauhauptgewerbe in Ost-deutschland (mit Berlin) und Sachsen zuverlässig erfüllen.
L74|Europäisches Bauvolumen: Moderate Zuwächse im Wohnungsbau sowie im Tiefbau – Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der EUROCONSTRUCT-Winterkonferenz 2013|Nach den aktuellen Analysen der Experten aus den 19 Mitgliedsländern des EUROCONSTRUCT-Netzwerks werden im laufenden Jahr die gesamten Bauleistungen voraussichtlich wieder zunehmen. Die im November 2013 vorgelegte Prognose geht von einem Plus von nahezu 1% aus. Der Anstieg in diesem Jahr folgt auf kräftige Rückgänge in den Jahren 2012 und 2013, als die Bautätigkeit um insgesamt gut 5% bzw. rund 3% zurückgefahren wurde.
L74|Europäischer Wohnungsbau: Moderat aufwärts: Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der EUROCONSTRUCT-Winterkonferenz 2013|Nach den Prognosen der EUROCONSTRUCT-Mitglieder dürften die Wohnungsbauleistungen in den 19 Partnerländern 2014 voraussichtlich wieder moderat zunehmen. Insgesa­mt erwarten die Bauexperten eine Ausweitung des Wohnungsbaus um fast 1½%. In den beiden Vorjahren waren die Bauleistungen preisbereinigt um mehr als 4% bzw. um gut 2% geschrumpft. Die Aussichten für die kommenden Jahre bleiben gedämpft. So wird die Wohnungsbaunachfrage 2015 und 2016 aller Voraussicht nach nur um gut 2% bzw. um knapp 2½% zulegen.
L74|Energiewende 2.0 – Was getan werden muss, um unsere Energieversorgung wieder auf ein sicheres Fundament zu stellen!|Am 28. Januar 2014 veranstaltete das ifo Institut gemeinsam mit dem Bayerischen Handwerkstag ein Symposium unter dem Titel »Energiewende 2.0 – Was getan werden muss, um unsere Energieversorgung wieder auf ein sicheres Fundament zu stellen!«. Die Veranstaltung unter der Moderation von Ursula Heller, Bayerischer Rundfunk, bot mehreren ausgewiesenen Experten aus Politik und Wissenschaft Gelegenheit, zu den Folgen der Energiewende in Deutschland Stellung zu nehmen. Nach der Begrüßung und den einführenden Worten von Heinrich Traublinger, Präsident des Bayerischen Handwerkstages, veranschaulichte Franz Josef Pschierer, Staatssekretär im Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Wirtschaft und Medien, Energie und Technologie, die besonderen Herausforderungen der Energiewende für den Freistaat Bayern und gab einen Ausblick auf die politischen Maßnahmen, die Bayern durchführen wird, um diese Herausforderungen zu meistern. Hans-Werner Sinn, Präsident des ifo Instituts, setzte sich in seinem Vortrag kritisch mit der Energiewende und den daraus entstehenden Problemen für Unternehmen und Verbraucher auseinander. Im Anschluss an diese Präsentation diskutierten, neben Sinn und Traublinger, Bernhard Schwab, Ministerialdirektor im Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Wirtschaft und Medien, Energie und Technologie, Ingo Luge, Vorsitzender der Geschäftsführung E.ON Deutschland, und Gunther Friedl, der Leiter des Ludwig-Fröhler-Instituts, München, die Frage, welche politischen Weichenstellungen notwendig sind, damit die Energiewende für Bürger, Unternehmen und Staat doch noch ein Erfolg werden könnte.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Deutlich erhöhte Auftragsbestände|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts hat sich das Geschäftsklima bei den freischaffenden Architekten zu Beginn des ersten Quartals 2014 etwas verbessert. Dies ist überwiegend auf eine optimistischere Einschätzung der Entwicklung in den kommenden sechs Monaten zurückzuführen, während sich die Lageurteile nur unbedeutend aufhellten.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Geschäftsklima erneut verbessert|Das Geschäftsklima bei den freischaffenden Architekten in Deutschland hat sich zu Beginn des zweiten Quartals 2014 weiter verbessert und ist so gut wie seit über 20 Jahren nicht mehr. Das ergab die vierteljährliche Architektenumfrage des ifo Instituts. Die befragten Architekten beurteilten ihre aktuelle Geschäftslage besser als in den beiden Vorquartalen. Nur noch jeder siebte Architekt bewertete seine Lage als »schlecht«. Gleichzeitig bezeichneten 46% der Testteilnehmer ihre momentane Geschäftslage als »gut«.
L74|Weiterhin gedämpfte Baunachfrage in Europa|Nach einem Rückgang der europäischen Bauleistungen in den Jahren 2012 und 2013 von insgesamt rund 8% erwarten die EUROCONSTRUCT-Bauexperten für das laufende Jahr eine leichte Belebung. So dürfte das Bauvolumen in den 19 Partnerländern um fast 1½% wachsen. Diese – wenn auch nur verhalten – positive Entwicklung wird sich den Prognosen nach bis 2016 fortsetzen. Der jeweilige Anstieg in den Jahren 2015 und 2016 dürfte dabei nur geringfügig über der 2%-Marke liegen.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Geschäftslage weiterhin erfreulich gut|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des dritten Quartals 2014 ein wenig eingetrübt. Es ist jedoch weiterhin sehr freundlich. Die befragten Architekten schätzten ihre aktuelle Geschäftslage nochmals etwas besser ein als in den vorangegangenen Quartalen.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Sichtlicher Rückgang der Auftragsbestände|Nach den Ergebnissen der vierteljährlichen Umfrage des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des vierten Quartals 2014 etwas eingetrübt. Es kann aber weiterhin als recht gut bezeichnet werden.
L74|The employment dimension of construction: a closed input-output analysis|La construcción es fundamental para el crecimiento económico y el empleo. Con un modelo insumo-producto cerrado a partir de la World Input-Output Database y la base insumo-producto multiregional EORA, se analizan los efectos multiplicadores de producto y empleo entre 1995 y 2009. Principales hallazgos son: 1.la construcción tiene multiplicadores totales de producto superiores al promedio de cada economía, pero la relación con los multiplicadores totales de empleo es variante, por lo general sólo son más altos en los países de mayores ingresos; 2.hay tendencias declinantes de los multiplicadores del producto (en menor grado) y del empleo a nivel global y en la construcción; 3.los efectos directos e indirectos se mantienen estables, pero los efectos inducidos han representado la mayor parte de los cambios de efectos totales; 4.en la mayoría de los países, cambios punta a punta en el ranking doméstico de multiplicadores de producción y empleo de la construcción fueron en la misma dirección; 5.los deflactores del costo laboral real por unidad de producto en moneda extranjera son variables clave para explicar las actuaciones de las relaciones de empleo a los multiplicadores de salida.
L74|Carbon leakage and capacity-based allocations: Is the EU right?|Competitiveness and carbon leakage are major concerns for the design of CO2 emissions permits markets. In the absence of a global carbon tax and of border carbon adjustments, output-based allocation is a third-best solution and is actually implemented (Australia, California, New Zealand). The EU has followed a different route; free allowances are allocated to existing or new capacities in proportion to a benchmark, independent of actual production. This paper compares these two schemes in a formal setting and shows that the optimal one is in fact a combination of both schemes, or output-based allocation alone if uncertainty is limited. A key assumption of our analysis is that the short-term import pressure depends both on the existing capacities and the level of demand, which is typical in capital intensive and internationally traded sectors. A calibration of the model is used to discuss the EU scheme for the cement sector in the third phase of the EU-ETS (2013–2020). This allows for a quantification of various policies in terms of welfare, investment, production, company profits, public revenues and leakage.
L74|Quality Management In Construction Companies|To achieve a high level of business efficiency at construction companies is a great challenge of modern managenebt, which implies high level of performances and results compared tothe competition, and also in comparison with the best in their branch - grupation. This means showing the long-term trend of improvement, breakthroughs and innovations in all aspects of the business, the existence and application of TQM techniques and activities. Creating the product of high level quality in increasingly demanding market is a necessary precondition for construction company survival, whereby it is important to increase the pressure on control of quality cost, and business operations with continuous monitoring of changes in an environment and the demand for their products. In this context, the quality in construction business viewed from the aspect of quality of object which is manifesting in their functionality, in economical aspect, also aesthetically, energy efficiency and security. Quality is especially considering in relation to level of satisfaction of all participants in the construction - the customer, investor, contractor and end-user facilities.
L74|The Land Plots Market in Russia in 2013|This paper deals with a wide range of issues related to the land market in Russia.
L74|Housing Mortgage Lending in Russia in 2013|This paper deals with a wide range of issues related to housing mortgage lending in Russia.
L74|Russian Real Estate Market In January–October 2013|In January–October 2013, entities of all the forms of ownership built 566,800 apartments with floorspace of 45.4m sq. m which is equal to 113.3% on the respective period of 2012. In 2013, the correlation between the price of housing and households’ income points to higher affordability of housing both on the primary market and the secondary market. The weighted average rate on MHL in rubles extended within a month fell from 12.9% in March 2013 to 12.3% as of November 1, 2013. As of October 1, 2012, the debt on MHL in shares of GDP increased to 4.89% which is 2.3 p.p. higher than the largest pre-crisis value in 2008
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In H1 2013|In 2013, growth in mortgage housing lending continued. In 2013, the volume of the extended mortgage housing loans (Rb 1,354 trillion) exceeded by 31.17% that of 2012. The quality of the portfolio of mortgage housing loans (MHL) kept getting worse: in 2013 the overdue debt fell to Rb 39.5bn with a decrease of its share in the debt to 1.49%; as of January 1, 2014 the debt without overdue payments in the total amount of the debt rose by 0.12 p.p. against January 1, 2013 and amounted to 96.05%, while the share of the defaulted MHL (with payments overdue for over 180 days) fell by 0.48 p.p. and amounted to 1.78%. In 2013, a decrease in the weighted average interest rate on ruble MHL within a month changes for a 0.2 p.p. growth in December to 12.1%.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In 2013|The volume of mortgage housing loans extended within 11 months of 2013 exceeded by 17.38% and 29.51% the respective index of 2012 as regards the number and monetary value, respectively, having amounted to Rb 1175.0bn. The average weighted rate on MHL in rubles extended within a month fell from 12.9% in March 2013 to 11.9% in November 2013. The share of the overdue debt in the outstanding debt on MHL in November 2013 decreased by 0.06 p.p. to 1.05% as regards loans in rubles, while that as regards loans in foreign currency, by 0,003p.p. to 12.29%. In November 2013, the share of debt on MHL without overdue payments in the total amount of the debt on MHL increased by 0.59p.p. and amounted to 95.89%. The share of the debt on defaulted loans (with payments overdue for over 180 days) in the total amount of the debt on MHL decreased by 0.06 p.p. to 1.91%.
L74|Real Estate Market In The Russian Federation In January-February 2014|116,300 residential apartments were built in the period of January 2014 thru February 2014, with a total residential floor space measuring 8.7m sq. meters, an increase 34.3%. year-on-year. According to the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadastre and Cartography (Rosregister), in 2013 the volume of registered title to land pots (6623502 registered title deeds) including individuals, overtook by 4.16% the results achieved in 2012. Comparing with January 2013, the volume of HMLs issued in January 2014 (47724 loans of Rb 79,294bn) increased 41.8% in quantity and 51.8% in monetary terms. As of February 1, 2014, overdue debt on ruble-denominated HMLs as percentage of the residual debt slid down by 0.49 p.p. against February 1, 2013 and stood at 1.0%. The weighted average interest rate on ruble-denominated HMLs was 12.3% in January 2014, being 0.4 p.p. higher than the lowest value in 2013.
L74|Mortgage In Russian Federation In January-February 2014|In January-February 2014, Rb 198.175bn worth of 17,797 mortgage housing loans (MHL) were extended which is 1.4 times and 1.5 times more as regards the number of loans and in money terms, respectively, as compared to the indices of January-February 2013. As of March 1, 2014, the outstanding debt on MHL amounted to Rb 2,746 trillion which is 33.73% more than the respective debt as of March 1, 2013. Throughout 2013, the overdue debt as percentage of the outstanding debt on MHL in rubles kept falling and as of March 1, 2014 amounted to 0.98%, while that on MHL in foreign currency rose and as of March 1, 2014 amounted to 12.94%. The debt on MHL with payments overdue for over 180 days decreases as well and amounted to 1.77% of the total debt as of March 1, 2014. The weighted average rate for a month on loans extended from the beginning of the year amounted to 12.3% as of March 1, 2014 against 12.4% for the entire 2013.
L74|Mortgage In Russian Federation In Q1 2014|In the 1st quarter of 2014, the total volume of the extended MHL exceeded by 47.43% the volume of loans extended in the 1st quarter of 2013. It is to be noted that within a quarter Rb 334.73bn worth of 198,082 loans was extended. A decrease in the share of the overdue debt on MHL points to continued upgrading of quality of mortgage lending. However, as of April 1, 2014 the total debt on loans with payments overdue for over 180 days increased by 0.11 p.p. as compared to March 1, 2014 and amounted to 1.88%. In 2014, the weighted average rate on MHL in rubles extended from the beginning of the year keeps falling. As of April 1, 2014, it amounted to 12.2%. In March 2014, the weighted average rate on MHL in rubles extended within a month amounted to 12.0%.
L74|Real Estate Market In The Rf In January,April 2014|In January–April 2014, 231,100 apartments with fl oorspace of 17.9m sq. meters which amounts to 127% on the respective period of 2013. In Q1 2014, the average actual cost of building of 1 sq. meter of residential housing rose by 12.52% as compared to Q1 2013 and amounted to Rb 39,290. The ratio between the price of 1 sq. meter of housing on the primary market and the cost of building of 1 sq meter of housing decreased within the same period by 12.64 p.p. and amounted to 127.09%. In Q 1 2014, the volume of registration of titles of individuals to land plots (1.26m certifi cates) rose by 0.87% as compared to Q1 2013. In January–April 2014, Rb 496.2bn worth of 291824 mortgage housing loans (MHL) was extended which values exceeded the number and the monetary value of MHL extended in the respective period of 2013 by 37.92% and 45.47%, respectively. A drop in the monthly average rate on MHL in rubles in March 2014 changed for a 0.3 p.p. increase to 12.3% in April.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In January Through May 2014|Within fi ve months of 2014, as compared to the respective period of the previous year growth in the volume of mortgage housing lending amounted to 35.96% and 44.15% as regards the number of loans and their monetary value, respectively (the respective data of 2013 against 2012: 12.46% and 24.90%, respectively). Within the above period, Rb 627.34 worth of 367,398 mortgage housing loans (MHL) was extended. As of June 1, 2014, the outstanding debt on MHL rose by 34.29% as compared to June 1, 2013 and amounted to Rb 2.97 trillion. In 2014, the share of the overdue debt in the outstanding debt on MHL in rubles decreased and as of June 1 amounted 0.92%, while that on loans in foreign currency increased within that period to 13.60%. In May 2014, the monthly weighted average rate on loans in rubles decreased by 0.1 p.p. and amounted to 12.2%, while the weighted average rate on loans extended from the beginning of the year in foreign currency gained as of June 1, 2014 0.1 p.p. as compared to May 1, 2014 and amounted to 9.6%.
L74|Mortgage Lending In The Russian Federation In Q2 2014|Mortgage loans kept growing in Q2 2014. A total of Rb 434,8bn mortgage residential loans (MRLs) were extended in the period between April and June of the current year, up by 37.87% compared to the lending volume in Q2 2013, and a total of Rb 769,5 of MRLs were extended in the fi rst half of the current year. The share of delinquent outstanding balance on ruble denominated MRLs in the remaining mortgage balance kept diminishing steadily (0.9% as of July 1, 2014 against 0.96% as of April 1, 2014), whereas the respective share of delinquent outstanding balance on foreign currency denominated MRLs kept growing (13.92% as of July 1, 2014 against 13.22% as of April 1, 2014). The share of outstanding balance on defaulted MRLs, with payments delinquent for more than 180 days, in the total outstanding balance diminished to 1.73% at the second quarter’s end. The weighted average rate on ruble denominated MRLs extended in June 2014 stood at 12.3% while the semiannual weighted average rate was 12.2%.
L74|The Real Estate Market In The Russian Federation In H1 2014|In H1 2014, 375,800 apartments with the total fl oorspace of 29.4m sq. m. were built which value amounted to 130.2% on the respective period of the previous year. In Q2 2014, the average actual cost of building of 1sq m of housing increased by 13.55% as compared to Q2 2013 and amounted to Rb 40,456, while the ratio between the price of 1 sq. m of housing on the primary housing market decreased within the same period by 12.6% and amounted to 125.86%. In H1 2014, the volume of registration of individuals’ titles of ownership (2,796,474 certifi cates) to land plots increased by 1.69% as compared to H1 2013. In January–July 2014, 538,482 MHL for the total amount of Rb 927,038bn were extended which value exceeds the volume of MHL extended in January–July 2013 by 39.67% and 31.01% in monetary terms and as regards the number of loans, respectively. In July 2014, the weighted average rate on MHL extended in rubles within a month fell by 0.02 p.p. to 12.21% as compared to July.
L74|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In January-August 2014|In January–August 2014, growth in mortgage housing lending continued. As of September 1, 2014, Rb 1.07trillion worth of 619,026 mortgage housing loans was extended; that is 27.47% and 36.33% more in quantitative terms and monetary terms, respectively, as compared to the respective period of 2013. As of September 1, 2014 the outstanding debt on MHL in the amount of Rb 3.2 trillion exceeded by 33.44% the debt as of September 1, 2013. There is still a positive trend of decrease in the share of the overdue debt on MHL in rubles in the outstanding debt (0.87% as of September 1, 2014) and growth in the volume and share of the debt on MHL without overdue payments (95.59% as of September 1, 2014) in the total debt. In August 2014, the weighted average monthly rate on MHL in rubles increased by 0.05 p.p. and became equal to 12.27% against 12.2% as of June 1, 2014.
L74|The Mortgage In Russian Federation In November 2014|Within three quarters of 2014, the volume of the extended MHL (703,160 loans for the amount of Rb 1219.38bn) exceeded by 34.57% and 26.12% in monetary terms and quantitative terms, respectively, the volume of loans extended in the same period of 2013. As of October 1, 2014, the share of MHL in rubles as percentage of the volume of consumer loans exceeded by 4.91 p.p. the respective share as of October 1, 2013 and amounted to 19.34%.The value of the overdue debt on MHL in rubles as percentage of the outstanding debt (1.15% as of October 1, 2013.) fell to 0.85% as of October 1, 2014. In the Russian Federation, the average weighted interest rate on loans in rubles extended in September 2014 rose to 12.45% against the minimum value of 11.97% in March 2014.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости|В январе–октябре 2013 г. организациями всех форм собственности построено 566,8 тыс. квартир площадью 45,4 млн кв.м, что составило 113,3% к соответствующему периоду 2012 г. Соотношение между ценой жилья и доходами населения в 2013 г. свидетельствует об увеличении доступности жи¬лья как на первичном, так и на вторичном рынках. Средневзвешенная ставка по выданным в течение месяца ИЖК в рублях снизилась с 12,9% в марте 2013 г. до 12,3% на 1 ноября 2013 г. Задолженность по ИЖК в долях ВВП увеличилась на 1 октября 2012 г. до 4,89%, что на 2,3 п.п. превышает наибольшее предкризисное значение 2008 г.
L74|Ипотека В Российской Федерации|Объем предоставленных за 11 месяцев 2013 г. ипотечных жилищных кредитов превысил аналогичный показатель 2012 г. на 17,38% по количеству и на 29,51% в денежном выражении, достигнув 1175,0 млрд руб. Средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях, выданным в течение месяца, снизилась с 12,9% за март 2013 г. до 11,9% за ноябрь 2013 г. Доля просроченной задолженности в остаточной задолженности по ИЖК за ноябрь 2013 г. уменьшилась по кредитам в рублях на 0,06 п.п. до 1,05%, а по кредитам в иностранной валюте – на 0,003 п.п. до 12,29%. Доля задолженности по ИЖК без просроченных платежей в общей сумме задолженности по ИЖК за ноябрь 2013 г. увеличилась на 0,59 п.п. и составила 95,89%. Доля задолженности по дефолтным кредитам (с просроченными платежами свыше 180 дней) в общей сумме задолженности по ИЖК снизилась на 0,06 п.п. до 1,91%.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|В 2013 г. рост ипотечного жилищного кредитования продолжался. Объем предоставленных в 2013 г. ипотечных жилищных кредитов (1,354 трлн руб.) превысил объем 2012 г. на 31,17% Качество портфеля ИЖК продолжало улучшаться: просроченная задолженность за 2013 г. уменьшилась до 39,5 млрд руб. при снижении ее доли в задолженности до 1,49%; задолженность без просроченных платежей в общей сумме задолженности на 1 января 2014 г. увеличилась на 0,12 п.п. относительно 1 января 2013 г. и составила 96,05%, а доля задолженности дефолтных ИЖК (с просроченными платежами свыше 180 дней) снизилась на 0,48 п.п. и составила 1,78%. Снижение в 2013 г. средневзвешенной за месяц процентной ставки по ИЖК в рублях в декабре сменилось подъемом на 0,2 п.п. до 12,1%.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|В январе-феврале 2014 г. построено 116,3 тыс. квартир, общая площадь которых (8,7 млн кв. м) превышает результат января-февраля 2013 г. на 34,3%. По данным Росреестра, в 2013 г. объем зарегистрированных прав собственности на земельные участки (6623502 регистрационных акта), включая права физических лиц, превысил результаты 2012 г. на 4,16%. В сравнении с январем 2013 г. объем ИЖК, предоставленных в январе 2014 г. (47724 кредита на сумму 79,294 млрд руб.), увеличился на 41,8% по количеству и на 51,8% в денежном выражении. На 1 февраля 2014 г. просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах к остаточной задолженности уменьшилась на 0,49 п.п. относительно 1 февраля 2013 г. и составила 1,0%. Средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях за январь 2014 г. составила 12,3%, что на 0,4 п.п. больше наименьшего значения ставки за 2013 г.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|В январе-феврале 2014 г. предоставлено 117797 ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на сумму 198,175 млрд руб., что превышает показатели за январь-февраль 2013 г. в 1,4 раза по количеству кредитов и в 1,5 раза в денежном выражении. Остаточная задолженность по ИЖК на 1 марта 2014 г. составила 2,746 трлн руб., что на 33,73% превышает соответствующую задолженность на 1 марта 2013 г. В течение 2013 г. просроченная задолженность в процентах от остаточной задолженности по ИЖК в рублях устойчиво снижалась и на 1 марта 2014 г. составила 0,98%, а по ИЖК в иностранной валюте росла и на 1 марта 2014 г. – 12,94%. Задолженность по ИЖК со сроком задержки платежей более 180 дней также снижалась и на 1 марта 2014 г. составила 1,77% от общей задолженности. Средневзвешенная за месяц ставка по выданным с начала года кредитам составила на 1 марта 2014 г. 12,3% против 12,4% за весь 2013 г.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|В I кв. 2014 г. общий объем предоставленных ИЖК на 47,43% превышает объем кредитов, предоставленных в I кв. 2013 г. При этом за квартал предоставлено 198082 кредита на 334,73 млрд руб. Снижение доли просроченной задолженности по ИЖК свидетельствует о продолжающемся улучшении качества ипотечных кредитов. Однако общая задолженность по кредитам со сроком просроченных платежей свыше 180 дней на 1 апреля 2014 г. увеличилась относительно 1 марта 2014 г. на 0,11 п.п. и составила 1,88%. В 2014 г. продолжается снижение средневзвешенной ставки по ИЖК в рублях, выданным с начала года. На 1 апреля 2014 г. она составила 12,2%. Средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях, выданным в течение месяца, составила 12,0% за март 2014 г..
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|В январе – апреле 2014 г. построено 231,1 тыс. квартир площадью 17,9 млн кв. м, что по площади составляет 127% к соответствующему периоду 2013 г. Средняя фактическая стоимость строительства 1 кв. м общей площади жилых домов в I кв. 2014 г. выросла на 12,52% по сравнению с I кв. 2013 г. и составила 39,29 тыс. руб. Соотношение между ценой 1 кв.м жилья общей площади на первичном рынке жилья и стоимостью строительства 1 кв. м жилья уменьшилось за тот же срок на 12,64 п.п. и составило 127,09%. Объем регистрации прав физических лиц на земельные участки (1,26 млн актов) в I кв. 2014 г. вырос по сравнению с I кв. 2013 г. на 0,87%. В январе – апреле 2014 г. предоставлено 291824 ипотечных жилищных кредита (ИЖК) на сумму 496,2 млрд руб., что превышает объем ИЖК, выданных в соответствующий период 2013 г. по количеству кредитов на 37,92% и в денежном выражении на 45,47%. Снижение в марте 2014 г. средневзвешенной за месяц ставки по ИЖК в рублях в апреле сменилось увеличением на 0,3 п.п. до 12,3%.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|За 5 месяцев 2014 г. рост объема ипотечного жилищного кредитования в сравнении с соответствующим периодом 2013 г. составил 35,96% по количеству предоставленных кредитов и 44,15% – в стоимостном выражении (соответствующие данные за 2013 г. к 2012 г. – 12,46% и 24,90%). За этот срок предоставлено 367398 ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на сумму 627,34 млрд руб. Остаточная задолженность по ИЖК на 1 июня 2014 г. выросла на 34,29 % по сравнению с 1 июня 2013 г. и составила 2,97 трлн руб. В 2014 г. доля просроченной задолженности в остаточной задолженности по ИЖК в рублях снизилась, составив на 1 июня 0,92%, а по кредитам в иностранной валюте за этот же период увеличилась до 13,60%. В мае 2014 г. средневзвешенная за месяц ставка по кредитам в рублях снизилась на 0,1 п.п. и составила 12,2%, а средневзвешенная ставка по кредитам, выданным с начала года в иностранной валюте, на 1 июня 2014 г. прибавила 0,1 п.п. по сравнению с 1 мая 2014 г. и достигла 9,6%.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|Во 2 кв. 2014 г. рост ипотечного кредитования продолжился. Объем ИЖК, предоставленных за апрель-июнь текущего года, составил 434,8 млрд руб., что на 37,87% превышает объем кредитования за 2 кв. 2013 г., а за полугодие в целом ИЖК предоставлено на сумму 769,5 руб. Продолжается устойчивое снижение доли просроченной задолженности по ИЖК в рублях в остаточной задолженности (0,9% на 1 июля 2014 г. против 0,96% на 1 апреля 2014 г.) и рост соответствующей доли просроченной задолженности по ИЖК в иностранной валюте (13,92% на 1 июля 2014 г. против 13,22% на 1 апреля 2014 г.). Доля задолженности по дефолтным ИЖК, с просроченными свыше 180 дней платежами, в общей задолженности уменьшилась на конец 2 квартала до 1,73%. Средневзвешенная ставка по выданным в июне 2014 г. ИЖК в рублях составила 12,3%, а средневзвешенная за полгода – 12,2%.
L74|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|В 1-м полугодии 2014 г. построено 375,8 тыс. квартир общей площадью 29,4 млн кв. м, что составило 130,2% к соответствующему периоду предыдущего года. Средняя фактическая стоимость строительства 1 кв. м общей площади жилых домов во II кв. 2014 г. увеличилась на 13,55% по сравнению со II кв. 2013 г. и составила 40456 руб., а соотношение между ценой 1 кв. м жилья общей площади на первичном рынке жилья и стоимостью строительства 1 кв. м жилья уменьшилось за тот же срок на 12,6% и составило 125,86%. Объем регистраций права собственности физических лиц на земельные участки в 1-м полугодии 2014 г. (2796474 акта) увеличился по сравнению с 1-м полугодием 2013 г. на 1,69%. В январе – июле 2014 г. предоставлено 538482 ИЖК на сумму 927,038 млрд руб., что превышает объем ИЖК, выданных в январе – июле 2013 г., на 39,67% в денежном выражении и на 31,01% по числу кредитов. В июле 2014 г. средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК, выданным в течение месяца в рублях, снизилась относительно июня на 0,02 п.п. до 12,21%.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|В январе – августе 2014 г. продолжился рост ипотечного жилищного кредитования. На 1 сентября 2014 г. предоставлено 619026 ипотечных жилищных кредитов на сумму 1,07 трлн руб., что превышает на 27,47% по количеству и на 36,33% в стоимостном выражении объем кредитования за соответствующий период 2013 г. На 1 сентября 2014 г. остаточная задолженность по ИЖК в 3,2 трлн руб. на 33,44% превысила задолженность на 1 сентября 2013 г. Сохраняется положительная тенденция снижения доли просроченной задолженности по ИЖК в рублях в остаточной задолженности (0,87% на 1 сентября 2014 г.) и рост объема и доли задолженности по ИЖК без просроченных платежей (95,59% на 1 сентября 2014 г.) в общей задолженности. Средневзвешенная за месяц ставка по ИЖК в рублях за август 2014 г. увеличилась на 0,05 п.п. и стала равной 12,27% против 12,2% на 1 июня 2014 г.
L74|Ипотека В Рф|Объем предоставленных за три квартала 2014 г. ИЖК (703160 кредитов на сумму 1219,38 млрд руб.) превышает объем кредитов за соответствующий период 2013 г. на 34,57% в денежном выражении и на 26,12% по количеству кредитов. На 1 октября 2014 г. доля ИЖК в рублях от объема потреби- тельских кредитов превысила соответствующую долю на 1 октября 2013 г. на 4,91 п.п. и составила 19,34%. Продолжается снижение величины просроченной задолженности по ИЖК в рублях в процентах от остаточной задолженности (1,15% на 1 октября 2013 г.) до 0,85% на 1 октября 2014 г. Средневзве- шенная ставка по Российской Федерации по кредитам в рублях, выданным в сентябре 2014 г., выросла до 12,45% против минимального значения в 11,97% за март 2014 г.
L74|Degrees of freedom in road construction|One policy that is believed to increase the rate of innovation and the level of productivity is to move from Design-bid-build contracts (DBB) to Design-Build contracts (DB). A common view is that the latter provides the contractor more degrees of freedom to enable innovation. This hypothesis consists of two steps, first that DB actually has more degrees of freedom and secondly that more degrees of freedom leads to more innovation. This paper focuses on the first step and is based on a review of five road construction projects – two labelled DBB and three DB. It is demonstrated that there is a gap between the textbook definition of the two types of contracts and the actual design of the examples. The degrees of freedom for the contractor are restricted in both DB and DBB contracting and no significant difference in this dimension could be established. Based on this lack of difference in the five projects, the expectation of innovation for the labelled contracts cannot be settled. Some possible rational reasons for the client to restrict the degrees of freedom are also suggested.
L74|Framework for Structuring Procurement Contracts|The aim of this paper is to propose a new structure for classifying contract types and payment methods. Concerning the procurement contract types the first important feature is the stepwise structure with three main steps in the contract design: (1) should the contract only include construction or both construction and operation/maintenance? (2) Who should do the detailed design of the premise? (3) How many contractors should the client use? An important new feature of the structure is that in both step 2 and step 3 there is a continuum of alternatives. Concerning the payment methods the structure is primarily based on how the project specific risks are shared.
L74|Culture Of Innovation In Small Construction Companies Puebla, Mexico Cultura De Innovacion En Las Pequenas Empresas Constructoras De Puebla, Mexico|This research is descriptive, in which we performed a study on the perception of administrators and managers of small construction companies located in Puebla Mexico about innovation. We discuss various authors work related to the topic and then consider some aspects that were measured via a questionnaire of 35 Likert scale items with a sample of 64 managers of small businesses. The objective of the research was to analyze the perceptions of administrators, managers or owners of small construction companies located in Puebla on innovation and development. Among the relevant findings was that the administrators consider process as the most important area for innovation in small construction companies.
L74|Organizational Culture And Effectiveness In Small Construction Businesses In Puebla, Mexico,Cultura Organizacional Y Efectividad En Las Pequenas Empresas Constructoras De Puebla, Mexico|This research analyzes types of organizational culture and its relationship with organizational effectiveness in small construction businesses in Puebla. To characterize the organizational culture, we consider some aspects that were measured through a questionnaire based on a LikertÂ´s scale to 91administrative workers of the same companies. The objective was to identify the type of organizational culture that prevails in small construction companies in Puebla. The research questions are; What type of organizational culture is related to small construction businesses in Puebla?: What is their influence in organizational effectiveness? We found that the regression model explains a 67.1% of variation in effectiveness, however, there is no statistical evidence of omitted variables (2,255 constant test).
L74|The Construction-Development Curve: Evidence from a New International Dataset|Using a new dataset of construction investment in countries across the world for the period 2000-2011, this paper provides novel evidence of a bell-shaped relationship between the share of construction in GDP and economic development. The relative level of construction activity tends to increase in developing countries, to peak during industrialization and to decrease at a slowing pace in industrialized countries, approaching stabilization in mature economies. The curve fits better if economic development is measured by alternative indicators instead of per capita GDP, namely, life expectancy and an Economic Development Index (EDI) which takes into account per capita income, life expectancy, maternal mortality ratio and the share of agriculture in employment. On average, the peak in construction activity is reached at a per capita income level of almost €5,000 (at PPP, 2011 prices), or when life expectancy in the country has reached around 67 years. At its peak, construction accounts for about 14% of a country’s GDP. The curve is robust to the inclusion of control variables. Population density, demographic growth and credit expansion do not explain cross-country variation in the share of construction in output, while there is weak evidence that a less concentrated income distribution is positively related to the size of the construction sector.
L74|A Nonlinear Relationship: Unemployment and Economic Growth (Construction Sector) in Spain, 1995.1–2012.2|A quadratic version of the first-difference Okun’s Law model was estimated for Spain (1995.Q1-2012.Q2). An accelerationist version of Okun’s Law was obtained, which allowed us to calculate variable Okun coefficients as well as critical points in the relationship between construction sector growth and the variation in overall unemployment. The optimal economic growth rate was determined to be 7.38 %. By applying principal components, it is demonstrated that this sector led the economic process after 1995. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2014
L74|The Use of a Faceted Classification System for Managing Cost Information in Construction Projects|Effective information flow and exchange are among key factors affecting the success of a construction project in terms of time, cost and quality. Due to the intensive development and application of information technologies in the field of construction management, it is essential to define processed information unambiguously. The paper presents two concepts of classification systems – enumerative systems and faceted systems. The author introduces a short review and comparison of both systems. A concise discussion of benefits that result from the application of polyhierarchical systems in the construction cost analysis and a short calculation example are presented.
L74|A Revival of the Private Rental Sector of the Housing Market?: Lessons from Germany, Finland, the Czech Republic and the Netherlands|This Working Paper studies ways to stimulate the private rental sector (PRS) of the housing market – and compares experiences with policies and reforms in Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and the Czech Republic. Although in many countries the PRS has decreased in importance since the Second World War, there are signs of a growing importance and possible ‘revival’ of the PRS. A well-functioning PRS and neutrality in housing policies can improve the functioning of the housing market – by promoting residential mobility, increasing housing options for households and generating competitive supply and affordable prices. The PRS can have positive effects on the economy and labour mobility and reduce inefficiencies and risks of owner-occupied and social housing. Trade-offs between goals in housing policies, and regulatory impediments to a level playing field between segments of the housing market (owner-occupancy, social rental, private rental) are analysed. The article outlines policy options in promoting a well-functioning PRS: lessons are drawn on tenancy security, rent-setting regulations, social housing, demand subsidies, fiscal measures for rental and owner-occupied housing and barriers for PRS supply. Experiences from the countries show that it is hard to create a level playing field – there are inefficiencies in all four countries. Nonetheless, there are many positive experiences of stimulating the PRS: reforms in Finland and the Czech Republic stimulated the PRS to become a competitive and important part of the housing market, and Dutch policies are adapted to stimulate a level playing field. The ‘resilience’ of the German housing system during the economic crisis shows that the large PRS and tenure neutrality have important stabilising effects on the German economy. Relancer le secteur locatif privé du marché du logement ? : Leçons tirées des expériences allemande, finlandaise, tchèque et néerlandaise Nous étudions dans ce Document de travail les mesures pouvant être prises pour stimuler le secteur locatif privé du marché du logement, et comparons les données d'expérience relatives aux politiques publiques et aux réformes mises en oeuvre en Allemagne, aux Pays-Bas, en Finlande et en République tchèque. Bien que l'importance du secteur locatif privé ait diminué dans de nombreux pays depuis la Seconde Guerre mondiale, certains signes montrent qu'il reprend de l'importance et qu'il est possible de le « relancer ». Un secteur locatif privé fonctionnant bien et des politiques du logement neutres peuvent améliorer le fonctionnement du marché de l'immobilier d'habitation – en favorisant la mobilité résidentielle, en élargissant l'éventail des possibilités de logement offertes aux ménages, et en débouchant sur une offre concurrentielle et des prix abordables. Le secteur locatif privé peut avoir des effets positifs sur l'économie et la mobilité des travailleurs, et réduire les problèmes d'inefficience et les risques inhérents aux logements occupés par leurs propriétaires et au logement social. Les arbitrages à opérer entre les différents objectifs des politiques du logement, et les obstacles réglementaires à l'application de règles du jeu équitables entre les différents segments du marché de l'immobilier d'habitation (logements occupés par leurs propriétaires, logement locatif social, logement locatif privé) sont analysés. L'article expose les options envisageables pour favoriser le bon fonctionnement du secteur locatif privé : des leçons sont tirées concernant la sécurité d'occupation, les règles de fixation des loyers, le logement social, les mécanismes de subventionnement de la demande, les mesures budgétaires en faveur du logement locatif et des propriétaires occupants, ainsi que les obstacles qui limitent l'offre sur le secteur locatif privé. L'expérience des pays considérés montre qu'il est difficile de mettre en place des règles du jeu équitables, puisqu'on observe des problèmes d'inefficience dans chacun des quatre pays examinés. Néanmoins, on relève de nombreux exemples positifs de stimulation du secteur locatif privé : les réformes mises en oeuvre en Finlande et en République tchèque ont permis au secteur locatif privé de devenir un segment concurrentiel et important du marché du logement, tandis que les politiques appliquées aux Pays-Bas sont adaptées pour égaliser les conditions de concurrence. La « résilience » dont a fait preuve le système allemand en matière de logement pendant la crise économique montre que l'ampleur du secteur locatif privé et la neutralité de l'action publique vis-à-vis du mode d'occupation des logements ont d'importants effets stabilisants sur l'économie allemande.
L74|Services Trade Restrictiveness Index (STRI): Construction, Architecture and Engineering Services|This paper presents the services trade restrictiveness indices (STRIs) for construction, architecture and engineering services. The STRIs are composite indices taking values between zero and one, zero representing an open market and one a market completely closed to foreign services providers. The indices are calculated for 40 countries, the 34 OECD members and Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Russia and South Africa. This report presents the first vintage of indicators for construction, architecture and engineering services and captures de jure regulations in force in 2013. The results for construction services indicate that the overall level of restrictiveness is relatively low, ranging from 0.05 to 0.32, with an average of 0.16. The more elevated levels of restriction can be largely attributed to general measures affecting all sectors of the economy. The STRI also supports the view that architecture and engineering services are less restrictively regulated than other accredited professional services, notably legal and accounting services. The average value for the STRI among the countries in the sample is 0.22 for architecture services, connoting a relatively low degree of regulatory restrictiveness; the corresponding value is only marginally lower, 0.2, for engineering services. The majority of regulations affecting trade in these sectors concern the movement of people.
L74|Entrepreneurship In Constructions Sector - Explanatory Economic Factors And Forecasts For Romania|Entrepreneurship is an active field of study; however entrepreneurship in the field of construction has been relatively neglected in recent research. The construction sector's importance lays in its multiplier effect, through employment, consumption of materials and by providing infrastructure for further economic development. In order to maximize this effect, innovation and entrepreneurship in construction are critical factors. We have investigated the relation of several economic factors with entrepreneurship in construction and have found that the volume of construction works, the number of construction workers, building permits and the subjective opinion of the businesspersons in the construction industry, expressed through a conjecture index, have a long and medium term positive relation with it, while unemployment, Consumer Price Index, Construction Cost Index and Closure of construction companies have a negative relation with entrepreneurship in construction, taking into account different time lags for each variable. The negative relation in the case of unemployment and inflation, on the other side, have long time lags (15 and 21 months, respectively) suggesting that these economic phenomena might have long term negative consequences on entrepreneurship in construction, and by extension on the construction industry as a whole. We performed several forecasts (based on ETS (M,N,M) and ARIMA methods) and we have concluded that the level of entrepreneurship in construction in Romania for the next 2 years will remain relatively unchanged, save for intra year seasonal variances. Therefore external intervention will be required if one wants to encourage growth in this field. Taking into consideration the relations that we have uncovered in the first section of the paper, these external interventions should focus not only on encouraging entrepreneurship through various individual or company level measure, but on a larger scale, for instance through construction cost related inflation control, and by encouraging construction works, for instance through infrastructure projects.
L74|Ecoconstruction : les nouveaux matériaux pour économiser l’énergie<BR>[Eco-Building: The New Materials To Save Energy]|Ce document étudie l'efficacité des nouveaux matériaux utilisés dans l’écoconstruction: sont-ils vraiment incontournables dans la réduction de l’utilisation de l’énergie? Mais quels sont et dans quel but ces matériaux ont-ils été créés ? L'auteur met l'accent sur leur intégration progressive dans la construction, puis une analyse est présentée sur les moyens d’économiser de l’énergie dans la construction, sur l'évolution de la demande en habitations éco-responsables et sur les impacts écologiques de ces nouveaux bâtiments.
L74|An analysis of the construction sectors in Romanian development regions|In this paper, the authors perform a thorough analysis of the construction sector in the economy of the 8 Romanian development regions of the country. The following indicators are examined: the regional distribution of labour in the construction, the evolution of the value of construction works on the types of works, the distribution of the density of regions’ construction companies, the construction companies’ distribution by number of employees, the gross value added variation across sectors and regions, and other indicators.In order to formulate a reasonable conclusion on the current situation in Romania in terms of the construction sector (which has been the subject of other previous studies and of the authors), and to compare them over the eight development regions of Romania, in the present work is analysed the dynamics of this sector over the period 2000-2011.Final results highlight the large discrepancies between the eight development regions of Romania in terms of evolution and development of the construction sector and that of Bucharest-Ilfov, which includes the capital, is one in which the number of employees and construction firms (both small and large firms) and gross value added in construction recorded the highest values.The paper concludes with the proposal of a set of measures to increase the construction sector's contribution to the economic development of the regions.
L74|Determining Factors Affecting Safety Performance Practices Of Construction Contractors In Gaza Strip, Palestine|Construction industry is one of the most hazardous industries due its unique nature. Construction industry in Gaza strip (Palestine) suffered from poor safety performance which results in high rates of fatalities and injuries among workers. This paper aims to evaluate the safety performance and determine the factors affecting safety performance of construction sites in Gaza Strip, Palestine. This study was based on conducting questionnaire survey and targeted project managers, site engineers, and office engineers working for construction firms and consulting offices located in Gaza Strip (Palestine). 60 questionnaires were distributed randomly to the targeted respondents, 47 (78%) questionnaires were returned and analyzed. The findings reveals that the main factors affecting safety performance of construction contractors include pressurize workers to complete the job quickly and forgo safety checks; poor attitude of construction workers towards safety; Extensive use of subcontractors; company has no safety plan; and contractors almost don’t enforce workers to follow safety procedures when performing tasks.
L74|Factors Contribute To Project Success In Iranian Construction Industry|The construction industry has a vibrant nature. Its environment has become more vibrant because of increasing in the ambiguity in budgetary, technology and improvement process. A construction project is completed as a result of many activities and their interactions. So certain factors are more important for success of project than others and these factors called critical success factors. These factors have influence and establish the success of project. Quantitative survey was carried out where 70 questionnaires were randomly distributed to selected project managers, contractors, engineers, architectures, quantity surveyors and consultants from various construction companies within Tehran city. However, only 52 questionnaires were returned and analyzed, yielding a response rate of 75%. As results, it was found that Iranian construction industry needs more attention in terms of using capable personnel such as project manager, leaders, contractors who must have more experiences and be able to handle issues properly. In addition, there is in fact a need for a sufficient and proper scheduling, budgeting and technical design and specifications to prevent future matters
L74|What role does the real estate–construction sector play in China’s regional economy?|Urbanization, industrialization and real estate reform have led to a vast growth of the real estate–construction sector in China. Using the 2002 and 2007 provincial input–output tables, this paper examines the importance of the real estate–construction sector in the Chinese economy by applying the hypothetical extraction method. The results show that for the 30 studied provinces, the weighted average impact of the real estate–construction sector accounts for 21 % of total output and for approximately 14 % of all jobs in 2002. For 2007, these figures are 23 and 22 %, respectively. The impact of the real estate–construction sector on total output and employment varies across regions. In 2007, the direct and indirect output and employment of real estate–construction sector accounted for around 15 % of total regional output and employment in Shandong and Henan, and for 40 % in Tianjin, Jilin, Shaanxi, Ningxia and Xinjiang. Our results also indicate that the real estate–construction sector is strongly own final demand oriented and regional economies which highly rely on it are particularly vulnerable to a fall in its demand. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
L74|Technologiegeunterstützte Anlieferstrategien bei Baumaßnahmen im Bestand - TABB. Schlussbericht, AIF/ IGF-Vorhaben 17167|Die geringe Integration der Versorgungsketten in der Baubranche bildet die Grundlage für eine Vielzahl von Herausforderungen. Die mangelhafte Kommunikation zwischen den zahlreichen Schnittstellen auf der Baustelle hat einen umfangreichen und ineffizienten Informationsfluss zur Folge. Demnach werden die Transparenz und die Nachvollziehbarkeit der logistischen Prozesse negativ beeinflusst. Diese Probleme der zeitlich und finanziell suboptimalen Prozessketten zeigen sich bei Baumaßnahmen im Bestand in Form von Schwund, mangelhaften Lagerstrukturen sowie unnötigen Arbeiten. Zusätzlich werden durch fehlerhafte Lieferungen und die damit verbundenen langen Wartezeiten Logistikkosten unnötig in die Höhe getrieben. Vor diesem Hintergrund zeichnet sich ein Trend in Richtung zentraler und digitaler Lösungen, die Informationen über den Material- und Informationsflüsse bündeln und gezielt bereitstellen. Gleichzeitig werden seitens der Baubranche weiterhin konventionelle Informationswege, wie beispielsweise Telefonate und Lieferscheine, in unübersichtlichen Lieferprozessen eingesetzt, wodurch die Transparenz der Flüsse erheblich beeinträchtigt wird. Um die daraus resultierenden und bisher ungenutzten Potenziale der Zentralisierung, Standardisierung und Transparenz erschließen zu können, untersuchte das Forschungsprojekt TABB die Potentiale einer zentralen Softwarelösung, bei der jeder Partei eines Bauvorhabens essentielle Daten zum Materialfluss, relevante Informationen und eine Kommunikationsplattform zur Verfügung steht. Durch die Funktionen der modular aufgebauten Software sollen die ineffizienten Aspekte bisheriger Bauvorhaben beseitigt und die Nachvollziehbarkeit der Prozessketten deutlich verbessert werden. Das Forschungsvorhaben schafft die Voraussetzungen zur Realisierung eines solchen Konzepts, indem eine Supply-Chain-übergreifende Online-Plattform entwickelt wurde. Ansätze aus der klassischen Logistik und innovative IT-Lösungen wurden dabei erstmals auf eine traditionsbehaftete Branche übertragen. Während des Projektes konnte gezeigt werden, dass dieser Ansatz maßgeblich dazu beitragen kann Logistikkosten zu reduzieren.
L74|IWH-Bauumfrage zum Jahresauftakt 2014: Lichtblick für das neue Jahr|Nach dem Bauboom im Jahr 2011 war die Bauproduktion in Ostdeutschland im Jahr 2013 das zweite Jahr in Folge rückläufig. Zwar beschleunigte sich im Verlauf des Jahres die Bauproduktion deutlich, ausgehend von einem witterungsbedingt schwachen Start und erheblichen flutbedingten Produktionsbehinderungen im Frühsommer. Die durch notwendige Aufhol- und Reparaturarbeiten und zusätzlich durch einen florierenden Wohnungsbau ausgelöste Erholung wurde allerdings von einer anhaltenden Investitionszurückhaltung im Wirtschaftsbau deutlich gedämpft. Im Schlepptau der generell schwächeren Konjunktur mussten die Bauunternehmen auch bei der Ertragslage das zweite Jahr in Folge Abstriche hinnehmen. Für das Jahr 2014 ist die Stimmung unter den vom IWH befragten Unternehmen wieder optimistischer. Ins-gesamt überwiegen bei den Umsatzerwartungen für das Baugewerbe die Hoffnungen auf eine Expansion gegen-über der Furcht vor Rückgängen. Von den Auftragstrends her werden dem Wohnungsneubau und der Wohnungs-modernisierung nach wie vor die besten Aussichten zugeschrieben. Die mit dem Abebben der Eurokrise wieder gestiegene Zuversicht der Unternehmen lässt aber auch die Nachfrage nach Wirtschaftsbauten wieder anziehen. Am ungünstigsten fallen die Trends im öffentlichen Bau aus. In den ostdeutschen Kommunen sind finanzielle Probleme weit verbreitet, was ihre Investitionstätigkeit beschränken dürfte.
L74|Cost estimate classification and accuracy for Major Industrial Plant Projects (MIPP) versus building construction in Germany|Ongoing pressure on prices for construction projects adds to the significance of cost estimation accuracy in building construction. Due to competition from Asian entrants, main contractors in the plant engineering industry are starting to face a similar situation. In the present paper, the cost estimation standards for Major Industrial Plant Projects (MIPP) are analyzed and compared with the cost estimation standards for Building Construction (BC). The research method uses a literature and standards review, comparing MIPP cost estimation guidelines by the Association for the Advancement of Cost Engineering (AACE) with a guideline known as the 'cone of cost' following the Official Scale of Fees for Services by Architects and Engineers (German: HOAI) for comparable phases of performance. It is shown that MIPP industry cost estimation guidelines are much more tolerant in terms of accuracy than for Building Construction in Germany, especially in the early phases. With the help of examples (Hot-Briquetted-Iron plant projects versus residential housing projects), a set of possible reasons is identified and categorized by (1) competition intensity incl. technology impact and frequency of project occurrence, (2) demands on cost estimation professionals, (3) materials and supplies used, (4) duration of project execution, (5) Certainty of projected Cash Flows. Finally, the study marks starting points for further research: First, comparing MIPP cost estimation guidelines to non-German Building Construction standards, and second empirically validating and possibly extending the set of explanations.
L74|How The Albanian External Environment Affect The Construction Industry|ABSTRACT. Studies have proven that organizations in order to be vital, economically valuable andprofitable in the market have to adapt to the external environment. The success and the failure ofmany companies depend on the factors which affect their activities. Without taking into account theimpact of environmental factors, it is not possible to formulate a good strategy or to conductprofitable business. This environment refers to the factors that are outside the influence and controlof the organization. It should be an important part of the decision making process and developingprocess of competitive strategies. The intensive changes of business conditions are an importantfact that the organization does not operate in a vacuum. It operates as an open system, located in acertain field and connected directly with the influence of factors that compose this environment.This paper serves to provide a picture of the external environment as a tool of refining and focusingfor the industry in which each company operates.
L74|Europäische Bauleistungen im Rückwärtsgang – nach Einbruch im Jahr 2012 folgen 2013 weitere Einbußen: Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der Euroconstruct-Winterkonferenz 2012|Nach den aktuellen Analysen der Experten aus den 19 Mitgliedsländern des Euroconstruct-Netzwerks haben sich die Hoffnungen auf eine baldige Erholung der europäischen Bauwirtschaft zerschlagen. Gingen die Bauexperten der Eurocons­truct-Gruppe im vergangenen Juni noch von einer Abnahme der Bauaktivitäten von rund 2% für das Jahr 2012 aus, so rechnen sie mittlerweile mit einem Rückgang von gut 4½%. Entgegen den ursprünglichen Erwartungen sehen sie für 2013 weitere Einbußen von ca. 1½%. Bis zum Ende des Prognosehorizonts im Jahr 2015 wird lediglich eine moderate Erholung erwartet.
L74|Europäischer Wohnungsbau: Ende der Durststrecke in diesem Jahr – positive Erwartungen für 2014 und 2015: Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der Euroconstruct-Winterkonferenz 2012|Nach den neusten Prognosen der Mitglieder des Euroconstruct-Netzwerks dürften sich die Wohnungsbauleistungen in den 19 Partnerländern 2013 stabilisieren. Insgesamt sind die Bauexperten zuversichtlich, dass der Wohnungsbau 2014 ein Wachstum von fast 2½% aufweisen wird.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Weiterhin hohe Auftragsbestände|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts hat sich das Geschäftsklima bei den freischaffenden Architekten zu Beginn des ersten Quartals 2013 ein wenig verbessert. Dies basiert ausschließlich auf einer optimistischeren Einschätzung der kommenden sechs Monate, während die Lageurteile erneut etwas verhaltener ausfielen.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Weiterhin hohe Auftragsbestände|Nach den Ergebnissen der vierteljährlichen Umfrage des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des dritten Quartals 2011 nochmals etwas aufgehellt. Es ist weiterhin recht freundlich. Die befragten Architekten schätzten ihre aktuelle Geschäftslage abermals besser, ihre Geschäftsaussichten allerdings ein wenig skeptischer ein als vor einem Vierteljahr. Im zweiten Quartal 2011 konnten 55% der freischaffenden Architekten neue Verträge abschließen. Der durchschnittliche Bestand an Aufträgen nahm zu. Mit 6,1 Monaten waren die Auftragsreserven Ende Juni 2011 um gut einen halben Monat höher als vor drei Jahren und etwa 75% umfangreicher als vor acht Jahren.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Geschäftsklima nahe All-Time-High|Das Geschäftsklima bei den freischaffenden Architekten in Deutschland hat sich zu Beginn des zweiten Quartals 2013 spürbar verbessert. Das ergab die vierteljährliche Architektenumfrage des ifo Instituts. Es ist so gut wie zu Beginn der 1990er Jahre – also der Zeit des Wiedervereinigungsbooms. Auch der Auftragsbestand bei den befragten Architekten hat sich weiter erhöht. Zu Beginn des zweiten Quartals 2013 betrugen ihre Auftragspolster im Durchschnitt 6,2 Monate. Damit wurde wieder das Niveau von vor 18 Jahren erreicht.
L74|Weiter rückläufige Baunachfrage in Europa – erst 2015 spürbare Belebung erwartet: Ausgewählte Ergebnisse der Euroconstruct-Sommerkonferenz 2013|Nach 2010 und 2012 dürften die Bauleistungen in Europa auch in diesem Jahr in allen drei Teilbereichen zurückgehen. Das ist eines der zentralen Ergebnisse der Euroconstruct-Sommerkonferenz. Die Teilnehmer erwarten, dass der Wohnungsbau ab 2014 allmählich wieder Fahrt aufnehmen wird. Der Tiefbau dürfte sich dagegen deutlich langsamer beleben. Noch schlechter sind die Aussichten für den Nichtwohnhochbau, der stark von der Investitionsbereitschaft der Privatwirtschaft abhängt. Derzeit sieht es danach aus, dass die Baunachfrage erst 2015 wieder merklich anziehen wird.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Auftragseingänge deutlich gesunken|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des dritten Quartals 2013 leicht eingetrübt. Es ist jedoch weiterhin sehr freundlich. Die befragten Architekten schätzten ihre aktuelle Geschäftslage nochmals etwas besser ein als im Vorquartal. Lediglich zu Beginn der 1990er Jahre gab es einige Quartale mit geringfügig besseren Werten. Der Anteil der freischaffenden Architekten, die ihre derzeitige Auftragssituation als »schlecht« bezeichneten, erhöhte sich zwar von 14 auf 16%; der Anteil der »gut«-Urteile stieg jedoch noch kräftiger und erreichte fast die 50%-Marke. Bezüglich ihrer Geschäftsaussichten sind die Architekten jedoch sichtlich skeptischer geworden. Der Anteil der Architekten, die eine »eher bessere« Auftragssituation im Verlauf des nächsten halben Jahres erwarteten, schrumpfte von 17 auf 14%, ein ebenso großer Anteil, 14%, erwartete eine eher negative Entwicklung. 55% der befragten Architekten konnten im zweiten Quartal 2013 neue Verträge abschließen. Damit lag der Wert unterhalb des Vorquartalswertes von 57%. Der Aufwärtstrend, der seit gut zehn Jahren zu beobachten ist, hat sich damit deutlich abgeflacht.
L74|ifo Architektenumfrage: Weiterhin hohe Auftragsbestände – aber sichtliche Eintrübung des Geschäftsklimas|Nach den Ergebnissen der vierteljährlichen Umfrage des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des vierten Quartals 2013 deutlich eingetrübt. Sowohl die Urteile zur aktuellen Geschäftslage als auch die Angaben zu den Geschäftsaussichten fielen zurückhaltender aus.
L74|Insumos para la aplicación de Certificados de Potencial Adicional de Construcción en la ciudad de Cali|Este informe plantea los elementos para hacer viable el uso de los Certificados de Potencial Adicional de Construcción (CEPAC) como instrumento de financiamiento de obras públicas en la ciudad de Santiago de Cali en Colombia.
