L80|Bundling and exporting: evidence from German SMEs|This paper studies the effect of bundling products and services on the export performance of firms. Using a unique sample, we document several facts about German small and medium enterprises (SMEs). First, bundling is a relatively rare activity, which is unevenly spread across sectors. Second, SMEs that bundle products and services are more productive than those selling products and services separately. Third, these firms tend to be more internationally oriented. While most of the existing literature focuses on large firms, we contribute to the literature by uncovering a robust positive relation between product-service bundling and exporting in SMEs. Importantly, the competitiveness-enhancing effect of bundling goes beyond manufacturing, affecting non-manufacturing firms also. To mitigate endogeneity concerns, we exploit the panel structure of the data and implement several (doubly robust) propensity score matching techniques.
L80|Service Imports, Workforce Composition, and Firm Performance: Evidence from Finnish Microdata|This paper uses unique Finnish firm-level micro data on service imports, work-force composition, and firm characteristics to examine changes in employment composition and performance of Finnish service importers during a period of a significant increase in services imports (2002-2012). We use world service export supply shocks, which we allocate to firms based on their highly specialized service input structure, as an instrument to identify the impact of service offshoring. We find that firms that increase imports of service inputs reduce employment of low-skill service workers, increase employment of (high-skilled) managers and improve their performance in terms of sales (turnover), assets, service exports, and firm survival. The employment composition and performance responses to service imports differ across firms in the manufacturing sector and those in the service sector.
L80|Productivity and Trade Growth in Services: How Services Helped Power Factory Asia|This paper uses a theory-based measure of productivity-based comparative advantage to examine the trade performance of developing Asian economies in manufacturing and services over the 1995–2011 period. We find that the growth in service exports was nearly as rapid as that in manufacturing over this period—a little-appreciated fact. Services are therefore an integral part of “Factory Asia.” Moreover, the results from a quantitative model of trade show that revealed productivity measures are often comparable between manufacturing and services at a disaggregated level, although the results differ markedly across sectors and economies. We also find evidence of rapid growth in revealed productivity in some service subsectors, comparable to that in manufacturing. Our findings suggest that oversimplifying the relationship between patterns of specialization and subsequent economic transformation and growth patterns misses important elements of reality.
L80|Services and Manufacturing in Global Value Chains: Is the Distinction Obsolete?|Many studies discuss the “de-industrialization” or “servicification” of economies in both developed and developing countries. Such studies rely on statistics that distinguish a manufacturing from a service sector. But in the age of global value chains (GVCs), it becomes increasingly difficult to disentangle manufacturing from service activities. Goods are produced with services, services are produced with goods, some manufacturing firms are factory-less, and companies tend to sell solutions to customers by bundling goods with services. This business reality has important implications for trade and industry analysis. Against this backdrop, the paper introduces a taxonomy of service activities in GVCs and describes the main statistical challenges in assessing the contribution of manufacturing and services to output, value added, or trade. It then reviews three approaches that take GVCs into account in the analysis of income, comparative advantage, and productivity to address these challenges. As statisticians are working on improving the framework for understanding global production, policymakers should be aware of the blurring lines between goods and services.
L80|Employer-Provided Training and Productivity : Evidence from a Panel of Japanese Firms|This study presents evidence on the quantitative relationship between employer-provided training and productivity among Japanese firms. The important contributions of this study are its construction of a panel of training stock at the firm-level, its distinction between manufacturing and service firms, and its comparison of the relative contribution of training to productivity and wages. The results indicate, first, that training significantly contributes to the labor productivity of the firm. Second, the estimated elasticity of productivity with respect to training stock is greater for service firms than for manufacturing firms. Third, the elasticities of productivity and wages to training stock are similar in size, meaning that the returns to firms' training investments are shared by their workers in proportion to the wage share of the value-added. These results suggest that policies to promote firms' training investments have the potential to improve productivity and wages, particularly for firms in service sector.
L80|Employer-Provided Training and Productivity : Evidence from a Panel of Japanese Firms|This study presents evidence on the quantitative relationship between employer-provided training and productivity among Japanese firms. The important contributions of this study are its construction of a panel of training stock at the firm-level, its distinction between manufacturing and service firms, and its comparison of the relative contribution of training to productivity and wages. The results indicate, first, that training significantly contributes to the labor productivity of the firm. Second, the estimated elasticity of productivity with respect to training stock is greater for service firms than for manufacturing firms. Third, the elasticities of productivity and wages to training stock are similar in size, meaning that the returns to firms' training investments are shared by their workers in proportion to the wage share of the value-added. These results suggest that policies to promote firms' training investments have the potential to improve productivity and wages, particularly for firms in service sector.
L80|Like it or not? The impact of online platforms on the productivity of incumbent service providers|This paper uses a novel empirical approach to assess if the development of online platforms affects the productivity of service firms. We build a proxy measure of platform use across four industries (hotels, restaurants, taxis and retail trade) and ten OECD countries using internet search data from Google Trends, which we link to firm-level data on productivity in these industries. We find that platform development supports the productivity of the average incumbent service firm and also stimulates labour reallocation towards more productive firms in these industries. This may notably reflect that platforms’ user review and rating systems reduce information asymmetries between consumers and service providers, enhancing competition between providers. The effects depend on platform type. “Aggregator” platforms that connect incumbent service providers to consumers tend to push up the productivity of incumbents, while more disruptive platforms that enable new types of providers to compete with them (e.g. home sharing, ride hailing) have on average no significant effect on it. Consistent with this, we find that different platform types affect differently the profits, mark-ups, employment and wages of incumbent service firms. Finally, the productivity gains from platforms are lower when a platform is persistently dominant on its market, suggesting that the contestability of platform markets should be promoted.
L80|Firm Size and Innovation in the Service Sector|A rich literature links knowledge inputs with innovative outputs. However, most of what is known is restricted to manufacturing. This paper analyzes whether the three aspects involving innovative activity - R&D; innovative output; and productivity - hold for knowledge intensive services. Combining the models of Crepon et al. (1998) and of Ackerberg et al. (2015), allows for causal interpretation of the relationship between innovation output and labor productivity. We find that knowledge intensive services benefit from innovation activities in the sense that these activities causally increase their labor productivity. Moreover, the firm size advantage found for manufacturing in previous studies nearly disappears for knowledge intensive services.
L80|Does deregulation drive innovation intensity? Lessons learned from the OECD telecommunications sector|The channel between innovation and industry regulation constitutes a non-lasting debate among the economists and researchers within the recent years. Despite the significant contributions on this field, mostly made from the empirical standpoint, the existing literature is still incomplete. This might be attributed to the fact that existing studies fail to combine a strong theoretical framework with the empirical scrutiny in order to exemplify and decompose the relationship between regulation intensity and innovation activity. We attempt to shed light on this limitation by theoretically modeling the telecommunications sector, in which access regulation impacts the non-separable activity in process and product innovation. We then empirically test our model by deploying an efficient panel threshold technique along the lines of Hansen (1999). Our balanced panel dataset comprises of 32 OECD countries over the period 1995-2012. The empirical results unveil a non-monotonic relationship of an “inverted V-shaped” form between regulation and innovation. We argue that beyond certain thresholds increasing the regulatory stringency further results in decreasing sector innovation. Our findings survive robustness checks after the inclusion of two alternative threshold variables (market structure and entry regulation) incurring significant implications for the policy makers and government officials.
L80|Pre-Feasibility Study of Sarawak-West Kalimantan Cross-Border Value Chains|This pre-feasibility study on Sarawak-West Kalimantan cross-border value chains covers six topics: It analyzes existing trade patterns and competitive advantages of Sarawak and West Kalimantan, as well as government objectives in promoting cross-border commercial activities. It proposes a border economic area spread over a wide geographic area that covers a network of interrelated activities and provides a fully integrated approach to the border economic area design and implementation. It identifies potential cross-border value chains that can serve as high-profile projects for the border economic area. It determines the preference orderings of project features by key stakeholders such as government and development partners, commercial entities, and the local population. It estimates the net monetary returns for the project portfolio, a cost-effectiveness analysis of the stand-alone capacity-building projects, ranks stakeholders’ non-monetary preferences, and incorporates the the preference ranking order into the project portfolio’s net monetary returns. It provides an overall program appraisal for the set of projects. Based on pre-feasibility results, it lays out a plan for implementation of the border area development program.
L80|Productivity and Trade Growth in Services: How Services Helped Power Factory Asia|This paper uses a theory-based measure of productivity-based comparative advantage to examine the trade performance of developing Asian economies in manufacturing and services over the 1995â€“2011 period. We find that the growth in service exports was nearly as rapid as that in manufacturing over this periodâ€”a little-appreciated fact. Services are therefore an integral part of â€œFactory Asia.â€ Moreover, the results from a quantitative model of trade show that revealed productivity measures are often comparable between manufacturing and services at a disaggregated level, although the results differ markedly across sectors and economies. It also finds evidence of rapid growth in revealed productivity in some service subsectors, comparable to that in manufacturing. Our findings suggest that oversimplifying the relationship between patterns of specialization and subsequent economic transformation and growth patterns misses important elements of reality.
L80|Services and Manufacturing in Global Value Chains: Is the Dstinction Obsolete?|This paper introduces a taxonomy of service activities in GVCs and describes the main statistical challenges in assessing the contribution of manufacturing and services to output, value added, or trade. It then reviews three approaches that take GVCs into account in the analysis of income, comparative advantage, and productivity to address these challenges. As statisticians are working on improving the framework for understanding global production, policymakers should be aware of the blurring lines between goods and services.
L80|The Future of UK Services Trade Post-Brexit: Unlikely to Be Bright|Trade in services was overshadowed by trade in goods in the Brexit debate, undeservingly so as services account for almost half of the UK cross-border exports and the EU is a major market for UK services exporters. Leaving the EU Single Market in services will cause increased regulatory costs of trading services and could have significant effects on the volume and composition of UK services exports under any exit deal. The highest rise in trade costs is to be expected in professional services, such as legal services, architecture, engineering, and accounting. With a rise in cross-border trade barriers there would be a relative increase in the proportion of services provided via a more costly physical presence within the EU. Regulatory heterogeneity among the EU members towards third countries will be an additional factor behind significant shifts in the sectoral and geographic composition of the UK services exports.
L80|Is Austria’s Economy Locked-in to the CESEE Region? A Mesoeconomic Analysis|In this paper we do a detailed analysis of Austrian gross export data at the industry level in order to detect potential trade specialisation lock-in effects vis-à-vis the countries from Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE). In addition we analyse Austrian global value added export development, Austrian trade in services as well as the link between industry-specific specialisation lock-in effects and foundational competitiveness of Austria. The main findings are the Austrian global gross export market share has declined since 2004 (the year of the EU eastern enlargement) in all industries, except for pharmaceuticals and chemicals; however, Austria managed to increase its global export market share in terms of value added, primarily through an increase in price competitiveness; Austria’s CESEE potential lock-in effects have stagnated since the outbreak of the global financial crisis, with some negative effects only in the medium-high-tech industries (i.e. to a large extent the automotive sector) on Austria’s competitiveness.
L80|How Much Do Trading Partners Matter for Austria’s Competitiveness and Export Performance?|Based on a panel data set for 38 European countries over the period 1995-2014 and by using the definition of ’foundational competitiveness’, which we operationalise as GDP per working-age individual at PPP, this paper analyses how much trading partners matter for the national competitiveness of European countries. Results based on a growth regression framework show that higher growth of trading partners’ competitiveness has a positive impact on the growth of national competitiveness. We find evidence that there are diminishing national returns to increasingly competitive trading partners, but we cannot find strong evidence for a lock-in effect of Austria with the CESEE region. Furthermore, regression results on the determinants of the Austrian bilateral export market shares with European trading partners over 1995-2016 provide evidence that Austria’s export performance is sensitive to changes in its trading partners’ business cycle position, but not more sensitive than that for other selected eurozone countries.
L80|Innovation and Productivity in the service sector of emerging and developing countries|This paper conducts a large cross-country study of innovation decisions and its effect on the productivity of the firms in the service sectors in developing countries. A structural model relating innovation and productivity is fitted with data from 97 emerging and developing countries. We find that R&D generates gains in labor productivity as well as in terms of an aggregate measure of capital and total factor productivity. However, the introduction of new products does not seem to have relevant impact on productivity measures. From a policy perspective, we find that tax burden and difficulties to access credit are significant obstacles to innovation in services. Considering the positive relationship between service innovation and productivity, these obstacles should be on top of policy agenda in the countries under study. Finally, competition from the international market and from the informal sector are both fostering innovation in services.
L80|Follow The Money: Online Piracy and Self-Regulation in the Advertising Industry|In this paper, we study the effects of a self-regulatory effort, orchestrated by the European Commission, that aims to reduce advertising revenues for publishers of copyright infringing content. Historical data lets us follow how the third-party advertising and tracking services associated with a large number of piracy websites and a corresponding set of legitimate “placebo” websites change after the agreement to self-regulate went in place. We find that larger EU-based advertisers comply with the initiative and reduce their connections with piracy websites. We do not find reductions for other non-advertising services that track consumers, which has potentially important implications for the efficiency of targeted advertising.
L80|57 Channels (And Nothin On): Does TV-News on the Eurozone affect Government Bond Yield Spreads?|This article empirically investigates the relationship between TV news coverage on the eurocrisis and the GIIPS countries bond yield spreads with daily data between January 1, 2007 and December 1, 2016. We use 1,542,233 human coded news items from evening news shows of leading TV stations in 12 countries. These news items include 37,859 news on the EU, on the Eurozone and on country-specific economic issues related to the GIIPS countries and Germany. We find that an increasing share of news about the Eurozone reduces yield spreads, especially when the news has a positive tonality. This, at least in the short run, hints at the effectiveness of political communication through the media by European institutions and in particular the European Central Bank (ECB). In conjunction with the tonality of the news, we find some hints on country-specific news to have a significant impact on GIIPS yield spreads. A higher share of positive/negative news is positively associated with a decrease/increase the GIIPS yield spreads vis-`a-vis Germany. Despite these hardly surprising results, we find some evidence that some news is not immediately and completely priced in by market participants when it is released: we still find a significant effect of prior days news on the GIIPS bond yield spreads. In addition, we find that this peculiar effect of country specific news is stronger when the respective news is aired on the North American media market. We explain this higher coefficient as follows: North American TV news air only those news that are truly surprising and have thus a strong effect on yield spreads
L80|Can we measure banking sector competition robustly?|We discuss existing measures of banking competition along with their advantages and disadvantages. For the Panzar and Rosse H-statistic,we further investigate the robustness of its estimates. Specifically, we consider how the estimates vary with respect to modelling and data choices along the following dimensions: 1) bank types 2)consolidation codes 3)time periods 4) outliers 5)econometric models We construct a robust H-statistic estimate following a modified DerSimonian and Laird procedure. We find that no robust conclusions can be drawn regarding the relative competitiveness of the banking industries in European countries, nor regarding the development of the aggregate level of competition in Europe over the past twenty years. This finding illustrates why there is little consensus about the H-statistic estimates despite numerous publications on the topic. Additionally, we check which dimensions are most important in driving the differences between the estimates and find that the choice of model speci cation plays the largest role.
L80|Real-Estate Agent Commission Structure and Sales Performance|Do higher real-estate agent fees imply better performance? This study uses a nation-wide dataset of residential real-estate transactions in the Netherlands from 1985 to 2011 to provide evidence against this. Brokers with a flat-fee structure who charge an up-front fee (which is substantially lower than the average fee of traditional brokers) and leave the viewings to the seller sell faster and at - on average - 2.7 percent higher prices. We correct for fixed house- and time effects. We provide additional evidence that the price difference is not due to a seller-selection effect.
L80|One way to the top : How services boost the demand for goods|In this paper, we take advantage of a uniquely detailed dataset on firm-level exports of both goods and services to show that demand complementarities between services and goods enable firms to boost their manufacturing exports by also providing services. The positive causal effect of services accounts for up to 25% of the manufacturing exports of bi-exporters (i.e. the firms that export both goods and services), and 12% of overall goods exports from Belgium. We find that by associating services with their goods, bi-exporters increase both the quantities and the prices of their goods. To rationalize these findings, we develop a new model of oligopolistic competition featuring one-way complementarity between goods and services, product differentiation, and love for variety. By supplying services with their goods, firms increase their market share, and hence their market power and markup. The model then shows that exporting services acts as a demand shifter for firms, increasing the perceived quality of their products. Going back to the data, we find strong confirmation for this mechanism.
L80|Understanding and Characterizing the Services Sector in South Africa: An Overview Abstract: The South African services sector is large and growing. This coupled with declining employment shares in manufacturing and mining (i.e. deindustrialisation) suggests that South Africa is a de facto service-orientated economy. Employment patterns in services reveal a segmentation that is characterised by high-productivity, high-wage services, low-productivity, low-wage services, and government services. There has been sustained growth in services exports in the post-1994 period but the composition is biased toward traditional services. Increased entry into developing country markets is characterised by increasingly sophisticated services. A key driver of export growth is the expansion of FDI into developed country markets, and increasingly, into developing country markets, particularly African markets|No abstract is available for this item.
L80|Agglomeration externalities in Ecuador: do urbanization and tertiarization matter?| The paper investigates whether the tertiarization and rapid urbanization faced by developing countries favour agglomeration economies. Focusing on Ecuadorian cantons, a productivity equation is estimated using the generalized method of moments model with instruments controlling for endogeneity. The varying impact of industrial concentration, diversity, competition and density across industries is investigated and, for the first time, the implication of the level of urbanization on agglomeration externalities is studied. Stronger effects are found for services. The threshold of urbanization at which diversity, density and competition agglomeration externalities all generate positive effects was 33%, while they seem challenged by congestion in highly urbanized cantons.
L80|CEE Trade in Services: Value-Added Versus Gross Terms Approaches| This article assesses the impact of the determinants of service exports in both value-added terms and gross terms for seven Central Eastern European economies in 1995–2011. The results confirm the importance of increasing labor productivity and highly skilled and medium-skilled workers in the growth of trade in services. Exports of services are also supported by linkages between domestic services, especially business services, and the manufacturing sector. The results show that the impacts of the determinants are fairly similar when exports are measured in value-added or gross terms; however, the strength of the impact differs across the countries analyzed.
L80|サービスの質・価格と消費者の選好|本稿は，個人を対象としたサーベイに基づき，サービスの質・価格に対する消費者の選好に関する観察事実を提示するものである．具体的には，サービスの質の向上への認識，質の高いサービスに対する支払意思，サービス価格の変化に伴う異時点間の代替及び家計内サービス生産との代替について考察する．その結果によれば，消費者は多くのサービスの質が向上していると評価しており，サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している．質の高いサービスに対する支払意思額の存在が確認されるが，個人間での異質性が大きく，年齢・所得水準等の個人特性の説明力は限られている．サービスの異時点間の代替の価格弾力性は比較的大きく，適切な価格設定を通じた需要平準化の余地が大きいことを示唆している．市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替可能性は，一部のサービスではかなり強いが，個人差も大きい．
L80|企業の教育訓練投資と生産性|本稿は、日本企業のデータを使用し、企業の教育訓練投資と生産性の関係を定量的に分析する。本稿の特長は、教育訓練ストックのパネルデータを構築して、製造業とサービス産業を区別して分析するとともに、教育訓練と生産性及び賃金との間の量的な関係を比較する点にある。分析結果によれば、第一に、教育訓練は、企業の生産性に対して正の寄与をしている。第二に、生産性の教育訓練ストックに対する弾性値は、製造業に比べてサービス産業の方が顕著に高い。第三に、教育訓練投資の収益は、企業と労働者に対して要素所得シェアに見合った割合で帰属している。以上の結果は、企業の教育訓練投資を促進する政策が、特にサービス分野の企業の生産性や賃金を高める上で潜在的に有効な可能性を示唆している。
L80|企業の教育訓練投資と生産性|本稿は、日本企業のデータを使用し、企業の教育訓練投資と生産性の関係を定量的に分析する。本稿の特長は、教育訓練ストックのパネルデータを構築して、製造業とサービス産業を区別して分析するとともに、教育訓練と生産性及び賃金との間の量的な関係を比較する点にある。分析結果によれば、第一に、教育訓練は、企業の生産性に対して正の寄与をしている。第二に、生産性の教育訓練ストックに対する弾性値は、製造業に比べてサービス産業の方が顕著に高い。第三に、教育訓練投資の収益は、企業と労働者に対して要素所得シェアに見合った割合で帰属している。以上の結果は、企業の教育訓練投資を促進する政策が、特にサービス分野の企業の生産性や賃金を高める上で潜在的に有効な可能性を示唆している。
L80|サービスの質・価格と消費者の選好|本稿は，個人を対象としたサーベイに基づき，サービスの質・価格に対する消費者の選好に関する観察事実を提示するものである．具体的には，サービスの質の向上への認識，質の高いサービスに対する支払意思，サービス価格の変化に伴う異時点間の代替及び家計内サービス生産との代替について考察する．その結果によれば，消費者は多くのサービスの質が向上していると評価しており，サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している．質の高いサービスに対する支払意思額の存在が確認されるが，個人間での異質性が大きく，年齢・所得水準等の個人特性の説明力は限られている．サービスの異時点間の代替の価格弾力性は比較的大きく，適切な価格設定を通じた需要平準化の余地が大きいことを示唆している．市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替可能性は，一部のサービスではかなり強いが，個人差も大きい．
L80|Creative Differences? Measuring Creative Economy Employment in the US and UK Using Microdata|Using high-quality administrative microdata spanning 2011-2013, this paper develops new routines to compare creative economies using the creative trident framework, and applies them to the UK and US national and regional contexts. We find the UK creative economy is larger in workforce shares, and grows faster over the study period; the US' is absolutely larger, and is distributed more evenly across industries. Regional results are shaped by deeper differences in national urban systems. The paper highlights possibilities for widely varying national configurations of creative economies, considers potential mechanisms driving differentiation, and reflects on the usefulness of the creative trident approach.
L80|Firm Size and Innovation in the Service Sector|A rich literature links knowledge inputs with innovative outputs. However, most of what is known is restricted to manufacturing. This paper analyzes whether the three aspects involving innovative activity - R&D; innovative output; and productivity - hold for knowledge intensive services. Combining the models of Crepon et al. (1998) and of Ackerberg et al. (2015), allows for causal interpretation of the relationship between innovation output and labor productivity. We find that knowledge intensive services benefit from innovation activities in the sense that these activities causally increase their labor productivity. Moreover, the firm size advantage found for manufacturing in previous studies nearly disappears for knowledge intensive services.
L80|Regional knowledge, entrepreneurial culture, and innovative start-ups over time and space―an empirical investigation|Abstract We investigate the role of entrepreneurship culture and the historical knowledge base of a region on current levels of new business formation in innovative industries. The analysis is for German regions and covers the time period 1907–2014. We find a pronounced positive relationship between high levels of historical self-employment in science-based industries and new business formation in innovative industries today. This long-term legacy effect of entrepreneurial tradition indicates the prevalence of a regional culture of entrepreneurship. Moreover, local presence and geographic proximity to a technical university founded before the year 1900 is positively related to the level of innovative start-ups more than a century later. The results show that a considerable part of the knowledge that constitutes an important source of entrepreneurial opportunities is deeply rooted in history. We draw conclusions for policy and for further research.
L80|One Way to the Top: How Services Boost the Demand for Goods|In this paper, we take advantage of a uniquely detailed dataset on firm-level exports of both goods and services to show that demand complementarities between services and goods enable firms to boost their manufacturing exports by also providing services. The positive causal effect of services accounts for up to 25% of the manufacturing exports of bi-exporters (i.e. the firms that export both goods and services), and 12% of overall goods exports from Belgium. We find that by associating services with their goods, bi-exporters increase both the quantities and the prices of their goods. To rationalize these findings, we develop a new model of oligopolistic competition featuring one-way complementarity between goods and services, product differentiation, and love for variety. By supplying services with their goods, firms increase their market share, and hence their market power and markup. The model then shows that exporting services acts as a demand shifter for firms, increasing the perceived quality of their products. Going back to the data, we find strong confirmation for this mechanism.
L80|Below the Aggregate: A Sectoral Account of the UK Productivity Puzzle|We analyse new industry-level data to re-examine the UK productivity puzzle. We carry out an accounting exercise that allows us to distinguish general macroeconomic patterns from sector trends and idiosyncrasies, providing a roadmap for anyone interested in explaining the puzzle. We focus on the UK market sector. Average annual labour productivity growth was 2.5 percentage points lower during the period 2011-2015 than in the decade before the financial crisis that began in 2007. We find that several years on from the financial crisis stagnation remains widespread across detailed industry divisions, pointing to economy-wide explanations for the puzzle. With some exceptions, labour productivity growth lost most momentum in those industries that experienced strong growth before the crisis. Three fifths of the gap is accounted for by a few industries that together account for less than one fifth of market sector value added. In terms of why we observe continued stagnation, we find that capital shallowing has become increasingly important in explaining the labour productivity growth gap in service sectors, as the buoyancy of the UK labour market has not been sufficiently matched by investment, although our figures suggest that the majority of the productivity gap is accounted for by a TFP gap. The collapse in labour productivity growth has been more pronounced in the UK than elsewhere, but the broad sector patterns of productivity stagnation are in many respects similar across other advanced economies, emphasising the importance of global explanations for the puzzle. UK industries that saw the biggest reductions in productivity growth tended to be internationally competitive and more dependent on global demand than other industries. They were also industries where productivity is difficult to measure.
L80|Can productivity still grow in service-based economies?: Literature overview and preliminary evidence from OECD countries|Services employ an ever-increasing share of workers in all OECD countries. This trend is likely to continue as it reflects deep structural forces, such as increasing consumption of services with rising incomes and population ageing and the growing role of intangible assets. Services are very diverse, but overall tend to have weaker productivity levels and growth rates than manufacturing. As a result, the shift to services entails a moderate but persistent drag on productivity growth. Still, there are reasons to hope for a pick-up in service productivity in the future, including thanks to new technologies (e.g. digital platforms, artificial intelligence). This concerns both “knowledge intensive” services (e.g. information and communication) and less knowledge intensive ones (e.g. personal transport). Harnessing this productivity potential requires adjusting policies to foster innovation and efficient use of new technologies, enhance competitive forces by reducing information asymmetries, barriers to entry and switching costs, and increase the tradability of services within countries and across borders.
L80|Cyber attacks: preliminary evidence from the Bank of Italy's business surveys|This paper presents preliminary evidence on cyber risk in the Italian private sector based on the Bank of Italy’s annual surveys of Italian industrial and service firms. The information collected, albeit only covering the incidence of cyber attacks and some aspects of security governance, is the first of its kind for Italy. The results are striking: even though a mere 1.5 per cent of businesses do not deploy any cybersecurity measures, 30.3 per cent – corresponding to 35.6 per cent of total employees – report at least some damage from a cyber attack between September 2015 and September 2016. Once data are corrected to account for unwillingness to report or inability to detect attacks on the part of some respondents, these figures climb to 45.2 and 56 per cent respectively, with large, high-tech and internationally exposed businesses faring worse than average. The economy-wide risk level is likely to be higher still; the financial sector, healthcare, education and social care are excluded from the sample, but they are known from other sources to be particularly appealing to attackers. Further research is needed on the correlation between firm-level vulnerability and investment in cyber defence, and on the cost of cyber breaches.
L80|The price of cyber (in)security: evidence from the Italian private sector|This paper presents evidence on the economic dimension of cyber risk in the Italian private non-financial sector, based on Bank of Italy survey data. In 2016, the median amount spent on preventing cyber attacks was a modest €4,530, i.e. 15 per cent of a typical worker’s annual gross wages. A wide variation exists across sectors and size classes, reflecting differences in how appealing a target a firm is to attackers and firms’ awareness of threats: median values range from €3,120 for small firms to €19,080 in the ICT sector and €44,590 for large firms. The market for cyber defence in our reference universe is worth at least €570 million. Having been attacked in the past proves to be a strong incentive to invest in security. The majority of breached firms suffered damages worth less than €10,000; 0.1 per cent reported costs of at least €200,000. Neither the sampling design nor the questionnaire were geared towards the measurement of tail events: underestimation of large incidents is likely. More information is needed before the economy-wide cost can be estimated.
L80|Services trade and credit frictions: evidence from matched bank-firm data|This paper investigates the relationship between bank credit and exports of services by Italian firms. In order to identify the role of credit supply in services exports we use matched data on bank-firm relationships and the shocks affecting banks’ funding during the sovereign debt crisis. The study suggests that credit supply shocks had a significant impact on services exports: a bank credit reduction of 1% led to a fall in exports of about 0.40%. These results hold even after controlling for alternative sources of firms’ external finance, unobserved credit demand heterogeneity and a number of robustness checks.
L80|Building a firm level dataset for the analysis of industrial dynamics and demography|"This paper illustrates the building procedure of a firm-level panel dataset that merges several sources of information concerning the various activities of business firms. The aim of this work is to achieve a detailed dataset able to shed light on firm demographics, in terms of survival, entry and exit processes, distinguishing between “voluntary"" and “involuntary"" exits. Moreover, the derived dataset allows to monitor the innovation activities of the firms and also to capture complementarities between two instruments of intellectual property rights (IPRs), namely granted patents and registered trademarks. We assess the validity of the proposed procedures resorting to the virtual universe of Italian limited liability companies as provided by Bureau van Dijk (BvD). The dataset covers more than 1 million companies operating in both manufacturing and service sectors and contain financial and economic information, as well as, among the others, the ownership structure and administrative procedures undergone by the firms, which may lead to firm exit. The main purpose of the paper is to provide a unified set of procedures to help the researcher dealing with the vast amount of information available on corporate firms and of ever increasing size. This will also facilitate the replication of empirical analyses, across researchers working on dataset with similar characteristics, although from different countries or data providers."
L80|The interconnections between services and goods trade at the firm-level|In this paper we study how international trade in goods and services interact at the firm level. Using a rich dataset on Belgian firms for the period 1995–2005, we show that: i) firms are much more likely to source services and goods inputs from the same origin country rather than from different ones; ii) joint imports are associated with higher firm productivity; iii) increases in barriers to imports of goods reduce firm-level imports of services from the same market, and conversely. We build upon a discrete-choice model of goods and services input sourcing that can reproduce these facts to guide our econometric strategy. We use our results to quantify the impact of reductions in goods and services barriers between the US and the EU. Our findings have important implications for the design of trade policy. They suggest that a liberalization of services trade can have direct and sizable effects on goods trade, and vice versa. Moreover, liberalizing goods and services trade jointly brings substantial complementarities.
L80|Firm Efficiency, Foreign Ownership and CEO Gender in Corrupt Environments|We study the effects of corruption on firm efficiency using a unique dataset of private firms from 14 Central and Eastern European countries from 2000 to 2013. We find that an environment characterized by a high level of corruption has an adverse effect on firm efficiency. This effect is stronger for firms with a lower propensity to behave corruptly, such as foreign-controlled firms and firms managed by female CEOs, while local firms and firms with male CEOs are not disadvantaged. We also find that an environment characterized by considerable heterogeneity in the perception of corruption is associated with an increase in firm efficiency. This effect is particularly strong for foreign-controlled firms from low corruption countries, while no effect is observed for firms managed by a female CEO.
L80|To bribe or not to bribe? Corruption uncertainty and corporate practices|Using a large sample of private firms over the period from 2001 to 2013, we study the effect of corruption uncertainty on corporate investments and cash holdings. We find that a higher uncertainty about the level of corruption is associated with lower corporate investments and lower cash holdings. These results are sensitive to the ownership structure of a firm. Firms with no foreign majority ownership appear to be more sensitive to corruption-induced uncertainty than majority-controlled foreign firms. They significantly decrease their investments and cash holdings. We hypothesize that they move their cash off-balance-sheet to create cash reserves as the uncertainty of when, whom, and how much to bribe increases.
L80|To Bribe or not to Bribe? Corruption Uncertainty and Corporate Practices|Using a large sample of private firms over the period from 2001 to 2013, we study the effect of corruption uncertainty on corporate investments and cash holdings. We find that a higher uncertainty about the level of corruption is associated with lower corporate investments and lower cash holdings. These results are sensitive to the ownership structure of a firm. Firms with no foreign majority ownership appear to be more sensitive to corruption-induced uncertainty than majority-controlled foreign firms. They significantly decrease their investments and cash holdings. We hypothesize that they move their cash off-balance-sheet to create cash reserves as the uncertainty of when, whom, and how much to bribe increases.
L80|Gender Gaps and the Rise of the Service Economy|This paper investigates the role of the rise in services in the narrowing of gender gaps in hours and wages in recent decades. We highlight the between-industry component of differential gender trends for the United States and propose a model economy with goods, services, and home production, in which women have a comparative advantage in producing services. The rise of services, driven by structural transformation and marketization of home production, raises women's relative wages and market hours. Quantitatively, the model accounts for an important share of the observed trends in women's hours and relative wages.
L80|FDI, Services Liberalisation, and Logistics Development in Cambodia|This paper reviews Cambodia's economic development based on flows of foreign direct investment (FDI) and services sector liberalisation. It uses Cambodia's logistics industry as a case study. Services sector liberalisation in Cambodia has been mainly driven by its commitments under the World Trade Organization (WTO) framework and the ASEAN Framework Agreement on Services (AFAS). Logistics is one of the key contributors to economic growth and competitiveness. To improve the logistics sector, Cambodia needs to develop a comprehensive master plan and national council on logistics to overcome the main issues and challenges such as corruption and informal payments, lack of institutional capacity and coordination, low-quality transport infrastructure, weak urban-rural and cross-border transport networks, limited participation of the private sector, lack of skilled human resources, and low public and private investments. Promoting healthy competition in logistics and removing the impediments to investment are vital to improving the quality and coverage of logistics services.
L80|Real-Estate Agent Commission Structure and Sales Performance|Do higher real-estate agent fees imply better performance? This study uses a nation-wide data set of residential real-estate transactions in the Netherlands from 1985 to 2011 to provide evidence against this. Brokers with a flat-fee structure who charge an up-front fee (which is substantially lower than the average fee of traditional brokers) and leave the viewings to the seller sell faster and at - on average - 2.7 percent higher prices. We correct for fixed house- and time effects. We provide additional evidence that the price dfference is not due to a seller-selection effect.
L80|The Firm and the self-enforcing dynamics of crime and protection|We model the symbiotic relationship between criminals and a partnership of protection providers - the Firm. In the absence of state authority, insecurity and crime generate a demand for protection. When the protection providers themselves are recruited among criminals, the prospect of graduating to the Firm magnifies the incentive for violent crime. More violence in turn increases the income of the protection providers. The result is a violence multiplier. Combining elements from tournament and rent-seeking theory, we derive results that contrast with standard results from the rent-seeking literature. For example, a decrease in the cost of violence increases violence more than pari passu and increases the value of being a criminal. The violence multiplier also generates an incentive for the protection providers to welcome new partners into the Firm. This is a crucial premise in explaining the viability of many violent structures. We confirm empirical relevance of key elements of our framework by exploring unique data on incarcerated youth in South Africa.
L80|地域間サービス価格差と生産性格差|本研究では、サービス分野の地域間価格差を計測し、都道府県別産業生産性（R-JIP）データベースの地域間生産性格差を再計算した。R-JIP データベースでは、労働投入の属性別構成とそれに対応する賃金水準情報を用いて地域別の労働投入の質格差を反映させている。その一方で、産出側を計測する産業別付加価値の実質化に地域的な物価水準格差をこれまで考慮しないでいたことが、生産性格差計測でどの程度バイアスを生じさせていたかを評価するためである。われわれは、総務省統計局「小売物価統計調査」の地域別のサービス価格の品目別データを基に、サービス分野の各産業別（建設、電気・ガス・水道、不動産、運輸・通信、その他の民間サービス）に地域間価格差を各年代で推計し、それを使って地域間生産性格差を再計算した。推計方法は、Country-Product-Dummy (CPD) Method という国際間の絶対的購買力平価の推計に使われる方法を、日本の都道府県間のデータに当てはめた。再計算の結果、2009 年では地域間TFP 格差指数の標準偏差が0.079 から0.069 へと約13 パーセント縮小した。また導出された地域間物価水準格差指数を使って、国際経済間で成立するバラッサ・サミュエルソン効果が、日本の地域経済間でも成り立つかどうかを検証した。
L80|地域間サービス価格差と生産性格差|本研究では、サービス分野の地域間価格差を計測し、都道府県別産業生産性（R-JIP）データベースの地域間生産性格差を再計算した。R-JIP データベースでは、労働投入の属性別構成とそれに対応する賃金水準情報を用いて地域別の労働投入の質格差を反映させている。その一方で、産出側を計測する産業別付加価値の実質化に地域的な物価水準格差をこれまで考慮しないでいたことが、生産性格差計測でどの程度バイアスを生じさせていたかを評価するためである。われわれは、総務省統計局「小売物価統計調査」の地域別のサービス価格の品目別データを基に、サービス分野の各産業別（建設、電気・ガス・水道、不動産、運輸・通信、その他の民間サービス）に地域間価格差を各年代で推計し、それを使って地域間生産性格差を再計算した。推計方法は、Country-Product-Dummy (CPD) Method という国際間の絶対的購買力平価の推計に使われる方法を、日本の都道府県間のデータに当てはめた。再計算の結果、2009 年では地域間TFP 格差指数の標準偏差が0.079 から0.069 へと約13 パーセント縮小した。また導出された地域間物価水準格差指数を使って、国際経済間で成立するバラッサ・サミュエルソン効果が、日本の地域経済間でも成り立つかどうかを検証した。
L80|サービス産業と政策の百年 : 概観|本稿は、1920年前後から戦時経済、終戦、高度成長期を経て今日に至るまでのサービス産業の動向とサービス産業を対象とした政策について概観する。20世紀初頭からの産業構造変化を回顧すると、日本のサービス経済化は、①戦時経済下の不連続を挟みつつ、工業化の進展と並行してサービス産業のシェアも拡大した1920年頃~1970年代初めの期間、②製造業のGDPシェアがピークアウトし、サービス産業のシェア拡大が加速した1970年代～1990年頃、③「失われた二十年」に入り、IT革命、グローバル化、規制緩和等を背景にサービス産業の中での構造変化が顕著になった1990年代以降の３つの局面に分けられる。日本のサービス経済化はおおむね国際標準に沿ったパタンで進んだ。サービス産業は産業政策の対象としての重要性が低かったが、本格的なサービス経済の時代に入り、政策対象としての関心も高まっている。サービス経済化は、都市化、女性就労の拡大といった社会構造の変化とも深く関連してきた。
L80|市場サービスの質・価格と家計内サービス生産|本稿は、個人を対象とした独自の調査に基づき、サービス消費に関するいくつかの新しい観察事実を提示するものである。具体的には、サービス需要の構造変化、サービスの質の変化、サービスの業態間及び異時点間での代替、市場サービスと家計内サービス生産との代替について検討する。分析結果によれば、多くのサービスについて消費者は質が向上していると評価しており、サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している。平均的にはサービスの異時点間の代替の弾力性は比較的大きいと見られ、価格設定行動を通じた需要平準化の可能性を示唆している。市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替関係はかなり強いが、個人特性による違いも大きい。
L80|サービス産業と政策の百年 : 概観|本稿は、1920年前後から戦時経済、終戦、高度成長期を経て今日に至るまでのサービス産業の動向とサービス産業を対象とした政策について概観する。20世紀初頭からの産業構造変化を回顧すると、日本のサービス経済化は、①戦時経済下の不連続を挟みつつ、工業化の進展と並行してサービス産業のシェアも拡大した1920年頃~1970年代初めの期間、②製造業のGDPシェアがピークアウトし、サービス産業のシェア拡大が加速した1970年代～1990年頃、③「失われた二十年」に入り、IT革命、グローバル化、規制緩和等を背景にサービス産業の中での構造変化が顕著になった1990年代以降の３つの局面に分けられる。日本のサービス経済化はおおむね国際標準に沿ったパタンで進んだ。サービス産業は産業政策の対象としての重要性が低かったが、本格的なサービス経済の時代に入り、政策対象としての関心も高まっている。サービス経済化は、都市化、女性就労の拡大といった社会構造の変化とも深く関連してきた。
L80|市場サービスの質・価格と家計内サービス生産|本稿は、個人を対象とした独自の調査に基づき、サービス消費に関するいくつかの新しい観察事実を提示するものである。具体的には、サービス需要の構造変化、サービスの質の変化、サービスの業態間及び異時点間での代替、市場サービスと家計内サービス生産との代替について検討する。分析結果によれば、多くのサービスについて消費者は質が向上していると評価しており、サービス産業の生産性上昇率が過小評価されている可能性を示唆している。平均的にはサービスの異時点間の代替の弾力性は比較的大きいと見られ、価格設定行動を通じた需要平準化の可能性を示唆している。市場サービスの家計内サービス生産との代替関係はかなり強いが、個人特性による違いも大きい。
L80|The Geography of Consumption|This paper examines the interaction between consumers’ willingness to travel and producers’ choices for a broad range of industries that supply final consumption and account for a large fraction of employment in the United States. Using detailed credit card data, we present evidence that consumers actively manage the spatial dimension of their purchases. Further, the data exhibit considerable variation in expenditure gravity across sectors. We develop a simple theory of how a sector characteristic, the durability/storability of the sector’s output, affects consumer and producer behavior. We present empirical evidence that durability/storability appears to influence local employment, producer density, and establishment size differentially across sectors in U.S. counties. Our results have implications for a broad range of issues, including the consequences of local shocks, the impact of place-based policies, and the geographic market definition in the assessment of horizontal mergers.
L80|Producers and consumers face to face with the technical advancements of the 3rd millennium|The globalization of markets as well as the new technical and scientific breakthroughs done in the beginning of the 3rd millennium have had and continue to have a heavy impact upon the behavior of both producers and consumers. Specialists in the field refer to this as the ‘4th industrial revolution’, an ongoing process that will drastically change economy and society as we know it.
L80|What drives spatial clusters of entrepreneurship in China? Evidence from economic census data|Since Chinese government initiated economic reform in the late 1970s, entrepreneurship and private sectors have emerged gradually and played an increasingly important role in promoting economic growth. However, entrepreneurship is distributed unevenly in China. Using micro data from 2008 economic census and 2005 population census, this paper explains spatial clusters of entrepreneurship for both manufacturing and services. For both sectors, entrepreneurship (measured by new private firms) tends to emerge in places with more relevant upstream and downstream firms. Moreover, Chinitz's (1961) theories are also supported for manufacturing: small upstream and downstream firms seem to be more important for manufacturing entrepreneurship. For both sectors, entrepreneurship is positively related to city size, the share of young adults and the elderly population, and foreign direct investment. More migrants are also found to promote service entrepreneurship. Our paper is the first to consider both manufacturing and service entrepreneurship in China and should be of interest to both local and national policymakers who plan to encourage entrepreneurship.
L80|Services and Performance of the Indian Economy: Analysis and Policy Options|This paper highlights India’s unique services export led growth path. Observing that Indian business services have helped manufacturers all over the world to become more efficient and productive, it raises the question how Indian business services can do the same for local manufacturers and thus support the Make in India initiative. The paper also explores the potential for broadening the export base in services. The services sector that appears to have the largest prospect for unleashing the potential of both manufacturing and knowledge intensive business services is the telecommunications sector, particularly broadband internet services. In addition reforms in the distribution sector that enable multi-channel wholesale and retailing could facilitate the development of marketing channels for SME manufacturers both across the vast Indian market and abroad. Reforms in the logistics sector would further improve the competitiveness of local manufacturers producing time-sensitive goods including inputs to global value chains. Finally, competitiveness in knowledge-intensive services is obtained through knowledge sharing across borders. A prerequisite for broadening the export base in these sectors is openness to foreign professionals. The set of proposed recommendations emerging from this analysis underlines the importance of streamlining sector-level regulatory frameworks in all sectors to encourage foreign entry and competition, and the role that cross-cutting improvements in the trade and business environment would play to render services providers as well as down-stream manufacturers more competitive.
L80|Services In Global Value Chains: From Inputs to Value-Creating Activities|This report provides new evidence on the role of services in global value chains (GVCs). With the release of the Trade in Value Added database, it was highlighted that services account for a larger share of world trade than suggested by traditional statistics. But this evidence does not tell the whole story about services in GVCs. In addition to services bought as inputs, there are also services activities within manufacturing firms. Moreover, manufacturing companies increasingly produce and export services either as complements or substitutes to the goods they sell. This shift to services is related to strategies aiming at adding more value and creating a long-term relationship with customers. The report highlights that services inputs, whether domestic or foreign, account for about 37% of the value of manufacturing exports in the sample of countries covered. By adding service activities within manufacturing firms, this share increases to 53% and the overall contribution of services to exports is close to two-thirds. Across countries, between 25% and 60% of employment in manufacturing firms is found in service support functions such as R&D, engineering, transport, logistics, distribution, marketing, sales, after-sale services, IT, management and back-office support. SMEs are also part of this “servicification” and contribute to exports of services bundled with goods.
L80|Services in Global Value Chains: Trade patterns and gains from specialisation|Within global value chains (GVCs), services and manufacturing activities are intertwined. This report further investigates the role played by services in GVCs by looking at patterns of specialisation in 23 services industries over the period 2000-2014. Relying on the concept of revealed comparative advantage, it highlights that all countries have a comparative advantage in specific services industries, either in services within manufacturing value chains or in services exported as final products to consumers. A value-added approach is important to analyse the specialisation in services. In addition, there are tangible productivity gains out of this specialisation, as well as gains in terms of employment. Finally, empirical results suggest that services trade restrictiveness negatively affects bilateral flows of service value-added within GVCs. Both domestic reforms and the reduction of barriers in partner countries can benefit services sectors and the activities that rely on services inputs.
L80|Anatomy of Austria’s trade in services|This study analyzes Austrian exports of business services as an indicator of non-price competitiveness in manufacturing before and after world trade collapsed in 2008/09. A unique company dataset was used for this purpose and broken down into individual product/market combinations. The trend analysis differentiates between export growth along the intensive margin (intensifying existing export relations) and along the extensive margin (establishing new export relations). The extensive margin, which signifies export diversification, is more important for the development of manufacturers’ service exports than that of the service sector. This applies in particular to manufacturers that are more technology intensive and it implies that Austrian manufacturers develop know-how to establish new foreign trade relations. After the global trade meltdown, however, manufacturers’ service exports seemed to have primarily helped maintain long-term trade relations, with the extensive margin losing significance. This indicates a worsening of the framework conditions (heightened protectionism) and weak development of foreign trade in goods having a negative impact on service exports.
L80|The impact of state-controlled banks on the Russian banking sector|This paper examines the structure, governance, and balance sheets of state-controlled banks in Russia, which accounted for over 55 percent of the total assets in the country’s banking system in early 2011. The author offers a credible estimate of the size of the country’s state banking sector by including banks that are indirectly owned by public organizations. Contrary to some predictions based on the theoretical literature on economic transition, he explains the relatively high profitability and efficiency of Russian state-controlled banks by pointing to their competitive position in such functions as acquisition and disposal of assets on behalf of the government. Also suggested in the paper is a different way of looking at market concentration in Russia (by consolidating the market shares of core state-controlled banks), which produces a picture of a more concentrated market than officially reported. Lastly, one of the author’s interesting conclusions is that China provides a better benchmark than the formerly centrally planned economies of Central and Eastern Europe by which to assess the viability of state ownership of banks in Russia and to evaluate the country’s banking sector.
L80|A Measurement Issue Regarding The Link Between A Region'S Creative Infrastructure And Its Income|The creative capital possessed by the members of the creative class in region is either acquired through education or present innately in these members. Therefore, the creative infrastructure in the region is the sum of a part representing creative capital obtained through education and a second part denoting creative capital present innately in the creative class members. A researcher wishes to estimate the true relationship between the region's log income per creative class member and its creative infrastructure He has data on but not on We study whether an ordinary least squares (OLS) regression of on a constant and will produce an unbiased estimate of the impact of on in two cases. In the first case, and are uncorrelated. In the second case, and are positively correlated.
L80|Using Simulation and Six-Sigma Tools in Improving Process Flow in Outpatient Clinics|It is apparent that outpatient clinics are becoming complex and need to be optimized and improved on a daily basis. In this project, we used several methods including discrete event simulation, quality function deployment (QFD), and failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA) to optimize and improve these clinics. We conducted this study at a major suburban outpatient clinic to propose main recommendations which most likely apply to a vast majority of such clinics. Firstly, the simulation-based modeling that we ran assisted us in recognizing optimum staff number which would result in decreasing waiting times that patients usually spend and making the process flow at the facility smoother. Secondly, QFD approach for analyzing outpatient clinic requirement is also proposed and realized through a case study. It is realized that the proposed approach can adjust service quality toward customer requirements effectively. Lastly, the health care failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA) that we implemented as a novel method to discover conditions and active failures and to prioritize these based on the potential severity of risks associated with them.
L80|Triple Helix Model’s (THM) impact on enhancing creativity and skills within UAE public and private sectors|Organizations and businesses cannot depend completely on their own to generate new ideas for innovation and development in present knowledge based societies. Consequently, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) announced 2015 as the Year of Innovation and excellence awards have been established aiming to boost cooperation between various sectors in the country. Therefore, the concept of the Triple Helix (university–industry–government) was found as a model of innovation. The aim of this research is to establish the impact of a Triple Helix approach on enhancing creativity and skills within UAE public and private sectors. It explores the concept of the Triple Helix Model (THM) in the context of the UAE public and private sectors focusing on its existence, implementation, barriers and drivers. Methods of analysis include both qualitative and quantitative approach in which a conceptual framework was derived from the literature review, a survey was developed and distributed to a sample of employees from different organizations, and follow-up interviews were carried out with key stakeholders (in which their departments are implementing/ involved in the THM). The findings exposed the stakeholders’ perception about the importance of the concept and each actor’s role in the THM, the limited utilization of the concept among the organizations, and the challenges in terms of relational barriers and knowledge sharing. The research findings reveal that TH approach has a positive influence on enhancing creativity and skills within UAE sectors and several recommendations have been proposed such as leadership involvement and support, designing organizational innovation strategy, and the addition of society helix.
L80|Dopady vlastnické struktury, firemních charakteristik a krize na efektivitu českých podniků<BR>[Impact of Ownership Type, Firm Characteristics and Crisis on Efficiency of the Czech Firms]|We analyze how efficiency of firms in the Czech Republic is affected by their size, age, competition, capital structure, ownership types, and global financial crisis. We employ the stochastic frontier approach, use a large and detailed dataset, and cover time span 2001-2012. While effects of firm characteristics are small, the effects of ownership are economically substantial. We show that majority owners are most contributive with respect to firm’s efficiency when compared to other categories we analyze. Minority owners with legally grounded power are able to impose significant efficiency improvement. The effect of the foreign ownership is strongest when foreign owners control firms with less than majority of voting power. Minority owners sharing the control do not seem to contribute to efficiency. The impact of crisis is not balanced but can be regarded as marginally positive in general. The firms’ characteristics change only a little. In contrast, worsening impact of the crisis is evidenced for controlling ownership categories. Minority owners exhibit a limited disciplining effect to improve efficiency after the crisis, though.
L80|Microfoundations of Organizational Competence for Servitization|Despite the various benefits of servitization, the yielded returns are often inadequate to generate sustainable competitiveness. The prevalence of this so-called service paradox is closely related to the insufficient theoretical explanation of how firms achieve competitiveness through servitization. We address this research gap by conceptually developing a framework and research propositions for competitiveness based on the Competence-based Theory of the Firm. We achieve the following contributions: (1) presenting a structured overview of the previously unconnected microfoundations of organizational competence for servitization, and (2) developing conceptually grounded research propositions for further empirical work on competitiveness through servitization.
L80|Hotel Business Training For Personnel Development: Enhancing Chinese Language Skills|The purposes of this research were: 1) to compare the difference of achievement scores earned in Chinese knowledge and skills of hotel personnel before and after the training for personnel development in enhancing Chinese language skills, and 2) to study the satisfaction towards the training of hotel personnel. The research samples consisted of 50 hotel staff in Koh Samui, Thailand, collected by purposive sampling technique. The instruments used in this research were the course modules for hotel business training for personnel development in enhancing Chinese language skills, pre-test and post-test, and satisfied evaluated questionnaire. The frequency, percentage, mean, standard deviation, and t-test were used to analyze the data. The findings indicated that: 1) the hotel personnel?s achievement in enhancing Chinese language knowledge and skills increased with statistical significance (p
L80|Internationalisierung im unternehmensnahen Dienstleistungssektor: Formen, Hemmnisse und Unterstützungsbedarfe deutscher KMU|Dienstleistungen werden handelsbeschränkende Eigenschaften zugeschrieben wie beispielsweise hohe Erklärungsbedürftigkeit, geringe Standardisierbarkeit und die Interaktion zwischen Erbringer und Empfänger. Ebenso lassen die begrenzten Ressourcen in KMU ein niedriges Niveau an Handelsaktivitäten im Dienstleistungssektor erwarten. Der Beitrag untersucht den Einfluss dieser Faktoren auf die Internationalisierung im unternehmensnahen Dienstleistungssektor auf der Basis von Experteninterviews. Danach führt der Aufwand einer grenzüberschreitenden Geschäftsanbahnung und Informationsgewinnung, in Kombination mit einer fehlenden strategischen Ausrichtung auf das Ausland, zu negativen Rentabilitätserwartungen. Folglich unterbleibt die Internationalisierung häufig. Der Aufwand steigt wegen länderspezifischen Rahmenbedingungen (öffentlich und marktseitig). Eine handelsfreundliche Ausgestaltung internationaler Rahmenbedingungen ist daher zu empfehlen.
L80|Does innovation foster or mitigate the corruption obstacle? Firm-level evidence from Tunisia|The aim of this paper is to analyze the extent to which Tunisian firms regard corruption as a major obstacle to their product and process innovation. Using firm-level data from the World Bank Enterprise Survey conducted in 2013, we empirically test how innovation accentuates or mitigates the corruption obstacle. We show that innovation has a negative and statistically significant effect on the corruption obstacle. Besides, we prove that competition and the obstacle to corruption are negatively related. This result teaches that the Tunisian firms face a rent-shifting corruption.
L80|What is the effect of globalisation on the performance of the service sector of Ghana?|The paper empirically examines the effect of globalisation on the service sector output in Ghana for the period 1961-2013 using annual time series data. The ordinary least square method of regression was employed after the unit root properties were examined. The findings of the study indicate negative effect of globalisation on the service sector output, suggesting that the Ghanaian economy has not benefited positively from globalisation. Policy makers should reconsider the use of globalisation as a policy tool in achieving growth in the service sector. The use of nonlinear models in future study is worth considering, as well as the use of other proxies of globalisation. Other regression estimation methods such as the Johansen method should be considered in future empirical studies to find out whether the current findings will be replicated.
L80|The Validity of the Tourism-Led Growth Hypothesis for Thailand|This paper explores the validity of the tourism-led growth hypothesis for Thailand using quarterly data during 1995 and 2014. The results from the analysis show that the relationship between tourism receipts and real GDP is nonlinear without asymmetric adjustment. The nonlinearity in this relationship is found from the results of threshold cointegration tests. The causality analysis indicates no causality running from tourism receipts to real GDP in both the long run and the short run. The finding in this paper gives some policy implications.
L80|Service Delivery and Customer Satisfaction in Nigerian Banks|The study examined the impact of the quality of service delivery on customer satisfaction in the Nigerian banks using Ordinary Least Square (OLS) methodology. The study established a relationship between better banks performance in service delivery and customer satisfaction through effective customer relationship management (CRM). Findings revealed that increase in the number of working days and number of bank branches led to better levels of customer satisfaction. Empirical evidence also revealed that increase in PROFIT margin is a function of improved level of customer satisfaction while number of bank branches (NNB) has a positive but insignificant relationship with customer satisfaction because the spread of branch networks or channels has better effects on customer satisfaction than number of banks. It also emphasized the role of the number of working days in achieving better bank services and profitable customer relationship management. The study thus recommends that the Nigeria banking industry should improve the quality of service delivery as it is a prerequisite for achieving a high level of customer satisfaction.
L80|Croissance agricole, transformation locale des ressources naturelles et industrialisation au Togo<BR>[Agricultural growth, local transformation of natural resources and industrialization in Togo]|This article aims to test empirically the relationship between agricultural growth, local natural resources transformation and the industrialization in Togo. The methodological approach is based on autoregressive distributed lag suggested by Mohammad H. Pesaran and al. (2001), using cointegration techniques. The data cover the period 1976 – 2014. The empirical results show a positive and significant correlation in the long-run between agricultural growth, the part of the value added of the industrial production due to local natural resources transformation by agriculture value added and the interaction between local natural resources transformation on the value added of the industry.
L80|Survival of the fittest or does size matter: What are the main drivers of Productivity in Brazil?|This article aims to explore learning and selection effects of productivity change for three classes of firm’s sizes in Brazilian manufacturing and service sectors from 1996 to 2011. The methodology is based on the Price Equation. Our results support the international evidence about the weak intensity of the selection effect to explain aggregate productivity change for medium and large size firms. Small firms, however, are much more affected. Besides, size, measured by number of employees, appears to be a good proxy for capital intensity. There are as well signs that the learning effect is highly correlated with the economic cycle.
L80|Service industries and regional analysis. New directions and challenges|The service sector currently accounts for the largest share, both in terms of GDP and employment, of all developed economies, as well as many of the so-called emerging or developing ones. In spite of this, it has been the subject of far less research than manufacturing, although the situation has started to change in the past three decades and it must be pointed out that some activities —such as finance, commerce, transport and those most closely linked to tourism— do have significant analytical literature. In any case, this sector is undergoing very notable changes deriving from new technologies and the progress of digitalization, as well as economic globalization, in which services are playing a particularly relevant role. These changes demand specific and in-depth analyses to explain their causes and to understand their spatial and territorial effects. The objective of this work is to underscore the need for greater research effort focusing on the regional and urban aspects of services, and to suggest certain facts and trends that seem particularly relevant. Undoubtedly, services should occupy a privileged position in the new frontiers of Regional and Urban Analysis. This work aims to justify that need and pose some topics of interest for new research.
L80|The Impact Of Medical Tourism On The Quality Of Organizational And Functional Changes In The Polish Healthcare System|The role of Medical Tourism in the process of a complex satisfaction of the prosumers and the impact played in the organizational and functional changes in the Polish healthcare system. The analysis of the literature on the subject as well as an analysis of the documentation were the inspiration to write this work. The main emphasis was put on stating the conditions stimulating the development of this sector of the economy as well as the risk factors determining the quality of process changes in the healthcare system (functioning of public hospitals). To approximate the characteristics of the involved risk within the framework of health tourism functioning in the conditions of a market economy. Selected research methods allowed to present the motives behind undertaken actions of both the regulators as well as participants of the health tourism. Polish accession to the EU was an important impulse changing the way of thinking about health tourism in healthcare as well as, what is important, changes in the institutional and financial policy in Poland. In order to meet health-oriented demands of a prosumer, there should be a coordinated and effective informational system, aimed at improving the quality, reliability, availability of information concerning health tourism.
L80|Explaining Industry Differences in IT Investment Per Worker Between Canada and the United States, 2002-2013|In the past, attention has been focused on the aggregate ICT investment per worker gap, but 49.8 per cent of lower business sector IT investment per worker in Canada relative to the United States in 2013 was explained by two industries: information and cultural industries and professional, scientific and technical services. The main objective of this report is to shed light on the possible reasons for the gap in these sectors, including data measurement and comparability issues stemming from methodological differences between statistical agencies in Canada and the United States, and differences in potential explanatory variables of IT investment, such as human capital, taxation, profits, firm creation rates, industrial structure, and regulation, among others.
L80|New Evidence on the Canada-U.S. ICT Investment Gap, 1976-2014 Selected OECD Countries, 1986-2013|Productivity growth results in part from investment in information and communications technologies (ICT). To better understand Canada’s poor productivity growth relative to the United States since 2000, this report provides a detailed examination of ICT investment trends in the two countries. The report finds that real ICT investment in the total economy in Canada has yet to recover from the 2008-2009 recession, while it has not suffered the same fate south of the border. Between 2008 and 2014 real ICT investment in Canada fell 1.0 per cent per year, compared to a 2.9 per cent per year increase in the United States. The gap was even greater for real ICT investment per job, down 1.8 per cent per year in Canada versus a 2.8 per cent annual increase in the United States. The weaker ICT investment growth in Canada resulted in a large increase in the Canada-US ICT investment gap from 31.6 percentage points to 43.7 points, as nominal ICT investment per job fell from 68.4 per cent of the US level in 2008, the highest value ever achieved, to 56.3 per cent in 2014.
L80|Services versus goods trade: a firm-level comparison|Abstract Using transaction data from Belgium, we provide a descriptive comparison of trade in goods and trade in services at the firm level. From a static perspective, we find that firms trading services are fewer and export and import smaller values than those trading goods. This is because they trade fewer products, with less countries, making fewer transactions and these gaps are only partially counterbalanced by larger transaction values. Instead, firms trading both services and goods are even rarer, but they account for a substantial share of total trade. In the time dimension, services traders experience higher entry and exit rates and a lower survival probability. However, the surviving firms grow more rapidly than those trading goods thanks to an increase in the number of transactions per product-market. Finally, we observe that firms that trade only services add also goods in their export and import basket and vice versa. This is a further important growth channel for firms in international markets.
L80|Services versus goods trade: a firm-level comparison|Using transaction data from Belgium, we provide a descriptive comparison of trade in goods and trade in services at the firm level. From a static perspective, we find that firms trading services are fewer and export and import smaller values than those trading goods. This is because they trade fewer products, with less countries, making fewer transactions and these gaps are only partially counterbalanced by larger transaction values. Instead, firms trading both services and goods are even rarer, but they account for a substantial share of total trade. In the time dimension, services traders experience higher entry and exit rates and a lower survival probability. However, the surviving firms grow more rapidly than those trading goods thanks to an increase in the number of transactions per product-market. Finally, we observe that firms that trade only services add also goods in their export and import basket and vice versa. This is a further important growth channel for firms in international markets. Copyright Kiel Institute 2016
L80|The Determinants of Inward Foreign Direct Investment in Business Services across European Regions| C astellani D., M eliciani V. and M irra L. The determinants of inward foreign direct investment in business services across European regions, Regional Studies . The role of forward linkages with manufacturing sectors and other service sectors as attractors of business services foreign direct investment (FDI) is studied at the regional level. Using data on 146 NUTS-2 regions, it is found that regions specialized in those (manufacturing) sectors that are high potential users of business services attract more FDI in the business services than other regions. Results are robust to the inclusion of the traditional determinants of foreign investments at the regional level as well as to controls for spatial dependence. The results suggest that regional policies aimed at attracting foreign investors in the business service industry might prove ineffective in the absence of a pre-existing local intermediate demand.
L80|Customer satisfaction from private utility companies: An explanatory study|"Purpose – The present study examines the factors that have an impact on ""customer satisfaction"" in the context of private utility companies. The main purpose of the study is accomplished through the development and the empirical testing of a conceptual frame-work (research model). The proposed framework includes six dimensions (research factors): (a) tangibles, (b) reliability, (c) responsiveness, (d) assurance, (e) empathy, and (f) customer satisfaction. Design/methodology/approach – The present study adopted the SERVQUAL approach (model), only after analytically testing its suitability for use within the investigated area. In that direction, the focus group methodology was used. Finally, the proposed con-ceptual framework was tested on a random sample of gas consumers residing in the area of Thessaloniki, Greece. The final sample consisted of 437 adult consumers. The reliability and the validity of the questionnaire were thoroughly examined. Empirical data were analysed using the “Structural Equation Modelling” (SEM) technique. The present study is empirical, explanatory, deductive and, mainly, quantitative. Findings – Empirical results indicate that ""reliability"" has the highest impact on ""customer satisfaction"", while ""empathy"" has no impact at all. More specifically, the impact of ""reliability"" on ""customer satisfaction"" is indirect, mediated through three other di-mensions of the conceptual framework (namely, ""tangibles"", ""responsiveness"" and ""empathy""). Research limitations/implications – A limitation stemming from the implemented methodology is the use of self-reported scales for the measurement of the six research factors. Moreover, the paper lacks a longitudinal approach. Finally, the empirical research (survey) is focused on one organisation and, therefore, offers relatively limited generalizability. Originality/value – Very few studies have utilised the SERVQUAL approach in the context of an explanatory research. This approach offers a unique understanding of the relationship that exist between its five dimensions (factors) (tangibles, reliability, responsiveness, assurance, empathy). Such an approach has very rarely been attempted in the relevant literature."
L80|Determinants of Innovation in Croatian SMEs – Comparison of Service and Manufacturing Firms|Purpose – In this paper we focus on SMEs in Croatia operating in the manufacturing and services sectors, and seek to compare them in terms of their involvement in innovation activities, and the factors determining their decision to innovate, in general and in four types of innovations in particular: product/service, process, organizational and marketing innovations. Design/Methodology/Approach – The analysis relies on the Croatian Community Innovation Survey 2010 (CIS 2010) data. To find out whether innovations have a different pattern of drivers in manufacturing and in services, we estimate the probit and multivariate probit models separately on these two groups of firms. Findings and implications – The findings reveal that, despite some differences, service and manufacturing SMEs are not that different from one another when it comes to innovation activities. Service SMEs are somewhat less likely to introduce technological innovations, but manufacturing and service SMEs do not differ significantly when it comes to non-technological innovations. One noteworthy difference between manufacturing and service SMEs is that the latter rely on acquired knowledge much more than do the former. Limitation – One limitation of the study is that most variables in the CIS dataset, including those on innovations, are of a binary nature, a fact that dictated the choice of the econometric model. In addition, the data pertain to the time period of an economic downturn in Croatia, which possibly affected the results obtained. Originality – This research contributes to understanding the drivers of innovation activities in SMEs and differences in this regard between manufacturing and services in Croatia.
L80|Highway to Success: The Impact of the Golden Quadrilateral Project for the Location and Performance of Indian Manufacturing|We investigate the impact of transport infrastructure on the organisation and efficiency of manufacturing activity. The Golden Quadrilateral (GQ) project upgraded a central highway network in India. Manufacturing activity grew disproportionately along the network. These findings hold in straight‐line IV frameworks and are not present on a second highway that was planned to be upgraded at the same time as GQ but subsequently delayed. Both entrants and incumbents facilitated the output growth, with scaling among entrants being important. The upgrades facilitated better industrial sorting along the network and improved the allocative efficiency of industries initially positioned on GQ.
L80|Boyacá: un contraste entre competitividad, desempeño económico y pobreza|Boyacá es un departamento de contrastes. Por un lado, posee buenos indicadores en educación y en sus instituciones, que lo ubican como uno de los departamentos más competitivos, y en el otro extremo, tiene un aparato productivo y unos indicadores de pobreza que no muestran un desempeño muy destacado en el país. Este trabajo analiza las cifras recientes en estos temas e identifica características geográficas propias del departamento que pueden estar relacionadas con los resultados de competitividad como: el mayor número de municipios, de menor tamaño y más cercanos entre sí. ******ABSTRACT: Boyacá is a department of contrasts. On the one hand, Boyacá has good indicators in education and its institutions, which place it as one of the departments more competitive. On the other hand, Boyacá has a productive system and poverty indicators which show no performance very prominent in the country. This paper analyzes recent figures on these issues and identifies geographical characteristics of the department that may be related to the good performance in competitiveness as: the largest number of municipalities, smaller and closer together.
L80|Crowdsourcing et développement d’un écosysteme d’affaires : une étude de cas|Crowdsourcing (CS) provides access to external knowledge, and may be a relevant way to facilitate the innovation process of a company. In the open innovation paradigm (Chesbrough, 2003), innovation is the outcome of a coupling between outside-in and inside-out processes mobilizing the company and its partners. Therefore innovation can be understood in a business ecosystems logic. In this article, we use a case study to show how CS can be implemented to develop a business ecosystem. By mobilizing the literature on CS, business ecosystems and C-K theory, we emphasize the convergence between some of the success factors for CS and for the evolution of a business ecosystem : openness and modularity. In the studied case, CS contributes to the upstream phase of the development of a business ecosystem through the exploration of new concepts. JEL Codes : L80, 031, O32
L80|The Political Economy of Services Trade Agreements|This paper studies the determinants of liberalization commitments in the context of trade in services used as intermediate inputs. Compared to goods, services inputs are mostly complementary to other factors of production and non-tradable. We build a theoretical trade policy framework in which (i) foreign investment as a way to contest a market for non-tradable services can be restricted by the government and (ii) the role of services as complementary inputs explains unilateral commitment to services trade liberalization. Commitment helps governments to avoid political pressures that would result in protectionist measures leading downstream producers to inefficiently reduce their production. In addition we provide new results on the influence of lobbying by both national firms and foreign multinationals. We discuss how the bargaining power of the government, the size of national services sectors and the difference in valuation between national and foreign contributions affect the willingness of the government to sign a services trade agreement.
L80|Marketmaking Middlemen|This paper develops a model in which market structure is determined endogenously by the choice of intermediation mode. We consider two representative business modes of intermediation that are widely used in real-life markets: one is a middleman mode where an intermediary holds inventories which he stocks from sellers for the purpose of reselling to buyers; the other is a market-making mode where an intermediary offers a platform for buyers and sellers to trade with each other. In our model, buyers and sellers can simultaneously search in an outside market and use the intermediation service. We show that a marketmaking middleman, who adopts the mixture of these two intermediation modes, can emerge in a directed search equilibrium.
L80|Die wirtschaftliche Dynamik in der Stadt Dresden|Die Stadt Dresden ist schon seit den 1990er Jahren einer der wichtigsten Wachstumsmotoren für den Freistaat Sachsen. Die Dynamik der hier ansässigen Hochtechnologiefirmen hat Dresden zu einem bedeutenden Wirtschaftsstandort werden lassen. Die starke Spezialisierung des Verarbeitenden Gewerbes auf die Hochtechnologiesektoren bringt jedoch auch Probleme mit sich. Die Abhängigkeit dieser Märkte von der weltweiten Konjunktur macht die Stadt anfällig für globale Schwankungen. Dieser Artikel ana - lysiert das Wirtschaftswachstum der Stadt Dresden und kommt zu dem Schluss, dass die starke Aus - richtung auf den Halbleitersektor weiterhin dazu führt, dass Dresden an den Chancen auf weltweiten Wachstumsmärkten teilnehmen kann. Auf die Beschäftigung haben etwaige Schwankungen kaum Auswirkungen, da der sehr große Dienstleistungssektor stabilisierend wirkt.
L80|Besucher und Aussteller im Messezentrum Nürnberg induzieren bundesweit Kaufkrafteffekte in Höhe von jährlich 1,65 Mrd. Euro|Ziel der von der NürnbergMesse GmbH beauftragten Untersuchung des ifo Instituts war es, die Kaufkraft-, Beschäftigungs- und Steuereffekte zu ermitteln, die Messen und Veranstaltungen wie Kongresse, Tagungen oder sonstige Events am Standort Nürnberg, in der Metropolregion Nürnberg, im Freistaat Bayern und in Deutschland im Jahresdurchschnitt auslösen. Mit Hilfe empirischer Erhebungen ausgewählter Nürnberger Messen und Veranstaltungen wurden mittels eines Schätzmodells die Gesamtausgaben und darauf aufbauend die wirtschaftlichen Effekte für ein durchschnittliches Veranstaltungsjahr berechnet. In die Studie einbezogen wurden darüber hinaus auch die jahresdurchschnittlichen baulichen Investitionen auf dem Gelände der NürnbergMesse GmbH.
L80|Institutionelle Veränderungen und ihre Wirkung auf Branchen|Institutionelle Rahmenbedingungen spielen eine entscheidende Rolle für das Funktionieren von Märkten. Das institutionelle Umfeld bleibt dabei in der Regel nicht konstant, sondern verändert sich im Zeitablauf. Um zu analysieren, ob Veränderungen der institu­tionellen Rahmenbedingungen Effekte auf die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung insbesondere von Branchen haben, müssen die entsprechenden, für einen bestimmten Wirtschaftszweig relevanten Neuerungen zunächst identifiziert werden. Das ifo Zentrum für Industrieökonomik und neue Technologien will mit dem Aufbau einer »Institutionen-Datenbank auf Branchenebene« hierzu einen Beitrag leisten. Ziel der Datenbank ist es, institutionelle Veränderungen, die eine Branche betreffen, systematisch und möglichst standardisiert zu erfassen und damit vorhandene Branchenkenntnisse wissenschaftlich nutzbar zu machen. Der Artikel stellt erste deskriptive Auswertungen der Datenbankinhalte vor.
L80|Konjunkturtest im Fokus: Boom im gesamten Dienstleistungssektor?|Zum Ende des Vorjahres erreichte der Geschäftsklimaindikator im Dienstleistungsbereich einen neuen Rekordwert in der seit 2005 laufenden Umfrage. Ausschlaggebend waren insbesondere die Antworten der Teilnehmer des Grundstücks- und Wohnungswesens. In diesem Jahr bewegt sich der Geschäftsklimaindikator nicht mehr ganz auf dem Rekordniveau vom Vorjahr, allerdings noch weit über dem langfristigen Mittelwert. Die sehr guten Ergebnisse in der Konjunkturumfrage im Bereich Dienstleistungen sind wiederum zu einem großen Teil auf die Entwicklungen in des Grundstücks- und Wohnungswesens, das von der ungestillten Nachfrage nach Immobilien profitiert, zurückzuführen. Diese Entwicklung ist nicht unbedingt auf andere Wirtschaftsbereiche übertragbar. Immobiliennahe Branchen profitieren, genauso wie die Baubranche selbst, Bereiche, die damit nicht zusammenhängen, tendenziell eher nicht. Werden die Ergebnisse des Konjunkturtests Dienstleistungen ohne die Berücksichtigung der WZ68 berechnet, so ergibt sich ein weniger positives Bild. Die Dienstleistungsbranche befindet sich zwar in einem guten wirtschaftlichen Umfeld und profitiert von der konjunkturellen Phase des Aufschwungs, aber die Situation stellt sich für einen Großteil des Bereichs nicht so positiv dar, wie die Ergebnisse des Gesamtaggregats Dienstleistungen vermuten lassen würden.
L80|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2016|Am 9. November 2016 fand der diesjährige ifo Branchen-Dialog statt, wiederum unterstützt vom Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Wirtschaft und Medien, Energie und Technologie sowie der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern. Nach der Begrüßung durch den Hauptgeschäftsführer der IHK für München und Oberbayern, Peter Driessen, trug Clemens Fuest, Präsident des ifo Instituts, zum Thema »Die wirtschaftliche Lage in Deutschland und Europa« vor. An den Vortrag schlossen sich die vier Branchenforen an. Zum Abschluss der Veranstaltung diskutierte Ludger Wößmann, Leiter des ifo Zentrums für Bildungsökonomik, die Frage »Integration durch Qualifikation: Chancen und Herausforderungen der Zuwanderung«.
L80|Boyacá: un contraste entre competitividad, desempeño económico y pobreza|Boyacá es un departamento de contrastes. Por un lado, posee buenos indicadores en educación y en sus instituciones, que lo ubican como uno de los departamentos más competitivos, y en el otro extremo, tiene un aparato productivo y unos indicadores de pobreza que no muestran un desempeño muy destacado en el país. Este trabajo analiza las cifras recientes en estos temas e identifica características geográficas propias del departamento que pueden estar relacionadas con los resultados de competitividad como: el mayor número de municipios, de menor tamaño y más cercanos entre sí.
L80|Providing Services to Boost Goods Exports: Theory and Evidence|Goods and services have been generally analyzed as two different items in the consumer portfolio supplied by firms in separate industries. In this paper, we challenge this view by providing evidence on interactions within the firm between foreign sales of goods and services. We show empirically and theoretically that demand complementarities between both activities enable firms that export goods and services - we call them bi-exporters - to boost their manufacturing exports by also providing services. The provision of services thus participates to the perceived vertical differentiation of the goods. Under monopolistic competition, adding a service boosts firms' sales only through quantities. Accounting for large oligopolistic firms uncovers instead a different channel: bi-exporting may increase firms' market power that translates into higher prices. Our IV estimates show the price channel to be important. These results imply that ignoring such complementarities will lead to a mis-quantification of the welfare and business consequences of economic integration.
L80|Crisis-proof services: Why trade in services did not suffer during the 2008–2009 collapse|During the 2008–2009 crisis, trade in goods fell by almost 30%. In contrast, trade in business, telecommunication and financial services continued growing at their pre-crisis rates and only services related to transport declined. Using trade data at the firm-product-destination level for Belgium, I show that during the crisis the elasticity of services exports with respect to GDP growth in destination countries was significantly different from that of goods exports. In particular, the negative income shock in partner countries affected exports of goods but not exports of services. This difference is economically sizable: if goods exports had had the same elasticity to GDP growth as services exports, their fall during the 2008–2009 collapse would have been only half what was observed.
L80|Factoryless goods producers in Japan|Manufacturing firms in advanced countries are servitizing alongside the deepening of the global value chain. In this respect, “factoryless goods producers” (FGPs) are attracting attention from economics researchers. This study, using firm-level data, presents findings on Japanese FGPs. In this study, FGPs are defined as non-manufacturing firms that outsource manufacturing processes entirely to other firms. Although the large majority of FGPs are classified in ICT or wholesale industries, some FGPs belong to retail or services industries. FGPs are larger and have higher productivity and wages compared with non-FGPs, invest more intensively in intangible assets, including research and development, and have relatively larger headquarters functions.
L80|The trade reducing effects of restrictions on liner shippingAuthor-Name: Bertho, Fabien|The costs of shipping containerized cargo on liner vessels play a pivotal role in determining a country's integration into international trade. We examine how policy governing the liner shipping sector affects maritime transport costs and seaborne trade flows. Using a novel dataset of services trade policy information, we find that restrictions, particularly on foreign investment, significantly increase maritime transport costs. The cost-inflating effect ranges from 26% to 68%, and the resultant reduction in trade flows from 48% to 77%, depending on the level of restrictiveness. We estimate the elasticity of seaborne trade flows with respect to distance to be nearly unity, and are able to disentangle the direct effect of distance from the one that is operating indirectly through higher maritime transport costs. Since the bulk of global merchandise goods trade is seaborne, the magnitude of frictions identified in this paper and their spatial distribution have ramifications for connectivity and growth.
L80|Agglomeration within an urban area|This paper utilizes a newly created index for colocalization to estimate the determinants of industrial agglomeration within a single urban area. Our new index directly incorporates the location of individual establishments while controlling for the Modifiable Areal Unit Problem (MAUP) in order to create this measure of spatial similarity between two industries. We estimate that proximity to transportation infrastructure and consumers as well as knowledge spillovers largely explain patterns of agglomeration. We find a smaller role for input–output linkages and consumption externalities for retail and consumer service industries.
L80|Japan's oligopolies: potential gains from third arrow reforms|"Progress has been made in economic reform under the ""Abenomics"" first (monetary policy) and second (taxation reform) ""arrows"". The third, which emphasises structural reforms, has been more politically difficult, thus far yielding mixed results. This paper explores the gains that are possible from the labour market, tax and competition reforms embodied in the third arrow program. Economic rents and industry concentration levels are first identified from Nikkei firm specific data and used to construct an economy-wide model that represents oligopoly behaviour and its regulation explicitly. The analysis finds that modest gains in efficiency are available labour growth and, when it is accompanied by corporate governance reform, the switch between company and consumption taxation. Larger gains are shown to be available from active competition policy and, particularly, from productivity enhancing FDI in services. Central to the results is that a resurgent Japanese economy requires efficiency improvements that raise home rates of return and rebalance its large home and foreign asset portfolio toward home investment and capital growth."
L80|La adopción de la estrategia de servitización: estudio Delphi para incrementar el conocimiento sobre la transformación del sector manufacturero|The research study described in this article seeks to bring to light the main evidence found concerning the adoption of the strategy of servitisation. The Delphi Method was used to collect statements and opinions from 33 high-ranking executives at 28 organisations of different sizes which represent an interesting cross section of the fabric of production in Britain. The findings focus on five main areas: (1) servitisation and advanced services; (2) the process of transformation: stimuli, incentives and organisational change; (3) impact on customers and manufacturers; (4) facilitators and inhibitors; and (5) the potential for businesses and for the economy. As a result, eight key points are presented here that together help to extend our knowledge of the strategic process adopted by manufacturing firms to compete on services.
L80|The Political Economy of Services Trade Agreements|Why do governments sign services trade agreements? This paper focuses on the role of international agreements in the context of trade in services when services are used as intermediate inputs in downstream industries. Compared to goods, services inputs are mostly non-tradable and complementary to other factors of production. We build a theoretical trade policy framework in which firms use foreign investment to contest foreign markets in services sectors and governments can restrict the entry of multinationals. Commitment helps governments to avoid political pressures that would result in protectionist measures leading downstream industries to inefficiently reduce their production. First we show that the role of services as complementary inputs is central to explain governments’ commitment to services trade liberalization. Second we provide new results on the influence of lobbying by both national firms and foreign multinationals on trade policies and the gains from commitment. Finally we discuss how the bargaining power of the government, the size of national services sectors and the difference in valuation between national and foreign contributions affect the willingness of the government to sign a services trade agreement.
L80|Раздел 4. Реальный Сектор Экономики|Анализ динамики макроэкономических показателей российской экономики за период 2009–2014 гг. показал, что постепенное снижение темпов экономического роста сопровождалось усилением диспропорций в сфере производства, снижением инновационной активности производителей, усилением проблем разбалансированности технико-технологических характеристик основных фондов и инвестиций в основной капитал по базовым видам экономической деятельности. Развитие, основанное на экстенсивном использовании основных факторов, увеличение издержек производства снижали конкурентоспособность российской экономики. Расширение внутреннего потребительского спроса поддерживалось опережающим ростом заработной платы относительно производительности труда. Рост инвестиций в основной капитал не приводил к соответствующему повышению отдачи на единицу используемых ресурсов.
L80|New firm formation in the wake of mergers and acquisitions: Are employees pushed or pulled into entrepreneurship?|This study investigates the relationship between mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and employee entrepreneurship in human capital-intensive service sectors. We investigate two sets of theoretical mechanisms. First, M&As may push employees entrepreneurship by lowering the average barriers of leaving the current employment (i.e. being associated with general deterioration of working conditions). Second, M&A activities may generate new entrepreneurial opportunities, which are first and foremost accessible by employees directly affected by M&As. Results on employee entrepreneurship in 3 039 Swedish firms during the time period 2000-2009 confirm that the number of firms spawned from a specific incumbent increases following an M&A. Push-oriented factors are found to contribute to this effect, but a dominating part of the total effect remains unexplained. This suggests that pull-oriented explanations of opportunity creation in the wake of M&As constitute an important avenue for further research on employee entrepreneurship.
L80|Business Model as Relational Aggregator: Exploring Business Relationships|Bringing up services based on Information and Communication Technologies shows to be a complex process for everyone involved in it. Dynamic ecosystem of businesses participating in creation of the value proposition of the services requires a specific way of reasoning and simplified guidance to implementation. We discuss how industrial relationships evolve in terms of value dimensions, through a lens of a business model. This discussion has been done through four streams of literature starting from Activities, Resources and Actors Model and value literature, and continues through value networks and ecosystem literature, so as to round up in discussion on different views on business models. Out of this discussion a conceptual framework has been presented. On the other side, we present basis for the division of the analysis of services based on ICT into two different views and actually offer a table of separation of concerns (into these two views).
L80|Relational Marketing in the New Service Economy|The unprecedented development of the services, supported by the technological progress made by the 20th century to give birth to a new type of society which can be characterized as a “service economy” with traits different from those of the “industrial” development model. Under these conditions, relational marketing as philosophy and as instrument of running business is forced to adapt to these deep mutations.
L80|Innovation decision of Tunisian service firms: an empirical analysis|The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, it investigates the way by which Tunisian service firms make their decision to innovate: simultaneously (one-stage model) or sequentially (two-stage model). Afterwards, once the innovation-making-decision way is selected, the paper analyzes its main determinants. Using a sample of 108 Tunisian service firms, the paper reveals that the two-stage model has a statistically significant advantage in predicting innovation. Indeed, it is shown that the sequential model illustrates well the innovation making-decision procedures. In fact, the main determinant behind the dominance of the sequential model is the importance that service firms give to the innovation objectives.
L80|An Experimental Research on Closed Loop Supply Chain Management with Internet of Things|Closed loop supply chain (CLSC) optimization is integration of forward and reverse logistics activities. The importance of CLSC management is increasing by legal regulations, limited energy resources and environmental- financial problems that growing in recent years. However, reverse logistics part of the CLSC is a flow type which is more difficult to made predictions, planning and controls by reason contained uncertainties. This stage, Internet of Things system reduces related uncertainties by providing all the life information of the returned product and substantially attenuates planning of reverse flow activities. In this study, a CLSC is considered that meets demands of the sales&collection center both new and remanufactured product. Manufacturer has three options (refurbishing, disassembly and disposal) to assessing returned products. A mixed integer linear programming model is proposed for a single type of product is completely modular (automobile, computer, telephone, etc.). The model meets customer's products and components demands based period, maximizes profit consist of different sales revenues and total cost (total production, purchase, transportation and disposal costs) and determines how to evaluate all returned products. The proposed model has been verified with the aid of a numerical example by solving in GAMS software and its performance reviewed with experimental studies.
L80|FDI and Ownership in Czech Firms: Pre- and Post-crisis Efficiency|We analyze how efficiency of firms in the Czech Republic is affected by their size, age, competition, capital structure, ownership types, and global financial crisis. We employ the stochastic frontier approach, use a large and detailed dataset, and cover time span 2001-2012. We show that larger firms cannot be associated with better efficiency in general. Effect of their age has only negligible impact. Impact of the capital structure is shown to be strong in large and more leveraged firms. Higher competition is not contributive to efficiency neither on individual nor aggregate levels. While effects of firm characteristics are small, the effects of ownership are economically substantial. We show that majority owners are most contributive with respect to firm’s efficiency when compared to other categories we analyze. Minority owners with legally grounded power are able to impose significant efficiency improvement. The effect of the foreign ownership is strongest when foreign owners control firms with less than majority of voting power. Minority owners sharing the control do not seem to contribute to efficiency. The impact of crisis is not balanced but can be regarded as negative in general. The firms’ characteristics change only a little. In contrast, worsening impact of the crisis is evidenced for controlling ownership categories. Minority owners exhibit a limited disciplining effect to improve efficiency after the crisis.
L80|A Note On Services In The European Union Regulations: Is Online Digital Content A Service?|The first section analyses European Union legal texts on the goods-services distinction. They view the former as tangible entities, while the latter covers all intangible ones. The writing of the key article on services in the EU main Treaty may also be confusing. The second section explains the new approach of the service that the economic analysis has developed, especially relevant in the context of the knowledge economy. The third section shows that the Single Market Digital Strategy of the European Commission faces difficulties caused by the outdated service definition it uses. The problems affect the VAT rate applicable to intangible goods, regarded as services (e.g. e-books vs. tangible books), and the Directives or Communications handling the provision of Digital Content. This concept, coined among other things to bypass the outdated definition, induces a contorted law treatment of intangible goods and, at least, undue contractual idiosyncrasies. Adopting the new economic approach of the serv ce would solve the problems underlined and help fostering the digital economy.
L80|La proximidad geográfica en el contagio del fracaso empresarial en la pyme: Una aplicación empírica con el modelo probit espacia/The Geographic Proximity in the Spillover Effects of Business Failure in SMes: Empirical Application with the Spatial Probit Model|Este trabajo analiza el efecto de contagio en el fracaso empresarial como consecuencia de la proximidad geográfica entre empresas de reducido tamaño. Para ello, se desarrolla una aplicación empírica sobre una base de 2.710 pymes españolas localizadas en el municipio de Murcia. Con esta información, se estima un modelo de regresión espacial probit a partir del cual se contrasta la significatividad del efecto del contagio empresarial. Nuestros resultados indican que la probabilidad de fracaso de una pyme, no solo depende de las características específicas de cada empresa, sino que también influye la probabilidad de fracaso de empresas geográficamente próximas. Factores asociados a interacciones de carácter social y/o económico entre los agentes vinculados a las distintas empresas de una misma región estarían detrás de estos resultados. This paper tests the role of spillover effects derived from the geographic proximity among reduced size firms in business failure. To get this purpose, we develop an empirical application on a sample of 2.710 Spanish Small, Medium size Enterprises (SMEs) located in the region of Murcia. With this information, we estimate a spatial probit regression model to contrast the significance of business spillover effects in business failure models. Our results show that the probability of business failure in SMEs depends not only on its own characteristics but also on the probability of failure of geographically close firms. Factors associated with social and/or economic interactions among the agents linked to the different firms in the same region would be behind these results.
L80|Message from an Italian bottleneck: inter-industry relationships and efficiency spillover|In 2015, Italian manufacturing grew at rates comparable to German manufacturing, while services performance was three times poorer. This paper investigates to what extent such gaps are also due to: a) differences in the structures of inter-industry relationships, b) the ability to convey the impulse coming from manufacturing, and c) the ability to transmit efficiency across the system. Our perspective is twofold. Firstly, by applying network analysis to WIOD tables, we compare Italian and German business structures and evaluate their different capacity of activation. Secondly, a firm-level estimation of technical efficiency, combined with spatial econometrics, is used to assess the role of the inter-industry relationships in activating efficiency spillovers. Our results show that in Italy relationships between manufacturing and services are less dense than in Germany, so that the capacity of stimulating business services is lower too. Moreover, we find that business services are on average more efficient than manufacturing, and the efficiency mainly flows from the supplier sector to the buyer one. In this context, a serious bottleneck emerges for the Italian economy, which weakens the capacity of business services to grow and has negative feedbacks on the efficiency of manufacturing.
L80|The Impact of Entrepreneurial Characteristics and Organisational Culture on Innovativeness in Tourism Firms|Entrepreneurial characteristics and organisational culture have an impact on the innovative capability of a company. Therefore, our research tries to examine the influence of different individual entrepreneurial characteristics and organisational culture dimensions on corporate innovativeness and any direct subsequent company growth. This paper proposes the classification and measurement of five dimensions of entrepreneurial orientation; risk taking, proactiveness, competitive aggressiveness, autonomy and customer orientation and 3 dimensions of organisational culture; power distance, uncertainty/avoidance and individualism/collectivism with the objective of explaining service innovation performance. Specifically, we try to show the differences between the importance of different entrepreneurial characteristic and each organisational culture dimension on a product/service innovation. To this end, a survey was performed on a sample of tourism companies in Slovenia. The data was analysed by employing univariate and multivariate data analyses techniques. Data gathered fromthe survey suggests that entrepreneurial orientation and organisational culture dimensions positively influence innovativeness in tourism companies. Empirical evidence supports the view that a company with more developed entrepreneurial characteristics and organisational culture will be more innovative. This paper is one of the first to find empirical support for the role of entrepreneurial characteristics and organisational culture in tourism companies in Slovenia. Despite a number of limitations, it offers a picture of how these dimensions should be developed in order to enhance innovation. It also presents managerial implications, as managers are responsible for the forming of these dimensions.
L80|Results and financial situation of firms in 2015|The article looks at the financial situation of non-financial corporations in Belgium over the period from 1 january to 31 December 2015. After briefly describing the methodology and the population studied, it presents an extrapolation of the main operating result items for 2015, with a sectoral, regional and size breakdown. The article then assesses the financial situation of companies as regards profitability, solvency, dividend payout policy as well as credit risk.
L80|From Selling Goods to Selling Services: Firm Responses to Trade Liberalization|In this paper we focus on a new channel of adaptation to trade liberalization, namely the shift toward increased provision of services in lieu of goods production. We exploit variation in European Union trade policy to show that lower manufacturing tariffs lead firms to shift into services provision and out of goods production. We also find that a successful transition is associated with higher firm-level R&D stocks.
L80|Service Quality Models for Higher Education: A Review [Modele de calitate în servicii pentru învăţământul superior: o analiză]|The higher education sector is highly dynamic and suffers constant changes over time. The quality of services offered in this sector is a feature of utmost importance, being the main reason why students choose a certain university. Seeing how much individuals value service quality, researchers have been trying for a long time to understand the main factors having the capacity to influence perception.
L80|Scolarization or Education? [Şcolarizare sau educaţie?]|John Taylor Gatto is known primarily as a severe critic of the modern systems of public education – provided compulsorily by the state –, especially in his main works: “Dumbing Us Down” (1992), “The Underground History of American Education” (2000) or “Weapons of Mass Instruction” (2009). Less discussed are his constructive proposals about education “as it should be”.
L80|Scolarization or Education? [Şcolarizare sau educaţie?]|John Taylor Gatto is known primarily as a severe critic of the modern systems of public education – provided compulsorily by the state –, especially in his main works: “Dumbing Us Down” (1992), “The Underground History of American Education” (2000) or “Weapons of Mass Instruction” (2009). Less discussed are his constructive proposals about education “as it should be”.
L80|Search Deterrence|We study sales techniques which discourage consumer search by making it harder or more expensive to return to buy after a search for alternatives. It is unilaterally profitable for a seller to deter search under mild conditions, but sellers can suffer when all do so. When a seller cannot commit to its policy, it exploits the inference that those consumers who try to buy later have no good alternative, and in many cases the outcome is as if the seller must make an exploding offer. Search deterrence results in sub-optimal matching of products to consumers and often raises the price consumers pay.
L80|Hospitality Industry|Development of accommodation, as basic services offered to tourists, led to the creation of a genuine hospitality industry. Currently, the hospitality industry is no longer just the accommodation service itself but also requires an atmosphere that ensures leisure tourists in the hotel. Thus, hospitable unit manager offers its service in addition to accommodation and catering services, leisure services, treatment services, business services required.. The existence of factors such as revenue growth, increasing leisure time, the development of transport services, the emergence of new tourist attractions have caused increasing international flows of tourists, with consequent development of units hospitable, and therefore a strong hospitality industry. In Romania, after 1990, the tourism sector experienced a true expansion, both through the development of the hotel sector, but also by developing rural hospitality units.
L80|Tourist Services in Romania|Tourism services represents an important component of the services sector, as in manycountries tourism is a major contributor to economic growth, create jobs and meet the needs oftourists. All the services that make a tourist arrangement have a major role in meeting the needs oftourists. These services are transport services, accommodation services, catering services, leisureservices and other services depending on the motivation of tourists. The evolution of these services are under the impact of internal factors but also internationally,such as economic and political climate, social stability, natural factors, psychological factors. Consequently, the number of tourists who consume tourism services may increase or decrease,depending on these factors.
L80|Essentialities of Energy Market Liberalisation in Romania|The paper â€žEssentialities of Energy Market Liberalization in Romaniaâ€ presents the mainaspects concerning the energy market liberalization and the electricity consumption recorded atnational level. The electricity consumption has a great importance in analyzing the production andretail energy market, as this is showing the demand-offer equilibrium for the entire electro-energysystem. Market liberalization became mandatory in Romania, with the adhesion to European Union. Energy price liberalization in our country was a difficult process. Leaders of EU imposed onGovernment a pricing liberalization calendar with the mention that not respecting it, the country isobliged to pay substantial penalties.
L80|Offshoring Sector In Poland|Companies across industries gain the competitive advantage by outsourcing and offshoring. Developing countries are becoming the attractive locations for the BPO/SSC enterprises. The article reviews the definition of outsourcing and offshoring and presents the findings for the fast-growing BPO/SSC area in Poland. The study is based on detailed analysis of the literature on outsourcing and offshoring. The article presents a preliminary analysis of offshoring sector in Poland. The following considerations are taken into account: the number of companies and employees in this sector, foreign direct investment. The growing number of companies and employments in this sector. Subsequent growth of the offshoring business service sector in Poland is visible.
L80|Structural Change, Growth, and Volatility|I construct a two-sector general equilibrium model of structural change to study the impact of sectoral composition of gross domestic product (GDP) on cross-country differences in GDP growth and volatility. For an empirically relevant parametrization of sectoral production functions, an increase in the share of services in GDP reduces both aggregate total factor productivity (TFP) growth and volatility, thus reducing GDP growth and volatility. When the model is calibrated to the US manufacturing and service sector, the rise of the service sector occurring as income grows can account for a large fraction of the differences in per capita GDP growth and volatility between high-income economies and upper middle income economies. (JEL E23, E25, E32, L60, L80)
L80|The Effects of the ASEAN Economic Community 2015 on Industries in Kitakyushu and Shimonoseki|" This paper asks how the formation of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations'(ASEAN's) Economic Community (AEC) in 2015 (AEC2015) will affect industries in Kitakyushu and Shimonoseki. First, ASEAN's rapid economic during the past five decades has made ASEAN a large market for Japanese goods, services, and firms. ASEAN has supported this growth by facilitating important economic and political dialogue in Southeast Asia and AEC2015 will likely reinforce this important role. Second, although ASEAN has made efforts to promote economic integration among member economies and AEC2015 is another step in this direction, substantial barriers to intra-ASEAN transactions remain and will persist after AEC2015. The ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) was initiated in 1992 and facilitated elimination of tariffs on most intra-ASEAN trade by 2010, but the share of intra-ASEAN trade remains relatively low at about one-quarter of all ASEAN trade and has not changed much since 2005. Most importantly, like AFTA, AEC2015 is not likely to increase preferential margins for intra-ASEAN trade, largely because ASEAN retains strong comparative advantages with respect to major external trading partners and firms in ASEAN are deeply involved in region- or world-wide production networks. Third, despite proclamations that AEC2015 marks the advent of a ""single"" ASEAN market, progress toward achieving most of AEC2015's specific goals is likely to be slow, especially with respect to key non-tariff barriers and restrictions on trade in services. Fourth, Japan's multinational enterprises (MNEs) in ASEAN are likely to be the largest conduit through which AEC2015 affects Japan, Kitakyushu, and Shimonoseki. To the extent that AEC2015 affects Japan, Kitakyushu, and Shimonoseki, AEC2015 is likely to affect Japan's services' industries such as trading, logistics (trade, transportation, and communication), and business services, more than commonly appreciated. The proliferation of production networks in machinery industries, which are the source of most of Japan's gross exports, is a major reason for this."
L80|Training Assessment: A Premise For Training Transfer In Enterprises|The technical literature tackled the issues of training transfer and training assessment from two distinct research directions that sometimes happened to intermingle; in the light of recent discoveries, we considered these issues were interrelated via a causal connection. We used an analysis of the approach of these two topics in 30 enterprises that constantly provided their employees with training in the past two full years. The present paper demonstrated the fact that the training transfer rate is: a) strongly influenced by the extent to which training evaluation methods were used; b) moderately influenced by the support employees received when they returned to work in order to implement what they had learned; and c) it is not influenced by the proper training evaluation methods (which may be different depending on the specific of the training and the expertise of the human resources specialist who undertakes the assessment).
L80|Service Oligopolies and Australia's Economy-Wide Performance|" type=""main"" xml:lang=""en""> Australia's services industries now contribute almost four-fifths of gross domestic product. The microeconomic reforms of the 1990s left behind numerous regulated private service oligopolies that contribute one-quarter. Using an economy-wide modelling approach that represents service oligopoly behaviour explicitly, the extent of sectoral interactions and the potential economy-wide gains from price cap regulation are assessed. Non-linear interaction between oligopoly industries is shown to support economy-wide over sectoral analysis. Moreover, the results from the economy-wide modelling suggest that the cost of unabated oligopoly distortions would amount to one-third of Australia's gross domestic product."
L80|Managerial interpretation and innovation in the context of climate change|Firms have developed climate change strategies over the last decade in response to rising regulatory, social and competitive pressures. Increasingly, these strategies include the development of new products and services (P&S) to reducing the environmental impact of the firm and its customers. In this paper, I explore how managerial interpretation of climate change has evolved over time and how these changes in interpretation are associated with innovation outcomes. The existing literature suggests that interpreting environmental challenges as opportunities is more likely to lead to open and innovative strategies. Using qualitative survey data on 99 Global 500 firms over the period 2003 to 2009, I find that threat-based interpretation can in fact lead to positive innovation outcomes at early stages of new P&S development. I identify three main mechanisms through which the detailed identification of threats encourages innovation in response to climate change. Furthermore, I develop a temporal dimension to the relationship between interpretation and stages of P&S development. I find that at advanced stages of P&S development, a balanced and opportunity-focused interpretation becomes more important. The results imply that managerial interpretation can provide firms with added flexibility to provide innovative responses to social and environmental challenges. But the relationship between interpretation and innovation is not static, nor is it a question of threat or opportunity interpretation but a combination of the two at different times that provides flexibility.
L80|Cross-border mergers and acquisitions in services: The role of policy and industrial structure|This paper explores the role of policy and economic structure in determining international mergers and acquisitions (M&A) in services sectors. The analysis is based on bilateral sectoral M&A flow data and detailed information on policy barriers from a new database. Restrictive investment policies are found to reduce the probability of M&A inflows, controlling for bilateral frictions such as geography. This negative effect, however, is mitigated in countries with relatively large shares of manufacturing and (to a lesser extent) services in GDP. The same result holds for the number of M&A deals concluded. Findings are robust to accounting for the potential endogeneity of policy restrictiveness. The evidence suggests that the impact of policy is state-dependent and related to the composition of GDP in the target economy.
L80|Schwache Investitionen und Tertiärisierung der Wirtschaftsstruktur in Deutschland|Zur Beurteilung der rückläufigen Investitionstätigkeit in Deutschland wird häufig der Rückgang der Bruttoinvestitionsquoten thematisiert. Aus ökonomischer Sicht relevanter sind dagegen die Nettoanlageinvestitionen, also die um ihre Abschreibungen bereinigten Anlageinvestitionen. Betrachtet man anstelle der Brutto- die Nettoanlageinvestitionen, so zeichnen letztere seit langem ein noch schlechteres Bild der Investitionsentwicklung in Sachkapital in Deutschland.
L80|Konjunkturtest im Fokus: Information und Kommunikation|Seit 2005 werden die Ergebnisse des ifo Konjunkturtests Dienstleistungen monatlich veröffentlicht. Dieser Sektor ist ein sehr heterogener Bereich, und eine differenzierte Betrachtung nach unterschiedlichen wirtschaftlichen Aktivitäten kann die Qualität der vom ifo Institut erhobenen Daten für einzelne Bereiche aufzeigen. Dieser Artikel widmet sich dem Wirtschaftsabschnitt Information und Kommunikation.
L80|Vorratsinvestitionen im Spiegel der Statistik|Vorratsinvestitionen spielen in längerfristiger Betrachtung keine gewichtige Rolle für das Wachstum des Bruttoinlandsprodukts in Deutschland. Gleichwohl sind sie in kurzfristiger, konjunktureller Hinsicht bedeutsam. Sie können prozyklisch wirken und konjunkturelle Ausschläge verstärken, sie können aber auch antizyklisch auftreten und Konjunkturschwankungen dämpfen. Der Beitrag beleuchtet den Aspekt der Lagerhaltung in den ifo Unternehmensbefragungen und zeigt Zusammenhänge zu den volkswirtschaftlichen Gesamtrechnungen auf.
L80|Branchenkonjunktur und Strukturwandel:Zum ifo Branchen-Dialog 2015|Am 28. Oktober 2015 findet der diesjährige Branchen-Dialog statt, wiederum unterstützt vom Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Wirtschaft und Medien, Energie und Technologie sowie der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern. Neben dem Vortrag von Hans-Werner Sinn, Präsident des ifo Instituts, zur wirtschaftlichen Lage in Deutschland und der Welt sowie den Konjunktur- und Branchenprognosen bis Ende 2017 wird Oliver Falck, Leiter des ifo Zentrums für Industrieökonomik und neue Technologien, zu Innovationen im Zeitalter der Digitalisierung vortragen.
L80|Konjunkturtest im Fokus: Rekordwerte in der Konjunkturumfrage im Bereich Dienstleistungen: Was treibt den Geschäftsklimaindikator in die Höhe?|2015 entwickelte sich der Geschäftsklimaindikator im Bereich der Dienstleistungen äußerst positiv. Dieser Trend wird von einem einzelnen großen Bereich innerhalb der Dienstleistungen, den Grundstücks- und Wohnungswesen, verursacht und sollte nicht ohne weiteres auf das gesamte Dienstleistungsgewerbe übertragen werden.
L80|ifo Branchen-Dialog 2015|Am 28. Oktober 2015 fand der diesjährige ifo Branchen-Dialog statt, wiederum unterstützt vom Bayerischen Staatsministerium für Wirtschaft und Medien, Energie und Technologie sowie der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern. Nach der Begrüßung durch den Präsidenten der Industrie- und Handelskammer für München und Oberbayern, Eberhard Sasse, trug Hans-Werner Sinn, Präsident des ifo Instituts, zum Thema »Die wirtschaftliche Lage in Deutschland und der Welt« vor. An den Vortrag schlossen sich die vier Branchenforen an. Zum Abschluss der Veranstaltung diskutierte Oliver Falck, Leiter des ifo Zentrums für Industrieökonomik und neue Technologien, die Frage »Innovation und technologischer Wandel in einer digitalisierten Welt«. Der Beitrag fasst die Tagung zusammen.
L80|Which import restrictions matter for trade in services ?|This study exploits rich databases of services trade and import restrictions to estimate the effects of discrete restrictiveness levels on bilateral services flows using a gravity model, and to derive tariff equivalents in three service sectors (Other Business Services, Banking and Insurance). We preserve the discrete nature of the restrictions to import, which are provided by the World Bank - WB (see Borchert et al., 2014). For each sector-country combination, we evaluate restrictiveness using four discrete levels of restrictiveness, from totally open to closed. This approach allows us track the effect of the specific import restrictions in place. We highlight their non-linear impact on services flows showing threshold effects and the trade stimulating effect of minor import restrictions on a restriction-free environment. Finally we derive tariff equivalents directly from the impact of applied restrictions.
L80|Growth of business services: A supply-side hypothesis|This paper aims to explain why and how the service sector may grow faster than manufacturing. It develops a two-sector, closed-economy model, having a manufacturing sector and a service sector. Accumulation of human capital serves as the basis of growth. The analysis focuses on business services, while household services are also considered. It is argued that differences in returns to scale between the two sectors and employment frictions in manufacturing explain why the growth rate of the service sector may be higher. The model also features that within the service sector the business services sub-sector may grow faster than household services.
L80|Big Data And The Internet Of Things|Nowadays, technology is on an evolution wave both in terms of software (complexes and complete business package software solutions) and hardware (increasing processing power for mobile devices, large consume of Internet world wide). The speed with which humans interact with the Internet, use social media and interconnect their devices with other devices is rapidly growing. This desire to stay connected is translated as an exponential growth of volumes of data. Therefore all data that is generated represents the main engine for innovation both in terms of business and technology. Based on unprecedented connectivity among objects and to collect massive amounts of data, Internet of Things (IoT) is ready to provide significant business benefits. Organizations are interested to adopt IoT as a business strategy and they must be prepared to address a number of technical and administrative challenges. The purpose of this article is to define the IoT , looking at Big Data.
L80|Determinantes de la estructura de capital de las mipymes del sector real participantes del Premio Innova 2007-2011|Este artículo busca identificar los determinantes de la estructura de capital de las mipymes que han competido por el Premio Innova a la innovación durante el periodo 2007-2011. Para ello, se utiliza un análisis de datos de panel con variable dependiente de deuda a largo o a corto plazo, así como seis variables independientes tomadas de estudios antecedentes. Adicionalmente, se realizó una encuesta para contrastar los resultados del modelo econométrico. Los resultados del estudio sugieren tentativamente que la teoría del pecking order, o teoría de la jerarquía, explica la forma en que se financian las mipymes postuladas al Premio Innova.******The purpose of this article is to identify the determining factors of the capital structure of MSMEs that competed for the Colombian Innova Prize for innovation in the 2007-2011 period. To do this, we used panel data analysis with dependent long- or short-term debt variables, and six independent variables taken from previous studies. In addition, we applied a survey to compare the results of the econometric model. The results of the study tentatively suggest that the pecking order theory explains how MSMEs nominated for the Innova Prize for innovation are financed.
L80|Caracterización del Sector de Servicios a las Empresas en Manizales| Este documento se construyó con base en el análisis de la información recolectada durante el proyecto de Censo Sectorial Manizales 2015 realizado desde el Área de Investigaciones Socioeconómicas de la Cámara de Comercio de Manizales por Caldas. En aquel proyecto se realizó la recolección de la información mediante visitas a la sede principal de las empresas pertenecientes al sector según la base de Registro Mercantil1. Para este fin se seleccionaron, previo análisis, el listado de empresas tomando como referencia la Clasificación Internacional Industrial Uniforme - CIIU revisión 4 adaptada para Colombia del DANE (2012). La justificación del presente estudio de Caracterización del sector de servicios a las empresas en Manizales responde a la clara importancia que ha adquirido este sector en los últimos años en las diversas economías a nivel mundial, la expansión que ha tenido dentro de la generación de valor agregado en la economía nacional y local, y la necesidad de información estratégica que sirva como fuente para conocer la estructura de las empresas del sector en la ciudad y sus respectivas debilidades, fortalezas y potencialidades.
L80|Corporate efficiency in Europe|Using a stochastic frontier model and a comprehensive dataset, we study factors that affect corporate efficiency in Europe. We find that (i) larger firms are less efficient than smaller firms, (ii) greater leverage contributes to corporate efficiency, and (iii) high competition is less conductive to efficiency than moderate or low competition. In terms of ownership, we find that (iv) efficiency increases when a majority owner must deal with minority shareholders and that (v) domestic majority owners improve efficiency more than foreign majority owners when no minority shareholders are present, but (vi) the opposite is true when minority shareholders hold a substantial fraction of the firm's equity. In the analysis, we distinguish between a pre-crisis period (2001–2008) and a post-crisis period (2009–2011), and find that our results are sensitive to the period of observation.
L80|Is bread gained by deceit sweet to a man? Corruption and firm efficiency|We study the effects of corruption on firm efficiency using a unique comprehensive dataset of private firms from 14 Central and Eastern European countries for the period from 2000 to 2013. We find that an environment characterized by a high level of corruption has an adverse effect on firm efficiency. This effect is amplified for firms with a lower propensity to behave corruptly, i.e. foreign-controlled firms and firms managed by female CEOs, while domestically-owned firms and firms with male CEOs are not penalized. At the same time, an environment characterized by considerable heterogeneity in perception of corruption is associated with an increase in firm efficiency. This effect is particularly strong for foreign firms from low-corruption countries, while no effect is observed for firms managed by female CEO.
L80|Assessing bank competition for consumer loans|Based on frontier analysis, we derive inferences of bank consumer loan competition from estimating a revenue-cost ‘competition efficiency’ (CE) frontier. The competitiveness of the $400 billion U.S. bank consumer loan market is then assessed by comparing results from our frontier CE measure with other competition measures, such as HHI, Lerner Index, and H-Statistic. These measures are weakly related to one another and only half of them identify banks with the highest loan price as also being the least competitive. This is the opposite of what is expected. Using the frontier CE measure, the most and least competitive banks are not located in the most populous states and the largest banks are underrepresented. Overall, the HHI should not be used to indicate competition.
L80|The Impact of Developments in the Logistics Sector on Economic Growth: The Case of OECD Countries|Logistic sector, which is considered as an important interface of increased international trade in consequence of globalization, plays an important role on countries’ economic growth and development. A development in logistic sector facilitates the international trade, increases the competitiveness in countries and thus appears to be an important determinant of growth and development. In this study, the impact of developments in the logistic sector on economic growth has been investigated for 32 OECD countries covering the period 1994-2011. In this context, static panel data analysis was used. The findings obtained in the study, which used different variables as indicators of developments in the logistic sector, reveals that the relationship between developments in the logistic sector and economic growth differs depending on the indicator used.
L80|The Role of Brand Loyalty: The Case Study of Telekom Malaysia|Brand devotion is the principal thing in an association that leads from consumer loyalty toward items and administrations offer. This study is led to investigate the principle calculates that add to brand dedication in the telecom organization, Telekom Malaysia (TM). There are fi ve primary variables utilized as a part of the contextual investigation that is duty, consumer loyalty, corporate picture, trust and advancement on brand devotion in the telecom organization. This study utilized overview systems, where a sum of 290 review structures was circulated to TM clients through comfort examining yet just 165 were gotten and usable. The outcome demonstrates a critical positive relationship between the variables (duty, consumer loyalty, corporate picture, trust and advancement) toward brand dedication.
L80|Revisiting profit persistence and the stock market in Japan|This paper tests the classical hypothesis of inter-industry profit rate's proclivity to gravitate towards the economy's average profit rate. In so doing, individual as well as panel unit root tests have been applied on a dataset consisting of 52 Japanese manufacturing industries spanning the period 1974–2008. The evidence generated is rather mixed in a sense that the inter-industry profit rates tendency to gravitate towards the economy's average rate of profit depends on the idiosyncratic characteristics of each industry. However, the rate of profit of regulating capitals, as this is reflected in the incremental rate of profit, displays gravitational behaviour around the economy-wide incremental rate of profit, the movement of which is found to be linked to the rate of return in the stock market. These results lend support to those who contend that the classical theory of competition is an area where further research is warranted.
L80|Managerial interpretation and innovation in response to climate change|No abstract is available for this item.
L80|Development Of The Concept Of Corporate Social Responsibility In Trade Under Conditions Of Market Globalisation|Under contemporary business conditions, market globalisation has become inevitable. Such relationships on the market make trade companies use different means to acquire and maintain long-term competitive advantage. One of them is the concept of corporate social responsibility, which is, under conditions of globalisation, seen as a redesign of the classic marketing concept. The aim of this paper is to highlight the development of corporate social responsibility in trade, in the context of market globalisation. In doing so, the concept of corporate social responsibility is seen from two angles. First, it is viewed as a moral obligation of companies and the element of marketing strategy in contemporary business conditions. Second, corporate social responsibility is regarded as one of the integral elements of harmonisation of our trade and corporate policies with the EU.
L80|Il ruolo delle reti pubblico-private per l’innovazione dei servizi nelle smart cities|"Il dibattito scientifico e le politiche europee in materia di innovazione per lo sviluppo intelligente delle città evidenziano il ruolo delle relazioni collaborative tra attori pubblici e privati (inclusi gli utilizzatori finali dei servizi urbani) per l’efficace implementazione di percorsi di sviluppo ""smart"". Tuttavia, ancora limitati sono gli approfondimenti, soprattutto di tipo empirico, tesi a comprendere le caratteristiche delle relazioni collaborative orientate allo sviluppo di nuovi servizi nell’ambito delle smart cities e i fattori che influenzano la loro efficacia. Integrando filoni teorici complementari - l’innovazione nel contesto delle smart cities, l’innovazione aperta e l’innovazione dei servizi - il lavoro mira a colmare tale gap conoscitivo attraverso l’elaborazione di un framework multidimensionale che identifica le dimensioni chiave per analizzare i driver, la struttura, le innovazioni realizzate dalle reti di innovazione smart-oriented e i fattori critici ai fini del successo dell’innovazione collaborativa nel contesto nelle smart cities. Sulla base del framework viene poi condotta un’analisi esplorativa basata su due casi studio di successo relativi a reti di collaborazione pubblico-private che hanno portato all’efficace sviluppo di nuovi servizi in due città europee (Amsterdam e Siracusa). I risultati dell’analisi permettono di comprendere più in profondità la natura delle reti pubblico-private per l’innovazione smart-oriented e di identificare i fattori critici rispetto ai quali orientare le azioni concrete di policy makers e manager per influenzarne positivamente l’efficacia."
L80|Section 4. Real sector of the economy|Analysis of the dynamics of the Russian economy macroeconomic indices for the period 2009–2014 showed that the gradual decline of economic growth was accompanied by increasing disparity in production, a decrease in innovation by manufacturers and increased problems related to the imbalance of the technical and technological characteristics of the basic funds and investments in fixed assets in basic economic activities. Development, based on the extensive use of the main factors, increase in production costs reduced the competitive ability of the Russian economy. Expanding domestic consumer demand was supported by the growth of salaries outstripping labour productivity. The growth of investments in fixed assets did not result in a corresponding increase in return per unit of the resources used.
L80|Раздел 4. Реальный Сектор Экономики|Анализ динамики макроэкономических показателей российской экономики за период 2009–2014 гг. показал, что постепенное снижение темпов экономического роста сопровождалось усилением диспропорций в сфере производства, снижением инновационной активности производителей, усилением проблем разбалансированности технико-технологических характеристик основных фондов и инве- стиций в основной капитал по базовым видам экономической деятельности. Развитие, основанное на экстенсивном использовании основных факторов, увеличение издержек производства снижали конкурентоспособность российской экономики. Расширение внутреннего потребительского спроса поддерживалось опережающим ростом заработной платы относительно производительности труда. Рост инвестиций в основной капитал не приводил к соответствующему повышению отдачи на единицу используемых ресурсов.
L80|Agglomeration externalities and urbanization in Ecuador|The spatial agglomeration of economic activities play a crucial role on productivity but the composition of such an agglomeration is what really matters. There exists an ongoing debate between the predominance of the effects of agglomeration from specialization and diversity. This paper aims to estimate the impact of the type of externalities on the local sectoral productivity in Ecuador, a country of Latin American region for which literature gives little attention. When measuring agglomeration economies, one concern is the endogeneity issue. In this purpose, the instrumental variables method is implemented. We provide estimations using GMM model and we instrument the endogenous variable with a menace index, long lagged population density and spatial lags. Last, we investigate the specific role of urbanization. The intuition is that a critical level of urbanization is required to produce positive externalities as it guarantees the existence of a minimum level of transport and telecommunication infrastructures, of banking and financial services or other specific services. It is also a manner to capture the great heterogeneity of Ecuadorian cantons in terms of urbanization. Our empirical work is mainly based on the Economic Census of Ecuador 2010 which accounts for information declared in 2009. By aggregating the firm data, we build a two-digits industry database at the cantonal level. Precisely, our estimations are based on 86 industries and 221 cantons. From a first polled estimation on 7988 canton and industry pairs, our results suggest the existence of strong positive externalities from diversity impacting on the local productivity of industries and a lower impact of specialization. We also find economies of density, measured by the density of firms at the canton and industry levels that positively influence the local productivity of industries. Competition of firms has a significant negative effect. Moreover, we conduct regressions by distinguishing the manufacturing from the service industry. The magnitude of the externalities from diversity is positive and significant in manufacturing but much higher in the service industry. Interestingly, our regressions exhibit the non-monotonous effect of urbanization on the various externalities that impact on the local productivity. Precisely, the positive externalities arising from diversity are growing with the level of urbanization of cantons. Last, economies of density occur until a urbanization rate of 61%. Above this threshold, the economies of density cease to be positive suggesting that they are overcompensated by congestion effects. However, the effects of diversity and competition does remain highly positive, we therefore do not consider that the threshold of 68% represents excessive agglomeration.
L80|Norwegian GDP by industry 18301930|The present paper offers new knowledge of historical national accounting in Norway in several ways. Firstly, a new and novel set of annual gross domestic product series by industry are presented for the period 18301930. Secondly, the new estimates suggest revision of the historical national accounts published by Statistics Norway. Thirdly, this may lead to necessary revisions of both Norwegian industrial history and business cycle history.
L80|How Do Austrian Small and Medium-Sized Service Enterprises Internationalize? Entry Strategies into the Emerging Markets of Central and Eastern Europe and the Role of Relationships|In the internationalization process of a firm, the choice of a suitable entry strategy for the foreign target market plays a vital role. For small and medium-sized companies in the service industry, even more challenges emerge in this process. This study examines the market entry strategies employed by Austrian small and medium-sized service enterprises operating in the emerging markets of Central and Eastern Europe. Fifteen case studies of Austrian service companies are analysed. The results show differing strategies and the importance of establishing and cultivating relationships for a successful market entry.
L80|Recent developments for quarterly service turnover indices|The European Statistical System has put more attention on activities to improve quality, fre- quency and coverage of short term indicators for the service sector The aim is to implement a set of indicators similar to those already available for the manufacturing sector. Within this framework, Istat has put forth an intensive effort to complete the set of indices required by European regulations, both for Service Production Prices and for quarterly Turnover Indices. Concerning Turnover, in 2011 a new survey was launched to obtain indices for Wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycle (NACE G45), Land transport and transport via pipelines (NACE H49), Warehousing and support activities for transportation (NACE H52), Accommodation (NACE I55) and Food and beverage service activities (NACE I56). The aim of this paper is to describe the operational and methodological choices carried out for the release of the indices according to the Generic Statistical Business Process Model (GSBPM), together with the economic findings associated with the new indicators.
L80|The seasonal adjustment of quarterly service turnover indices|In the last years Istat has increased information in the short-term statistics domain for the ser- vice sector. Until 2010 quarterly service turnover indices were published only in unadjusted form. The time span available made the estimation of seasonally adjusted indicators feasible. However the change in the economic classification, that was relevant especially in the ser- vice sector, has raised significant methodological issues in the determination of the seasonal component, as for example the presence of seasonal level shift. Although Istat’ strategy for seasonal adjustment is based on TRAMO-SEATS procedure, in this work different diagnos- tics useful to provide empirical evidences on seasonal outliers detection are exploited. In more detail, the TRAMO-SEATS framework was integrated with X12-ARIMA diagnostic on seasonal outliers by applying the Demetra + procedure that combines TRAMO-SEATS and X12-ARIMA procedures in a unique framework.
L80|Experts’ awards and economic success: evidence from an Italian literary prize|Product quality is often unobservable ex-ante and consumers rely on experts’ judgments, sometimes in the form of ratings or awards. Do awards affect consumers’ choices or, conversely, are they conferred on the most popular products? To disentangle this issue, we use data about the most important Italian literary prize, the “Strega Prize,” undertaking two different estimation strategies to evaluate the impact that winning the Prize has on book sales. First, we adopt a regression discontinuity design using a measure of book sales as a dependent variable and as a forcing variable (proxying for intrinsic book quality) the jury votes received by each nominated book in the competition. We find that the Strega Prize has a very strong impact on sales. Second, by using weekly data on appearances on bestseller lists, we estimate a difference-in-differences model in which we compare sales performance of treated and control books before the award is conferred with their respective performances afterward. The results confirm a huge influence of the Prize on book sales and show that most of the impact occurs in the weeks following the announcement of the Prize. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L80|Incumbent positioning as a determinant of strategic response to entry|Existing research has identified different firm characteristics that determine an incumbent’s reaction toward market entrants. This study widens the perspective from a firm’s absolute attributes to its relative positioning within its competitive environment. The hypotheses for the empirical analysis are derived from game theoretic models with either vertical or horizontal product differentiation. In each of the two theoretical models two incumbents initially choose very different quality and variety levels, respectively, and move closer to the center when faced by entry of a competitor. From the vertical differentiation model we predict a stronger price reduction by high-quality firms. In our empirical analysis we are using a novel dataset of the high-quality restaurant market in Germany to test the theoretical findings. While the hypotheses with respect to adjustments of prices and varieties are supported, we do not find empirical evidence for the predicted quality adjustment. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L80|Performance of small- and medium-sized enterprises in services trade: evidence from French firms|This paper empirically investigates the key firm- and industry-specific restrictions to the performance of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in services trade. For this purpose, we use firm-level data from firms in France operating in different services sectors over the time period 1998–2007 and formulate two-part models consisting of (1) (dynamic) export equations and (2) (dynamic) export share equations. Our results confirm the view that a relatively low share of SMEs engages in services trade. In line with the new-new trade theory, our results also corroborate that more productive SMEs have a higher export probability. The key finding of this paper is that the export decisions of SMEs in services sectors are estimated to be extremely persistent, implying that trade policy efforts, including the allocation of scarce trade promotion budgets, should be directed at addressing the barriers faced in establishing the first export operation. Finally, our sub-sectoral estimates reveal considerable heterogeneity across different types of services. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L80|Hidden climate change related risks for the private sector|Climate change related risks impact and challenge the private sector in many different ways. This also applies to risk drivers like a companies’ reputation and a changing consumer behavior. Since significant risk drivers for companies differ just as much as companies themselves, a sector specific guideline to evaluate possible climate change related risk drivers is indispensable. Further, a sector specific analysis on these risk drivers can foster cross sectoral cooperation, innovation and learning processes with regard to climate change related risks.
L80|Results of the third wave of the survey on wage-setting in Belgium|The article looks at the financial situation of non-financial corporations in Belgium over the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014. After briefly describing the methodology and the population studied, it presents an extrapolation of the main operating result items for 2014, with a sectoral and size breakdown. The article assesses then the financial situation of companies as regards profitability, solvency and investment. This year, a separate section presents an analysis of days sales outstanding and days payable outstanding.
L80|Raising the Potential of the Domestically Oriented Sector in Germany|Germany’s manufacturing sector, which plays an important role for exports, has been performing well over the past decade in terms of labour productivity growth and international competitiveness. However, the services sector has had much slower growth rates. Competition often appears to be hindered by protection of incumbents. Reforming and deregulating the domestically oriented sectors, including network industries, crafts and professional services would release hidden growth potential and prove beneficial to the economy as a whole. It could also help strengthen domestic demand and reduce dependence on exports. This Working Paper relates to the 2014 Economic Survey of Germany (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-germany.htm). Relever le potentiel des secteurs orientés sur le marché intérieur en Allemagne Au cours de la dernière décennie, le secteur manufacturier allemand, qui joue un rôle important dans les exportations, a enregistré de bons résultats, en termes de hausse de la productivité de la main-d’oeuvre comme de compétitivité internationale. Le secteur des services en revanche affiche des taux de croissance bien plus modestes. Il semble que la concurrence y ait souvent été entravée du fait de la protection des entreprises en place. Réformer et déréglementer les secteurs orientés sur le marché intérieur, notamment les industries de réseau, l’artisanat et les services professionnels, permettrait de libérer le potentiel de croissance caché et serait bénéfique pour l’économie dans son ensemble, et contribuerait en outre à renforcer la demande intérieure et à réduire la dépendance par rapport aux exportations. Ce document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de l’Allemagne, 2014 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-allemagne.htm).
L80|A Snapshot of China's Service Sector|The share of the tertiary sector in China’s value added has increased steadily, overtaking the share of the secondary sector in 2013. With increasing incomes, the share of services is expected to grow further as at higher incomes a larger share of income is spent on services. In addition to final demand, intermediate demand can be another driving force for service industries. As liberalisation leads to a greater role for the market in allocating resources, service industries are expected to become more competitive and therefore it may become cheaper to outsource services than to produce them in-house. Liberalisation will likely also lead to greater specialisation to remain competitive, thereby making specialised services available for outsourcing. This will likely spur the development of some high value-added logistics services such as warehousing or order handling. By the same token, professional services such as accounting or engineering are also likely to benefit from a greater reliance on the market and greater competition. In the envisaged transition from “made in China” to “created in China”, the service sector is expected to play a prominent role. To that end, the service sector is gradually being provided a more even playing field as privileges for manufacturing industries are being withdrawn and a more equal treatment of producers across sectors is being adopted. This paper provides a snapshot of the service sector, its size, the ownership of its firms, and productivity across types of firms depending on ownership, sector, age, size and geographical region. This Working Paper relates to the 2015 OECD Economic Survey of China www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-china.htm. Un état des lieux du secteur des services en Chine La part du secteur tertiaire dans la valeur ajoutée de la Chine n’a cessé de croître pour dépasser celle du secteur secondaire, en 2013. Compte tenu de l’augmentation des revenus, la part des services devrait continuer de progresser car plus le revenu est élevé, plus les dépenses consacrées aux services augmentent. Outre la demande finale, la consommation intermédiaire devrait constituer un autre facteur de consommation à la hausse de services. Les mesures de libéralisation laissant un plus grand rôle au marché dans l’allocation des ressources, le secteur des services devrait gagner en compétitivité et c’est pourquoi leur externalisation pourrait désormais coûter moins cher que leur production en interne. Pour préserver la compétitivité, la libéralisation entraînera également une plus grande spécialisation et des services spécialisés s’offriront ainsi à l’externalisation. Le développement de certains services logistiques à forte valeur ajoutée, comme la gestion d’entrepôts ou de commandes, devrait s’en trouver très certainement stimulé. De même, il est probable que les services de professions spécialisées comme la comptabilité et l’ingénierie bénéficieront eux aussi d’un plus large recours aux mécanismes du marché et d’une concurrence renforcée. Le secteur des services entend jouer un rôle de premier plan dans la future transition du « fabriqué en Chine » au « créé en Chine ». Dans cette optique, ce secteur voit s’instaurer peu à peu des règles de jeu plus égales, les industries manufacturières se voyant retirer certains de leurs privilèges et le principe d’égalité de traitement des producteurs entre les secteurs étant adopté. Ce document dresse un état de lieux du secteur des services et analyse sa taille, les structures de propriété de ses entreprises et la productivité de différents types d’entreprises en fonction de leur propriété, leur activité, leur ancienneté, leur taille et leur région. Ce document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de la Chine, OCDE, 2015 www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-chine.htm.
L80|Qualitätssicherung In Der Wirtschaftsprüfung - Ein System Mit Ständigem Reformbedarf?|Quality control and quality assurance gets more and more important against the background for regeneration of the financial market crisis. According to International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1) audit firms “should establish a system of quality control designed to provide it with reasonable assurance that the firm and its personnel comply with professional standards and applicable regulatory and legal requirements, and that reports issued by the firm or engagement partners are appropriate in the circumstances.”
L80|The Effects Of Service Quality And Customer Satisfaction On Customer Loyalty: A Case Of Thai Mobile Network Industry|This research proposes a conceptual framework to examine the effects of service quality and customer satisfaction on customer loyalty. In order to test and prove the conceptual framework, fi eld research was conducted. Th e questionnaire was designed based on existing constructs in relevant literature. The research target sample consisted of 401 Bangkok-based customers of Th ai major mobile service providers, AIS, DTAC, and Truemove. Reliability tests and statistical analyses were performed to confirm the validity and reliability of the data. Besides, these tests and analyses answered the questions concerning this research. The results of the research indicate that of all factors regarding service quality dimension, only customer service factor is significant to customer satisfaction. The other factors are insignificant to the satisfaction of the customers. Meanwhile, customer satisfaction is positively significant to customer loyalty. It is considered very important for mobile service providers operating in a very competitive market such as in Thailand to learn and realize what the exact drivers of customer loyalty are. The research produces useful and beneficial findings which can be adapted by mobile service providers in an attempt to build up and develop successful and sustainable customer loyalty strategies and competitive advantages.
L80|Socially Optimal Service hours with Special Offers|It is very important for service industries to decentralize consumers at peak time, and thereby to increase sales not at peak time. This study discusses an optimal number of business hours for a service industry when the service provider offers a price discount immediately after the opening time and just before the closing time. For a specific ideal service time distri- bution of consumers, the optimal opening and closing time are explored. Clarified are the conditions under which an optimal number of business hours exists to maximize the social welfare. Numerical examples are also presented to illustrate the theoretical underpinnings of the proposed model.
L80|The determinants of regional specialisation in business services: agglomeration economies, vertical linkages and innovation|The article accounts for the determinants of sectoral specialisation in business services (BS) across the EU-27 regions as determined by: (i) agglomeration economies (ii) the region-specific structure of intermediate linkages (iii) technological innovation and knowledge intensity and (iv) the presence of these factors in neighbouring regions. The empirical analysis draws upon the REGIO panel database over the period 1999–2003. By estimating a Spatial Durbin Model, we find significant spatial effects in explaining regional specialisation in BS. Our findings show that, besides urbanisation economies, the spatial structure of intermediate sectoral linkages and innovation, in particular Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), are important determinants of specialisation in BS. The article contributes to the debate on the global versus local determinants of regional specialisation in BS by restating the importance of the regional sectoral structure besides that of urbanisation. We draw policy implications by rejecting the ‘footloose hypothesis’ for BS.
L80|Offshoring sector in Poland|Companies across industries gain the competitive advantage by outsourcing and offshoring. Developing countries are becoming the attractive locations for the BPO/SSC enterprises. The article reviews the definition of outsourcing and offshoring and presents the findings for the fast-growing BPO/SSC area in Poland. The study is based on detailed analysis of the literature on outsourcing and offshoring. The article presents a preliminary analysis of offshoring sector in Poland. The following considerations are taken into account: the number of companies and employees in this sector, foreign direct investment. The growing number of companies and employments in this sector. Subsequent growth of the offshoring business service sector in Poland is visible.
L80|Does the Outsourcing Affect Labour Costs in Enterprises? Evidence from Firm-level Data|This empirical paper examines an impact of materials and services outsourcing on labour costs in two groups: industrial and construction enterprises, and services enterprises in Poland in the period 2005-2013. The analysis of this dependence was based on data of Central Statistical Office included in financial statement F-01/I-01. The preliminary analysis and econometric model showed that Polish industrial and construction, and service enterprises applied both types of outsourcing, but services outsourcing had more important effect on labour costs than materials outsourcing. However, the depreciation cost understood as technological progress had the biggest impact on labour costs, especially in industrial and construction firms.
L80|A comparative study of the role of imports and exports on service sector productivity in Ghana|In this paper the author examine the effect of imports, and exports on service sector productivity of Ghana for the period 1970-2013, using annual time series data. The Augmented Dickey-Fuller test (ADF), and the KwiatKowski (KPSS) test were used for the assessment of the effect of external shock on imports, exports, and service sector productivity whereas the ordinary least square method (OLS) was used to examine the role of import, and export on service sector productivity. The results indicate that the effect of external shock to imports, exports, and service sector productivity are permanent and not temporary. There is negative significant effect of export and positive effect of import on service sector productivity in Ghana during the period of discussion. The results suggest that policy makers can rely on import to influence service sector productivity and not export. Future studies should examine the effect of import of goods and services on the service sector productivity to determine whether the current findings will be replicated since the current study used export and import volumes.
L80|Erneuerung durch Umstrukturierung? Zu den Auswirkungen von Gewerkschaftsfusionen (Revitalisation through restructuring? The effects of union mergers)|Gewerkschaftsfusionen gelten als eine Erneuerungsstrategie und sind oft mit dem Ziel der Staerkung von Organisationsmacht verbunden. Dennoch ist wenig erforscht, wie sich Fusionen tatsaechlich auf beteiligte Gewerkschaften auswirken und wie sie zu deren Erneuerung beitragen koennen. Dieser Aufsatz erlaeutert, dass die Auswirkungen einer Fusion anhand der Entwicklung der Mitgliederzahlen und der Organisierung neuer Bereiche, der tarifpolitischen Durchsetzungsfaehigkeit, des politischen Einflusses, der zwischengewerkschaftlichen Konkurrenz und organisationsinterner Synergien in der fusionierten Gewerkschaft eingeschaetzt werden koennen. Auswirkungen in diesen Bereichen werden in einer Fallstudie der Fusion zur Bildung der Vereinten Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft ver.di untersucht. Es zeigt sich, dass in den meisten Bereichen keine Verbesserungen nach der Fusion eingetreten sind. Dieses Ergebnis laesst erkennen, dass Fusionen an und fuer sich nicht zu Erneuerung fuehren, sondern dass die konkrete Umsetzung einer Fusion auf dieses Ziel ausgerichtet sein muss. (Trade union mergers are regarded as a revitalisation strategy and are often associated with the goal of increasing organisational power. But little is known about how mergers really affect the unions involved. This paper argues that the effects of a merger can be assessed on the basis of developments in the merged union regarding membership numbers and organising activities in new coverage areas, collective bargaining power, political influence, inter-union competition and synergies within the new organisation. These effects are examined through the case study of the merger to form the union ver.di. The paper shows that in most of these areas, improvements did not occur after the merger. This result implies that a union merger does not lead to revitalisation in and of itself, but rather that the concrete implementation of a merger needs to be oriented towards the goal of revitalisation.)
L80|Zum Zusammenhang von prekaeren Beschaeftigungsbedingungen und Interessenvertretung im Dienstleistungssektor (The interrelation of precarious employment conditions and institutions of collective interest representation in the service sector)|Eine Ausweitung der Dienstleistungsbeschaeftigung in Kombination mit zunehmender Frauenerwerbstaetigkeit gehen in der Bundesrepublik seit den 1990er Jahren mit einer Erosion der Institutionen kollektiver Interessenvertretung, der Zunahme atypischer Beschaeftigung und einer Expansion des Niedriglohnsektors einher. Der vorliegende Artikel analysiert daher den Strukturzusammenhang zwischen Interessenvertretung und entsprechend prekaeren Beschaeftigungsbedingungen sowie die korrespondierenden Akteurstrategien in frauendominierten, beschaeftigungsexpansiven Berufsfeldern des Dienstleistungsbereichs. Fuer alle drei hier untersuchten Berufsfelder (Gebaeudereinigung, Medizinische Fachangestellten und Sozialarbeit/Erzieher) ist als Ergebnis festzuhalten, dass das Vorhandensein von Interessenvertretung mit geringeren Anteilen von Niedriglohnbeschaeftigung einhergeht. Im Falle atypischer Beschaeftigung hingegen zeigen sich aufgrund differenzierter Schliessungs- und oeffnungsstrategien in den einzelnen Berufsfeldern jeweils unterschiedliche Zusammenhaenge. (Since the 1990s the growing service sector and increasing female labor market integration in Germany are linked to the expansion of atypical and the low-wage employment as well as the erosion of institutions of collective interest representation. This article analyses the structural interrelations of these forms of precarious employment and the institutions of interest representation as well as actors’ strategies in female-dominated professional fields in the German service sector. A general result of the in-depth studies of three professional fields (cleaners, doctors’ assistants and social workers/child minders) indicates that the existence of institutions of interest representation minimises the extent of low-wage employment. Due to different actors’ strategies concerning ‘opening’ and ‘closing’ in the professional fields, the interrelation with respect to the extent of atypical employment varies.)
L80|Der Einfluss industrieller Beziehungen auf die Arbeitsmarktstruktur – Ein Essay (The influence of industrial relations on labour market structure – An essa|In Deutschland hat sich in den vergangenen 20 Jahren ein hohes Mass an Arbeitsmarktdifferenzierung nach Loehnen und Arbeitsvertraegen durchgesetzt. Die Beitraege dieses Sonderbands befassen sich mit betrieblichen, tarifpolitischen und staatlichen Ansaetzen der Gegensteuerung. Unser Essay stellt erstens die veraenderten Rahmenbedingungen der industriellen Beziehungen in Deutschland vor und erarbeitet zweitens einen ueberblick ueber die theoretischen Ansaetze und empirischen Ergebnisse der Aufsaetze. Sie unterscheiden sich in ihren sozialtheoretischen Grundannahmen ebenso wie in den Diagnosen und Prognosen: So konstatieren einige Beitraege eher stabilisierende Effekte der Regulierung auf die Ungleichheitsstruktur waehrend andere Nivellierungstendenzen und Gestaltungsoptionen fuer die Zukunft betonen. Unser Essay plaediert abschliessend fuer die Relevanz oekonomischer Kategorien in der Analyse industrieller Beziehungen. (In the last 20 years, the German labour market has developed a high degree of stratification with respect to income and wage contracts. The contributions to this special issue discuss approaches to counteract these tendencies at the micro-, meso- and macro-levels. Our essay firstly summarises the changing context for industrial relations and secondly develops an overview of the theoretical approaches and empirical findings presented in the articles in this volume. The articles differ with respect to their social-theoretical frameworks as well as their diagnoses and prognoses: some contributions claim stabilising effects on stratification while others emphasise levelling tendencies and options for change in the future. In our concluding remarks we argue in favour of strengthening economic categories in the analysis of industrial relations.)
L80|The Role of Imagery and Experiences in the Construction of a Tourism Destination Image|This paper addresses the role of imagery and tourism experiences (TEs) in the construction of tourism destination image (TDI). It highlights the importance of the construct imagery at all stages of consumption, because of the intangibility that characterizes tourism and services in general. This aspect gains importance since it is impossible for tourists to experience the desired holidays prior to visitation, leading the way for imagery to become an essential element to inspire and to influence them during the decision-making process, and consumption before, during and after the experience. A conceptual model resulting from the literature review and the potential theoretical contribution of the model are discussed.
L80|Services Productivity, Trade Policy and Manufacturing Exports|This paper analyzes the linkage between services and manufacturing productivity performance, using firm-level data for over 100 developing countries. We find strong evidence for such a linkage, although the effect is small: at the average rate of services input intensity, a 10% improvement in services productivity is associated with an increase in manufacturing productivity 0.3%, and a resulting increase in exports of 0.2%. Services trade restrictiveness indices (STRI) are found to be a statistically significant determinant of manufactured exports performance, a finding that is robust to the inclusion of the overall level of trade restrictiveness that is applied against manufactured exports directly. The main channel through which services trade restrictions negatively affect manufactured exports is through FDI, a finding that is consistent with the stylized fact in the literature that FDI is a key channel for trade in services and an important vehicle through which services technology and know-how is transferred across countries. At the sectoral level, restrictions on transport and retail distribution services have the largest negative impact on exports of manufactures.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L80|The Effects Of Terror Activities And Political Instabilities On Tourism Sector|All the world countries generate an important income from tourism. The competents of state and private sector carry out a lot of information and publicity activities to attract tourists for their countries. Turkey has an important geography both for being a mediterranean country and having historical substructure for tourism. The tourism sector has first affected fragile structure from wars, terror and political crises when compared with the other sectors.The decisions of domestic and foreign tourists change for this reason.The concepts of terror and terrorism and the relations between tourism and social and political instabilities living in Turkey are gone around in this study. Because the study has a qualitative scope the datum which are had from secondary sources are tried to be compiled with the perspective of Turkey. The terror activities and political problems in tourism sector are gone around with these datum and it is tried to bring forward a proposal to make these negations positive with the least damage.
L80|Rola usług rynkowych w procesach rozwojowych gospodarki Polski|Celem artykułu jest weryfikacja hipotezy, że usługi rynkowe odgrywały, obok przemysłu, kluczową rolę w procesach rozwojowych gospodarki Polski w latach 1995-2012. Cel ten zrealizowano poprzez uszczegółowioną, wielowątkową analizę empiryczną, pozwalającą odpowiedzieć na pytania badawcze związane z rolą obserwowanej w Polsce zmiany strukturalnej oraz zmian cen względnych w objaśnianiu dynamiki wzrostu gospodarczego, a także zachowaniem przemysłu i usług w cyklu koniunkturalnym oraz zróżnicowaniem wewnętrznym usług rynkowych. Wyniki analiz makroekonomicznych oparto na danych z rachunków narodowych z lat 1995–2012. Ponadto opierając się na danych jednostkowych na poziomie firm z lat 2005–2012, przeanalizowano różnice pomiędzy poszczególnymi branżami usługowymi pod względem poziomu oraz dynamiki produktywności pracy i zatrudnienia. Uzyskane wyniki są następujące. W latach 1995–2012 obserwowano w Polsce systematyczny wzrost udziału usług rynkowych w zatrudnieniu. Równocześnie jednak produktywność pracy oraz całkowita produktywność czynników (TFP) rosły wolniej w tym sektorze w porównaniu z sektorem przemysłowym, w związku z relatywnie szybszym postępem technologicznym w przemyśle. Systematycznie spadała też cena względna dóbr przemysłowych w porównaniu z usługami. Zmienność zatrudnienia i wartości dodanej w cyklu koniunkturalnym była natomiast wyraźnie mniejsza w usługach rynkowych. Na tle wysokiej heterogeniczności firm w ramach poszczególnych branż, nie stwierdzono istotnie różnej dynamiki rozwojowej usług eksportointensywnych, relatywnie kapitałochłonnych, skierowanych do biznesu (B2B), ani usług opartych na wiedzy. Z uzyskanych wyników wyprowadzono prognozę, że gospodarka polska będzie w przyszłości wskutek zwiększającej się roli usług rynkowych rosnąć nieco wolniej, ale stabilniej niż dotychczas.
L80|Editor’s Overview|The 28th issue of the International Productivity Monitor features articles on the following topis: the measurement of industry contributions to labour productivity growth; the benefits of closing the Aboriginal education gap; the impact of public policies on bargaining power and the pay/productivity linkage; the relationship between employment and productivity growth; and the contribution of ICT diffusion and investment to labour productivity growth.
L80|Measuring Industry Contributions to Labour Productivity Change: A New Formula in a Chained Fisher Index Framework|Canada and the United States use Fisher indexes in their input-output accounts. Existing methods for decomposing aggregate labour productivity growth into industry contributions in a Fisher index framework either leave some productivity growth unaccounted for or are poorly suited for answering relevant questions about the industry sources of productivity growth. This article derives formulas for analyzing industry contributions to productivity change that add up exactly to the aggregate change in productivity and that have useful economic interpretations. These formulas show that the manufacturing sector made a positive contribution to productivity growth in the Canada in 2000-2010 and in the United States in 1998-2012, whereas the widely used GEAD formula implies that manufacturing made a negative contribution. Methods that can be used to decompose chained Laspeyres measures of productivity growth are also developed. These methods would be applicable in countries other than Canada and the United States.
L80|Measuring the economic landscape of Italy: target efficiency and control effectiveness|Key industry analysis is traditionally used to evaluate the role, or the impact of a given industry in the economy, through the determination of convenient indices. In assessing the economic impact of a specific industry or a set of industries on an economy, input–output analysis has become a popular method. However there are problems in determining and analyzing all the information that can be obtained from this analytical approach. In this paper, we attempt rely on different contributions within the approach to provide a picture for identifying those industries that give a relevant contribution, either direct and indirect, to the output generation. We also propose two new indices extracted from the reduced form of the Leontief model, Leontief inverse, that show the relevance of each industry in determining the target-response of the highest policy control. The industry weights within these structures and their changes can give a picture on how the reaction of the structure changes through time. A comparison with existing methods is performed in an exercise on actual data on the Italian economy over the period of 1995–2011 focusing on the inter industry interactions. Copyright Associazione Amici di Economia e Politica Industriale 2015
L80|Business services and the export performances of manufacturing industries|This paper investigates the contribution provided by the Business service sector (BS) to the international competitiveness of manufacturing industries that acquire and use intangible intermediate inputs (in particular, those provided by two main BS sub-sectors: “Communication and computer related services” and “Other business activities”). The main empirical focus of this paper is on the “dynamic efficiency gains” brought about by the interaction of manufacturing and BS industries and, in particular, on assessing the role of BS in supporting (in a Schumpeterian fashion) various types of non-price competitive factors, the most important being the capacity of developing and introducing new products, more effective organizational innovations and new business models. The empirical analysis is based on an original data set obtained by integrating – for a selected number of EU countries - different industry level data sources, namely the OECD Input-output Tables, the OECD Structural Analysis Database and data provided by the Community Innovation Survey. The results of the empirical analysis show that BS do exert a positive impact on the international competitiveness of manufacturing industries, even though these effects vary according to the type of intermediate intangible input acquired and type of user sector. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
L80|Global structural change and value chains in services: a reappraisal|The scholarship on Global Value Chains is very recently recognising the increasing importance of fragmentation of production that involves services – and in particular business services – offshoring. A predominant stand by scholars emerges in this embryonic domain (Blinder, 2006; Gereffi and Fernandez-Stark, 2010; Ventura, 2014). Participation in GVC in business services might be considered a sort of ‘third unbundling’ of internationalisation of production, which opens up new opportunities for catching up in transition and developing countries. What are the theoretical and empirical bases for such a claim? Do these apply to both developed and developing contexts? Is the occurrence of “a flat world” (Friedman, 2005) ultimately responsible for a global sectoral structural change involving services? Is this process leading to smart and equitable catching up processes? This chapter selectively systematises the traditional and emerging literature on GVCs and claims the importance of domestic and local Hirschman-linked specialisation before joining GVCs as a catching-up strategy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L80|When Linder Meets Hirschman: Inter-Industry Linkages and Global Value Chains in Business Services|The scholarship on Global Value Chains (GVCs) is recently focusing on the international fragmentation of production that involves services and in particular business services. It has been argued that participation in business services GVCs might open up new opportunities for structural change and catching up in developing countries. What are the theoretical and empirical bases for such a claim? This paper puts forward the conjecture that factor endowments and costs are not the only driver for the emergence of service GVCs and that the specific domestic structure of backward linkages à la Hirschman is of great importance. We empirically test this conjecture on the basis of the World Input Output Data in a GMM framework. We then attempt brief implications in terms of industrial policy for developing countries, particularly on the importance of developing domestic specialisation in business services before joining GVCs as a catching-up strategy.
L80|The innovative input mix. Assessing the importance of R&D and ICT investments for firm performance in manufacturing and services|Business innovation is an important driver of productivity growth. In this paper, I assess the importance of R&D and ICT investment for firm performance in the manufacturing and service industries. Explicitly, I use an extended version of the CDM model that treats ICT together with R&D as the main inputs into innovation and productivity, and test it on a large unbalanced panel data set based on the innovation survey for Norway. Four different types of innovation and the number of patent applications are used as innovation output measures. I find that ICT investment is strongly associated with all types of innovation in both sectors, with the result being strongest for product innovation in manufacturing and for process innovation in service industries. The impact of ICT on patenting is only positive in manufacturing. Overall, ICT seems to be less important than R&D for innovation, but more important for productivity. These results support the proposition that ICT is an important driver of productivity growth. Given the high rate of ICT diffusion in Norway, my results also contribute to explaining what is referred to as the 'Norwegian productivity puzzle', i.e. the fact that Norway is one of the most productive economies in the OECD despite having relatively low R&D intensity.
L80|Service Sector Growth in India: A View from Households|This paper studies the phenomenon of service-led growth in India over the past two decades from the perspective of household expenditure. We use consumption expenditure data from four recent “thick” rounds of the National Sample Survey in 1993-94, 2004-05, 2009-10 and 2011-12, and study aggregate services as well as 5 individual categories – education, healthcare, transportation, entertainment, and personal services – for both rural India. We begin by showing that expenditures of non-rich sections of the population are, and continue to remain, a significant source of the demand that has supported growth of the service sector over the past two decades. In particular, we show that the bottom 75 percent of households in terms of monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) have been the source of between 31 and 54 percent of total expenditure on services, the larger numbers referring to urban India. Next, we show that expenditure on services, as a share of total expenditure, has increased across the expenditure distribution, even when we control for expenditure growth over time. For a poor country like India with widespread under-nutrition, this presents an unusual trend. We highlight the perverse nature of this trend in two ways. First, we estimate bivariate Lowess curves for the share of services in monthly expenditure against real MPCE, for rural and urban India separately, and show that it has been pivoting in a clockwise direction since 2004-05. Second, we confirm this finding by estimating quadratic Engel curves with an instrumental variable strategy. The clockwise pivoting of Lowess and Engel curves, especially true for urban India since 2004-05, mean that spending patterns of poor households – as captured by the share of monthly expenditure devoted to services – increasingly resemble those of the rich, even as income differentials persist. This suggests that poorer households are possibly getting constrained into spending more on services, even when they have inadequate consumption of food, due to larger structural changes beyond their control.
L80|Cinema chains in Russia|"The purpose of the paper is to discuss problems and prospects of tourism clusters development in Russia. The Russian tourism market has huge potential, due to its history, culture, extremely diverse landscapes, rivers, lakes, mountains, flora and fauna, “hidden gems” of small towns with their ancient churches, original local museums and unique sights. In the last decade Russia has witnessed rapid quantitative growth as well as significant changes in strategic development of the tourism industry. Russian Government initiated a number of Federal target programs important for tourism and hotel industry development. In particular, tourism clusters are now in the focus of interest. In 2008, the Russian Government adopted the Concept of cluster policy in the Russian Federation, laying the cluster approach in the basis of the strategy of socio-economic development and considering it as a tool to raise competitiveness of industries and territories. However, the formation of clusters in Russia faces a number of problems due to the peculiarities of the Russian institutional environment. The main challenges facing tourism clusters development in Russia are described. The importance of development joint marketing strategy is underlined. The case of ""Big Volga"" tourism cluster in the Nizhny Novgorod region is presented."
L80|Agglomeration externalities and urbanization in Ecuador|The spatial agglomeration of economic activities play a crucial role on productivity but the composition of such an agglomeration is what really matters. There exists an ongoing debate between the predominance of the effects of agglomeration from specialization and diversity. This paper aims to estimate the impact of the type of externalities on the local sectoral productivity in Ecuador, a country of Latin American region for which literature gives little attention. When measuring agglomeration economies, one concern is the endogeneity issue. In this purpose, the instrumental variables method is implemented. We provide estimations using GMM model and we instrument the endogenous variable with a menace index, long lagged population density and spatial lags. Last, we investigate the specific role of urbanization. The intuition is that a critical level of urbanization is required to produce positive externalities as it guarantees the existence of a minimum level of transport and telecommunication infrastructures, of banking and financial services or other specific services. It is also a manner to capture the great heterogeneity of Ecuadorian cantons in terms of urbanization. Our empirical work is mainly based on the Economic Census of Ecuador 2010 which accounts for information declared in 2009. By aggregating the firm data, we build a two-digits industry database at the cantonal level. Precisely, our estimations are based on 86 industries and 221 cantons. From a first polled estimation on 7988 canton and industry pairs, our results suggest the existence of strong positive externalities from diversity impacting on the local productivity of industries and a lower impact of specialization. We also find economies of density, measured by the density of firms at the canton and industry levels that positively influence the local productivity of industries. Competition of firms has a significant negative effect. Moreover, we conduct regressions by distinguishing the manufact<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L80|Services and global value chains: Some evidence on servicification of manufacturing and services networks|"This paper analyses the role of services in international trade through the lens of global value chains (GVCs). Services account for more than 70% of world GDP but only for around 20% of world trade in balance of payments terms. In value added terms, accounting for services embodied in exported goods, services account for 40% of world trade. However, the international supply of services is not only represented through cross-border transactions. Services are also traded through the movement of labour and capital. The latter contributes to the GDP of the domestic country. The services value added of foreign affiliates in selected EU countries account, on average, for a quarter of domestic services value added. The role of services as input into manufacturing production often termed servicification of manufacturing, is substantial with services value added accounting for almost a third of manufacturing exports in developed countries and 26% in developing economies. While the share of foreign services content in manufacturing exports is close to 12% in both developed and developing countries, the latter add significantly less domestic services value to their manufacturing exports. Services industries increasingly produce in networked or ""fragmented"" arrangements. The paper lays out conceptual and measurement issues related to services networks and provides evidence based on trade in value added statistics and on a case study on the film industry. In contrast to goods value chains, services networks appear less fragmented internationally based on trade in value added statistics and survey evidence. However, to better capture the international services fragmentation, advances in statistics by enterprise characteristics and by mode of supply, i.e. taking into account the movement of labour and capital, are required."
L80|The Quality of Outsourced Logistics Service: A Collectivist Culture Perspective|The purpose of the study is to explore on the elements of outsourced logistics service quality and how the users’ satisfaction was formed within the Malaysian culture context. This qualitative study was based on five semi-structured interviews which were carried out with the executive officers and department managers of four logistics providers firms and one manufacturer. The data were analyzed using thematic analysis method. Rather than the organization’s performance-related factors, the results revealed that, within the Malaysian national culture context, there are influence of the cultural element towards customer satisfaction. There are four (4) logistics service quality elements identified include timeliness, task accuracy and the condition of the product, and the quality of key contact personnel. There are eight (8) other elements leading to satisfaction which is not within the original logistics service quality theory. They include efficient, consistent service, responsiveness, ensuring customers’ reputation, sensitive to other people feelings, taking blame to ensure satisfaction, emotional closeness between personnel and the family as a base of identity. The emerging elements provides the key insights on the elements which lead to satisfaction in the context of Malaysian logistics service users. Rather than the organization’s performance-related factors, the results revealed that, within the Malaysian national culture context, there are influence of the cultural element towards customer satisfaction.
L80|ICT Standardization and use of ICT standards: a firm level analysis|Standards perform some fundamental economic functions and their relevance for ICT is acknowledged by firms, researchers and policy-makers. This paper investigates the driving forces of formal ICT standards setting (i.e. standardization). Previous quantitative studies have neglected that ICT standards use and engagement in ICT standardization are related activities. Leveraging upon a unique module of the ICT usage survey 2013 for Luxembourg, the analysis explicitly takes into account the use of formal ICT standards on a large representative sample of firm. While previous analyses find that larger firms are more likely to participate in standardization, the results of the analysis suggest that size has a complex pattern. Small firms for whom ICT standards are particularly relevant could overcome the barriers that prevent other firms to benefit from standardization. Additionally, the paper investigates the relationship between the professional use of social network and ICT standards and standardization. The use of social networks is positively correlated with the adoption of ICT standards but not with the participation.
L80|Efektivita evropských firem<BR>[Efficiency of European Firms]|This paper analyzes the technological efficiency of companies in the European Union (EU). Our extensive database covers more than 4 million firm/year observations from many EU countries including both manufacturing and service sectors in 2001-2007. Methodologically we apply a model of a stochastic production productivity frontier. We show that: the economic signifikance of company age is negligible, the higher the debt the greater the efficiency, bigger companies are less efficient, and a medium-level concentration of the market benefits companies. Majority ownership, in contrast, does not lead to higher efficiency, but a combination of majority and minority ownership has a positive disciplinary influence leading to higher efficiency. As to the origins of ownership, it does not seem that foreign-(co-)owned companies imply greater efficiency in old European countries, whereas foreign ownership is a significant driver of efficiency in new EU members through FDI.
L80|Obtaining international results through partnerships: evidence from Russian MNEs in the IT sector|The paper discusses the internationalisation specifics and results of Russian MNEs in the IT sector. The strategies of these firms are focused more on the acquisition of customers than of technologies when expanding abroad. As the technological sophistication of Russian companies and foreign firms in the high-tech sector is about equal (if compared to natural resource-based enterprises), our findings indicate that partnership-oriented strategy provides Russian firms with a better chance of obtaining positive results when expanding abroad. IT companies from Russia are relatively less influenced by their home government, being shaped more by economic than political factors in their international expansion Hence, we argue that they seem to be more marketing-oriented in their international expansion than their natural resource-based counterparts.
L80|Service work without emotional labour? Role expectations of service engineers, their employers and customers in the mechanical engineering industry|The goal of this research is to understand, if emotional labour is part of atypical service professions like service engineering. The protagonists of this study are service engineers, their employing organisations and customers (service triad). We are interested in the following questions: How do the protagonists perceive the role of the service engineers? Is emotional regulation important in this service? Is emotional labour displayed? For which purposes is it used? Our study shows, that finding technological solutions is dominating in service engineering. Yet, service engineers use not only emotional labour, but also sentimental work. The regulation and influencing of emotions serve different purposes, e.g. to build a relationship with the customer, to extract relevant information from him/her to get a technical problem solved quicker, and to cope with distress that arises from contradictory expectations. Service engineers do this although neither their employer nor the customer explicitly urges them to do so.
L80|The Value Contribution of Service Capacity Management to the Company’s Operations and Performance|For producing and delivering a specific service unit, certain service resources are necessary. The service capacity describes the amount of service resources which are available for service production and delivery. Due to the direct contact between these service resources and the customer (or their objects), which are integrated into the service process, a service provider can only deliver as many service units as service capacities are available. However, in every service setting there are often situations where there is a gap between demand and capacity, meaning the gap between the number of potential users of the service and the amount of service resources available.
L80|Rationality and Momentum in Real Estate Investment Forecasts|This study examines the rationality and momentum in forecasts for rental, capital value and total returns for the real estate investment market in the United Kingdom. In order to investigate if forecasters are affected by the general economic conditions present at the time of forecast we incorporate into the analysis Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the Default Spread (DS). The empirical findings show high levels of momentum in the forecasts, with highly persistent forecast errors. The results also indicate that forecasters are affected by adverse conditions. This is consistent with the finding that they tend to exhibit greater forecast error when the property market is underperforming and vice-versa.
L80|Private Services as a Source of Growth?|Abstract There are almost 200,000 enterprises operating in the Finnish service sector, combined. However, not all of the service industries are the same. Some services have become independent of geographical locations, meaning that they can be exported, much like physical products. Other services still require that they are produced and consumed in the same place. Significant differences also exist between the scalability of different services. Since 2007, employment growth has been the fastest in the location-dependent services. The real growth of value added and the increase of productivity, however, have been concentrated in the service industries which do not depend on geography, and where the economies of scale apply the most.
L80|Tourists' Experiences And Spatio-Temporal Effects On The Destination Image. A Theoretical Model|In the present era of social and media mobility the importance of meeting and exceeding the tourists’ needs by offering added value is a key factor to the future and sustainability of any region or tourism destination. However, the financial resources available are gradually scarcer and managers need to find alternative ways to provide added value at lower cost. One option at their disposal is to deliver unique and powerful experiences that may enable tourists to feel engaged with the destination and ultimately satisfied. Despite of the extensive research of previous studies regarding the destination image and the tourism experiences, few have captured in a holistic perspective, the relationship between both constructs. Thus, this paper purpose is to assess the image of the Algarve, before and after the tourism experience at the destination to evaluate the impact(s) of the different tourists’ experiences and its relationship with the tourism destination. The spatio-temporal conceptual model presented, will be later verified using confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and structural equation model (SEM).
L80|Effects of Internationalization on Innovation in the Service Industry: Evidence from Korea|This paper examines the impact of internationalization on the product, process and organizational innovations of Korean service firms. Despite the increasing importance of the service sector and the discrepancies in the natures of the manufacturing and service industries, the internationalization-innovation link in the context of service firms has rarely been examined empirically on a large sample. Based on the results of the logistic regressions using the 2006 Korean Innovation Survey data, we found that Korean service firms' international expansion is significantly and positively associated with their product and organizational innovations. In addition, the magnitude of the estimates in our models revealed that internationalization has a greater impact on product innovation than on process or organizational innovation.
L80|Knowledge Intensive Business Services: The Russian Experience|Knowledge-Intensive Business Services (KIBS) are seen to be a core sector of the so-called ‘knowledge economy’, and already play an important role in developed economies. They a both innovate themselves and provide their clients with knowledge and learning opportunities. This paper examines the status of KIBS in Russia, and explores some key issues in their role in innovation using data from surveys of KIBS firms and their clients in Russia. We note that KIBS are often highly customized, and many new services prove difficult to replicate. KIBS are closely tailored to solving the problems of specific customers, and thus these services typically involve KIBS consumers in a co-production process. Both the formal supplier and the formal user of the service are engaged together in service production, allowing for mutual knowledge transfers and learning. Using KIBS is shown to affect customers’ propensity to innovate, confirming the importance of this sector for the innovation system. Survey data suggest that the impact on innovation is, as a rule, positive and strong. The propensity to innovate in turn stimulates further consumption of KIBS, which is therefore the start of a self-sustaining growth mechanism of innovation activity. Similar consequences are conceptually associated with knowledge transfer in the course of co-production: consumers get both specialized and general knowledge, improving their skills and increasing the innovative capacities. This enables customers to better understand their own needs and encourages them to consume more customized KIBS in the future, and producing KIBS companies get the opportunity to become effective elements of innovation systems. Authorities should consider the possibility of fostering innovative development by supporting the sector in question.
L80|Knowledge Intensive business services: the Russian experience|Knowledge-Intensive Business Services (KIBS) are seen to be a core sector of the so-called ‘knowledge economy’, and already play an important role in developed economies. The KIBS providers are both innovate themselves and provide their clients with knowledge and learning opportunities. This paper examines the status of KIBS in Russia, and explores some key issues in their role in innovation using data from surveys of KIBS firms and their clients.
L80|Contribution of R&D services to added economic value in Estonia|The role and intensity of knowledge within an economy remains a key success factor for long-term economic growth, increased productivity, competitiveness and socio-economic sustainability. These challenges are particularly important for emerging economies that are yet to catch up frontier knowledge economies. This paper seeks to understand the contribution that R&D services have through added economic value to the GDP in Estonia. Based on the most recent supply and use matrices on the data from year 2009, prepared under the input-output framework of Estonian national accounts, we identify to which extent do the R&D services used in the Estonian economy originate from domestic industries and imports, and how the supplies of R&D services are allocated between intermediate and final uses, including exports. As an output of that analysis we identify the direct contribution of R&D services to added economic value in the Estonian economy to be 0.5% and their primary indirect contribution to be 0.4%. Further indirect effects however exist which need to be quantified under our following studies. Vast majority (93%) of the R&D services used in the Estonian economy appear to be of local origin, generated primarily by companies specialising in R&D services. Export capacity of Estonian R&D services appears to be very limited, contributing 0.2% of Estonian total exports. Overall, we identify that a significant progress is yet to be made to catch up with knowledge frontier countries.
