L85|Revisiting the global decline of the (non-housing) labor share|We show that cross-country comparisons of corporate labor shares are affected by differences in the delineation of corporate sectors. While the US excludes all self-employed and most dwellings from the corporate sector, other countries include large amounts of both — biasing labor shares downwards. We propose two methods to control for these differences and obtain ‘harmonized’ non-housing labor share series. Contrary to common wisdom, the harmonized series remain stable across all major economies except the US, where the labor share still declines, primarily due to manufacturing. These new facts cast doubts on most technological explanations for the labor share decline.
L85|Revisiting the Global Decline of the (Non-Housing) Labor Share|We show that cross-country comparisons of corporate labor shares are affected by differences in the delineation of corporate sectors. While the US excludes all self-employed and most dwellings from the corporate sector, other countries include large amounts of both - biasing labor shares downwards. We propose two methods to control for these differences and obtain 'harmonized' nonhousing labor share series. Contrary to common wisdom, the harmonized series remain stable across all major economies except the US, where the labor share still declines, primarily due to manufacturing. These new facts cast doubts on most technological explanations for the labor share decline.
L85|Quels impacts des règles relatives à la protection des données sur la concurrence entre plateformes infonuagiques, industrielles et immobilières?|Le développement de l’économie des plateformes ne se limite plus aux services rendus à des consommateurs mais concerne également les services rendus à des acteurs industriels. Les services rendus en matière de stockage et de traitement des données par les plateformes infonuagiques ou la structuration de nouveaux processus productifs de type industrie 4.0 font écho à la constitution d’écosystèmes coopératifs et ouverts dans le secteur immobilier, lesquels sont favorisés par la numérisation des activités et le développement de l’internet des objets. Ce travail établit un parallèle entre ces différents types de plateformes et la numérisation du secteur immobilier. Il s’interroge sur les conditions de la coopération intra-plateforme et sur celle de la concurrence inter-plateformes, notamment en regard de la réglementation afférente à la protection des données personnelles mais aussi celle relative à la protection des communications électroniques et celle portant sur le secret des affaires.
L85|The Effects of Immigration on Local Housing Markets|This paper provides a survey of the international evidence regarding the impact of immigration on local housing markets. A theoretical framework highlights the complexity of the housing market and the importance of distinguishing between the ownership and use of the stock of dwellings vis-à-vis the residential real estate market. Evidence from eight countries (Canada, France, Italy, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom and United States) and from meta-analysis shows that immigration will lead to higher house prices and rents, and lower housing affordability. On average, a one percent increase in immigration in a city may be expected to raise rents by one-half to one percent and the effect on prices is about double that. However, there is a large variance around this average which is related inter alia to the time frame and spatial scale of the analysis, as well as to local economic conditions. Additionally, the housing impact of immigration will depend on the demographic and economic composition of the immigrant flow, on macroeconomic conditions and expectations, on the institutional factors that influence the price elasticity of the supply of new dwellings, and on how the native born react to immigration. The tendency of the native born to move out of city wards where migrants settle can lead to relative house price declines in these areas. Overall, immigration has been only a minor contributor to the sharply rising house prices in many fast-growing agglomerations in recent decades.
L85|The Impact of Blockchain Technology on the Real Estate Sector Using Smart Contracts|"The block chain technology has been in the topic of much discussion due to its successful application in the crypto currency known as “Bitcoin"" which has investment experts, economists, billion dollar financial institutes, big banks as well as governments taking sides on whether it should be legitimized and used as a currency or make it illegal to be used as a means of exchange. However, experts from different field like supply chain management and even from the medical field are more interested in how the block chain technology’s decentralized record keeping and numerous other benefits can be of use to them in their fields of work. This study concentrates on the block chain being used for real estate record keeping, since most geography’s have different procedures for record keeping, this study focuses on Defence Housing Authority in Karachi to check what the impact of applying the block chain technology to this area in Karachi would have on investors, real estate agents, residents and the government."
L85|The Impact of Blockchain Technology on the Real Estate Sector Using Smart Contracts|"The block chain technology has been in the topic of much discussion due to its successful application in the crypto currency known as “Bitcoin"" which has investment experts, economists, billion dollar financial institutes, big banks as well as governments taking sides on whether it should be legitimized and used as a currency or make it illegal to be used as a means of exchange. However, experts from different field like supply chain management and even from the medical field are more interested in how the block chain technology’s decentralized record keeping and numerous other benefits can be of use to them in their fields of work. This study concentrates on the block chain being used for real estate record keeping, since most geography’s have different procedures for record keeping, this study focuses on Defence Housing Authority in Karachi to check what the impact of applying the block chain technology to this area in Karachi would have on investors, real estate agents, residents and the government."
L85|Does an Oligopolistic Primary Market Matter? The Case of an Asian Housing Market|This paper takes advantage of the oligopolistic structure of the Hong Kong primary housing market and examines whether the time-variations of the market concentration are caused by or cause the variations of the local economic factors. The analysis also takes into consideration of the changes of the U.S. variables and commodity prices, which arguably may represent changes in the construction cost. We find clear evidence of time-varying responses of housing market variables to macroeconomic variables. Policy implications and directions for future research are also discussed.
L85|Using Importance-Performance Analysis (Ipa) To Evaluate Factors Affecting The Living In Elderly Condominium|In recent years, some real estate developers in Thailand have established elderly condominiums. Previous studies found many important factors affecting elder?s living in senior residence, but this study aimed to investigate elderly opinions about the important factors that influence their living and the performance of senior condominium?s operation. This study collected data by having face-to-face interviews and conducting a questionnaire survey with 73 elders living in ?Sawangkanives?, a senior condominium project operated by Thai Red Cross Society, a medical state agency. The questionnaires were processed and analyzed by performing exploratory factor analysis to extract influenced factors; and then generated the importance-performance analysis (IPA) grid to assess the elder?s living satisfaction in the elderly condominium. Four factors affecting elder?s living are Ambience of Surroundings (AS), Physical Attributes of Room and Common Area (PA), Quality of Staff?s Services (QS) and Social Stimulation (SS). The derived IPA grid showed no factors were in Low Priority quadrant. QS or quality services offered by staff factor was in Concentrate Here quadrant. PA factor and AS factor were in Keep Up the Good Work quadrant. SS factor was in Possible Overkill quadrant. The most worried issue with respect to the services was the rapidly helps that elderly can receive from staff or nurses staying in the condominium. The second issue needed to be addressed was the proper helps the elderly receive from staff or nurses staying in the condominium. The manager of this condominium should not pay any attention to create the activities in order to stimulate the social life or to make them lively. The factors which had high importance and high performance or which manager should maintain good standards were PA factor and AS factor, which implied that this condominium located in proper location, had proper layouts of room and hallway, and also suitable for elderly. In addition to physical attributes, this condominium provided suitability of lighting and entrances and all area in this condominium had good air ventilation for the elderly too.
L85|Evidence and Actions on Mortgage Market Disparities: Research, Fair Lending Enforcement and Consumer Protection|In this article, we present overviews of the research on discrimination in mortgage underwriting and pricing, the experiences of minority borrowers prior to and during the financial crisis and federal efforts to mitigate foreclosures during the crisis. We next discuss the history of legal cases alleging disparate treatment of minority borrowers, and recent cases alleging disparate impact in the wake of the Supreme Court’s “Inclusive Communities” decision. Using these discussions as a background, we discuss and examine mortgage regulations issued by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau following the financial crisis, describe recent developments in the FinTech industry discussing their implications for fair lending policy and minority borrowers more generally, and finally draw conclusions and make recommendations for improving the mortgage market outcomes of minority borrowers and increasing minority borrowers’ access to credit.
L85|Evolving Practice in Land Demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
L85|The Welfare Effects of Peer Entry in the Accommodation Market: The Case of Airbnb|We study the effects of enabling peer supply through Airbnb in the accommodation industry. We present a model of competition between flexible and dedicated sellers - peer hosts and hotels - who provide differentiated products. We estimate this model using data from major US cities and quantify the welfare effects of Airbnb on travelers, hosts, and hotels. The welfare gains are concentrated in locations (New York) and times (New Years Eve) when hotels are capacity constrained. This occurs because peer hosts are responsive to market conditions, expand supply as hotels fill up, and keep hotel prices down as a result.
L85|Inference in Games Without Nash Equilibrium: An Application to Restaurants, Competition in Opening Hours|This paper relaxes the Bayesian Nash equilibrium (BNE) assumption commonly imposed in empirical discrete choice games with incomplete information. Instead of assuming that players have unbiased/correct expectations, my model treats a player’s belief about the behavior of other players as an unrestricted unknown function. I study the joint identification of belief and payoff functions. I show that in games where one player has more actions than the other player, the payoff function is partially identified with neither equilibrium restrictions nor the usual exclusion restrictions. Furthermore, if the cardinality of players’ action sets varies across games, then the payoff and belief functions are point identified up to scale normalizations and the restriction of equilibrium beliefs is testable. For games where action sets are constant across players and observations, I obtain very similar identification results without imposing restrictions on beliefs, as long as the payoff function satisfies a condition of multiplicative separability. I apply this model and its identification results to study the store hours competition between McDonald’s and Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) in China. The null hypothesis that KFC has unbiased beliefs is rejected. Failing to account for KFC’s biased beliefs generates an attenuation bias on estimated strategic effects. Finally, the estimation results of the payoff functions indicate that the decision about store hours is a type of vertical differentiation. By operating through the night, a firm not only attracts night-time consumers but also can steal competitors’ day-time customers. This result has implications on the optimal regulation of stores’ opening hours.
L85|Evolving practice in land demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
L85|Public Procurement versus Laissez-Faire: Evidence from Household Waste Collection| We document that switching from laissez-faire production to public procurement in residential waste collection in Finland reduces the number of firms active in the local market, but induces a statistically significant and large decrease in unit prices on average. While public procurement, thus, seems to be desirable from the citizensâ€™ perspective, not all municipalities adopt public procurement. We provide descriptive evidence that municipal council composition is associated with the chosen regime. This suggests that local politics may be one obstacle for the efficient provision of local public goods.
L85|Technological Innovation in Mortgage Underwriting and the Growth in Credit: 1985-2015|The application of information technology to finance, or “fintech,” is expected to revolutionize many aspects of borrowing and lending in the future, but technology has been reshaping consumer and mortgage lending for many years. During the 1990s computerization allowed mortgage lenders to reduce loan-processing times and largely replace human-based assessment of credit risk with default predictions generated by sophisticated empirical models. Debt-to-income ratios at origination add little to the predictive power of these models, so the new automated underwriting systems allowed higher debt-to-income ratios than previous underwriting guidelines would have typically accepted. In this way, technology brought about an exogenous change in lending standards, which helped raise the homeownership rate and encourage the conversion of rental properties to owner-occupied ones, but did not have large effects on housing prices. Technological innovation in mortgage underwriting may have allowed the 2000s housing boom to grow, however, because it enhanced the ability of both borrowers and lenders to act on optimistic beliefs about future house-price growth.
L85|Appraising Home Purchase Appraisals|Home appraisals are produced for millions of residential mortgage transactions each year, but appraised values are rarely below the purchase contract price. We argue that institutional features of home mortgage lending cause much of the information in appraisals to be lost: some 30 percent of recent appraisals are exactly at the home price (with less than 10 percent below it). We lay out a novel, basic theoretical framework to explain how lenders’ and appraisers’ incentives lead to information loss in appraisals (that is, appraisals set equal to the contract price). Such information loss is more common at loan-to-value boundaries where mortgage insurance rates increase and appears to be associated with a higher incidence of mortgage default, after controlling for pertinent borrower and loan-level characteristics. Appraisals do, in some cases, improve default risk measurement, but they are less informative than automated valuation models. An important benefit of appraisals reported below the contract price is that they help borrowers renegotiate prices with sellers.
L85|Are Appraisal Management Companies Value-Adding? – Stylized Facts from AMC and Non-AMC Appraisals|In this paper, we study whether there are any systematic quality differences between appraisals associated and unassociated with appraisal management companies (AMCs). We find that compared to non-AMC appraisals, AMC appraisals on average share a similar degree of overvaluation despite being more prone to contract price confirmation and super-overvaluation. AMC appraisals also share a similar propensity for mistakes, despite employing a greater number of comparable properties. Our evaluation employs relatively simple statistical comparisons, but the results indicate no clear evidence of any systematic quality differences between appraisals associated and unassociated with AMCs.
L85|Appraisal Accuracy, Automated Valuation Models, And Credit Modeling in Rural Areas|Accurate and unbiased property value estimates are essential to credit risk management. Along with loan amount, they determine a mortgage’s loan-to-value ratio, which captures the degree of homeowner equity and is a key determinant of borrower credit risk. For home purchases, lenders generally require an independent appraisal, which, in addition to a home’s sales price, is used to calculate a value for the underlying collateral. A number of empirical studies have shown that property appraisals tend to be biased upwards, and over 90 percent of the time, either confirm or exceed the associated contract price. Our data suggest that appraisal bias is particularly pervasive in rural areas where over 25 percent of rural properties are appraised at more than five percent above contract price. Given this significant upward bias, we examine a host of alternate valuation techniques to more accurately estimate rural property values. We then include these alternate value estimates when modeling delinquencies and examine their explanatory power.
L85|Evidence and Actions on Mortgage Market Disparities: Research, Fair lending Enforcement and Consumer Protection|In this article, we present overviews of the research on discrimination in mortgage underwriting and pricing, the experiences of minority borrowers prior to and during the financial crisis and federal efforts to mitigate foreclosures during the crisis. We next discuss the history of legal cases alleging disparate treatment of minority borrowers, and recent cases alleging disparate impact in the wake of the Supreme Court’s “Inclusive Communities” decision. Using these discussions as a background, we discuss and examine mortgage regulations issued by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau following the financial crisis, describe recent developments in the FinTech industry discussing their implications for fair lending policy and minority borrowers more generally, and finally draw conclusions and make recommendations for improving the mortgage market outcomes of minority borrowers and increasing minority borrowers’ access to credit.
L85|Real estate and land property automated valuations systems: a taxonomy and conceptual model|Purpose - Automated valuation models have been in use at least for the last fifty years in both academia and practice, while a proper definition was coined only in the last decade. Automated valuation models is a very mature topic that has recently reemerged as very important with the rise of digital infrastructure. Therefore, this paper provides needed analysis and synthesis of the accumulated body of knowledge, and proposes a conceptual framework adapted to reemerging trend.Design/methodology/approach - This imply two-sided contribution of this paper, a taxonomy and a conceptual framework. In order to address properly a broad notion of automated valuation models’ use, this paper introduces automated valuation system as a term and its taxonomy based on key facets, properties and measurements. Proposed taxonomy is non-hierarchical because all automated valuation systems have the same importance and each one has these facets. Furthermore, conceptual model represents the relationships between the facets. The conceptual model for automated valuation system is based on the visualized decision support system consisting of decision, end user, interface data and model. Both taxonomy and conceptual model came into being after literature review that included a bit more than one hundred references.Findings - The overview of facets, their properties and their dummy measurement is discussed only with examples that would be sufficient to illustrate their regularities. Examples are selected as the most cited articles for each of the newly introduced automated valuation approaches. As mentioned, all indicated facets are visualized in a conceptual model that is again an adapted version of the most visuals example of a decision support systems.Research limitations/implications – As mentioned, taxonomy and conceptual model are built upon although relatively broad but selective choice on more than one hundred references. Perhaps a systematic literature review process could additional validate the proposed taxonomy and conceptual model.Practical implications - Assuring the credibility of an automated valuation model that is based purely on comparing the predictive accuracy of method ‘a’ versus method ‘b’ has become a common practice. Therefore, discussion of the use of the proposed automated valuation has been push forward. In addition, as a domain of price estimates has been far surpassed any unique discipline, term that is more generic would be appropriate to accommodate future research coming from multitude of disciplines.Originality/value – By knowledge of the authors this is the first paper that develops taxonomy and conceptual model of automated valuation systems.
L85|Property as sequential exchange: the forgotten limits of private contract|The contractual, single-exchange framework in Coase (1960) contains the implicit assumption that exchange in property rights does not affect future transaction (i.e., trading) costs. This is pertinent for analyzing use externalities but limits our understanding of property institutions: a central problem of property markets lies in the interaction among multiple transactions, which causes exchange-related and non-contractible externalities. By retaining a single-exchange simplification, the economic analysis of property has encouraged views that: (1) overemphasize the initial allocation of property rights, while some form of recurrent allocation is often needed; (2) pay scant attention to legal rights, although these determine enforceability and, therefore, economic value; and (3) overestimate the power of unregulated private ordering, despite its inability to protect third parties. These three biases have been misleading policy in many areas, including land titling and business firm formalization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L85|How to make land titling more rational|Substantial variety exists among systems of land and business formalization both over time and across countries. For instance, England relied on private titling and delayed land registration for centuries. In contrast, early on, its American colonies imported land recordation and its Australian colonies land registration. Similarly, in most of the world, governments used to allow voluntary land titling, in which owners decide whether they register their land. Recently, however, governments and international agencies have more often opted for universal titling, aiming to register all the land in a certain region. This paper critically examines these strategies, analyzing the costs and benefits of the two main decisions: whether to create a public titling system or to rely exclusively on private titling, and the choice between voluntary and universal titling. It concludes that universal titling is seldom optimal. In particular, it argues that lack of titling is more a consequence than a cause of poverty.
L85|Ethnic Discrimination on an Online Marketplace of Vacation Rental|We use data from an online marketplace of vacation rentals (Airbnb) collected in 19 major cities in North America and Europe to measure discrimination against ethnicminority hosts. This market has three interesting features: the existence of a detailed reviewing system, the high frequency of transactions and the panel dimension of the data. Using the fact that ratings provide potential guests with information about the quality of a listing, we build a credible measure of statistical discrimination, following a strategy a la Altonji and Pierret (2001). Hosts from a minority ethnic group charge 16% less than other hosts in the same cities. Controlling for a rich set of characteristics reduces the ethnic price gap to 3.2%. An additional review increases the daily price more for minority than for majority hosts. Estimating the parameters of a theoretical pricing model, we find that statistical discrimination accounts for most of the price differential: 2.5 percentage points.
L85|Immigration and housing: A spatial econometric analysis|In this paper we examine the effect of immigration into the U.S. on the U.S. housing market, both in terms of rents and single family house prices. We model the housing market in a spatial econometrics context using the spatial Durbin model. This approach helps us exploit and capture both the direct and indirect effects of immigration inflows on the U.S. housing market. We find that an increase in immigration inflows into a particular MSA is associated with increases in rents and with house prices in that MSA while also seeming to drive up rents and prices in neighboring MSAs. The patterns observed in the rental and house price markets, along with the larger spillover effects, are consistent with native-flight from immigrant receiving areas.
L85|Housing market in Russia in 2016|According to the data released by the Bank of Russia, as of July 1, 2016, the number of credit institutions issuing residential loans (RL) and housing mortgage loans (HNL) fell to 680 and constituted 85.3% of their number as of July 1, 2015 (Table 16). Herewith, the number of credit institutions issuing RL came to 522 and those extending HML – 499, and those attracting refinancing on the HML secondary market – 34. Moreover, the number of credit institutions extending housing mortgage loans secured by the right of foreclosure on agreements of participation in shared construction came to 212 as of July 1, 2016.
L85|Ethnic Discrimination on an Online Marketplace of Vacation Rental|We use data from an online marketplace of vacation rentals (Airbnb) collected in 19 major cities in North America and Europe to measure discrimination against ethnicminority hosts. This market has three interesting features: the existence of a detailed reviewing system, the high frequency of transactions and the panel dimension of the data. Using the fact that ratings provide potential guests with information about the quality of a listing, we build a credible measure of statistical discrimination, following a strategy a la ` Altonji and Pierret (2001). Hosts from a minority ethnic group charge 16% less than other hosts in the same cities. Controlling for a rich set of characteristics reduces the ethnic price gap to 3.2%. An additional review increases the daily price more for minority than for majority hosts. Estimating the parameters of a theoretical pricing model, we find that statistical discrimination accounts for most of the price differential: 2.5 percentage points.Keywords: ethnic discrimination, statistical discrimination, rental market JEL Classification: J15, L85
L85|Under What Circumstances do First-time Homebuyers Overpay? – An Empirical Analysis Using Mortgage and Appraisal Data|In this paper, we study whether first-time homebuyers overpay for their homes and whether the magnitude of overpayment varies with the diligence of appraisers involved. We present a robust result that: 1) First-time homebuyers sort into cheaper houses. 2) Once observed and unobserved house characteristics are controlled for, they pay a premium compared to their more experienced counter parts. Our analysis additionally suggests that certain appraisals and appraisers might be able to mitigate this overpayment, though the underlying channel remains unclear. This research is among the first to contribute both theoretically and empirically to the existing literature on first-time homebuyers.
L85|Low Volatility Investing in U.S. Equity REITs|We examine the market for U.S. equity real estate investment trusts (REITs) for evidence of the volatility effect, in which low volatility stocks tend to outperform high volatility ones, as has been found in the general equity market by prior research. While there is some evidence of a volatility effect in the first ten years of the sample, this disappears in a more recent time period. Furthermore, we test the efficacy of low risk portfolio construction techniques and find that none perform any better than a market cap weighted portfolio ¡V although they are also no worse ¡V over any of the time periods examined. Thus, there is no evidence that using a risk-based portfolio design that emphasizes low volatility would improve portfolio performance for a REIT allocation.
L85|Global Liquidity, Capital Inflows and House Prices in ASEAN Economies|The quantitative easing policy adopted by the advanced economies since 2009 has led to an abundance in global liquidity. In the same period, the ASEAN-5 economies (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand) have recorded strong capital inflows, particularly portfolio inflows. The asset prices, in particular, the house prices of these economies, have also experienced excess buoyancy. In this paper, the relationships among global liquidity, house prices and capital flows are studied. Empirically, capital inflows have a positive effect on the residential house prices of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Singapore. After accounting for their own domestic demand (by using real GDP growth as a proxy), the capital inflows still have a positive impact in Indonesia and Singapore. The authorities of these economies have implemented similar macroprudential measures to safeguard financial stability and cool down speculative activities. The effectiveness of the measures is mainly the reduction in the transaction volume.
L85|Monetary Policy, House Prices, and Consumption in China: A National and Regional Study|This paper studies the relationships among monetary policy, house prices, and consumption in China from both national and regional perspectives. Using a panel vector autoregression (VAR) model and a counterfactual simulation method, we find that monetary policy has a significant effect on consumption but with a regional pattern, in terms of the magnitude and the housing wealth channel. It is found that in the middle southern and the western cities, the monetary policy has strong effects on consumption while the house prices have minimal contribution to the monetary policy transmission to household consumption. By contrast, in the Tier-1 and the eastern cities, house prices play a more important role in monetary policy transmission; even household consumption is less sensitive to monetary policy changes.
L85|Can Real Estate Brokers Affect Home Prices Under Extreme Market Conditions?|This study investigates the impact of the brokerage market on home prices in both a seller¡¦s market (2006) and a buyer¡¦s market (2009). In both years, homes sold with brokerage assistance realized higher prices when compared with homes sold without the aid of a broker, even after controlling for selection bias in the seller¡¦s choice to use a broker. This is the first study that uses a national dataset from extreme boom and bust markets that has documented evidence of price segmentation in the residential real estate market. The findings may be the result of the market conditions in 2006 and 2009.
L85|Do Reserve Prices Yield Reference Price Effects in Korean Court Auctions of Residential Real Estate?|This study examines whether the reserve prices in court auctions of residential real estate in Seoul, Korea result in reference price effects by influencing the amount of the successful bid. We also explore whether the sensitivity of these reference price effects differ with housing size and assess whether the expected rate of the selling price can be predicted based on the different reserve price levels. The panel data estimates presented herein show that reserve prices positively influence the final property transfer prices; in other words, the reserve prices yield strong reference price effects. The results of the ordinary least square regressions show that the sensitivity of the reference price effects differs with housing size, albeit in an inconsistent manner. Finally, the response surface methodology analysis indicates that different reserve prices lead to different reference price effects with locality across the Seoul metropolitan area. The study thus provides courts and bidders with the means to predict the potential rate of the selling price, which will be useful for decision making in auctions.
L85|Regional development in the context of economic reform: The case of Limassol|Regional development occurs in the larger context of national economies. Thus, the elaboration of regional economic development strategies cannot be separated from higher-level economic policy which frames and conditions opportunities and risks for regional development. As a Southern European country undergoing a process of profound structural economic reform, Cyprus provides a case for a policy context aiming towards the emergence of a new model of economic growth. Within this context, the Limassol region as one of the country’s major economic centers with a number of comparatively strong industries can serve as an example of how to promote regional development in the framework of national reform priorities such as moving the national economy closer towards a knowledge- and innovation-driven model. The present study analyses current reform priorities on the national and supra-national level, takes stock of the regional economic structure of Limassol district, and presents some preliminary ideas that could be further explored if and when a comprehensive regional economic development strategy for Limassol were to be elaborated.
L85|Distributed Workflow Management with Smart Contracts|Abstract This report documents a blockchain application developed for the real estate sector. The application enables distributed workflow management in a complicated transaction process: the selling of a share of stocks in a housing corporation. As its core element, the application utilizes Ethereum-based smart contracts to facilitate the interaction of various parties involved, as well as the Interplanetary File System (IPFS) to combine data from a number of separate information pools. The motive for this application has been to understand the process of developing blockchain applications with industrial partners. Moreover, the purpose of this exercise has been to examine whether Ethereum-based smart contracts could be effectively utilized for applications in industry and finance. The application and the discussions during its development indicate that similar, market-driven workflow structures may appear in value chains where the number of parties is high and where the sources of information are numerous yet disconnected.
L85|The Financial Crisis and Diverging House Prices: Evidence from the Copenhagen Metropolitan Area|This paper investigates the development of house prices in Copenhagen in the period 1994-2013, while paying special attention to the heterogeneous impact of the boom and bust periods along the dimensions of housing type (single vs multifamily housing), geography and quality. To allow for price developments that can differ by quality, we use a recently developed generalization of the conventional Muth model that assumes a constant unit price across the quality spectrum. It allows us to separately consider the development of house prices and quality in Copenhagen neighbourhoods. Moreover, we investigate the validity of the common assumption of a constant unit price and reject it decisively. We use detailed housing transaction data for the greater Copenhagen area. We show that the housing boom of the 2000’s and the bust that followed hit the lowest quality segments significantly harder than the high quality segments of the housing market.
L85|Information Asymmetry, Lease Incentives, and the Role of Advisors in the Market for Commercial Real Estate|Using a unique transactions dataset, this paper examines the determinants of lease incentives in the Amsterdam office market. The study focusses on the type of landlord involved (institutional/privately owned) and whether the tenant or landlord used an advisor to help them with the transaction. The results show that an institutional landlord, ceteris paribus, offers 11 percentage points more incentives than a private owner. In addition, a landlord who uses the services of an advisor pays 16 percentage points less incentives. An advisor at the side of the tenant increases incentives by 7 percentage points. If both parties use an advisor lease incentives are not statistically different from using no advisors at all. The results in this paper highlight the crucial role of market information, information asymmetry, and bargaining in the market for commercial real estate.
L85|Mito y realidad del alquiler vacacional en las Islas Baleares. Análisis y recomendaciones de política turística|Las consecuencias negativas del alquiler vacacional (y de Airbnb en particular) han sido exageradas. Tomar decisiones basadas en un diagnóstico incorrecto puede tener graves consecuencias para el bienestar de la sociedad balear. En este breve informe se documenta que el alquiler vacacional tiene un impacto muy limitado sobre la supuesta saturación y sostenibilidad turística, los precios de venta y alquiler de la vivienda, y la oferta de vivienda en alquiler de larga temporada. Asimismo, se argumenta que el turismo vacacional estaría contribuyendo a aportar recursos a las familias que mayoritariamente no viven profesionalmente del turismo y, obtienen así unos ingresos extra, repartiendo sus ganancias de una manera más justa socialmente y más equilibrada territorialmente que el modelo tradicional basado en la explotación de hoteles y otros establecimientos de alojamiento. Prohibir o restringir esta modalidad de alquiler supone desaprovechar una gran oportunidad de luchar contra los grandes males de la economía balear: su baja productividad, la estacionalidad y la alta dependencia del turismo de sol y playa. Ordenar el sector exige: i) neutralidad ante los diferentes modos de negocio turístico sin favorecer a los ya establecidos y permitiendo que nuevas empresas y nuevas tecnologías puedan disfrutar de las mismas oportunidades que los agentes que ya están establecidos en el mercado; ii) corregir las externalidades negativas que genera esta actividad, y iii) exigir el pago de impuestos. Una sociedad que regula restrictivamente la entrada de nuevas empresas y tecnologías está condenada a empobrecerse.
L85|Blockchain's struggle to deliver impersonal exchange|The paper identifies what value blockchain adds to the contractual and property processes, exploring its potential and analyzing the main difficulties it is facing. It argues that, contrary to naive conceptions that proclaim the end of intermediaries and state involvement, blockchain applications will rely on a variety of interface, completion and enforcement specialists, including standard public interventions, especially for property transactions. Without these interventions, blockchain applications will at most enable trade in in personam claims—instead of in rem rights—, therefore facilitating personal instead of truly impersonal—that is, asset-based—transactions.
L85|How to Make Land Titling more Rational|Substantial variety exists among systems of land and business formalization both over time and across countries. For instance, England relied on private titling and delayed land registration for centuries. In contrast, early on, its American colonies imported land recordation and its Australian colonies land registration. Similarly, in most of the world, governments used to allow voluntary land titling, in which owners decide whether they register their land. Recently, however, governments and international agencies have more often opted for universal titling, aiming to register all the land in a certain region. This paper critically examines these strategies, analyzing the costs and benefits of the two main decisions: whether to create a public titling system or to rely exclusively on private titling, and the choice between voluntary and universal titling. It concludes that universal titling is seldom optimal. In particular, it argues that lack of titling is more a consequence than a cause of poverty.
L85|Price Variation in Waterfront Properties Over the Economic Cycle|Using sales data from the Tampa Bay housing market for the period from 2000 to 2012, this paper examines price performance across the boom, bust, and post-bust phases of the most recent real estate cycle by comparing waterfront properties to non-waterfront properties and by comparing specific waterfront types. Waterfront properties enjoyed a 7.2 percent price premium over non-waterfront properties but this premium was higher in the latter part of the boom stage of the cycle and for the post-bust part of the cycle (2011 and 2012). When evaluating the performance of specific waterfront types, properties on the bay, canal, lake, or river provided price protection through the real estate cycle while the price performance of on-pond properties in some years was more closely aligned with non-waterfront properties.
L85|Who Follows REITs?|This paper provides evidence that analysts who issue recommendations for REITs are primarily associated with investment banks that are active in underwriting such as full service banks and syndicate banks. Analysts at brokerage houses and independent research houses rarely issue REIT recommendations These findings suggest that underwriting activities are an important reason for investment banks and their analysts to issue recommendations for REITs. We find that recommendations are optimistic for all types of investment banks after Regulation FD, but optimistic recommendations only hold in a univariate setting for syndicates and brokerages. When we compare recommendations for REITs and non-REITS, we find differences in the type of banks that issue the recommendations and the level of optimism. These systematic differences do not diminish over time. We explore additional characteristics that can affect recommendation optimism for REITs and find that around the time of a REIT SEO, book runners of that issue become more optimistic. These findings are consistent with a conflict of interest explanation. We further find that analysts of higher ranked investment (bulge) banks tend to be less optimistic which suggests that reputational concerns may curb some of the optimism.
L85|Chain Affiliation, Store Prestige And Shopping Center Rents|This study aims at testing whether, and to what extent, chain affiliation within regional and super-regional shopping centers affects store rent levels. The rent impact of chain affiliation is assessed in interaction with store prestige. The research rests on a database of 1,367 retail leases running over the 2000-2003 period in eleven regional and super- regional shopping centres located in Montreal and Quebec City, Canada. Findings suggest that, when compared with independent and local chain-affiliated stores selling low-end goods, middle and high-end goods chain stores operating at upper levels of affiliation are charged a rent premium. Such a profit-sharing scheme between major, high-end chain stores and mall owners, it is argued, will occur under a regulatory environment which limits the local supply of top retail space.
L85|The Relative Value of Public Non-listed REITS|We evaluate equity claims to publicly registered, non-listed Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs). Although market-determined equity prices for public non-listed REITs (PNLRs) are unavailable, we demonstrate that such equity claims are worth between 23% and 80% less than equity claims to identical underlying assets organized as listed REITs. Sources for losses include illiquidity, high transactions costs and sub-optimal capital, and organizational structures. An alleged advantage of PNLRs- higher current income- is unsustainable: REITs frequently reduce levels of promised returns to equity holders, only achieving these lower levels by issuing additional capital.
L85|Price Indexes for Short Horizons, Thin Markets or Smaller Cities|We propose a modification to the repeat sales procedure which incorporates pricing information from houses in close proximity that have sold only once. This nearest neighbor framework, allows for both idiosyncratic property-specific effects and for common location effects in constructing sale pairs. The distinguishing feature of our model is that a significant percentage of discarded (non-repeat sale) observations are utilized. Like the repeat sales approach, the availability of housing attributes is not required to implement our model in contrast to other hybrid models. The only additional calculation required is pairwise distances which are used in lieu of property attributes in hybrid models. Our resulting model is not only parsimonious but also produces relatively tighter pricing interval estimates. A key advantage of our approach is that it can be used to obtain price estimates in thin markets and smaller cities that have relatively fewer transactions.
L85|Information Content and Forecasting Ability of Sentiment Indicators: Case of Real Estate Market|We evaluate a number of real estate sentiment indices to ascertain current and forward-looking information content that may be useful for forecasting demand and supply activities. Analyzing the dynamic relationships within a Vector Auto-Regression (VAR) framework and using the quarterly US data over 1988-2010, we test the efficacy of several sentiment measures by comparing them with other coincident economic indicators. Overall, our analysis suggests that the sentiment in real estate convey valuable information that can help predict changes in real estate returns. These findings have important implications for investment decisions, from consumers' as well as institutional investors' perspectives.
L85|Property price separation between land and building components|Observed sales prices are direct references for the market value of properties, but they do not provide information about the separate values of land and building. There are different theories and methods, each one being limited in practice. This paper presents the troublesome issue of price separation and proposes a practical alternative, using detailed data from Montreal (Canada). The empirical results support the separability thesis in practice for the cases of residential properties.
L85|Prospect Theory and Loss Aversion in the Housing Market|A stylized fact of the housing market is the strong positive correlation between prices and trading volume. Loss aversion from the sellers is one of the most often suggested explanations for this phenomenon, through an increase in sellers' reservation value. This article demonstrates that on the contrary the effect of loss aversion is to decrease the reservation value and not to increase it. We suggest alternative behavioral explanations for the observed stylized fact.
L85|Do Mortgage Loans Respond Perversely to Monetary Policy?|We investigate the response of loan growth to monetary policy shocks while controlling for loan securitization. Our major finding is that while commercial and industrial (C&I) loans and consumer loans respond to monetary policy asymmetrically according to theoretical predictions, mortgage loans show a reverse asymmetric response. In other words, while other loans are more responsive to contractionary than to expansionary shifts in monetary policy of the same magnitude, mortgage loans tend to respond inversely. Contrary to the bank lending channel predictions, expansionary monetary policy increases mortgage loan growth more than contractionary monetary policy of the same magnitude reduces this growth. We find that this reverse asymmetric response of mortgage loans is mainly driven by the securitization of these loans. Further, we show that this result is most pronounced for single-family home mortgages.
L85|Capturing Heterogeneity in Preference for a Real-Estate Offering Using Hierarchical Bayesian Regression Model|Consumers have dissimilar preferences. Real estate researchers have acknowledged that needs and wants differ among consumers. Creation of different real estate offerings with different attributes and the creation of various communication messages are consequences of this heterogeneity. Our study helps both the real estate developer and the real estate marketer (or broker). This paper captures consumer heterogeneity using the Hierarchical Bayesian regression model. Our model explains how Bayesian regression can be used to study both observed and unobserved consumer heterogeneity in preference. We also examine heterogeneity at the individual level. We study the elite Indian real estate consumersâ€™ preferences for features internal to an apartment as well as external to it.
L85|Time Variation of Expected Returns on REITs: Implications for Market Integration and the Financial Crisis|This article uses a conditional covariance-based three-factor pricing model and a REIT index-enhanced four-factor model to examine the time variation of expected returns on REITs over the period 1972-2013. Although expected returns on equity REITs are highly correlated with their own volatility, the covariances of returns on REITs with the stock market premium, small stock premium and value premium subsume the role of the volatility of REITs in explaining expected returns on REITs. The conditional betas of REITs associated with the stock market premium and the value premium, along with the conditional correlation between the two premiums, are more important than the volatility of the stock market or other factors in explaining the time variation of expected returns on REITs, especially during the recent financial crisis. Tests of asset pricing restrictions add further evidence on the integration of the real estate market with the general stock market.
L85|Which Factors Drive Rental Depreciation Rates for Office and Industrial Properties?|As new buildings are constructed in response to changes in technology or user requirements, the value of the existing stock will decline in relative terms. This is termed economic depreciation and it may be influenced by the age and quality of buildings, amount and timing of expenditure, and wider market and economic conditions. This study tests why individual assets experience different depreciation rates, applying panel regression techniques to 375 UK office and industrial assets. Results suggest that rental value depreciation rates reduce as buildings get older, while a composite measure of age and quality provides more explanation of depreciation than age alone. Furthermore, economic and local real estate market conditions are significant in explaining how depreciation rates change over time.
L85|Long-Term Natural Cycle Momentum and Housing Price Changes in Israel, 1995-2013|"Measures of ""price momentum,"" typically a moving average of previous price changes, are known to improve the predictive power of empirical price models. We introduce polynomially-smoothed price-trend derivatives as a refined momentum measure and apply them to a database of 216 consecutive months of Israeli housing prices. Over the entire housing price cycle and for phases characterized by prices that increase or decrease at an accelerating or decelerating rate our models perform better than models with only economic fundamentals or those that add a moving average of past prices. We also show that some predictor variables which are significant over the entire housing cycle are not key predictors in all four phases; moreover, momentum is a key explanatory variable in some - but not all - phases of the housing price cycle."
L85|Demand for Green Buildings: Office Tenants' Stated Willingness-to-Pay for Green Features|This study analyzes the demand for green office building features among US office tenants. An on-line survey of a random sample of office tenants in 17 major US markets is employed, with 708 responses representing a 23% response rate. Tenants provided their perspective on green buildings and their stated willingness to pay for individual green features. Office tenants have the highest willingness to pay for improved indoor air quality and access to natural light. The results show that public firms, along with those in the Energy and Information Technology industries are most likely to pay for green-labeled buildings. Regional and demographic preferences are shown in both willingness to pay and attribute ranking. The findings provide implications for policy-makers and real estate property developers in terms of which green building features are considered to be most important for green building practices, and how demand for green features potentially differ across regions.
L85|Using Neurological Evidence to Differentiate between Informational and Social Herding among Strategic Mortgage Defaulters|Great debate is being waged between whether strategic mortgage defaulters follow a herd for social reasons or mimic others' behavior for informational gain purposes. Using functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), the latest neurological technology allowing for observation of brain activity during strategic mortgage default decision-making, we find that when defaulters learn of peer default behavior, they acknowledge the social component of the decision, but feel freer to make their own decisions. Alternatively, when observing the behavior of a maven (real estate expert), borrowers still consider the social aspect of the decision (although to a lesser extent), but ultimately follow the maven who presumably possesses a greater information set. Alarmingly, borrowers only significantly follow the herd when mavens advocate strategic default, not when they recommend against it.
L85|Papers presented during the Narodowy Bank Polski Workshop: Recent trends in the real estate market and its analysis - 2015 edition|The Narodowy Bank Polski organized during November 5-6, 2015 for the second time an international workshop to discuss current issues in the field of real estate analysis from the central bank’s point of view. The development of residential real estate prices as well as commercial real estate prices and real estate financing were also covered during the workshop. The workshop was aimed at researchers who work in academia, private firms and central banks. The workshop focused on the following topics: Real estate finance, fiscal and monetary policy and the macroeconomic and financial stability – analysis and the monitoring of real estate indicators, Modeling of real estate cycles (demand and supply), The development of property prices, its modeling and analysis.
L85|Policy measures to improve energy efficiency in Russian buildings: Forecast up to 2050|The article presents a long-term forecast of costs and benefits associated with the implementation of additional energy efficiency policies in Russian buildings. In Russia, buildings are directly and indirectly responsible for 38% of primary energy use; at the same time, they have a large energy efficiency potential. The 10 assessed scenarios of implementing packages of policy measures to improve energy efficiency illustrate that it is possible to halve fossil fuel use while providing energy services to the buildings stock which is expected to double by 2050. Additional benefits are considered, such as reduced greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution and improved indoor comfort, employment growth, improved affordability of housing services for both residents and the public sector. The paper estimates the costs and economic benefits of the implementation of energy efficiency measures and policies in the buildings sector. It shows that a new model of economic growth in Russia should be based on improving the overall economic efficiency, including energy efficiency.
L85|Determining the Impact of Residential Neighbourhood Crime on Housing Investment Using Logistic Regression|This paper discusses the impact of criminal activities on residential property value. With regard to criminal activities, the paper emphasizes on the contribution of each component of property crime. One thousand (1000) sets of structured questionnaire were administered on the residents of residential estates within the South Western States of Nigeria out of which 467 were considered useable after the data screening. Purposive and systematic sampling techniques were used while logistic regression was used to determine the impact of each of the components of residential property crime on housing investment. The results showed the P-Values of 0.000, 0.322, 0.335, 0.545 and 0.992 for violent crime, incivilities and street crime, burglary and theft, vandalism and robbery respectively. However, the R2 which represents the generalisation of the impact of neighbourhood crime on housing investment was 44 % and aggregate P-value was 0.000. Using the Hosmer and Lemeshow (H-L) test of goodness of fit, the model had approximately 89% predictive probability which is considered excellent. This indicates that the alternative hypothesis is upheld that residential neighbourhood crime is capable of impacting on residential property value. The policy implication of this result is that no effort should be spared in combating residential neighbourhood crime in order to boost and encourage housing investment.
L85|Coase and the departure from property|Ronald H. Coase was one of the most innovative and provocative economists of the twentieth century. Besides his best known papers on ‘The Nature of the Firm’ and ‘The Problem of Social Cost’, he had a major role in the development of the field of law and economics, and made numerous influential contributions to topics including public utilities, regulation and the functioning of markets. In this comprehensive Companion, 31 leading economists, social scientists and legal scholars assess the impact of his work with particular reference to the research programs initiated, the influence on policymakers, and the challenge to conventional perspectives.
L85|Advertising Expensive Mortgages|"We use a unique dataset that combines information on advertising by subprime lenders and mortgages originated by them from 2002 to 2007 to study the relationship between advertising and the nature of mortgages obtained by consumers. We exploit the richness of our data and measure the relative expensiveness of a given mortgage as the excess rate of a mortgage after accounting for a broad set of borrower, contract, and regional characteristics associated with a given mortgage--less expensive mortgages, all else equal, are better products from the perspective of the consumer. We find a strong positive relationship between the intensity of local advertising and the expensiveness of mortgages extended by lenders within a given region, with the relationship strongest for advertising through newspapers, the most heavily used channel for local advertising of mortgages. This pattern survives even after conditioning for a rich set of borrower, loan and region characteristics and exploiting differences in advertising within a given lender. Advertisers lend to consumers who, all else equal, default less, making it unlikely that our results are driven by unobservable borrower quality. We also exploit variation in mortgage advertising induced by the entry of Craigslist across different regions to demonstrate that the relation between advertising and expensiveness of mortgages is not likely to be spurious. We corroborate that advertising is most effective when targeted at groups that might be less informed about mortgages, such as the poor, the less educated and minorities. These findings are inconsistent with the ""informative view"" under which advertising allows consumers to find cheaper products, and instead support the ""persuasive view"" that advertising in the subprime mortgage market was used to steer consumers into expensive choices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
L85|Auswirkungen der Energieeinsparverordnung auf die Baukosten im Wohnungsneubau|Die in den Jahren 2009 und 2014 in Kraft getretenen Energieeinsparverordnungen (EnEV), die jeweils erhebliche Verschärfungen der baulichen Anforderungen beinhalteten, hat den Baukosten im Wohnungsneubau einen Schub gegeben. Die Effekte verteilten sich allerdings jeweils auf mehrere Jahre und wurden von anderen Entwicklungen überlagert. Einzelne Branchen des Verarbeitenden Gewerbes sowie des Baugewerbes dürften von den neuen Energieauflagen profitiert haben. Der Wohnungsneubau dürfte dadurch jedoch insgesamt etwas gedämpft worden sein.
L85|Nachtrag: Steigende Immobilienpreise und steigende Wohnungsnot: Wohnungsmarkt aus dem Gleichgewicht?|Ergänzend zu den Beiträgen im ifo Schnelldienst 16/2016 kommentiert Barbara Hendricks, Bundesministerin für Umwelt, Naturschutz, Bau und Reaktorsicherheit, die aktuelle Situation und stellt das »Bündnis für bezahlbares Wohnen und Bauen« vor.
L85|Konjunkturtest im Fokus: Boom im gesamten Dienstleistungssektor?|Zum Ende des Vorjahres erreichte der Geschäftsklimaindikator im Dienstleistungsbereich einen neuen Rekordwert in der seit 2005 laufenden Umfrage. Ausschlaggebend waren insbesondere die Antworten der Teilnehmer des Grundstücks- und Wohnungswesens. In diesem Jahr bewegt sich der Geschäftsklimaindikator nicht mehr ganz auf dem Rekordniveau vom Vorjahr, allerdings noch weit über dem langfristigen Mittelwert. Die sehr guten Ergebnisse in der Konjunkturumfrage im Bereich Dienstleistungen sind wiederum zu einem großen Teil auf die Entwicklungen in des Grundstücks- und Wohnungswesens, das von der ungestillten Nachfrage nach Immobilien profitiert, zurückzuführen. Diese Entwicklung ist nicht unbedingt auf andere Wirtschaftsbereiche übertragbar. Immobiliennahe Branchen profitieren, genauso wie die Baubranche selbst, Bereiche, die damit nicht zusammenhängen, tendenziell eher nicht. Werden die Ergebnisse des Konjunkturtests Dienstleistungen ohne die Berücksichtigung der WZ68 berechnet, so ergibt sich ein weniger positives Bild. Die Dienstleistungsbranche befindet sich zwar in einem guten wirtschaftlichen Umfeld und profitiert von der konjunkturellen Phase des Aufschwungs, aber die Situation stellt sich für einen Großteil des Bereichs nicht so positiv dar, wie die Ergebnisse des Gesamtaggregats Dienstleistungen vermuten lassen würden.
L85|Buying versus renting – Determinants of the net present value of home ownership for individual households|The tenure decision upon whether to buy or to rent accommodation has long-term consequences for households' financial wellbeing that influence macroeconomic development and stability when the cumulative effects of individual decisions are aggregated across populations. The author explains how the net present value (NPV) of ownership versus renting can be used as a framework for informing housing tenure decisions. Increases in holding periods, inflation and the spread between imputed rent and the opportunity cost of household savings shifts the balance in favour of ownership. With plausible assumptions the model demonstrates that households typically need a holding period of between five and ten years to achieve a breakeven NPV. The findings support the conjecture that inflation transfers wealth from renters and mortgage providers to owners, whereas deflation reverses the flow until rising default levels establish a new equilibrium.
L85|A cost-benefit analysis of judicial foreclosure delay and a preliminary look at new mortgage servicing rules|Foreclosure timelines have lengthened dramatically since the start of the financial crisis, particularly in states that require judicial review to complete a foreclosure, but also recently in nonjudicial states. Our analysis synthesizes findings from several lines of research, updates results, and presents new analysis to examine the costs and benefits of judicial foreclosure review. Consistent with previous studies, we find that judicial review imposes large costs with few, if any, offsetting benefits. We also provide early analysis of the new mortgage servicing rules enacted by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and find that these rules are contributing to even longer timelines, especially in nonjudicial states.
L85|Housing mortgage lending in Russia in 2015|In 2015, according to the data released by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, credit institutions extended 691,943 housing mortgage loans (HML) to the tune of Rb 1,147.339bn, which constituted 68.32% of the total amount of HML extended in 2014 and 65.04% in monetary terms. In the same period, 706,786 housing loans were originated totaling to Rb 1,168.222bn, which in quantity of loans comes to 66.71% and in monetary terms 64.14% of the extended loans.
L85|The market of land plots in Russia in 2015|According to the data released by the Rosreestr, the area of land plots owned by Russian nationals keeps decreasing and as of 1 January 2015 amounted to 115,400,000 ha or 6.8% of the land of the Russian Federation against 117m ha (6.84%) as of 1 January 2014. On the contrary, the area of land in public and municipal ownership and ownership of legal entities keeps growing. Within a year, the area of land plots owned by legal entities increased by 1.3m ha and amounted to 17.2m ha or 1.0% of the land of the Russian Federation. The area of land plots in public and municipal ownership increased by 37,900 ha. As of 1 January 2015, Russian nationals’ land shares decreased by 3.0m ha and amounted to 5.2% (89.3m ha) of the country’s land or 67.3% of land in private ownership. A decrease in the area of land in shared ownership is regarded as positive factor as land plots in shared ownership by virtue of incompleteness of that title are used inefficiently.
L85|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In November 2015|Over 10 months of 2015, entities of all patterns of ownership have built 792,000 fl ats with total fl oor space of 58.9 million sq. m., which climed to 104.2% of fl oor area commissioned as of 1 November 2014. For the category “all fl ats” the rate of accessibility decreased in 2015 on the primary and secondary housing markets to 2.49 and 2.54 years, respectively. Compared to 9 months of 2014, the number of registered plots of land by individuals for the same period of 2015 (429,157 certificates) down 12.61%. In comparison with last year, the number of housing mortgage loans (HML) for 10 months 2015 fell by 33.93% in quantitative terms (526,757 mortgages) and down 37.07% in value terms (Rb 872.82bn). As of 1 November 2015, the HML quality portfolio denominated in roubles has deteriorated: outstanding debt in percent to residual debt has moved up by 0.17 p.p. to 1.02%. Nevertheless, from March 2015, average weighted rate on rouble loans down 1.82 p.p. to 12.89%.
L85|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In November 2015|The volume of housing mortgage loans (HML) (Rb 985.29 bn) originated during January–November 2015 fell against the volume of HML originated over the same period of 2014 by 32.66% in quantitative terms and by 35.92% in monetary terms. The share of past-due debt in residual debt on HML for November 2015 has gone up in ruble loans by 0.02 p.p. to 1.05%, and on foreign currency loans – by 0.71 p.p. to 19.41%. Weighted average rate on HML in rubles extended during the month, for November 2015, has come to 12.29%, down 0.60 p.p. against October 2015 and down 2.42 p.p. maximum level posted in February 2015. The latter is due to the effective State program.
L85|Mortgage In The Russian Federation In December 2015|In 2015, 691943 housing mortgage loans (HML) were originated totaling to Rb 1.15 trillion, which demonstrate a reduction against 2014 in quantitative terms by 31.68% and in value terms – by 34.96%. The HML portfolio quality deteriorate. In 2015 against 2014, outstanding debt denominated in rubles as a share of residual debt went up by 0.19 p.p. to 1.04% and in foreign currency – by 7.81 p.p. to 20.37%. In 2015, weighted average ruble rate on HML for the year against 2014 moved up by 0.88 p.p. to 13.33%, and weighted average rate in foreign currency moved up by 0.57 p.p. to 9.82%.
L85|Austerity: A Trend Across Russia’S Region|The year of 2015 was marked by a few troublesome trends in the crisis unfolding in Russia’s regions. The overwhelming majority of Russia’s territories ran a budget deficit while regional and municipal debts were piling up. A new trend towards drastic shrinking of consumption took hold. Furthermore, investment continued to decline for three consecutive years. On the other hand, the industrial sector downturn was moderate and geographically localized, and the unemployment rate continued to grow at slowest pace. The outlook for 2016 is negative: the adverse trends are expected to worsen.
L85|The Real Estate Market In The Russian Federation In Q1 2016|In Q1 2016, 224,000 ﬂats were built totaling to 15.6 mn sq. m, which constitutes 84% of the ﬂ oor space commissioned in Q1 2015. In Q1 2016, the vol ume of land mortgage loans extended to individuals exceeded by 52.8% the volume of land mortgage loans extended to individuals in Q1 2015 and its volume came to 79.13% of the total number of mortgage loans originated in Q1 2016. In Q1 2016, credit institutions extended to borrowers 188,300 housing mortgage loans (HML) totaling to Rb 323.4 bn, which by 48% exceeded the amount of housing mortgage loans originated in Q1 2015. As of 1 April 2016, outstanding debt on HML denominated in rubles in percent to residual debt went up by 0.06 p.p. against 2015 and constituted 1.08% Average weighted rate for March 2016 on HML denominated in rubles came to 12.86% against the maximum value of 14.71% for February 2015.
L85|The real estate market in the Russian Federation in H1 2016|As for 1 August 2016, since the turn of the year 521,600 apartments were built totaling to 37.2 mn sq. m, which constitutes 92.6% of the floor area commissioned during the same period of 2015. Decline in the volumes of commissioned housing in 2016 was owing, first of all, to a reduction of housing floor area constructed by individuals. In H1 2016, the number of registrations of land mortgage loans extended to individuals exceeded by 33.6% the number of registrations of land mortgage loans extended to individuals in H1 2015 and constituted 79.02% of the total number of mortgages extended during 2016. In H1 2016, credit institutions issued 389,800 housing mortgage loans (HML) totaling to Rb 664.5bn, which by 44.2% exceeded the amount of housing mortgage loans originated in H1 2015. As of 1 July 2016, outstanding debt on HML denominated in rubles in percent to residual debt went up by 0.03 p.p. against 2015 and constituted 1.11%. Average weighted interest rate for June 2016 on HML denominated in rubles came to 12.99% exceeding by 0.48 p.p. interest rates of February 2016.
L85|Рынок Недвижимости Рф|За 10 месяцев 2015 г. организациями всех форм собственности построено 792 тыс. квартир площадью 58,9 млн кв. м, что соста- вило 104,2% к площади, введенной на 1 ноября 2014 г. Для категории «все квартиры» коэффициент доступности жилья (КДЖ) сни- зился в 2015 г. на первичном и вторичном рынках соответственно до 2,49 и 2,54 лет. По сравнению с 9 месяцами 2014 г. количество зарегистрированных ипотек земельных участков для физических лиц за аналогичный период 2015 г. (429157 актов) снизилось на 12,61%. В отличие от предыдущего года объем предоставленных ИЖК за 10 месяцев 2015 г. уменьшился на 33,93% по количеству кредитов (526757 кредитов) и на 37,07% в денежном выражении (872,820 млрд руб.). На 1 ноября 2015 г. качество портфеля ИЖК в рублях ухудшилось: просроченная задолженность в процентах от остаточной поднялась на 0,17 п.п. до 1,02%. Тем не менее, начиная с марта 2015 г., средневзвешенная ставка по кредитам в рублях снизилась на 1,82 п.п. до 12,89%.м.
L85|Ипотека В Рф|Объем предоставленных за январь–ноябрь 2015 г. ИЖК (985,29 млрд руб.) снизился по отношению к объему предоставленных за такой же период 2014 г. ИЖК на 32,66% по количеству и на 35,92% в денежном выражении. Доля просроченной задолженности в остаточной задолженности по ИЖК за ноябрь 2015 г. увеличилась по кредитам в рублях на 0,02 п.п. до 1,05%, а по кредитам в иностранной валюте – на 0,71 п.п. до 19,41%. Средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК в рублях, выданным в течение месяца, за ноябрь 2015 г. составила 12,29%, что на 0,60 п.п. меньше, чем за октябрь 2015 г. и на 2,42 п.п. меньше, чем максимальное значение в феврале 2015 г. в связи с действием программы Правительства РФ.
L85|Ипотека В Рф|В 2015 г. предоставлены 691943 ИЖК на сумму 1,15 трлн руб., что свидетельствует о снижении по сравнению с 2014 г. количественного объема на 31,68% и в денежном выражении – на 34,96%. Качество портфеля ИЖК ухудшилось: просроченная задолженность за 2015 г. относительно 2014 г. в долях от остаточной задолженности увеличилась в рублях на 0,19 п.п. до 1,04%, а в иностранной валюте – на 7,81 п.п. до 20,37%. В 2015 г. средневзвешенная ставка по ИЖК за год относительно 2014 г. поднялась в рублях на 0,88 п.п. до 13,33%, а средневзвешенная за год ставка в иностранной валюте выросла на 0,57 п.п. до 9,82%.
L85|Рынок Недвижимости В Рф|В I квартале 2016 г. построено 224,0 тыс. квартир площадью 15,6 млн кв. м, составляющих 84% от площади в I квартале 2015 г. В I квартале 2016 г. объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами на 52,8% превысил объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами в I квартале 2015 г., и его объем составил 79,13% от общего количества ипотек в I квартале 2016 г. В I квартале 2016 г. кредитные организации предоставили заемщикам 188,3 тыс. ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на общую сумму 323,4 млрд руб., что на 48% превысило сумму за ИЖК в I квартале 2015 г. На 1 апреля 2016 г. просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах к остаточной задолженности увеличилась на 0,06 п.п. относительно 2015 г. и составила 1,08%. Средневзвешенная ставка за март 2016 г. по ИЖК в рублях составила 12,86%, против максимального значения в 14,71% за февраль 2015 г.
L85|Рынок Недвижимости Российской Федерации В Первой Половине 2016 Г|На 1 августа 2016 г. с начала года построено 521,5 тыс. квартир площадью 37,2 млн кв. м, что составляет 92,6% от площади, введенной за тот же период 2015 г. Снижение введенного жилья в 2016 г. вызвано, прежде всего, уменьшением площади построенного индивидуального жилья. В 1-ом полугодии 2016 г. объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами на 33,6% превысил объем регистраций земельных ипотек физическими лицами в 1-ом полугодии 2015 г. и составил 79,02% от общего количества ипотек за 2016 г. В 1-ом полугодии 2016 г. кредитные организации предоставили заемщикам 389,8 тыс. ипотечных жилищных кредитов (ИЖК) на общую сумму 664,5 млрд руб., что на 44,2% превысило сумму ИЖК в 1-ом полугодии 2015 г. На 1 июля 2016 г. просроченная задолженность по ИЖК в рублях в процентах к остаточной задолженности увеличилась на 0,03 п.п. относительно 2015 г. и составила 1,11%. Средневзвешенная ставка за июнь 2016 г. по ИЖК в рублях составила 12,99%, превысив данные за февраль 2016 г. на 0,48 п.п.
L85|Private Ordering, Social Cohesion and Value: Residential Community Association Covenant Enforcement|Residential community associations (common interest communities such as condominiums, cooperatives and planned unit developments, as well as properties subject to homeowners associations and architectural review boards) have become the dominant form of ownership for new United States single-family residential units. Community associations typically use covenants, conditions and restrictions (also known as CCRs, C&Rs, deed restrictions or covenants) to impose extensive private-ordered controls over unit owners. This empirical study uses regression analysis of a Web-based community association enforcement practices survey, concluding that more intense private-ordered enforcement is associated with increased unit value and decreased covenant violation levels. It also finds that judicial deference to private-ordered community association enforcement decisions is associated with higher value, and that some measures of social cohesion are associated with decreased covenant violation levels.
L85|How Does Loan-To-Value Policy Strengthen Resilience of Banks to Property Price Shocks ¡V Evidence from Hong Kong|This paper sheds light on the transmission mechanism of a loan-to-value (LTV) policy to financial stability by providing three findings from Hong Kong. First, there is evidence that LTV cap tightening since 2009 has dampened both the leverage of borrowers and credit growth, and that lower leverage has played a major role in strengthening the resilience of banks to property price shocks. Second, the effect on loan growth is found to be state-dependent due to loan market disequilibrium, with a much stronger impact on loan supply than demand, which suggests that calibrating this tool to curb loan growth requires an accurate estimate of both loan demand and supply. Operationally, this could pose challenges for policymakers. Finally, we find evidence of the low responsiveness of housing demand to caps on LTV ratios, which is suggestive of the weak direct pass-through rate of the LTV policy to the property market. These findings together support the view that it would be operationally optimal for the LTV policy to primarily target household leverage, and that there are limitations in using this instrument to stabilise credit growth and property prices.
L85|Does Property Transaction Matter in the Price Discovery of Real Estate Markets?|This study examines whether property transaction affects the price discovery process in real estate markets. Prior literature shows that price discovery generally first takes place in the securitized public real estate investment trust (REIT) market. We conjecture that property transaction provides novel information to the direct real estate market and can change the dynamics between public and private real estate returns. We employ a unique dataset of property transactions to construct ¡§transaction windows¡¨ and specifically examine the causality between public and private real estate markets around these periods. We form firm-level pairs of public and private price series, and estimate the normalized common factor loadings per Gonzalo and Granger (1995) by using a vector error-correction model. Our findings show that a significant proportion of price discovery happens in the private market instead of the public REIT market. Our results are robust to investments of different property types and different lengths of transaction windows. Overall, the findings in this study imply that property acquisition and disposition provide crucial information to the private real estate market and induce a reverse causality between the public and private markets.
L85|The Helping Hand of the State in Chinese Real Estate Firms: Anti-corruption and Liberalization|We show that traditional western style corporate governance tools are ineffective in Chinese real estate firms by using data from 2000 to 2012. Instead, we find evidence of effective state governance, such as corruption cleanups and financial market liberalization. Specifically, firms with fewer state connections experience better performance in provinces with greater corruption prosecutions and after 2006 with accelerated stock market liberalization. Overall, our results suggest that the Chinese real estate industry is becoming more market-oriented with assistance from the state.
L85|Impact of Remittance Income on House Prices: Evidence from Bangladesh|During the past three decades, the Bangladesh economy has been characterized by higher economic growth, and record levels of remittance income from both foreign and domestic sources. By using household data, and ordinary least squares (OLS) and quantile regressions, this study explores the factors that affect house prices in Bangladesh. Particular attention is given to the role of domestic and foreign remittance incomes. The results reveal that both domestic and foreign remittance incomes have positive and significant effects on housing prices in Bangladesh. The results from this study indicate that house prices and estimated prices of housing attributes may reflect the fact that housing attributes are not priced the same across a given distribution of house prices. Furthermore, the quantile regression shows that unlike the single OLS estimate, parameter estimates differ along the distribution of house prices per square feet.
L85|Are Real Estate Banks More Affected by Real Estate Market Dynamics?|The literature primarily focuses on the effect of changes on property prices in terms of macrovariables and monetary aggregates. Only a few studies have taken into account bank characteristics when considering the effects of real estate market trends on bank lending policies and performance, and there is no study that controls for the type of bank or loan purpose. The paper studies the linkage between property market trends and bank risk exposure. We test for any significant difference of real estate banks with respect to other banks and the different roles of the real estate market trend in explaining changes in bank risk exposure. The empirical evidence demonstrates that real estate banks are not always riskier than other banks, and specialized banks are less sensitive to real estate market trends than other banks.
L85|Contagious Real Estate Cycle: Case of the US Subprime Related Crisis|The recent U.S. financial crisis has been found to be unique compared with previous crises: it started when problems first appeared in the housing market and subprime lending, and then spread to the whole financial system and national economy. Through the securitization of structured private label mortgage products, its impact even reached the international capital markets. To explore the cause of the long and far-reaching effect of the current subprime-induced crisis, we review a series of events and government policies prior, during, and after the subprime and housing crisis. Using qualitative and quantitative models, we show that the low interest rate and passive market supervisory policies made by the U.S. government are among the main drivers of the housing boom. During the housing bust, despite a more aggressive regulatory environment, several conflicting policies that were implemented may have prolonged and deepened the recession. Based on these hypotheses, we argue that contagious real estate cycles can be prevented and/or controlled by more proactive counter-cyclical government intervention.
L85|The Role of Sponsors and External Management on the Capital Structure of Asian-Pacific REITs: The Case of Australia, Japan, and Singapore|This paper studies how the presence of sponsor and external management affect leverage and debt maturity decisions in three major Asian-Pacific real estate investment trust (REIT) markets: Australia, Japan and Singapore. Our empirical results indicate that sponsored REITs opt for higher levels of leverage and loans with longer maturity. On the contrary, externally managed REITs are associated with lower leverage and loans with shorter maturity. Our results are robust to the inclusion of other firm variables and to alternative specifications. Subsequent to the financial crisis, the impact of sponsorship on debt financing decisions has diminished, and borrowing of externally managed REITs is further constrained.
L85|Financing Patterns and Property Acquisitions of Sponsor-backed REITs: Evidence from J-REIT Markets|By using data on 51 real estate investment trusts (REITs) and 755 real estate deals from 2003¡V2011 in Japan, this study presents evidence that the funding approach decisions of a sponsor-backed REIT differ from those of a REIT without a sponsor. The implications derived from the presented empirical analyses are threefold. First, with regard to the determinants of the choice of the funding approach, under a continuous high stock price trend or a rise in the stock price of a REIT, the probability of choosing stock issuance increases when the REIT and sponsor firm strike real estate deals. Second, the literature asserts that real estate asset liquidity and debt choice are positively related. However, our results suggest that under a high stock price trend, a REIT chooses stock issuance even when it purchases real estate assets that have a high degree of liquidity. Third, debt issuance is chosen when a REIT and its sponsor firm make numerous and large real estate deals when the stock price of the REIT falls.
L85|The Effect of Appurtenant Golf Memberships on Residential Real Estate Prices|Considerable prior research confirms the existence of real estate price premiums associated with golf course amenities in residential development projects. This study examines a unique residential development project in which membership in a golf club is appurtenant to the real estate: ownership of certain (but not all) dwellings in the project includes deeded membership in the project¡¦s golf club. In this development project, golf memberships can only be obtained or disposed of by acquiring or selling the associated dwelling, respectively. The results of this analysis indicates that price premiums associated with appurtenant golf memberships, after controlling for golf course view and other relevant property characteristics, are significantly positive. Furthermore, the results indicate that the magnitude of the price premium for appurtenant golf memberships varies across dwelling types (detached vs. attached) in this project. These findings may be important for housing developers, consumers, lenders, appraisers, and property and income tax authorities.
L85|Five Property Types¡¦ Real Estate Cycles as Markov Chains|Metro market real estate cycles for office, industrial, retail, apartment, and hotel properties may be specified as first order Markov chains, which allow analysts to use a well-developed application, ¡§staying time¡¨. Anticipations for time spent at each cycle point are consistent with the perception of analysts that these cycle changes speed up, slow down, and pause over time. We find that these five different property types in U.S. markets appear to have different first order Markov chain specifications, with different staying time characteristics. Each of the five property types have their longest mean staying time at the troughs of recessions. Moreover, industrial and office markets have much longer mean staying times in very poor trough conditions. Most of the shortest mean staying times are in hyper supply and recession phases, with the range across property types being narrow in these cycle points. Analysts and investors should be able to use this research to better estimate future occupancy and rent estimates in their discounted cash flow (DCF) models.
L85|Efficiency and Justice in the Market for Cooperative Dwellings|We exploit the fact that cooperative dwellings carry different mutual debt to examine whether such debt is perfectly reflected in sales prices. When mutual debt in housing cooperatives is paid down through the rent, the differences in mutual debt result in rent differences. We use implicit information on expenditures of serving mutual debt contained in rent differences as an alternative method for studying efficiency in the cooperative housing market. Our results indicate that differences in mutual debt are perfectly reflected in prices, but that rent differences are less useful for examining housing market efficiency.
L85|Contagion, Interdependence and Diversification across Regional UK Housing Markets|UK home prices often exhibit only moderate (and sometimes barely positive) correlation across different regions. This reflects segmentation in the national housing market and also provides an apparent opportunity for lenders and investors to diversify their exposure to regional downturns, for instance, by creating residential mortgage backed securities out of geographically dispersed home loans. Unfortunately, in a crisis, correlations may rise, and the benefits from geographical diversification may disappear just when investors desire them the most. By using a flexible generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity technique, we find that regional correlations indeed rose dramatically during the latest downturn, in some cases, to unprecedented levels. Moreover, this increase in co-movement was clearly financial contagion, and not merely interdependence. Lenders, as well as investors in mortgage-backed and other housing securities should thus not rely on house price correlations calculated during ¡§normal¡¨ times.
L85|The Effects of Time Constraints on Broker Behavior in China¡¦s Resale Housing Market: Theory and Evidence|This study examines the effects of time pressure on residential real estate broker behavior. Consistent with our intuition, we find that when under a binding time constraint, brokers do transact the property more quickly, but do not work as hard and ultimately recommend less optimal homes. Interestingly, brokers earn the same commission when operating in either a low or high time pressure environment. When the characteristics of the broker are considered, we find that experienced brokers are significantly more effective at matching buyers and sellers under time constrained conditions.
L85|Malaysia REITs: First Decade Development and Returns Characteristics|Real estate investment trusts (REITs) are a niche alternative investment class. Since their introduction in Asia at the turn of the millennium, the REIT market in the region has experienced phenomenal growth. In particular, the Malaysia REIT (M-REIT) market capitalisation has seen a spectacular growth of close to 20 folds from its inception in 2005 until the end of 2013. This paper chronicles the development of the M-REIT market which is rather unique as it provides a common platform for the existence of both conventional and Islamic REITs. Empirical tests are also conducted to uncover the returns characteristics of the M-REIT market. M-REIT returns are significantly correlated with domestic stock markets but only weakly correlated with changes in interest rate, with long-term proxies having a stronger impact than short-term proxies. The results from a correlation analysis are further confirmed by regression testing which shows that M-REIT returns are most significantly driven by domestic stock market returns while only mildly by changes in interest rates and not significantly driven by returns in regional REIT markets. These findings possibly imply that M-REITs (i) subscribe more to the characteristics of equity than those of bonds, (ii) are not ¡¥pure¡¦ yield-play instruments, (iii) are often regarded as long-term investment, and (iv) may not be fully integrated with global and regional REIT markets.
L85|ifo Architektenumfrage: Weiterhin hohe Auftragsbestände|Nach den Ergebnissen der vierteljährlichen Umfrage des ifo Instituts bei den freischaffenden Architekten hat sich das Geschäftsklima zu Beginn des dritten Quartals 2011 nochmals etwas aufgehellt. Es ist weiterhin recht freundlich. Die befragten Architekten schätzten ihre aktuelle Geschäftslage abermals besser, ihre Geschäftsaussichten allerdings ein wenig skeptischer ein als vor einem Vierteljahr. Im zweiten Quartal 2011 konnten 55% der freischaffenden Architekten neue Verträge abschließen. Der durchschnittliche Bestand an Aufträgen nahm zu. Mit 6,1 Monaten waren die Auftragsreserven Ende Juni 2011 um gut einen halben Monat höher als vor drei Jahren und etwa 75% umfangreicher als vor acht Jahren.
L85|ifo Architektenumfrage: Geschäftsklima leicht eingetrübt|Nach den Umfrageergebnissen des ifo Instituts hat sich das Geschäftsklima bei den freischaffenden Architekten zu Beginn des ersten Quartals 2010 geringfügig verschlechtert. Die leichte Eintrübung basiert dabei auf etwas ungünstigeren Geschäftslageurteilen, die zukünftige Entwicklung schätzten die Testteilnehmer sogar ein wenig optimistischer ein als noch vor einem Vierteljahr. Die durchschnittliche Reichweite der Auftragsbestände der befragten Architekturbüros stieg weiter an. Die Auftragspolster betrugen zum Jahresende 2009 rund 5,6 Monate. Dies ist der höchste Wert seit 15 Jahren. Vor einem Jahr waren die Auftragsreserven noch knapp einen halben Monat geringer.
