L87|Vertical integration in the e-commerce sector|This paper studies vertical integration of a retailer and an operator in the e-commerce sector. It shows first that the comparison between independent oligopoly and integrated monopoly involves a tradeoff between competition and double marginalization which will have the opposite effect. With linear demand we need at least 3 firms (upstream and downstream) for the independent oligopoly to yield larger surplus. With constant elasticity demand, on the other hand, this is always true. Second it considers a setting where the number of firms is endogenous and determined such that gross profits cover fixed costs. While the integration of a single retailer-delivery operator pair may initially be welfare improving, the resulting market structure may not be sustainable. Furthermore, there exist a range of fixed costs for which the integrated monopoly emerges (following a single integration) and is welfare inferior to the initial independent equilibrium even when the reduction in the number of fixed costs is taken into account. Within this setting it also shows that multiple integration is typically welfare superior (for a given total number of firms) to the integration of a single retailer-delivery operator. Third and last, it considers an extension wherein customers differ according to their location, urban or rural, involving di¤erent delivery costs. It shows that urban integration is more likely to have an adverse effect on welfare than full integration.
L87|Vertical integration in the e-commerce sector|This paper studies vertical integration of a retailer and an operator in the e-commerce sector. It shows first that the comparison between independent oligopoly and integrated monopoly involves a tradeoff between competition and double marginalization which will have the opposite effect. With linear demand we need at least 3 firms (upstream and downstream) for the independent oligopoly to yield larger surplus. With constant elasticity demand, on the other hand, this is always true. Second it considers a setting where the number of firms is endogenous and determined such that gross profits cover fixed costs. While the integration of a single retailer-delivery operator pair may initially be welfare improving, the resulting market structure may not be sustainable. Furthermore, there exist a range of fixed costs for which the integrated monopoly emerges (following a single integration) and is welfare inferior to the initial independent equilibrium even when the reduction in the number of fixed costs is taken into account. Within this setting it also shows that multiple integration is typically welfare superior (for a given total number of firms) to the integration of a single retailer-delivery operator. Third and last, it considers an extension wherein customers differ according to their location, urban or rural, involving di¤erent delivery costs. It shows that urban integration is more likely to have an adverse effect on welfare than full integration.
L87|An Evaluation of Cross-Efficiency Methods, Applied to Measuring Warehouse Performance|In this paper method and practice of cross-efficiency calculation is discussed. The main methods proposed in the literature are tested not on a set of artificial data but on a realistic sample of input-output data of European ware- houses. The empirical results show the limited role which increasing automation investment and larger warehouse size have in increasing productive performance. The reason is the existence of decreasing returns to scale in the industry, resulting in sub-optimal scales and inefficiencies, regardless of the operational performance of the facilities. From the methodological perspective, and based on a multidimensional metric which considers the capability of the various methods to rank warehouses, their ease of implementation, and their robustness to sensitivity analyses, we conclude to the superiority of the classic Sexton et al. (1986) method over recently proposed, more sophisticated methods.
L87|A new model of free global positioning system using triple DME|This paper introduces a new scheme of global positioning system (GPS) without using of satellites or GPS- Free positioning. It is based on using triple distance measurement equipment (DME) which can be implemented with a map includes; determined longitude and latitude on the user`s receiver. First, advantages, previous studies and activities which are related to this subject is described as well as the DME properties are presented. Then, a practical model of triple DME and implementation of mathematical model on the map for finding the positions are discussed. Finally, the results of simulations are shown as well as the future of GPS- Free project and its prospective is stated.
L87|Uniform Service, Uniform Productivity? Regional Efficiency of the Imperial German Postal, Telegraph, and Telephone Service|Using the regional productivity of the Reichspost, the postal service of the German Empire, I investigate whether a public monopolist operates with uniform regional productivity. Using DEA efficiency scores we derive the relative productivity of the post, telegraph and telephone sectors from 1891 to 1908. Results show a fairly stable system with substantial raw productivity differences between postal districts and that the expansion of the service offset technological productivity increases for the mail service.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L87|Editorial statement: Switching costs in the European postal service. Are there any solutions?|This article examines the costs of switching that may exist in the European postal sector, where it is carried out an ambitious process of opening to competition since 1997. Inadequate regulation of the access to some elements of postal infrastructure or services within the scope of the universal postal service exists. This article proposes adaptations to ensure transparent and non-discriminatory access conditions to elements of postal infrastructure in line with the sectorial directives aimed at strengthening competition in the long term in the postal market. The proposed adaptations focus on services such as postcode systems, address databases, post office boxes, delivery boxes, re-direction and return to sender services. All of them can help reduce the switching cost and thus strengthen competition.
L87|Collaboration between Logistics Service Providers and the Bulgarian Manufacturing and Trade Enterprises|In strategy realisation manufacturing and trade enterprises perform a complex mix of activities, including logistics. They can de­cide whether to do them independently or to outsource to specialised organisations. This practice is common for the logistics and these organisations are called logistics service provid­ers. They perform different solutions for man­agement of the material flows across the supply chain – usually transport and warehousing ser­vices. This partnership is extremely important because the negative impact of the inadequate realisation is on the company that outsource and for the whole supply chain. That is why the abilities of the logistics service providers determinate overall performance of the supply chain. In the article are encompassed the main aspects of the interaction between logistics ser­vice providers and Bulgarian manufacturing and trade enterprises. By conducting a survey the main characteristics of this collaboration are re­vealed. The results show that the logistics ser­vice providers have high level of orientation and they are flexible to the needs of their customers and variety of technological facilities exist for achieving active partnership, unfortunately all of this in not fully used
L87|Boosting competition on Israeli markets|Promoting competition to enhance productivity at the firm level and resulting income and growth improvement and a lower cost of living is an important economic and social challenge in Israel. Consistent evidence shows multiple deficiencies leading to a dual functioning of the economy between exposed and sheltered sectors. Product markets are hampered by regulations that are far from best practice. Because of its geographical and geopolitical situation, Israel is less open to foreign trade than other small OECD countries. Moreover, its product markets feature monopolies in many sectors. Addressing these issues have been high on the policy agenda since the 2011 “tent protests”, and the authorities have adopted or launched reforms in many domains since then. However, further increases in foreign trade exposure by lowering non-tariff barriers, making regulation more competition-friendly in network industries, especially electricity, and reducing the oligopolistic structure of the food and banking sectors would still have considerable economic payoffs.This Working Paper relates to the 2016 OECD Economic Review of Israel www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-israel.htm Stimuler la concurrence sur les marchés israéliens Promouvoir la concurrence pour accroître la productivité dans les entreprises et les gains en résultant pour les revenus et la croissance et abaisser le coût de la vie constitue un enjeu économique et social de taille pour Israël. Certains éléments concordants montrent de multiples déficiences qui mènent à un fonctionnement dual de l’économie, partagée entre secteurs exposés à la concurrence internationale et ceux qui en sont protégés. Les marchés de produits sont entravés par des réglementations qui sont loin de constituer des exemples de bonnes pratiques. De par sa situation géographique et géopolitique, Israël est une économie moins ouverte aux échanges internationaux que d’autres petites économies de l’OCDE. Qui plus est, ses marchés de produits se caractérisent par l’existence de monopoles dans de nombreux secteurs. Les autorités ont fait de ces questions une priorité depuis la « révolte des tentes » de 2011 et ont depuis lors adopté ou engagé des réformes dans de nombreux domaines. Toutefois, une plus forte exposition aux échanges internationaux via une réduction des obstacles non tarifaires, une réglementation plus favorable à la concurrence dans les industries de réseau, en particulier dans le secteur de l’électricité, et une organisation moins oligopolistique du marché de l’alimentation et du marché bancaire, serait grandement payante sur le plan économique. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de l’Israël 2016 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-israel.htm).
L87|A New Approach: Maximizing Load Ratios Of Vehicles To Maintain Profitability In Open Vehicle Problems|Open vehicle routing problem (OVRP) is a special case of the well-known vehicle routing problem (VRP), which is one of the most popular optimization issues in transportation. In open vehicle problems, the ultimate goal is usually defined as finding the routes with the optimum costs, by means of fleet size and the travelled distance. Vehicles do not return to the depot after delivering their goods to the customer nodes. There is a classical approach of finding the shortest paths and minimum fleet size to solve these problems. However, most logistic companies are often interested in the load ratio of their vehicles as well. They expect their vehicles to take long distances with reasonable load ratios. For a vehicle to leave the big percentage of the load in the first delivery points and take the remaining much longer distance almost empty is an unwanted situation. In this study, a solution to the open vehicle routing problems is proposed from this perspective. To solve these kinds of NP-Hard problems, using metaheuristics is a fine way of obtaining good-enough solutions within reasonable time. In this study, a modified genetic algorithm is coded and a user-friendly decision support system is designed to solve this specific problem.
L87|Quality and Competitiveness: A Lean Six Sigma Approach|Originally developed to improve the quality and production efficiency, Lean Six Sigma is now widely adopted in other non-manufacturing sectors such as financial, trade, services, etc. The methodology known as Lean Six Sigma combines the Six Sigma techniques, ? which allow companies to reduce manufacturing defects ? and the Lean Manufacturing principles, ? which help companies benefit from faster processing for lower costs and with superior quality. As a result of the research, the authors observed that, despite growing popularity and impressive outcomes obtained by some companies, the Lean Six Sigma model does not always offer the expected results. However, the research has shown that the analysed company, operating in the field of courier services has managed to boost productivity and competitiveness by implementing measures that generated added value.
L87|Capacité d’innovation du prestataire de services logistiques et performance logistique perçue par l’industriel : quelle relation dans le contexte vietnamien ?|The rapid growth of logistics service providers (LSP) has become a reality in many developed countries, but also in economies in transition. They now offer a wide range of services to their clients, and they demonstrate a significant innovation capability in the creation of new value added services. The question is whether their clients are aware that innovation capability positively influences their logistical performance. If it is the case, it would mean that the most innovative LSP are in a favorable position on the market, and they can expect a strong loyalty of their clients. This article studies the link between the innovation capability of LSP and the logistical performance perceived by the manufacturer, from the results of a research conducted with 139 Vietnamese food manufacturers. JEL Codes : L66, L87, M10, R49
L87|Corporate Strategies Adapted To Markets Typology –Application On Postal Services Sector|Nowadays the market of postal services faces a period of reconfiguration due to the process of liberalization. The changes that come along with this process are affecting providers and public regulatory authorities. Based on a documentary research, this paper presents the results of an analysis made on the EU28’s postal services’ markets, with a special emphasis on the liberalization of those markets. The second part represents an economic analysis of postal services’ coordinates and highlights the main considerations about the universal postal service, from the competition point of view.
L87|Specific Features Of Postal Service Market Liberalization|The universal postal service is part of the general interest economic services in which the state intervention is needed. From the economic and financial point of view, it is absolutely necessary to find the best formula by which a financial aid does not represent the premises of a state aid. The specific features of this market are determined by the minimum conditions imposed on what the frequency and speed delivery are concerned, in conditions of maximal rates. This paper focuses on an analysis on the EU’s postal services’ markets, from the competition point of view, with a special emphasis on the specific features of the players on this market, as well as on the benefits for their clients. The second part of the study focuses on actual situations from two EU’s different states and on competition aspects that these states have confronted with.
L87|Promoting competition at the digital age with an application to Belgium|In this paper, we develop a fully-fledged postal market model to assess the extent of competition in the mail market in a context of declining mail volumes due to e- substitution. Our focus will be on the Belgian market situation that is interesting for at least two reasons. First, the homogenous nature of the country implies that the extent of the entrant's market coverage will be either limited to the few very densely populated areas or large covering the whole country at the exception of the few very sparely populated areas. Second, because strong licensing requirements -including coverage constraints- are imposed on competing postal operators and they may constitute barrier to entry. Our model allows us to estimate the extent of entry, the cost of meeting the licensing requirements for potential entrants and the impact of entry on the cost of the universal service.
L87|Reforming the Postal Universal Service|The postal sector has undergone dramatic changes over the recent years under the double effect of ongoing liberalization and increased competition with alternative communication channels (e-substitution). As a result, the mail volume handled by the historical operator has declined sharply while the latter’s ability to match the same standard of universal service may be under threat. Thus, a reform of the postal universal service is on the agenda. This paper examines possible reforming options ranging from keeping universal service within the postal sector to redefining universal service as spanning postal and electronic technologies.
L87|The Analysis Of Human Capital Chosen Components Of The Service Sector Employees|The main purpose of the article is to present the results of the evaluation of selected components of human capital of employees of the post offices of the Koszalin region. Assessed elements were isolated based on an analysis of job offers and consultations with senior managers of the company. Evaluation of components made using questionnaires which were sent to all of the 628 employees of the region employed as a postman and an assistant. The study included specific components of human capital of workstations characterized by the widest range of cooperation with the recipient of postal services. The article contains the results of the evaluation components common to the studied positions. The key objective of the analysis of the information is to demonstrate the disparities in the opinion of employees. This can be a basis to take into account employee diversity during creating the human capital management process. Such an approach can help to increase the efficiency of the management process by adapting it to the specific nature of the staff.
L87|Services Trade Restrictiveness Index (STRI): Logistics Services|This paper presents the services trade restrictiveness indices (STRIs) for logistics services. The STRIs are composite indices taking values between zero and one, zero representing an open market and one a market completely closed to foreign services providers. The indices are calculated for 40 countries, the 34 OECD members and Brazil, the People’s Republic of China, India, Indonesia, the Russian Federation and South Africa. The STRIs capture de jure restrictions. This report presents the first vintage of indicators for logistics services and captures regulations in force in 2014. The scores range from 0.08 to 1 for cargo-handling services, 0.04 to 1 for storage and warehouse services, 0.02 to 0.58 for freight transport agency services and 0.03 to 1 for customs brokerage services. It is observed that the regulatory profile differs across countries. In cargo-handling and storage and warehouse services, one country reserves all services provision to a statutory monopoly while another country reserves cargo-handling to a monopoly at port. Freight transport agency has the lowest average score among four subsectors while restrictions on foreign entry, restrictions on the movement of people and regulatory transparency significantly contribute to the results. One country is completely closed to foreign participation in customs brokerage services. The paper presents the list of measures included in the indices, the scoring and weighting system for calculating the indices and an analysis of the results.
L87|Letter Grading Government Efficiency| We mailed letters to non-existent business addresses in 159 countries (10 per country), and measured whether they come back to the return address in the United States and how long it takes. About 60% of the letters were returned, taking over six months, on average. The results provide new objective indicators of government efficiency across countries, based on a simple and universal service, and allow us to shed light on its determinants. The evidence suggests that both technology and management quality influence government efficiency, just as they do that of the private sector.
L87|Postal-sector policy: From monopoly to regulated competition and beyond|This paper discusses the main aspects of the competitive and regulatory state of the postal sector. It presents the different models for postal competition and regulation in the EU and the US and their history, together with their implications on regulation, with a focus on universal services and network access. While postal monopolies used to be the main source of funding for universal service obligations, the need for alternative funding sources after full liberalization has increased the interest of regulators and the public in knowing the cost of these obligations. In parallel, new means of electronic communication and consumer needs call the traditional scope of universal services into question. This paper outlines the economic rationale of current policies and directions for future postal regulation to strengthen the postal services' commercial viability in a competitive age, while safeguarding their relevant characteristics for the economy.
L87|How they made news pay: news traders’ quest for crisis-resistant business models|This paper discusses the problem, implied by Arrow’s fundamental paradox of information, of how to make money from news. To earn money from important news, news traders need to tell the potential buyer what it is, yet once they have revealed it, the buyer no longer needs to pay. This paper discusses how historically this paradox made it difficult for news agencies to profit from selling important news during crises, and how they gradually developed new business models in response. It examines these models and investigates how they interacted with market structure, resulting in just a few international news agencies dominating the international news supply.
L87|Analysing the prospects for transactional Mail using a sender-recipient framework|We build an analytical model à la Hotelling describing the process of e-substitution in the market for transactional mail. A generic firm sells a final good to customers, with each unit sold requiring one unit of communication between firm and customer, which can take the form of either letter mail or of an e-substitute. A fraction of customers has no access to the e-substitute technology, and the other customers differ in their exogenous preference for mail vs substitute. Also, the communications strategy of the business impacts on the demand for its final product, with letter mail may be preferred for some types of communications, on the grounds that it could increase overall demand. We then calibrate the model and show how the extent of e-substitution depends on the distribution of preferences, the objective function of the representative firm, and on how much mail impacts the firm’s final demand. We conclude with suggestions as to how this analysis may inform a postal operator intent on slowing down e-substitution.
L87|Services Trade Restrictiveness Index (STRI): Transport and Courier Services|This paper presents the services trade restrictiveness indices (STRIs) for transport and courier services. The STRIs are composite indices taking values between zero and one, zero representing an open market and one a market completely closed to foreign services providers. The indices are calculated for 40 countries, the 34 OECD members and Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Russia and South Africa. This report presents the first vintage of indicators for transport and courier services and captures de jure regulations in force in 2013. The STRI supports the view that these services are subject to very different regulatory frameworks and, in some cases, to a relatively elevated degree of regulation. Indices for air transport covering measures affecting commercial establishment and accompanying movement of natural persons are on average quite high (0.43), with little variation across countries. A preliminary assessment of restrictiveness in cross-border trade in the sector shows that, while some progress in easing restrictions has been achieved through open skies agreements, significant limitations remain in place. The maritime transport sector is moderately open with an average STRI of 0.25. Foreign equity restrictions are still quite common in the sector and contribute significantly to the index. Most other sector-specific restrictions are found in the cabotage market and in ports. In road freight transport, the results confirm that the domestic road freight transport regime has been significantly liberalised over the years, and currently commercial establishment in the sector is largely affected by horizontal measures. The overall level of restrictiveness is relatively low with an average of 0.16, but exhibits pretty large variation. With respect to rail freight, the STRI also supports the view that considerable reforms have been undertaken in the sector in the past decades. The average level of restrictiveness is moderate at 0.22, although two countries maintain a statutory state-owned monopoly, which implies that the sector is completely closed to foreign suppliers. Finally, for courier services the results show that the overall level of restrictiveness is moderate with a sample average of 0.26. There is, however, large variation in STRI indices among countries. The elevated levels of restrictiveness are found in countries where foreign equity restrictions or statutory monopolies exist.
L87|Some hypotheses regarding the mobile telecommunications services marketing and consumers rights from Romania|The current research analysis consumers’ rights concerning personal data processing and confidentiality protection within the public communications sector as they are stated in the 2002/58/CE Directive of the European Parliament and Council from 12th of July 2002. The study objectives are: the way that users/ subscribers get informed about their rights in the field of mobile telephony services; the way that mobile telephony services operators inform their users/ subscribers about the subscription included services; the way that mobile telephony services operators inform their uses/ subscribers about the supplementary services that can be demanded; the rights regarding the personal data processing and confidentiality protection that mobile telephony services consumers agree with; the users/subscribers rights most frequently broken. The marketing research used a questionnaire based survey during January - March 2013 on a sample of 85 users/ subscribers from Romania. It has a preliminary character, shaping a further investigation activity with a higher thematic coverage and a smaller error under the limit of 5%. The data gathering method was a questionnaire based interview. Data were analyzed using the SPSS informatics program, version 16.0 for Windows. The following statistical functions were used for validating/invalidating the hypotheses: descriptive statistics, factor analysis and correlation function.
L87|Analysis And Perspectives Of Private Postal And Courier Services In Romania During 2009-2015|Services occupy an important role in a country’s economic development. At present, services sector is under a continuous change and diversification, for this reason theoretical and practical approaches are both difficult and controversial. Services have complex forms of manifestation, being involved in all compartments of economic and social life; have a heterogeneous character (Criveanu, 2009, p.13). The evaluation and measurement of postal services sector through some indicators, such as: the population occupied in this sector and its change in time; internal and international traffic of mail; degree of employees’ burden. The development of postal and courier sector during the period preceding 2009 was influenced by external factors such as the growth of the GDP, the development of niche segments, the ascending trend being a normal consequence of the evolution of the entire national economy. Although the field of postal services has felt the evolution of national economy and the effects of the economic crisis, the strategies adopted by private companies in this sector have demonstrated the necessity of knowing the market, its evolutions and perspectives. The present paper aims at analyzing the evolution of postal and courier services in Romania during 2009-2012, a period marked by the profound economic crisis which affected Romania and the European Union, as well as the perspectives regarding the number of employees in this sector within private companies in Romania during 2013-2015 using statistical methods to forecast the employed population in private companies in this sector.
L87|Comparative Study of the Characteristics of the Courier Companies Operating in Bulgaria|Theoretical concepts discussed in present paper concerns on the nature of courier services and combinations of various additional components that can meet the demands and requirements of customers. Drawn are some specifics that apply to courier services, also there are described principles governing a modern system of customer service and we systematize the terms of delivery that can be used in forming the comparative characteristic of courier companies operating on a particular market. In the research part there has been conducted analysis of the non-universal postal services (NPU) in Bulgaria, the study traced their status in comparative perspective as characteristics of the proposed conditions for international and domestic supply of selected courier companies operating in our country. On this basis, are located several numbers of problems that accompany the provision of courier services in Bulgaria and allege some recommendations to improve the quality of customer service.
L87|Termination charges in the international parcel market|In our increasingly technology-focused world, demand for traditional postal services is steadily shrinking. This timely volume examines the many challenges that the worldwide postal sector is facing as a result of growing electronic competition, and offers expert recommendations for reshaping postal structures to strengthen their competitiveness in an electronic age.
L87|Allocating fixed costs in the postal sector in the presence of changing letter and parcel volumes: applied in outdoor delivery|No abstract is available for this item.
L87|Development of Postal Services Until 2020|Abstract Postal service volumes have diminished and the profitability of postal and courier activities has weakened in Finland in recent years. The study evaluates the development of the service volumes, profitability and employment of postal and courier activities until 2020. The distribution volumes of letters and newspapers will continue to decline in the future because of the increasing internet use in communication. This will increase the unit cost of production in postal service activities because the universal service obligation tends to increase the transportation costs of letters in relation to the distribution volumes. The profitability of postal services is not expected to improve until 2020 because the increasing unit costs can hardly be passed on to the producer price of postal services in the future to a greater extent than today. Moreover, the diminishing postal service volumes will lead to decreasing employment in postal and courier activities.
L87|The Impact of the USO on the Profitability of Postal Service Provision|Abstract This study aims at investigating the order of magnitude of financial burden of the universal service obligation for the universal service provider, Itella, in the Finnish postal sector. It evaluates the difference between universal service provider’s profitability with the universal service obligation and without it. The data suggest that the provision of universal letter services in compliance with the law causes a notable financial burden for Itella. The profitability of the universal service provider is clearly lower than that of other firms active in the Finnish postal and courier activities sector. During the years 2005–2012, the annual loss due to the universal letter service obligation was about 76 million euros, or 5–8 percent of the turnover of the universal service provider.
L87|The Impact of the USO on the Profitability of Postal Service Provision in Finland|This study aims at investigating the order of magnitude of financial burden of the universal service obligation for the universal service provider. Prior studies have adopted various different cost accounting methods to assess the order of magnitude of net costs arising from postal universal service provision. This study, instead, uses econometric approach for predicting hypothetical profits that the universal service provider had earned without the universal service obligation, and then calculates the net losses for the firm. The econometric model takes into account the impact of cost efficiency on a firm’s profits and further the universal service provider’s entitlement to reasonable profits on postal markets. The data from the firms active in the postal and courier activities sector in Finland during the years 2005-2012 indicate that the profitability of universal service provider was clearly lower than that of competitors during the sample time period. The annual loss due to the universal service obligation was about 5 – 8 percent of the turnover of the universal service provider.
L87|Industria postale e corriere espresso|Postal and delivery services are an important sector of the economy. While express courier services are booming, traditional postal services are gradually declining because of the esubstitution effect. It is vital for the sector to foster competitive playing level fields also by granting access to the network. However postal service regulation concerning access should not be confused or identified with telecommunication regulation. Differently from telecom, postal services are a highly labor intensive industry where the last mile delivery is not an essential facility.
L87|Liberalisation, competition and innovation in the postal sector|This paper empirically assesses the effect of liberalisation and competition on innovation in the postal sector. The analysis is restricted to end-to-end competition. The effect on the incentives to innovate of letter volume, public ownership and other control variables is also tested. Data on liberalisation, competition and innovation in the postal sector is collected for seventeen European countries over eleven years. Three measures are used as proxies for innovation: (1) an innovation index based on a survey conducted for this purpose; (2) the accumulated number of innovations (based on the same survey); and (3) labour productivity. We also develop a liberalisation index to measure the percentage of market liberalised (in terms of letter volume). Several models are estimated by GLS. In general, the models estimated have a high explanatory power. We find evidence that market liberalisation has a positive effect on innovation and that an increase in the market share of the competitors stimulates the investment in innovation, at least until the market share of the competitors reaches a certain threshold. Letter volume is also significant and has a positive impact on innovation. GDP per capita turns out to be significant and has a positive relationship with innovation in all the models estimated. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
L87|Allocating fixed costs in the postal sector in the presence of changing letter and parcel volumes: applied in outdoor delivery|No abstract is available for this item.
L87|Möglichkeiten eines gemeinsam definierten Universaldienst Post und Telekommunikation aus ökonomischer und juristischer Sicht|The study develops a sector-overlapping definition of universal services including the postal and telecommunications sector. In a second step, the financial consequences are modeled.
L87|Defining and financing an intermodal USO|This paper assesses the potential of a combined ?USO in communications?, i.e. a USO that simultaneously defines the physical and digital requirements for the conveyance of communication irrespective of the specific sector.
L87|Evaluación del marco regulatorio expedido por la Comisión de Regulación de Comunicaciones entre 2009 y 2011. Informe Final|El presente documento evalúa cualitativa y cuantitativamente el impacto del marco regulatorio expedido por la Comisión de Regulación de Comunicaciones (CRC) entre los años 2009 y 2011, para los sectores de TIC y Postal. Con respecto al marco regulatorio expedido por la CRC para el sector de TIC, se incluyen las resoluciones para telefonía móvil, telefonía de larga distancia e internet de banda ancha. Por el lado del sector Postal, las resoluciones están enfocadas en los servicios postales masivos.
L87|Calls and Couples: Communication, Connections, Joint-Consumption and Transfer Prices|The article explores joint consumption equilibrium environments. It illustrates network formation through one-to-one directional synapses. Family (couple) arrangements, spontaneously generated under a decentralized general equilibrium price system are suggested - involving link and direction-specific transfer prices along with standard resource one. The research also inspects preference characteristics able to generate monogamous choices and assortative matching and mating. Assortative mating (and income pooling) is clarified, related to exclusivity or taste-for unicity at the utility level with respect to shared good, with optimal assignment connected to equalization of the marginal benefit of the match - adequately defined - across individuals in the economy. Contrast with a multiple external effect good - one-to-many communication; (or) shared by a fixed number of, more than two, individuals; common property - and with a pure public good is also provided. If paired consumption with end-point specificity generates (or may generate), under reasonable assumptions, a unique decentralized equilibrium solution, supporting an efficient allocation, multiple agent sharing among more than two individuals and individual types requires, along with excludability, perfect differentiation of a larger number of consumption - partnership - roles.
L87|Defending Mail Markets Against New Entrants: An Application of the Defender Model|This compilation of original papers selected from the 19th Conference on Postal and Delivery Economics and authored by an international cast of economists, lawyers, regulators and industry practitioners addresses perhaps the most significant problem that has ever faced the postal sector – electronic competition from information and communication technologies. This has increased significantly over the last few years with a consequent serious drop in mail volume.
L87|Exports through Postal Services : Three Levels of Analysis|No abstract is available for this item.
L87|The Complete Issue|This issue of the Journal is devoted to physical integration in Latin America. The Editorial Committee set about designing the contents with a call for papers, which suggested topics and questions that focused on the subject while covering a broad spectrum. Regional physical integration is supported by a wide range of instruments, such as infrastructure works to reduce transportation costs and enhance connectivity, and financial structuring of technically, highly complex large scale capital investments. But no less relevant are government cooperation mechanisms that provide the necessary coordination for trade facilitation policies and measures, or the local impacts associated with enterprises, especially those located in border areas. Accordingly the first section of the Journal brings together the selection of works made by the Editorial Committee.
L87|La Revista Completa|El presente número de la Revista está dedicado a la integración física latinoamericana. Al diseñar los contenidos que se reseñan a continuación, el Comité Editorial procedió de la manera habitual, lanzando una invitación a la presentación de trabajos. El texto de la convocatoria propuso tópicos y preguntas focalizados sobre el tema en cuestión, pero ubicados a la vez en un amplio espectro. La integración física regional se apoya en una variada gama de instrumentos como las obras de infraestructura que reducen los costos de transporte y mejoran la conectividad, la estructuración financiera de inversiones de gran complejidad técnica y envergadura de capital. Pero no son menos relevantes los mecanismos de cooperación gubernamentales que proveen la necesaria coordinación de políticas y medidas que facilitan el comercio, o los impactos locales asociados a los emprendimientos especialmente aquellos ubicados en zonas fronterizas.
L87|Exportación por Envíos Postales: Tres niveles de análisis|No abstract is available for this item.
L87|Cost Efficiency Measurement in Postal Delivery Networks|The purpose of this study is to analyze the level of cost efficiency of Swiss Post's postal delivery units to enable policy makers' as well as Swiss Post to decide on the reactions to market changes. In particular, we use different panel data models to assess cost efficiency in these units to account for unobserved heterogeneity. The results from applying Mundlak's formulation to the Pooled stochastic frontier model provides evidence that this model is not affected by a heterogeneity bias and that the cost efficiency values lie within a lower and upper bound of the other recent and standard econometric frontier models. Overall, the analysis shows that assumptions on unobserved heterogeneity are crucial and that results of econometric cost efficiency measurement models have to be interpreted with corresponding caution.
L87|Competition and Welfare Effects of VAT Exemptions|Distortions under the value-added tax (VAT) arise partly from the exemption of specific services and sectors. This paper develops an analytical model that is applicable to any sector characterized by asymmetric VAT exemptions of services and activities. We analyze the effects of such asymmetric tax regimes on market shares, optimal prices, tax receipts, and social welfare. The analytical model shows how asymmetric VAT exemptions distort competition by strengthening the competitive position of non-rated firms. The net effect of such tax exemptions depends on the fraction of VAT-rated inputs versus the fraction of non-rated customers. We further elucidate main competitive impacts of VAT policies, while showing their consequences on overall welfare by presenting simulation results based on a calibrated quantitative model of a selected sector. Our paper provides guidance on how to resolve the policy trade-off between a level playing field in the market, consumer surplus, and government tax revenue.
L87|Universal Service Financing in Competitive Postal Markets: One Size Does Not Fit All|In the postal sector, the financial burden of the universal service depends on its content, the postal market characteristics and the countrys geographical configuration. These three groups of factors affect both the direct cost of providing the service and the extent of competition on the market. In this paper, we consider countries with different geographical characteristics and we show that the choice of an appropriate mechanism to share the burden of universal service between market participants depends on the country configuration. Thus, for universal service financing, one size does not fit all.
L87|Von Briefmarken und Hamburgern - Über die Möglichkeiten und Tücken internationaler Preisvergleiche|Die Höhe der Preise für Konsumgüter in der Schweiz gibt immer wieder und insbesondere aufgrund der aktuellen Frankenstärke zu Diskussionen Anlass. Dies gilt auch und insbesondere für die Briefpreise in der Schweiz. Die Preise im Monopolbereich der Post müssen sich jährlich wiederkehrend einem internationalen Preisvergleich der Postregulationsbehörde stellen. Im vorliegenden Dokument werden verschiedene Möglichkeiten und Grenzen internationaler Preisvergleiche diskutiert.
L87|International Parcels – Review of Inward Land Rates|The study analyzes the UPU's current termination charge system in the international parcel market referred to as inward land rate system (ILR system). Based on the findings the study develops recommendations for its improvment.
L87|Appropriate Methodologies to Better Measure Consumer Preferences for Postal Services|This report summarises work undertaken testing the use of stated preference discrete choice experiments to measure consumer preferences for postal services. It discusses the importance of understanding and quantifying consumer priorities in the postal sector and presents different methods used for valuing non-market goods. We recommend the use of stated preference discrete choice experiments, and test the use of this approach in three member states. We provide the findings for these member states, as well as a “tool kit” for applying this methodology in other member states in future.
L87|The future of the USO - Economic rationale for universal services and implications for a future-oriented USO|Universal service obligations (USO) in the postal sector currently enjoy considerable attention among politicians, practitioners and academics. The primary areas of interest have been the viability, costing and funding of the USO in a completely liberalized market. However, the purpose and the scope of the USO itself have so far not been questioned fundamentally. In this paper we first analyze the possible rationale for USO from an economic point of view. Then, we discuss the impact of converging postal and telecommunications markets on potential alternative means to provide USO in a more efficient way.
L87|Termination Charges in the International Parcel Market: Competition and Regulation|There is a broad theoretical end empirical economic literature discussing the effects of termination charges on competition and retail prices. Most of this literature has focused on the telecommunications markets. Termination charges in the international parcel market have not yet received much attention in the economic literature. The aim of this paper is to fill this gap and to analyze the economics of termination charges for parcels. We find that the economics of termination charges in the international parcel market are different to termination charges in other mar-kets. Based on these findings the paper presents a number of practical solutions and potential regulatory remedies to the dilemma of termination charges in the international parcel market.
L87|Commercial and Regulatory Aspects of Reverse Hybrid Mail|Driven by market opening and increased competition from electronic communication, postal operators have started extending their scope of business by offering hybrid mail services in addition to physical mail conveyance. This paper discusses commercial and regulatory aspects of reverse hybrid mail, i.e. the electronic delivery and archiving of physical mail messages. It argues that postal operators are well positioned to offer hybrid services due to their established brands and their reputation. The introduction of reverse hybrid mail is able to significantly reduce the cost of postal operations while at the same time fitting customers' needs better than traditional postal services. However, these effects rely on the assumption that a postal operator is actually allowed to introduce an electronic delivery system of letters to entire regions and to thereby partially substitute the physical delivery to the doorstep.
L87|Postal and Regulatory Reform in Intermodal Competition|This paper argues that transforming the postal business model goes hand in hand with a transformation in the definition of universal service obligation. Whilst postal operators need to fully embrace the unique competitive space created by electronic substitution, at the intersection between the physical and digital, regulatory frameworks also must be adapted towards a technology-neutral definition of universal service.
L87|Impact of VAT Exemptions in the Postal Sector on Competition and Welfare|This compilation of original essays by an international cast of economists, regulators and industry practitioners analyzes some of the major issues now facing postal and delivery services throughout the world as competition from information and communication technologies has increased.
L87|‘The Asian Rise in ICT R&D - Looking for Evidence’ - International Conference: 16 – 17 February, 2011, Brussels. Final Report|The Information Society Unit of the JRC-IPTS has been investigating the Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) sector and its R&D in Asia for several years as an extension of its research efforts for the PREDICT project. The conference was organised as part of this on-going research to gather the most recent information on the Asian ICT scene.
L87|The interaction between universal service costing and financing in the postal sector: a calibrated approach|No abstract is available for this item.
L87|Microeconomic Consequences of Exemptions from Value Added Taxation – The Case of Deutsche Post|The exemption for Value Added Taxation (VAT) can be used to pursue distributive objectives. Goods like food, housing, medicine, or infrastructure services (water, telecommunication, postal) are very often partially or totally exempted from VAT. The exemption of infrastructure services had been frequently combined with market entry restrictions. Both instruments should assure the fulfilling of the universal service obligation (USO). VAT-exemption leads to two problems, at least: (i) the expectable financial gain, which can be achieved by the exempted firm, is unpredictable, and (ii) the welfare consequences depend on the prevailing type of market structure (competition, monopoly with or without price discrimination, or dominant firm). The VAT-exemption for German postal services can be seen as an outstanding case study to show the typical consequences. Because of empirical references for intensive use of price discrimination by Deutsche Post AG and strong arguments of Deutsche Post AG as a dominant firm welfare could be increased by abolishing VAT-exemption without abandoning USO.
L87|Bestimmungsfaktoren für die Wettbewerbsentwicklung in Briefmärkten|Im Vergleich mit anderen Sektoren entwickelt sich der Wettbewerb in den Europäischen Briefmärkten nur zögernd. Der Grund dafür liegt in den rechtlichen, regulatorischen und ökonomischen Rahmenbedingungen.
L87|Addressing New Service Sectors in WTO/FTAs : Express Delivery and India|The service sector is evolving. New services and new modes of delivering existing services have increased the complexities of services negotiations in the WTO and in FTAs. The WTO negotiations focus on market access but FTAs tend to go beyond market access to seeking regulatory commitments from trading partners. India is a proponent of services liberalisation both in the WTO and through bilateral/regional agreements. In this context, this paper examines how new service sectors like express delivery services (EDS) are addressed in WTO/FTAs and its implications for India. Express delivery services are one of the fastest growing sectors in India. It plays a crucial role in trade facilitation and in enhancing the global competitiveness of Indian industries. At present, there are no FDI restrictions and the country can undertake market access commitments in WTO and in its FTAs. The proponents of liberalisation of express delivery services also seek commitments in complementary services like transport and warehousing. The study found that since the autonomous liberalisation is more than Indias offers in the Doha Round of the WTO negotiations, India is in a position to broaden its commitments in the WTO. One of the core issues for India is that domestic regulation of postal services is evolving. India Post offers courier/EDS services. The Department of Posts is in the process of framing a new regulation that is likely to affect the courier/EDS industry. Based on a primary survey, this study found that the regulation should be transparent and fair; it should clearly define the reserved area and distinguish between Universal Service Obligation (USO) and competitive services. It should also mention how the USO will be funded. The regulation should encompass global best practices like removal of cross-subsidisation and should facilitate competition. The need for a postal regulatory regime will arise if the public postal service provider is privatised. The regulator should be independent. The objective of the new regulation should be to lay down a reform path for India Post and the primary role of the regulator should be to monitor the USO.
L87|Analiza współpracy sklepów internetowych z przedsiębiorstwami kurierskimi i Pocztą Polską – wyniki badań<BR>[Analysis of Cooperation between Internet Shops and Courier Companies as well as National Post – Results of Survey Research]|The first part of this article presents characteristics of the market of postal and courier services in Poland, its segmentation and regulations to which they are subject to. The following chapter introduces results of the research concerning the quality of cooperation of the online shops with postal and courier services in Poland. The focus of this part is on the most frequent problems and vast commentary of the authors.
L87|Netzzugang im Postmarkt: Möglichkeiten und Auswirkungen|The study analyzes need of access regulation in the Swiss postal market.
L87|Apropriação tecnológica na economia do conhecimento: inovação e propriedade intelectual de software na América Latina|Technology appropriation in knowledge economy: innovation and intellectual property in Latin American software industry Intellectual property rights aim at providing incentives for innovation, but can also constitute a burden for technological diffusion. This article discusses the conflicts arising from software patent protection, an area in which the assets are intangible and replicable at almost no cost. Current practices of intellectual property (IP) protection in Latin America are discussed based on their efficiency in stimulating information technologies innovation and diffusion. The methodology adopted includes the analysis of regional software industry development, firms? strategies to protect IP, legislation and the examination of software patents submission at the Brazilian IP Office (INPI). It concludes that harmonizing conflicting interests among existing and new business models and international agreements is a major task that goes beyond pure technical considerations.
L87|A nélkülözhetetlen eszközök értelmezése és a postai szolgáltatások<BR>[The interpretation of essential facilities and the postal services]|A nélkülözhetetlen eszközök elvét mind az elmélet, mind a gyakorlat oldaláról megkérdőjelezik. A szabályozási irodalomban és a bírói, szabályozói gyakorlatban ugyanakkor - érvényesülésében jelentős időbeli hullámzását mutatva - 1912 óta jelen van az Egyesült Államokban, és az európai uniós verseny- és ágazati szabályozásnak is részévé vált. Az elvet a versenyszabályozás keretei között alakították ki, de egyre gyakrabban hivatkoznak rá a hálózatos szolgáltatások szabályozásában is. Várható szerepéről jelentős vita alakult ki a - hálózatos szolgáltatások közül utolsóként liberalizálódó - postai szolgáltatások új szabályozási rendszerének kialakításakor. Először körüljárjuk a fogalom értelmezésének mai főbb változatait, majd az Egyesült Államok példáján bemutatjuk a nélkülözhetetlen eszközök elvének kialakulását és a versenyszabályozásban elfoglalt helyének változását. Az Európai Unió gyakorlatán keresztül felvázoljuk a nélkülözhetetlen eszközök verseny- és ágazati szabályozásbeli eltéréseit. A magyar jogrendszerben vizsgáljuk a nélkülözhetetlen eszközök fogalmának használatát, majd a postai szolgáltatások területén zajló értelmezési vitákat és szabályozói gyakorlatot vázoljuk fel. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL ) kód: K21, L4, L51, L87.
L87|Regulatory Governance Costs in Network Industries: Implicatins for postal Regulation|The various actors in regulated industries relate to each other within a broader institutional framework, i.e. by way of formal and informal rules. An important role in the implementation of liberalization processes is given to the regulation and thus to regulatory institutions. Regulation should have positive effect on social welfare. But state intervention also causes costs which we call costs of regulatory governance. These costs result from negative consequences caused by unnecessary regulatory requirements or from the implementation of inappropriate regulatory instruments. According to new institutional economics, these costs will depend upon the formal and informal rules among the involved actors, upon the allocation of property rights among these actors, as well as upon the various principal-agent or more generally contractual relationships among these actors. In this article we define an analytical framework of costs of regulatory governance. We distinguish between direct and indirect costs of regulation: Direct costs occur in relation with the institutional design of the regulatory framework and the behavior of actors. Whereas the indirect costs arise because of false incentives and finally turn out in an inefficient supply of goods and services. Using the example of the Swiss postal market we give an outline of a possible application of the framework.
L87|Access Pricing and Entry in the Postal Sector|In a fully liberalized postal market, two business models will be possible for a new postal operator: (1) access: where the firm performs the upstream operations and uses the incumbents network for final delivery and (2) bypass where the competing firm controls the entire supply chain and delivers mails with its own network. The choice between access and bypass depends on the entrant's delivery cost relative to the access price. In this paper, we derive welfare maximizing prices for the incumbent operator and we show how these prices should be re-balanced when the entry method is considered as endogenous.
L87|Access Pricing, Bypass and Universal Service in Post|A postal regulator typically faces two issues which make the design of efficient access pricing especially difficult and which complicate the process of liberalizing the industry. First, universal service obligations, together with the presence of fixed costs, require retail prices to depart from the underlying marginal costs of the incumbent provider. Second, competing firms may be able to bypass the incumbent's delivery network. Within a simple and stylized framework, this note analyzes how access charges should best be set in the light of these twin constraints.
L87|The Boom and Gloom of Real Estate Markets|Real estate markets around the world have earned a complicated reputation. On the one hand, real estate markets offer investors a wide spectrum of profitable investments opportunities, investments that nowadays can be executed by simply buying shares of stock listed by real estate investment companies. In the first half of this inaugural address, the boom of these real estate stocks is discussed. In less than three decades, the listed real estate market developed into a sector with almost 400 listed firms worldwide, representing a sum aggregate market capitalization of around one trillion dollars by the end of 2007. Three relevant lessons regarding these international real estate stocks are discussed in the first fifteen pages of this booklet, lessons offered by real estate research from the Rotterdam School of Management. On the other hand, real estate markets are notorious for attracting entrepreneurs with bad intentions, seeking for opportunities to circumvent the strong arm of the law. These activities have yielded many headlines in the daily press and have given real estate a gloomy reputation. The dynamics of foreclosure auction of homes is an example of a source of negative headlines, stressing that the suboptimal organization of these auctions prohibits distressed sellers from earning a fair price for their home. In the second part of this address, I focus on an empirical test of the matter. By analyzing over 700 auctioned homes the dynamics of the auction system is discussed objectively. This offers a fair view on the problems at hand and searches for way to improve the system in the near future.
L87|Pénzgazdálkodási szokások hatása a működőtőkére. A Magyar Posta példája<BR>[The effect of financial management habits on operating capital. The example of the Hungarian Post Office]|A hálózatos iparágakban, ahogy a postai szolgáltatásoknál is, a forgalomban lévő készpénz nagyméretű működőtőkét jelenthet. A Magyar Posta a levél- és csomagkézbesítésen kívül jelentős készpénzforgalmat bonyolít le: nyugdíjakat, segélyeket és készpénz-átutalási megbízásokat továbbít. A forgalom napi ingadozása a vállalat likvideszköz-igényét jelentősen meghatározza. A posta esetében a postahivatalok készpénzgazdálkodása jól működő hüvelykujjszabályokon keresztül történik, ezek a szabályok döntési teret hagynak a hálózat heterogén egyedi szereplőinek. Az egyedi készletezési viselkedést a vállalati működőtőke meghatározásakor figyelembe kell venni. A tanulmány az egyedi készletezési szokások modellezésére új módszertant ajánl, majd a viselkedésmintákat csoportosítva a pénzkészletezésnek, a vállalati működőtőke szintjének és a vállalati likviditási pozíciónak a kapcsolatát elemzi. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: C15, D85, G21, G32, L87
L87|On Several Economic Consequences of the Full Market Opening in the Postal Service in the European Union|The paper focuses on the impact of the Full Market Opening in postal services especially on prices. The paper first summons up the specificities of the sector and the deregulation implemented so far. The paper then studies the consequences on separated prices and the survival of the historical operator of market opening. It seems that after a first period of effective competition, with a change in the price structure, the market could reach a new steady equilibrium.
L87|El tiempo se acabÃ³: El Servicio Postal Mexicano en la encrucijada de su modernizaciÃ³n|No abstract is available for this item.
L87|The Effect of Entry Regulation on Process Innovation in the Swiss Mail Industry|We develop an industry specific model of price competition with product differentiation to analyze the effect of entry regulation on process innovation in the Swiss mail industry. We consider the four most prominent scenarios: regulated monopoly, end-to-end competition, worksharing without bypass, and worksharing with bypass. Based on model calibration with data from the Swiss letter market, we find that the incentives to invest in process innovation decrease with deregulation. However, even accounting for this fact, the efficiency gains from partial liberalization, i.e. worksharing, ensure an increase in social welfare.
L87|Rerouting the Mail: Why Canada Post is Due for Reform|Privatizing Canada Post would improve its governance, and introducing competition would provide economic discipline that does not at present exist, without imperiling universal service. Compensation for existing postal workers affected by reform would ease the transition.
L87|Development of Information Technology in North-East India with Special Reference to Arunachal Pradesh (Regarding Post Office and Telecommunication)|The Post and Telegraph Department was created by the British administration as an adjunct to effective administrative control over Indian people. The department was run on the cost-benefit consideration. However, it was also established ‘to serve the people’ (those who could afford to). The department was rather slow in adopting new technological innovations. But it did increase its network to the length and breadth of the country and with the dawn of independence, the department was geared to the cause of the national priorities and programmes. As a government department, it slowly turned out to be one of the biggest employers of unskilled and semi-skilled persons. With the massive emphasis on rural development and overall demand for social transformation, the department did try to modernize itself technologically to meet the ever increasing demands on it. As a whole this modernization phase in the department is largely based on technological transfer. No serious efforts are being made to ask whether the technological transfer fits in the national policy of self-reliance. In fact, its adoption is based on the principle of trickling down benefits from the top and what is known as technological diffusion. So far North Eastern region in general and Arunachal Pradesh in particular is concerned, it is not only inaccessible from transport, communication and telecommunication point of view, but it is also economically at subsistence level. By tradition, the vital resources - land, water, forest and even minerals are controlled by the community, in which technological investment is minimal. The paper explores historical development to present scenario.
L87|Telecommunication Infrastructure in India: AN Uphill Journey|Making the development of an adequate telecommunication infrastructure has become one of the major goals of policy makers in India. Telecommunication infrastructure consists of many components. It is a combination of civil works, towers, antennae and cables, coupled with hardware and software comprising access, switches and transmission systems all combine to constitute the telecommunication infrastructure. Optical fibre cables, terrestrial wireless, satellite systems and Internet are all key components of the modern infrastructure. Rapid growth of Internet has also created huge new demand for the broadband access.
L87|E-Commerce in Globalised Economy: Its Economic Implications in India and Canada|The main objective of this study is to analyse importance of e-commerce in economic growth process. Therefore in this paper the attempt is made to examine the economic implications of e-commerce in India and Canada. So we can have a comparative picture of the role of e-commerce in economic growth in developing country like India and a developed country, Canada. E-commerce includes use of Internet and Information and Communication Technology. Both Internet and Information and Communication Technology (ICT) are components of infrastructure. Development of infrastructure directly contributes to economic development. Therefore the objective of this paper is also to study the role of ICT and Internet in economic development of India and Canada.
L87|Globalisation, IT and Ecommerce in India: Issues and Challenges|The paper analyses the emerging trend and issues in the IT and ecommerce sector in the wake of new knowledge economy and explores the viable policies and strategies to be adopted in future for the development and growth of the said emerging sector in India.
L87|ICT Industry In India: A Swot Analysis|For an emerging economy like India, fast economic development is possible essentially by embracing ICT in a big way, as ICT alone can provide the requisite competitive edge that is essential for fast and sustained economic growth in a globalized environment. In its endeavor to become the ‘global services hub’, what India needs to attain is nothing but unmatched performance in respect of ICT, BPO and allied sectors. While, it appears that the policy initiatives so far have been in the right direction and so is the performance of this industry over the years, there is no scope for complacency as is evident from ever growing competition from other nations, especially the developing world. In this context, it is relevant to make an analysis of the trend in respect of the performance of Indian ICT industry over the last few years vis-à-vis the rest of the world, the latest developments and trends in the field. Such an analysis would reveal, inter alia, the problems and weaknesses of the industry, as well as its opportunities and threats. Accordingly, it helps us to formulate meaningful strategies that are helpful for making the industry abreast of the changes. This paper is an effort in this direction.
L87|Knowledge Creation in Manufacturing Firms: A Case Study|"Knowledge Management (KM) is an interlinked business process that captures and provides access to a collective knowledge of an organization. KM is an audit of ""intellectual assets"" that highlights unique sources, critical functions and potential bottlenecks, which hinder knowledge flows to the points of use. It protects intellectual assets from decay; seek opportunities to enhance quality of decisions, services and products by adding intelligence, value and providing flexibility. Knowledge management complements and establishes organizational initiatives like Total Quality Management (TQM), Business Process Re-engineering (BPR) and organizational learning by providing a new and urgent focus to sustain competitive position."
L87|Worksharing, access and bypass: the structure of prices in the postal sector|This paper studies a liberalized postal market where entrants may offer end-to-end products or concentrate on one of the segments of the network. Absent effective bypass, entry does not appear to be a serious financial threat to the incumbent, even when the products are perfect substitutes. This is no longer true when the entrant offers cheaper service in delivery. Then, the universal service provider may loose the entire pre-sorted mail market. It is left with probably low volume demand from households and from firms with high preparation cost, and its financial viability may be jeopardized. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2007
L87|Full Market Opening In The Postal Services Facing The Social And Territorial Cohesion Goal In France|The paper focuses on the impact of the Full Market Opening in postal services on the territorial cohesion. In the first section the paper recalls the specificities of the sector and the distance so far covered by deregulation. It underlines the reasons that raise worries. In the second section the paper analyses the territorial stake in France. Actual outlet network is notably extended and actively supports rural cohesion. It has been mostly preserved since WWII. A special law has introduced specific territorial obligations; however their funding is not entirely set.
L87|Servizi postali|The paper discusses the evolutionary path of the European postal industry turned from a inefficient state-owned monopoly into highly competitive market, in sight of the envisaged market liberalization by the year 2011. National operators adopt different strategies toward the increasing competition. France and the UK are willing to maintain Universal Service Obligations and an access regime to their delivery networks. The Netherlands, Germany and Scandinavian countries instead favor value-added services, intermediate between ordinary letters and the express courier. While the former base their strategy by maintaining free, universal and non excludable letter delivery, the latter may introduce new charges in delivery. The industry face the so called e-substitution, arising when paper letters are substituted by e-mails.
L87|Consumer preferences and last mile pricing in the postal sector|The paper analyzes consumer preferences towards a potential two-part tariff in the postal sector. Based on the empirical results we analyze the welfare effects of a two-part tariff when applied in the Swiss letter market.
L87|Economies of scale, density and scope in Swiss Post?s Mail Delivery|Based on a cross-section data set of 2004 reflecting Swiss Post?s delivery cost we estimate its cost function and derive measures of economies of scale, density and scope.
L87|Flagging Standards: Globalization and Environmental, Safety, and Labor Regulations at Sea|Shipping is among the most globalized of industries. Ship owners can choose where to register their vessels, based on cost, convenience, and the international and domestic regulations that would govern their operation. This system of open registration, also known as flags of convenience (FOC), can encourage a competition in regulatory laxity among states that want to attract shipping revenues—a race to the regulatory bottom. In Flagging Standards, Elizabeth DeSombre examines the effect of globalization on environmental, safety, and labor standards in the shipping industry. She finds that the economic advantages of lowered standards can be offset by the collective action of international organizations, states, and non-governmental actors to exclude low-standard ships from the advantages of globalization. Open registries are pressured to raise their standards while traditional maritime states lower theirs somewhat when they create international or second registries. The result is a competition not for the regulatory bottom but for the middle ground. DeSombre examines the decisions made by states and ship owners that lead to this race to the middle and explores the effectiveness of strategies used by both state and nonstate actors aimed at raising regulatory standards, including port control, labor actions against FOC ships that fail to meet international labor standards, and trade restrictions against shipped goods that were not obtained within the requirements of international agreements. Globalization, DeSombre finds, may lead to a downward trend in regulatory standards but has also created many opportunities to raise these standards and does not necessarily signal a reduction of state control.
L87|Is Crime Contagious?|Understanding whether criminal behavior is “contagious” is important for law enforcement and for policies that affect how people are sorted across social settings. We test the hypothesis that criminal behavior is contagious by using data from the Moving to Opportunity (MTO) randomized housing mobility experiment to examine the extent to which lower local area crime rates decrease arrest rates among individuals. Our analysis exploits the fact that the effect of treatment group assignment yields different types of neighborhood changes across the five MTO demonstration sites. We use treatment by site interactions as instruments for measures of neighborhood crime rates, poverty, and racial segregation in our analysis of individual arrest outcomes. We are unable to detect evidence in support of the contagion hypothesis. Neighborhood racial segregation appears to be the most important explanation for across-neighborhood variation in arrests for violent crimes in our sample, perhaps because drug market activity is more common in high-minority neighborhoods.
L87|Subsidios cruzados: el caso del sector postal|This document offers a theoretical price regulation model for the postal sector to evaluate the existence of cross subsidies between the regulated and competitive parts of the postal sector. It analyzes agents’ incentives to use cross subsidization when prices are regulated by the Ramsey prices or by the global price cap. It shows that cross subsidies constrain and distort the liberalization of the sector and it is important to avoid them in favor of competition.
L87|Forecasting E-Substitution and Mail Demand|Based on historical data from 1980 to 2004 the paper analyzes the main drivers of mail demand and the impact of e-substitution by using time-series techniques. We find strong evidence for e-substitution. In the second part of the paper we provide forecasts for future mail volumes.
L87|Pricing the last mile in the postal sector|Traditionally, pricing of postal services was fully sender based. We analyze a potential alternative consisting of a two-part tariff where the sender is charged reduced postage while the recipient is charged a yearly fixed fee.
L87|Are Knowledge Intensive Business Services always so Efficient as they Are Said to? An Empirical Approach of KIBS in a Peripheral Region|The aim of this paper is to analyse the efficiency in knowledge intensive business services, also known by their acronym KIBS. The firms belonging to this sector are said to have high efficiency degrees due to their specialisation. Nevertheless, some authors claim that high efficiency scores only work for those firms located in central nodes of development. Within this context we analyse KIBS efficiency in a Spanish peripheral region. Results show important differences in efficiency levels between KIBS firms as well as a low average for the whole of these activities. These findings may imply differential externalisation gains for subcontracting firms, reinforcing, at the same time, the idea of the effect of spatial concentration over KIBS efficiency.
L87|A review of universal-service policy|In some countries, like Sweden, regulatory reform of monopoly industries such as telecom and mail went ahead without much consideration to how competition would affect the universal provision of services. This paper reviews issues that ought to be considered in the process of shaping a universal-service policy that is conform to market competition.
L87|Ab Ülkeleri Ve Türkiye''de Posta Piyasalarının Yapısal Özellikleri|Bu çalışmada, Türkiye’deki posta piyasaları, AB Posta Direktifleri ekseninde incelenerek, AB üyesi ülkelerdeki uygulamalar ile karşılaştırılmaktadır.55 yaşındaki 5584 sayılı Türk Posta Kanunu AB Direktifleri ve üye devletlerin uygulamaları ile karşılaştırıldığında, evrensel hizmet zorunluluğu, rekabet ve korunan alan gibi Acquis Communautaire’in önemli unsurlarına sahip olmadığı ve posta sektöründeki modern gelişmeleri yakalayamadığı görülmektedir. Bu nedenle, Ulusal Programda da belirtildiği gibi, Türk posta mevzuatı yeniden yapılandırılarak AB direktifleri ile uyumlaştırılmalıdır.
L87|Liberalization and Regulation of the Swiss Letter Market|The paper analyzes the impact of different regulatory models on competition and welfare in the Swiss letter market. We conclude that the US system worksharing yields the best results.
L87|Postal Reform|This essay examines the published views of vital economists regarding postal reform. I define a vital economist as one who has produced scholarly research on this issue, and who has expressed an opinion about the direction reform should take. The ten vital economists surveyed here express surprisingly similar opinions on the proper direction for postal reform. The vast majority advocate some combination of privatization and elimination or relaxation of the delivery monopoly. Those opinions are in stark contrast to the published views of economists who have not carefully examined this issue.
L87|Product Market Competition and Economic Performance in Japan|Empirical work shows that competition is important for promoting economic growth. However, in Japan the promotion of competition has long been compromised by ministerial guidance and exemptions from the competition law. Thus, the level and growth of productivity have been low in many domestically oriented sectors and consumer welfare has suffered under high prices and the slow introduction of new goods and services. This misallocation of resources contributes to explaining why the Japanese economy had difficulty in coming out of the quasi-stagnation of the past decade. Recognising that gains from more pro-competition policies are substantial, the Japanese government has now made the promotion of competitive markets a cornerstone of its economic policy. Reforms to promote product market competition in Japan should inter alia focus on strengthening the legal framework by increasing fines to a deterrent level and introducing cartel destabilising measures, such as a leniency ... Concurrence sur les marchés de produits et performance économique au Japon Des études empiriques montrent que la concurrence est importante pour promouvoir la croissance économique. Mais au Japon, la stimulation de la concurrence a longtemps été compromise par des directives ministérielles et des exemptions au droit de la concurrence. Aussi, le niveau et le taux de croissance de la productivité ont été bas dans de nombreux secteurs tournés vers le marché intérieur, et le bien-être des consommateurs a souffert de prix élevés et d’une diffusion trop lente des nouveaux biens et services. Cette mauvaise allocation des ressources contribue à expliquer pourquoi l’économie japonaise n’est pas parvenue à sortir de la quasi-stagnation de la dernière décennie. Conscient que des politiques plus propices au jeu de la concurrence peuvent s’avérer très bénéfiques, le gouvernement japonais a fait de la promotion des marchés concurrentiels l’une des pièces maîtresses de sa politique économique. Les réformes visant à stimuler la concurrence sur les marchés de produits au ...
L87|Product Market Competition and Economic Performance in Norway|Norwegian growth has been strong over the past decade. This development has been supported by the off-shore sector, but depleting oil reserves implies that growth will have to rely increasingly on the mainland economy. Empirical work shows that competition is important for promoting economic growth. Recognising the benefits of competition, the government wants to introduce regulatory reforms to stimulate economic growth. However, the promotion of competition has often conflicted with other policy objectives, such as maintaining a regionally dispersed population and a high degree of public ownership. This has lead to weak competition in a number of sectors, resulting in high prices, weak innovative activity and inefficient resource allocation. Reforms to promote product market competition in Norway should therefore inter alia focus on separating the public sector’s roles and functions as owner and regulator. This requires an increase in the independence of sector ... Concurrence sur les marchés de produits et performance économique en Norvège La Norvège a connu une croissance vigoureuse au cours des dix dernières années. Cette expansion a été alimentée par le secteur pétrolier offshore, mais l'épuisement progressif des réserves implique que l'économie continentale va devoir prendre peu à peu le relais pour soutenir la croissance. Des travaux empiriques montrent que la concurrence contribue de manière importante à l'expansion économique. Conscient des bienfaits de la concurrence, le gouvernement entend réformer la réglementation pour stimuler la croissance économique. Néanmoins, la promotion de la concurrence est souvent entrée en conflit avec d'autres objectifs, tels que le maintien d'une population géographiquement dispersée et du contrôle étendu de l'État sur diverses activités. Cela se traduit par un faible niveau de concurrence dans un certain nombre de secteurs, qui a pour corollaires des prix élevés, un manque de dynamisme en matière d'innovation et une allocation inefficiente des ressources. Les réformes ...
L87|Product Market Competition and Economic Performance in Finland|Following the deep recession in the early 1990s growth has been strong, but the scope for economic catch-up remains considerable and cross-country empirical evidence suggests that enhancing competition is an important means of achieving this. Structural reforms to strengthen competition in the early 1990s did boost growth and were also ahead of similar developments in the EU. However, indicators suggest that relatively weak competition remains in a number of sectors. Moreover, potential competition is reduced by a sparse population and relative long distances to large markets, which together with the prevalence of local monopolies and public ownership in many network industries, point to the need for greater vigilance to sustain and promote competition. Further reforms to promote product market competition should focus on fundamental changes in the regulatory approach as well as more incremental measures to intensify competition. The competition authority should concentrate ... Concurrence sur le marché des biens et performance économique en Finlande Après la sévère récession des années 1990, la croissance économique a été forte mais la convergence en termes de la productivité est encore loin d’être complète et les comparaisons empiriques internationales suggèrent qu’un renforcement de la concurrence pourrait résorber une part significative de ce retard. Certes, les réformes structurelles mises en œuvre au début des années 1990 pour renforcer la concurrence ont soutenu la croissance et ont même souvent été plus précoces qu’au sein de l’Union Européenne. Néanmoins, divers indicateurs suggèrent que le degré de concurrence reste insuffisant dans de nombreux secteurs. En outre, le degré potentiel de concurrence reste contenu en raison de l’éparpillement de la population et l’éloignement par rapport des longues distances d’accès aux grands marchés, qui, combinés à l’importance des monopoles locaux et de l’actionnariat de l’état dans de nombreuses industries de réseaux, suggèrent la nécessité d’une vigilance renforcée pour ...
L87|Competing With Mr. Postman: Business Strategies, Industry Structure, And Competitive Prices In Liberalized Letter Markets|Letter markets are still highly regulated in most countries. Some countries, such as those of the European Union, plan to liberalize letter markets within this decade. Competition will provide many new challenges and opportunities for established and new players. In this paper we analyze business strategies and the resulting industry structure in liberalized letter markets. We describe the economic characteristics of the industry and identify business models for new competitors. To predict the industry structure, we construct a game-theoretic model, which takes into account the relevant segments and geographic differences of the letter market. The model allows us to compute equilibrium prices, market shares, and profits for the incumbent and entrants. We can thus assess the different strategies. Although we calibrate our model with German data, our results are general and can be applied to other countries with similar characteristics, such as France, the U.K., and to some extent even the U.S.
L87|Wage Movements in the Labor Market Equilibrium Hypothesis|No abstract is available for this item.
L87|How Ottawa Can Deliver a Reformed Canada Post|The federal government should progressively allow new entrants to bid for some of the mail services currently provided by Canada Post, says a report released today by the C.D. Howe Institute. In “How Ottawa Can Deliver a Reformed Canada Post,” author Benjamin Dachis, Senior Policy Analyst at the Institute, notes that Canada Post, a Crown corporation, is facing a future of large financial losses due to declining mail delivery volumes, costly universal service commitments, and mounting pension obligations. Putting more of their services to tender would be a strategy to mitigate such losses.
L87|Addressing New Service Sector in WTO/FATs: Express Delivery and India|The service sector is evolving. New services and new modes of delivering existingservices have increased the complexities of services negotiations in the WTO and inFTAs.The WTO negotiations focus on market access but FTAs tend to go beyond marketaccess to seeking regulatory commitments from trading partners. India is a proponentof services liberalisation both in the WTO and through bilateral/regional agreements.In this context, this paper examines how new service sectors like express deliveryservices (EDS) are addressed in WTO/FTAs and its implications for India.Express delivery services are one of the fastest growing sectors in India. It plays acrucial role in trade facilitation and in enhancing the global competitiveness of Indianindustries. At present, there are no FDI restrictions and the country can undertakemarket access commitments in WTO and in its FTAs. The proponents of liberalisationof express delivery services also seek commitments in complementary services liketransport and warehousing. The study found that since the autonomous liberalisationis more than India’s offers in the Doha Round of the WTO negotiations, India is in aposition to broaden its commitments in the WTO.One of the core issues for India is that domestic regulation of postal services isevolving. India Post offers courier/EDS services. The Department of Posts is in theprocess of framing a new regulation that is likely to affect the courier/EDS industry.Based on a primary survey, this study found that the regulation should be transparentand fair; it should clearly define the reserved area and distinguish between UniversalService Obligation (USO) and competitive services. It should also mention how theUSO will be funded. The regulation should encompass global best practices likeremoval of cross-subsidisation and should facilitate competition. The need for a postalregulatory regime will arise if the public postal service provider is privatised. The regulator should be independent. The objective of the new regulation should be to laydown a reform path for India Post and the primary role of the regulator should be tomonitor the USO.
L87|What is an Unfair Burden? Compensating the Net Cost of Universal Service Provision|This paper discusses the net cost of universal service obligations and the potential burden they represent on the universal service provider. Specifically, it analyzes the situation in the postal sector after full liberalization. It considers various interpretations of what an unfair burden might be and discusses the competitive impact of corresponding compensation scenarios by means of a stylized theoretical model with endogenous entry and coverage decisions.
