L90|Equilibrium Trade in Automobile Markets|We introduce a computationally tractable dynamic equilibrium model of the automobile market where new and used cars of multiple types (e.g. makes/models) are traded by heterogeneous consumers. Prices and quantities are determined endogenously to equate supply and demand for all car types and vintages, along with the ages at which cars are scrapped. The model allows for transactions costs, taxes, flexible specifications of car characteristics, consumer preferences, and heterogeneity. We apply the model to two examples: a revenue-neutral replacement of the new vehicle registration tax with a higher fuel tax and a hypothetical “merger to monopoly” in an oligopolistic new car market. We show substantial gains in consumer welfare from the tax policy change, as well as important effects on government revenues, automobile prices, driving, fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions, while the merger leads to substantial welfare losses.
L90|CAFE in the City – A Spatial Analysis of Fuel Economy Standards|Climate policy instruments in the transportation sector like fuel economy standards (CAFE) and fuel taxes not only affect households’ vehicle choice, but also the urban form in the long run. We introduce household level vehicle choice into the urban economic monocentric city model and run long-term climate policy scenarios to analyze the welfare effects of this urban adjustment in reaching emission goals. This goes beyond more short-term empirical analyses of the rebound effect in driving. We find that stricter CAFE standards lead to an urban expansion and considerable additional welfare costs for certain emission goals, unaccounted for in the previous literature on welfare costs of CAFE. These welfare costs can be reduced roughly by one half through the combination of CAFE with an urban growth boundary. Fuel taxes, in turn, lead to an urban contraction and additional welfare gains. We analyze the sensitivity of the results to changes in model parameters.
L90|Definición del mercado relevante en la venta minorista de gasolina en la ciudad de Bogotá D.C|La correcta definición de un mercado relevante es un elemento fundamental en el análisis de prácticas anticompetitivas y abuso de poder de mercado que distorsionan la eficiencia económica. Este trabajo investiga la naturaleza de la competencia y define la extensión geográfica del mercado relevante en la venta al por menor de combustibles líquidos en la ciudad de Bogotá D.C. Mediante el uso de un modelo espacial auto regresivo (SAR) se encuentra que el mercado relevante corresponde a las estaciones de gasolina ubicadas dentro de un radio de 1 kilómetro de distancia de la estación en análisis, y que la intensidad de la competencia disminuye con la distancia. Además, se encuentra que la bandera a la cual pertenecen las estaciones de gasolina rivales tiene un efecto significativo sobre el precio cobrado por la estación en análisis, probando así que las estaciones de gasolina cobran diferentes precios al consumidor, dependiendo de a que rival se están enfrentando dentro del mercado relevante ya establecido. Este trabajo proporciona una herramienta de vital importancia para la entidad de regulación de competencia en Colombia, para que esta tome decisiones adecuadas, basadas en estudios empíricos, con respecto a las fusiones e integraciones dentro del mercado de venta de combustible líquido en el territorio nacional. ?
L90|Evaluación de la Misión Bogotá S.XXI en materia de cobertura de servicios públicos domiciliarios (1990-2017)|Este ensayo pretende evaluar el cumplimiento o no de los objetivos de cobertura en servicios públicos domésticos (SPD) propuestos por la Misión Bogotá S. XXI, 28 años después de su creación, específicamente en los servicios de energía eléctrica, acueducto, alcantarillado, aseo y gas natural. El trabajo se estructura en cuatro secciones: 1) contexto socioeconómico de Bogotá a finales del S.XX; 2) propuestas hechas por la Misión en materia de cobertura de los SPD y condición inicial de Bogotá en este aspecto; 3) evaluación sectorial de los alcances de la Misión en materia de cobertura y 4) conclusiones. Se llega al resultado de que el cumplimiento de los objetivos dependerá en buena medida de la metodología utilizada para medir la cobertura; si bien en las dos metodologías analizadas en todos los SPD para 2017 superan tasas del 70%, existe una, basada en las proyecciones de demanda del servicio, que muestra coberturas cercanas al 100% y otra, basada en proyecciones del número total de hogares, que muestra tasas entre el 71y 78% para 2017. This essay aims to assess the compliance or not of the coverage objectives in domestic public services (SPD) proposed by the Bogota S.XXI Mission, 28 years after its creation, specifically in the electric power services, aqueduct, sewerage, and toilet and natural gas. The work is structured in four sections, 1) socioeconomic context of Bogotá at the end of the 20th century; 2) proposals made by the Mission regarding coverage of the SPD and the initial condition of Bogotá in this regard; 3) sectorial evaluation of the scope of the Mission in terms of coverage and 4) Conclusion. As a result, the fulfilment of the objectives will depend to a large extent on the methodology used to measure the coverage, although in the two analyzed methodologies all SPD for 2017 surpass rates of 70%, there is one, based on the demand projections of the service, which shows coverage close to 100% and another, based on projections of the total number of households, showing rates between 71% and 78% for 2017.
L90|Long-Term Electricity Investments Accounting for Demand and Supply Side Flexibility|Short-term Electricity Demand Response (DR) is an emerging technology in Europe's Electricity markets that will introduce a new degree of flexibility. The objective of this work is to analyze to what extent the untapped DR potential can facilitate an optimal transition to an European low emission power system. The benefits of DR consists of a reduction in peak load consumption, which leads to reduction in capacity investments, production and consumption savings, reduced congestion phases, reliable integration of intermittent renewable resources and supply and demand flexibility. The capabilities of DR are studied in the European Model for Power Investment with (High Shares of) Renewable Energy (EMPIRE), which is an electricity sector model with a time span of 30 years ending in 2050. The model is two-stage stochastic that includes uncertainty at the operational level and energy economics dynamics at a strategic level. The main contribution of this article is designing the investment-operation DR module within the EMPIRE framework. It models several classes of shiftable and curtailable loads in residential, commercial and industrial sectors, including flexibility periods, operational costs and endogenous DR investments, for 31 European countries. The results show that DR capacity substitutes partially flexible supply side capacity from peak gas plants and battery storage, in addition to enabling more solar PV production.
L90|Decarbonization of Power Markets under Stability and Fairness: Do They Influence Efficiency?|Market integration is seen as a complementary measure to decarbonize energy markets. In the context of power markets, this translates into regions that coordinate to maximize welfare in the power market with respect to a climate target. Yet, the maximization of overall welfare through cooperation leads to redistribution and can result in the reduction of a region's welfare compared to the case without cooperation. This paper assesses why cooperation in the European power market is not stable from the perspective of single regions and identifies cost allocations that increase fairness. In a first step, the EU-REGEN model is applied to find the future equilibrium outcome of the European power market under a cooperative, subadditive cost-sharing game. Secondly, resulting cost allocations are analyzed by means of cooperative game theory concepts. Results show that the value of cooperation is a € 69 billion reduction in discounted system cost and rational behavior of regions can maintain at most 16 % of this reduction. The evaluation of alternative cost allocations reveals the trade-off between accounting for robustness against cost changes and individual rationality. Moreover, the cost-efficient decarbonization path of the European power sector under the grand coalition is characterized by the interplay between wind power, gas power, and biomass with geologic storage of CO2. Last, with singleton coalitions only, the market outcome shifts to a higher contribution from nuclear power.
L90|Estimating Elasticity of Transport Fuel Demand in Pakistan|This study investigates the fuel demand elasticities separately for petrol, diesel, and CNG using data from July 2004 to June 2015 for Pakistan. The results show that fuel demands are generally (own and cross price) inelastic in the short run, but are relatively elastic in the long run. Though these short run estimates are in line with the literature, the long run estimates differ considerably. Administrative intervention in fuel pricing, load management in CNG sector and its close to perfect substitutability with petrol is driving this long run price elasticity result. Moreover, income elasticity estimates suggest that petrol is a normal good while diesel and CNG are inferior goods. The estimates remain robust when lag demands of substitutes, the exchange rate, and real fuel prices are separately included in the model.
L90|Below the Aggregate: A Sectoral Account of the UK Productivity Puzzle|We analyse new industry-level data to re-examine the UK productivity puzzle. We carry out an accounting exercise that allows us to distinguish general macroeconomic patterns from sector trends and idiosyncrasies, providing a roadmap for anyone interested in explaining the puzzle. We focus on the UK market sector. Average annual labour productivity growth was 2.5 percentage points lower during the period 2011-2015 than in the decade before the financial crisis that began in 2007. We find that several years on from the financial crisis stagnation remains widespread across detailed industry divisions, pointing to economy-wide explanations for the puzzle. With some exceptions, labour productivity growth lost most momentum in those industries that experienced strong growth before the crisis. Three fifths of the gap is accounted for by a few industries that together account for less than one fifth of market sector value added. In terms of why we observe continued stagnation, we find that capital shallowing has become increasingly important in explaining the labour productivity growth gap in service sectors, as the buoyancy of the UK labour market has not been sufficiently matched by investment, although our figures suggest that the majority of the productivity gap is accounted for by a TFP gap. The collapse in labour productivity growth has been more pronounced in the UK than elsewhere, but the broad sector patterns of productivity stagnation are in many respects similar across other advanced economies, emphasising the importance of global explanations for the puzzle. UK industries that saw the biggest reductions in productivity growth tended to be internationally competitive and more dependent on global demand than other industries. They were also industries where productivity is difficult to measure.
L90|Industry rates of return in Korea and alternative theories of competition: equalising convergence versus tendential equalisation|This paper considers convergence and equalisation in industry profit rates in the Republic of Korea in the period of 1970–2015, from the perspective of alternative paradigms of competition – classical and neoclassical. Two measures of profitability are estimated: average rate of profit based on the total capital stock in the economy, and incremental rate of profit (IROP) based on the concept of regulating capital. It is shown that little convergence in industry rates of profit occur when the former measure is used, while almost complete equalisation of IROP is achieved. The classical-type equalisation takes place in particular capital accumulation and competitive settings in Korea, characterised by the prominent role of diversified conglomerate firms, the capital flows within conglomerates, investment coordination by the state, and the fast pace of capital accumulation and renewal).
L90|Геополитички Аспекти Стратешких Коридора Србије<BR>[Geopolitical Aspects of the Strategic Corridors of Serbia]|Serbian. Коридори преко Балкана могу имати вишеструки значај у саобраћају, енергетици, привреди уопште, али и у ширем геополитичком контексту. У раду се анализирају важни путни и енергетски коридори (цевоводи) преко Србије. У питању су магистрални путеви ширег регионалног па и европског значаја који пролазе преко територије Србије. Потом ту су железничке трасе, укључујући и оне у нацртима, попут оне која ће се уклапати у концепт кинеског пута свиле, пре свега Пиреј‒Будимпешта. Цевоводни правци, пре свега гасоводи, нафтоводи, имају изузетан и шири геополитички значај. То се посебно односи на могућности реализације неке од варијанти Јужног тока, који остаје актуелан, и хипотетички у неком облику остварљив. Иако Србија нема директан излаз на море, најближе луке суседних земаља, пре свега оних блиских и историјских савезника попут Црне Горе, Бугарске, Грчке и Румуније имају посебан значај. Ту су нарочито значајне луке Бар, Солун, а у мањој мери бугарске и румунске важне луке (Бургас, Варна, Констанца) одакле би Србија имала погодан транзит поморским саобраћајем. English. The corridors crisscrossing the Balkans bear significance in the context of transport, energetics and industry as a whole, as well as in a broader geopolitical context. The paper analyzes the important road routes and energy corridors (pipelines) passing through Serbia. Specifically, it refers to highways significant both regionally and on continental level, which pass through the territory of the country. It also covers railroads, including the ones still in draft phase, such as the Piraeus-Budapest one, which is wupposed to be included in the outline of the Chinese Silk Road. The pipelines, especially the gas lines and the oil pipelines, are of wider geopolitical relevance. Specifically, the possibility of the realization of one of the South Stream versions, which continues being considered and in some form a hypotetically attainable plan. Although Serbia does not have access to sea, the closest ports in neighboring countries, especially the close and traditionally friendly ones such as Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece and Romania, are especially important in that context. The ports of Bar and Thessaloniki are of extraordinary significance, while the Bulgarian and Romanian ports of Burgas, Varna and Constanta, although somewhat less important, could provide Serbia with convenient points for waterway transport routes.
L90|Estimating Elasticity of Transport Fuel Demand in Pakistan|This study investigates the fuel demand elasticities separately for petrol, diesel, and CNG using data from July 2004 to June 2015 for Pakistan. The results show that fuel demands are generally (own and cross price) inelastic in the short run, but are relatively elastic in the long run. Though these short run estimates are in line with the literature, the long run estimates differ considerably. Administrative intervention in fuel pricing, load management in CNG sector and its close to perfect substitutability with petrol is driving this long run price elasticity result. Moreover, income elasticity estimates suggest that petrol is a normal good while diesel and CNG are inferior goods. The estimates remain robust when lag demands of substitutes, the exchange rate, and real fuel prices are separately included in the model. [SBP Working Paper Series No. 96].
L90|Developing a shared environmental responsibility principle for distributing cost of restoring marine habitats destroyed by industrial harbors|For decades, industrial harbor expansion has been destroying coastal marine ecosystems. Many estuaries are sites for industrial harbors and critical fish nursery habitat. Considering fish population decreases and the global biodiversity crisis, restoring these habitats is justified and supported by international institutions. However, restoration programs can be prohibitively costly, particularly when considering the Polluter Pays Principle. While harbors destroy nurseries, at the same time they generate benefits for society and contribute to the public interest. This raises questions of who is responsible for environmental degradation and who can afford environmental restoration costs? One way to allocate restoration costs is in proportion of those who have benefitted from harbor activities. This paper addresses these questions by calculating burden-sharing scenarios with inputoutput matrix equations. These scenarios are based on a shared producer and consumer responsibility approach to distribute restoration costs among stakeholders that use, either directly or indirectly, harbor services. The scenarios are applied to the Seine estuary, France, and calculated as a function of sectorial value-added as well as direct and indirect economic linkages between economic sectors and harbor activities. Economic linkages with final consumers (e.g. households) are also included. The shared environmental responsibility calculation developed in this paper shares restoration costs for previously damaged marine habitats between a wide-range of economic agents, thereby preventing industrial harbors from bearing expensive restoration costs alone, and making restoration more likely.
L90|Competition For Versus In the Market of Long-Distance Passenger Rail Services|This paper is aimed at evaluating the net gains and trade-offs at stake in implementing the competition of the rail mode in the long distance passenger market either by means of franchise or by an open access mechanism. We simulate the outcomes of competition in and for the market using a differentiated-products oligopoly model allowing for inter- and intra-modal competition in a long distance passenger market. Specifically we first calibrate the model using data describing high speed lines in France and show that the incumbent railway operator’s strategy does not simply boil down to a short-term profit maximization (e.g., because of existing regulation or limit-pricing strategy). This yields two important results when simulating competition. First, whether it is for or in the market, the opening to competition does not guarantee a decrease in prices in favor of passengers. Second, the effects of opening up to competition for the market are relatively predictable and potentially positive, while those of opening up to competition in the market remain very uncertain.
L90|A tale of two tails: Commuting and the fuel price response in driving|Pricing greenhouse gases is widely understood as the most efficient approach for mitigating climate change, yet distributional effects hamper political acceptance. These distributional effects are especially important in transport, the fastest growing sector for greenhouse gas emissions. Using rich data covering the entire population of vehicles and households in Denmark, this study uncovers an important feature of driving demand: two groups of much more responsive households in the lower and upper tails of the work distance distribution. We further estimate the causal effect of public transport–a critical determinant of the upper tail–and show how public transport access can both reconcile differences in fuel price elasticities between the United States and Europe, and considerably influence the distributional effects of fuel pricing.
L90|FDI, Services Liberalisation, and Logistics Development in Cambodia|This paper reviews Cambodia's economic development based on flows of foreign direct investment (FDI) and services sector liberalisation. It uses Cambodia's logistics industry as a case study. Services sector liberalisation in Cambodia has been mainly driven by its commitments under the World Trade Organization (WTO) framework and the ASEAN Framework Agreement on Services (AFAS). Logistics is one of the key contributors to economic growth and competitiveness. To improve the logistics sector, Cambodia needs to develop a comprehensive master plan and national council on logistics to overcome the main issues and challenges such as corruption and informal payments, lack of institutional capacity and coordination, low-quality transport infrastructure, weak urban-rural and cross-border transport networks, limited participation of the private sector, lack of skilled human resources, and low public and private investments. Promoting healthy competition in logistics and removing the impediments to investment are vital to improving the quality and coverage of logistics services.
L90|Infrastructure Investment, Labor Productivity, and International Competitiveness: The Case of Portugal|This study analyzes the effects of infrastructure investment on labor productivity at the industry level using a newly developed data set for infrastructure investments in Portugal. We consider twenty-two sectors and twelve infrastructure assets. We focus on the differential effects on traded and non-traded sectors. We find, first, that investment in national roads have positive effects, particularly large for public services, while the effects of investments in municipal roads are mixed, and investments in highways have mostly benefited the non-traded sectors. Second, we find that railroad investments, and to a lesser extent airports have clearly biased labor productivity gains toward the non-traded sectors, while the effects of port investments are more muted and mixed. Third, for social infrastructure investments, the effects tend to be large and again particularly favorable to the non-traded sectors. Fourth, for public utilities the effects are in general small, with the exception of investments in telecommunications, which have large positive effects mainly on non-traded sectors. We conclude that infrastructure investments have contributed to the growth of labor productivity in Portugal but have done so in a way that has benefitted mostly non-traded goods sectors. This may be a matter of concern for a small open economy in a currency union and with a development model greatly reliant on exports.
L90|Why Virtuous Supply-Side Effects and Irrelevant Keynesian Effects are not Foregone Conclusions: What we Learn from an Industry-Level Analysis of Infrastructure Investments in Portugal|We use the industry-specific effects of twelve different infrastructure investments in Portugal to inform about the mechanisms through which such investments affect economic activity. Our main findings are as follows. First, demand-side effects that are approximated by adding the short-term and long-term construction effects are very important. They are over 60% of total effects for airport investments, ports, refineries, and water, and over 45% for national roads, municipal roads, telecommunications, health and education. Second, site-location effects that are approximated by real-estate effects are also very significant, in particular for national roads, highways and railroads, with 30%, 35% and 64% of the total effects, respectively. They are negative for water and electricity, and zero for municipal roads, airports, and refineries, and negligible for ports, i.e., all these are cases in which we would expect adverse or small location effects. Third, the functional channel relating to internationally-traded goods, approximated by the effects on the primary sector, on manufacturing, and on transportation, is much less significant, although we estimate meaningful effects on heavy industry from investments in all types of road infrastructures, ports, health, and education, as well as on light industry from ports. Fourth, a functional effect affecting non-traded industries, mostly private and public services is much more relevant. It accounts for more than 30% of the effects in the cases of municipal roads, airports, and refineries, and in excess of 20% for highways, railroads, telecommunications, health and education. The fact that most functional effects accrue to non-traded industries is likely to affect international competitiveness adversely. Naturally, these results cannot be automatically generalized, as the nature of the effects of infrastructure investments crucially depends on the level of development of the country in question, on the maturity of its existent infrastructure systems, and on the rigor of all decisions pertaining to infrastructure investment. Nevertheless, they establish that, as infrastructure investments are concerned, the dominance of virtuous supply side effects is not a foregone conclusion and, conversely, the relevance of Keynesian effects cannot be dismissed.
L90|Infrastructure Investment in Portugal and the Traded/Non-Traded Industry Mix|Using a newly-developed data set for Portugal, we analyze the industry-level effects of infrastructure investment. Focusing on the divide between traded and non-traded industries, we find that infrastructure investments have a non-traded bias, as these shift the industry mix towards private and public services. We also find that the industries that benefit the most in relative terms are all non-traded: construction, trade, and real estate, among the private services, and education and health, amongst the public services. Similarly, emerging trading sectors, such as hospitality and professional services stand to gain. The positive impacts on traded industries are too small to make a difference. These results highlight that infrastructure-based strategies are not neutral in terms of the industry mix. Moreover, with most of the benefits accruing to non-traded industries, such a development model that is heavily based on domestic demand may be unsustainable in light of Portugal’s current foreign account position
L90|On the Effects of Infrastructure Investments on Industrial CO2 Emissions in Portugal|We estimate how infrastructure investments affect industrial CO2 emissions in Portugal. Using empirical evidence on the economic effects of twelve types of infrastructure investments at the industry level, we consider twenty-two industries and the respective CO2 emission factors. Our conclusions are as follows. First, given the current emission factors for each industry, almost all types on infrastructure investments help the emissions intensity of the economy. Only for investments in airports and in health facilities are such positive effects absent. Second, the relevance of the economic effects of the different types of infrastructure investments on the electrical power industry is central in determining the overall effects on emissions. This is not surprising, given that electric power accounts for nearly 35% of CO2 emissions in Portugal and the extremely high emissions factor of this industry amplifies even small economic effects. Third, under an alternative scenario in which the emissions from the electric power industry have been eliminated – due to the use of renewable energy in production, for example – , or are otherwise ignored, we still see that most infrastructure investments lead to a decline in the CO2 emissions intensity. In this case, however, investments in national roads leave the emissions intensity essentially unchanged, while investments in health infrastructure have adverse effects on emissions. There are several important policy implications of these results when we consider infrastructure investment strategies that are mindful of their CO2 emission effects. Consider, for instance, transportation infrastructures. Given the present electric power generating mix, investment in national roads would be an appropriate policy recommendation from an environmental perspective, while investments in airport infrastructure should be avoided. Under a scenario of aggressive use of renewable energy sources in the production of electricity, however, the best investments would be in railroads and airports, two industries highly dependent on the use of electricity
L90|Health Care Investments and Economic Performance in Portugal: An Industry Level Analysis|We analyze how public and private health care investments affect economic performance in Portugal. With a newly-developed data set for twenty-two industries, we use a vector autoregressive model to estimate the elasticities and marginal products on investment, employment and output. First, every €1 million invested in health care yields significant positive spillover effects, boosting investment and GDP by €24.74 and €20.45 million, respectively, and creating 188 net jobs. Adversely, net exports deteriorate, as most of the new capital goods are imported. Second, while only 28.2% of the total accumulated increase in GDP occurs within a year, investment is front-loaded with a corresponding 73.8%. Over this period, 68 workers are displaced for every €1 million invested. Third, at a disaggregated level, real estate, construction, and transportation and storage are the three industries where output shares increase the most. Employment shares increase the most in professional services, construction, and basic metals. These results have important policy implications. Health investments enhance long-term performance, but are unhelpful counter-cyclically. Also, they will change the industry mix: construction and professional services are the non-traded industries that will benefit the most, while the traded industries of non-metallic minerals, basic metals, and machinery and equipment benefit much less.
L90|Impactos Económicos Regionales del “Shale Gas” en la Reforma Energética de México|El estudio tiene como objetivo estimar los impactos económicos de algunos aspectos de la Reforma Energética de 2013 en el Noreste de México, particularmente los relacionados con los recursos de gas de esquisto (lutitas) o de “shale gas”. En específico, el reporte presenta estimaciones preliminares de los efectos de los nuevos proyectos de construcción y operación de gasoductos en la región Noreste. Para medir dichos impactos se construyeron matrices insumo-producto y de contabilidad social regionales. Para ello, se partió de las matrices nacionales del Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía para el año 2012. Al análisis tradicional de insumo-producto se le ha añadido información de cuentas sociales que presentan las transacciones no sólo entre sectores industriales sino que además incluyen a instituciones como los hogares, las sociedades y los trabajadores por cuenta propia.
L90|Input Prices and Product Differentiation|In this paper, we study how input prices affect product differentiation in network industries. In particular, we study whether the principle of vertical differentiation (Choi and Shin 1992, “A Comment on a Model of Vertical Product Differentiation.” The Journal of Industrial Economics 40 (2):229–31; Wauthy 1996, “Quality Choice in Models of Vertical Differentiation.” The Journal of Industrial Economics 44 (3):345–53) remains valid when an entrant purchases an essential input from an incumbent at a regulated price. We find that the higher quality firm always chooses the best available quality, whereas the lower quality firm chooses an intermediate quality, which increases with the input price. If the higher quality firm is the incumbent, a cost-oriented input price maximizes welfare, but comes at the cost of a lower average quality, a higher degree of product differentiation, and therefore stronger downstream market power.
L90|Le « marché augment頻 de l’énergie, des transports et du numérique|This article focuses on the contemporary permeability between the energy, transport and ??digital?? industries, formerly organized in silos. It echoes the literature on connected products, Internet of things and ?big data?. The specificity of this paper is to propose an original interpretation in terms of ?augmented market strategy?. The latter refers to a strategy of expanding the boundaries of a market through the networking of industries that mobilize concomitantly a same intangible (knowledge, information, etc.) or physical (infrastructure, technology, etc.) basis, at various levels of the value chain. The aim of this paper is twofold. On the one hand, it aims to contribute to the exploratory analysis of such strategies, to characterize them, to identify their key determinants and to illustrate their contemporary forms. On the other hand, we seek to evaluate the theoretical scope of our concepts and to position them in the field of industrial convergence. JEL Codes: L11, L16, L22, L25, L62, L90
L90|Institutionelle Veränderungen und ihre Wirkung auf Branchen|Institutionelle Rahmenbedingungen spielen eine entscheidende Rolle für das Funktionieren von Märkten. Das institutionelle Umfeld bleibt dabei in der Regel nicht konstant, sondern verändert sich im Zeitablauf. Um zu analysieren, ob Veränderungen der institu­tionellen Rahmenbedingungen Effekte auf die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung insbesondere von Branchen haben, müssen die entsprechenden, für einen bestimmten Wirtschaftszweig relevanten Neuerungen zunächst identifiziert werden. Das ifo Zentrum für Industrieökonomik und neue Technologien will mit dem Aufbau einer »Institutionen-Datenbank auf Branchenebene« hierzu einen Beitrag leisten. Ziel der Datenbank ist es, institutionelle Veränderungen, die eine Branche betreffen, systematisch und möglichst standardisiert zu erfassen und damit vorhandene Branchenkenntnisse wissenschaftlich nutzbar zu machen. Der Artikel stellt erste deskriptive Auswertungen der Datenbankinhalte vor.
L90|Methods For Determination And Optimization Of Logistics Costs|The paper is dealing with the problems of logistics costs, highlighting some methods for estimation and determination of specific costs for different transport modes in freight distribution. There are highlighted, besides costs of transports, the other costs in supply chain, as well as costing methods used in logistics activities. In this context, there are also revealed some optimization means of transport costs in logistics chain.
L90|Hydropower Megaprojects in Colombia and the Influence of Local Communities: A View from Prospect Theory to Decision Making Process based on Expert Judgment used in Large Organizations|Today conflicts between large organizations that promote hydroelectric megaprojects (Sovacool et al., 2015) and local communities are predictable (Ansar et al., 2014). In literature, the causes of these levels of conflict are explored from the point of view of power relationship (Goodwin and Jasper, 1999) and stakeholder framework theory (Rosso et al., 2014). This paper presents an original way to address this research field through an endogenous view (Mieg, 2014) of the organizations focused on decision making process based on expert judgment. The study scopes are environmental decisions under uncertainty that are carried out to develop environmental impact assessment. All organizations that are developing large hydroelectric projects in Colombia during period 2010-2020 were examined. The results indicate the difficulty of organizations (Moritz and Gieri, 2015) to adequately respond to external requests associated with environmental and technological dimensions. Cumulative prospect theory and heuristic and biases framework (Brighton and Gigerenzer, 2015) are the theoretical background. Energy policy recommendations are generated based on adjustment type “external view” that comes from behavioral organizational framework (DellaVigna, 2009). This study identifies a novel approach to design lesser levels of conflict through creating better organizational decision making processes.
L90|Using Measures of Agreement to Evaluate a Chronic Problem of Congestion in the Empty Container Depots|Container-based transportation through a combination of truck, rail and ocean shipping services has become an important part of supporting local and international cargo flows. However, congestion or bottlenecks of empty container-trucks may hinder the supply chain and logistics performance of the country in hinterland transport. The factors causing the bottlenecks of empty container-trucks at the depots around Port Klang, Malaysia, were first derived from interviews conducted with 30 participants working in different logistics companies. This paper intends to describe the application of Fleiss kappa to evaluate or validate the congestion factors and involves six experienced evaluators from the field of empty container logistics. Therefore, key steps and procedures are presented by extracting the qualitative data from a previous study that addressed this phenomenon. A resulting Fleiss generalised kappa value of 0.8203, which can be assumed as satisfactory and reflecting the strength of the congestion factors, as well as it would convince the real situation that occurs in bottlenecks at the empty depot. Truly, Fleiss kappa has proved to be an efficient and useful approach to measure the agreements for many purposes, including validating the chronic congestion factors.
L90|Convenient flight connections vs. airport congestion: Modeling the ‘rolling hub’|This paper provides the first analysis of the trade-off between convenient flight connections and airport congestion, a fundamental but untreated element in the economics of hub-and-spoke networks. A continuous spatial model illustrates this trade-off in a framework where a small gap between flight operating times raises congestion while also shortening a connecting passenger’s layover time. When the passenger’s cost per unit of layover time rises, the monopoly airline chooses to narrow the gap between its flights, yielding shorter layovers but more congestion. A discrete spatial model, where flights congest one another only if they operate in the same discrete period, makes this layover-cost effect discontinuous: the monopoly carrier concentrates (deconcentrates) its flights when this cost is high (low) relative to the costs of congestion. When fringe carriers are present, however, the hub carrier always concentrates its flights, either partially or fully. But the presence of a second hub carrier leads to an equilibrium mirroring the monopoly outcome: the carriers concentrate their flights in different periods when the layover cost is high and deconcentrate them otherwise. The paper also presents a welfare analysis, showing that movement from the equilibrium to the social optimum typically requires greater carrier separation.
L90|The organisation of services of general interest in Finland|Like in most European countries, SGIs in Finland have in recent years been subject to competition and increased private provision or privatisation. This development is motivated by expected cost reductions, by EU-regulations, by ideology and fashion, and in some cases by expected sales revenues. The empirical evaluations of SGI-reforms are few and somewhat contradictory, but the relative success of Finland’s manufacturing SOEs suggests that the public sector is hardly unable to organise efficient SGIs. A number of potential market failures suggest that public ownership should be taken seriously as an alternative to regulation. An increased emphasis on public ownership would be fairly easy to implement in Finland, because the state is still a significant owner, but EU’s policy on liberalisation and unbundling needs an overhaul.
L90|Financial performance of major public enterprises in Croatia from 2006 to 2014|The aim of this paper is to present basic characteristics of state-owned enterprises in Croatia, assess their financial operations and identify major trends in their operations and long-term development prospects. The analysis is carried out for the period from 2009 to 2014. The paper gradually examines financial operations, management system and the systems of accountability and transparency in state owned enterprises. The particular emphasis is on the comparative overview of major state-owned enterprises’ missions and the extent to which they serve public purposes. Moreover, the paper evaluates capital investment plans and provides proposals for the reform of state-owned enterprises in Croatia. In all state-owned enterprises, a serious organizational restructuring - adjustment of the organizational structure and number of employees is still expected.
L90|Do Fossil fuel Taxes Promote Innovation in Renewable Electricity Generation?|We evaluate the role of a fossil fuel tax and research subsidy in directing innovation from fossil fuel toward renewable energy technologies in the electricity sector. Using a global firm-level electricity patent database from 1978 to 2011, we find that the impact of fossil fuel taxes on renewable energy innovation varies with the type of fossil fuel. Specifically, a tax on coal reduces innovation in both fossil fuel and renewable energy technologies while a tax on natural gas has no statistically significant impact on renewable energy innovation. The reason is that easily dispatchable energy sources like coal-fired power plants need to complement renewable energy Technologies in the grid because renewables generate electricity intermittently. Our results suggest that a tax on natural gas, combined with research subsidies for renewable energy, may effectively shift innovation in the electricity sector towards renewable energy. In contrast, coal taxation or a carbon tax that increases coal prices has unintended negative consequences for renewable energy innovation.
L90|An Overview On 2014 INTAVIC Conference|In this study, The Second International Civil Aviation Conference held on 16 April 2015 in Ankara by Turkish Aeronautical Association (UTAA) will be described.
L90|What is the effect of globalisation on the performance of the service sector of Ghana?|The paper empirically examines the effect of globalisation on the service sector output in Ghana for the period 1961-2013 using annual time series data. The ordinary least square method of regression was employed after the unit root properties were examined. The findings of the study indicate negative effect of globalisation on the service sector output, suggesting that the Ghanaian economy has not benefited positively from globalisation. Policy makers should reconsider the use of globalisation as a policy tool in achieving growth in the service sector. The use of nonlinear models in future study is worth considering, as well as the use of other proxies of globalisation. Other regression estimation methods such as the Johansen method should be considered in future empirical studies to find out whether the current findings will be replicated.
L90|Governance, funding and finance for major infrastructure projects: bridging the gaps|The UK is embarking on a significant institutional reform to put long-term infrastructure planning on a firmer basis. The creation of the National Infrastructure Commission (NIC), building on experience in Australia and elsewhere, should help promote a better evidence-based discussion on the UK’s infrastructure needs and political choices, and to put infrastructure design and delivery on a surer footing. Interactions with the system of economic regulation need to be worked through, but the NIC will help governments to give a clearer statement of long-term policy within which regulators can operate and ensure projects are delivered efficiently. Funding and financing challenges however have yet to be fully addressed across the infrastructure planning and delivery chain – not just in the UK but globally. A number of initiatives are beginning to tackle this policy gap, and recent UK experience suggests ways in which projects can be brought to market in ways which secure private investment and secure the interests of consumers and taxpayers. There is a major opportunity to deliver better infrastructure efficiently if we can get this right.
L90|Explaining Industry Differences in IT Investment Per Worker Between Canada and the United States, 2002-2013|In the past, attention has been focused on the aggregate ICT investment per worker gap, but 49.8 per cent of lower business sector IT investment per worker in Canada relative to the United States in 2013 was explained by two industries: information and cultural industries and professional, scientific and technical services. The main objective of this report is to shed light on the possible reasons for the gap in these sectors, including data measurement and comparability issues stemming from methodological differences between statistical agencies in Canada and the United States, and differences in potential explanatory variables of IT investment, such as human capital, taxation, profits, firm creation rates, industrial structure, and regulation, among others.
L90|Productivity Trends in the Canadian Transport Sector: An Overview|In recent decades, the overall growth in productivity of many subsectors of the Canadian transportation and warehousing sector has been above average. In particular, while labour productivity (real GDP per worker) grew an average of 0.64 per cent per year between 2000 and 2014 in the transportation and warehousing sector, labour productivity grew an average of 1.83 per cent per year in the truck transportation subsector, 3.25 per cent per year in the air transportation subsector and 2.09 per cent in the train transportation subsector for the same period. Conversely, in the urban transit subsector, labour productivity decreased an average of 0.76 per cent per year between 2000 and 2014. This report provides a detailed analysis of output, input and productivity trends in four subsectors of the Canadian transportation and warehousing sector. It also examines drivers of the productivity growth for each subsector as well as policies that could enable faster growth. Given the impact that the transportation sector has on many Canadian industries as well as the Canadian economy, maintaining productivity growth is important.
L90|New Evidence on the Canada-U.S. ICT Investment Gap, 1976-2014 Selected OECD Countries, 1986-2013|Productivity growth results in part from investment in information and communications technologies (ICT). To better understand Canada’s poor productivity growth relative to the United States since 2000, this report provides a detailed examination of ICT investment trends in the two countries. The report finds that real ICT investment in the total economy in Canada has yet to recover from the 2008-2009 recession, while it has not suffered the same fate south of the border. Between 2008 and 2014 real ICT investment in Canada fell 1.0 per cent per year, compared to a 2.9 per cent per year increase in the United States. The gap was even greater for real ICT investment per job, down 1.8 per cent per year in Canada versus a 2.8 per cent annual increase in the United States. The weaker ICT investment growth in Canada resulted in a large increase in the Canada-US ICT investment gap from 31.6 percentage points to 43.7 points, as nominal ICT investment per job fell from 68.4 per cent of the US level in 2008, the highest value ever achieved, to 56.3 per cent in 2014.
L90|Highway to Success: The Impact of the Golden Quadrilateral Project for the Location and Performance of Indian Manufacturing|We investigate the impact of transport infrastructure on the organisation and efficiency of manufacturing activity. The Golden Quadrilateral (GQ) project upgraded a central highway network in India. Manufacturing activity grew disproportionately along the network. These findings hold in straight‐line IV frameworks and are not present on a second highway that was planned to be upgraded at the same time as GQ but subsequently delayed. Both entrants and incumbents facilitated the output growth, with scaling among entrants being important. The upgrades facilitated better industrial sorting along the network and improved the allocative efficiency of industries initially positioned on GQ.
L90|The Effects of the ASEAN Economic Community 2015 on Industries in Kitakyushu and Shimonoseki|" This paper asks how the formation of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations'(ASEAN's) Economic Community (AEC) in 2015 (AEC2015) will affect industries in Kitakyushu and Shimonoseki. First, ASEAN's rapid economic during the past five decades has made ASEAN a large market for Japanese goods, services, and firms. ASEAN has supported this growth by facilitating important economic and political dialogue in Southeast Asia and AEC2015 will likely reinforce this important role. Second, although ASEAN has made efforts to promote economic integration among member economies and AEC2015 is another step in this direction, substantial barriers to intra-ASEAN transactions remain and will persist after AEC2015. The ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) was initiated in 1992 and facilitated elimination of tariffs on most intra-ASEAN trade by 2010, but the share of intra-ASEAN trade remains relatively low at about one-quarter of all ASEAN trade and has not changed much since 2005. Most importantly, like AFTA, AEC2015 is not likely to increase preferential margins for intra-ASEAN trade, largely because ASEAN retains strong comparative advantages with respect to major external trading partners and firms in ASEAN are deeply involved in region- or world-wide production networks. Third, despite proclamations that AEC2015 marks the advent of a ""single"" ASEAN market, progress toward achieving most of AEC2015's specific goals is likely to be slow, especially with respect to key non-tariff barriers and restrictions on trade in services. Fourth, Japan's multinational enterprises (MNEs) in ASEAN are likely to be the largest conduit through which AEC2015 affects Japan, Kitakyushu, and Shimonoseki. To the extent that AEC2015 affects Japan, Kitakyushu, and Shimonoseki, AEC2015 is likely to affect Japan's services' industries such as trading, logistics (trade, transportation, and communication), and business services, more than commonly appreciated. The proliferation of production networks in machinery industries, which are the source of most of Japan's gross exports, is a major reason for this."
L90|Wind Turbine Shutdowns and Upgrades in Denmark: Timing Decisions and the Impact of Government Policy| Shutting down and/or upgrading existing productive assets are important economic decisions for the owners of those assets and are also the fundamental decisions that underlie the development of new, growing industries. This paper develops a dynamic structural econometric model of wind turbine owners' decisions about whether and when to add new turbines to a pre-existing stock, scrap an existing turbine, or replace old turbines with newer versions (i.e., upgrade). We apply our model to owner-level panel data for Denmark over the period 1980-2011 to estimate the underlying profit structure for wind producers and evaluate the impact of technology and government policy on wind industry development. Our structural econometric model explicitly takes into account the dynamics and interdependence of shutdown and upgrade decisions and generates parameter estimates with direct economic interpretations. Results from the model indicate that the growth and development of the Danish wind industry was primarily driven by government policies as opposed to technological improvements. The parameter estimates are used to simulate counterfactual policy scenarios in order to quantify the effectiveness of the Danish feed-in-tariff and replacement certificate programs. Results show that both of these policies significantly impacted the timing of shutdown and upgrade decisions made by turbine owners and accelerated the development of the wind industry in Denmark.
L90|Agricultural Transportation by Rail: Consolidation, Competition and Fuel Prices|No abstract is available for this item.
L90|Theme Overview: Agricultural Grain Transportation: Are We Underinvesting and Why?|No abstract is available for this item.
L90|Management Of Transportation|Transport is one of the major components of the logistics system, due to its contribution to the mission of logistics. The overall objective of transport is the physical movement of people and goods between two points. The main objective of the transport is moving the product from departure point of origin to the destination while minimizing time, financial and environmental costs requirements together with customers regarding the quality of goods and services delivery. Providing technical vehicles the represents all measures and activities that are planned, organized and executed in a unitary structure within an institution (organization) The management must ensure the vehicle technical to ensure a uniform, continuous, firm, and it must be conducted with appropriate direction. The originality and value of this study comes from suggestions that are made regarding the concepts and methods that could help improve logistics activities by efficiency transport.
L90|Product Unbundling in the Travel Industry: The Economics of Airline Bag Fees|" type=""main""> This paper provides theory and evidence on airline bag fees, offering insights into a real-world case of product unbundling. The theory predicts that an airline's fares should fall when it introduces a bag fee, but that the full-trip price (the bag fee plus the new fare) could either rise or fall. The empirical evidence presented in the paper provides strong confirmation of the first prediction. The data also suggest that the average fare falls by less than the bag fee itself so that the full price of a trip rises for passengers who choose to check bags."
L90|The Organisation of Services of General Interest in Finland|Like in most other European countries, services of general interest in Finland have in recent years been subject to competition, increased private provision, and in some cases privatisation. This development is motivated by expected cost reductions, by EUregulations, by ideology and fashion, and in some cases also by a desire to generate sales revenues. Empirical evaluations have provided mixed results, but the relatively successful history of Finland’s state enterprises makes it hard to believe that the public sector would be unable to organise SGI-services efficiently. A number of potential market failures suggest that renationalisation should be taken seriously as an alternative to regulation. This would not necessarily be a very radical policy, because public ownership is still fairly prominent among SGIs in Finland
L90|Common risk factors of infrastructure investments|The risk of infrastructure investments is driven by unique factors that cannot be well described by standard asset class factor models. We thus create a nine-factor model based on infrastructure-specific risk exposure, i.e., market risk, size, value, momentum, cash flow volatility, leverage, investment growth, term risk, and default risk. We empirically test our model on a large dataset of U.S. infrastructure stocks in different subsectors (utility, telecommunication, and transportation) and over a long period of time (1983 to 2011). The new factor model is able to capture the variation of infrastructure returns better than the Fama/French three-factor, the Carhart four-factor or the extended Fung/Hsieh eight-factor models. Thus, our model helps to improve the evaluation of infrastructure funds and to better determine the cost of capital of infrastructure firms, something that is increasingly relevant in light of the growing need for privately financed infrastructure projects.
L90|Local public procurement regulations: The case of Italy|Regional and local authorities award 54% of the public works contracts submitted to the Authority for the Supervision of Public Contracts. This paper analyses the regulations adopted in the period 2000–2010 in all Italian regions and a sample of provinces and municipalities and shows how highly pervasive they are. In some cases they had positive effects that served the specific needs of the territory; in others, an anti-competitive orientation prevailed, with extra costs for the contracting authorities and less efficient allocation of resources. The paper's policy recommendations include: (i) greater coordination of reforms between the central and the local levels; (ii) an enhanced role for the sector authorities; (iii) improvements in national regulations so that the regional and local authorities have less of an interest in modifying them; (iv) greater transparency and better information quality.
L90|Analysis of electricity industry liberalization in Great Britain: How did the bidding behavior of electricity producers change?|Promoting competition among electricity producers is crucial for ensuring allocative efficiency and lower electricity prices. This paper empirically examines the wholesale electricity market of England and Wales in order to analyze to what extent regulatory reforms were successful at promoting competition among electricity producers.
L90|Value of eco-friendly route choice for heavy-duty trucks|Heavy-duty trucks are a critical component of any goods movement system; however, they consume a large amount of fuel and emit significant pollutant and greenhouse gas emissions. An important consideration for reducing fuel consumption and improving trucking operations is efficient vehicle routing. Many existing fleet management and routing systems are based on minimizing distance traveled which does not necessarily minimize fuel consumption or emissions, particularly when under traffic congestion and in areas with hilly terrain.
L90|Revisiting profit persistence and the stock market in Japan|This paper tests the classical hypothesis of inter-industry profit rate's proclivity to gravitate towards the economy's average profit rate. In so doing, individual as well as panel unit root tests have been applied on a dataset consisting of 52 Japanese manufacturing industries spanning the period 1974–2008. The evidence generated is rather mixed in a sense that the inter-industry profit rates tendency to gravitate towards the economy's average rate of profit depends on the idiosyncratic characteristics of each industry. However, the rate of profit of regulating capitals, as this is reflected in the incremental rate of profit, displays gravitational behaviour around the economy-wide incremental rate of profit, the movement of which is found to be linked to the rate of return in the stock market. These results lend support to those who contend that the classical theory of competition is an area where further research is warranted.
L90|"A primer on city ""smartness"" measurement"|Despite the unquestionable glamour of the topic, the measurement aspects of smartness are often mistreated in favour of the dissemination of best practices and projects at local level. Until now, nearly all the experiments to measure smartness at local level have produced rankings based on economic, social, environmental and technological infrastructures as outputs. As a matter of fact, outputs derived from city rankings are often highly heterogeneous regarding methodology and objectives. In order to compare the degree of smartness for different local contexts, it is necessary to find a convergence towards a shared measurement system that includes specific local aspects. This paper intends to carry out a theoretical and empirical experiment in order to verify whether some methodological innovations can produce improvements in the measurement of the Italian cities smartness compared to previous experiences
L90|Norwegian GDP by industry 18301930|The present paper offers new knowledge of historical national accounting in Norway in several ways. Firstly, a new and novel set of annual gross domestic product series by industry are presented for the period 18301930. Secondly, the new estimates suggest revision of the historical national accounts published by Statistics Norway. Thirdly, this may lead to necessary revisions of both Norwegian industrial history and business cycle history.
L90|Integration of electric plants that use renewable energy into national power system|Current energy consumption optimization is one of the main concerns of specialists in this field worldwide. Since the 70s makers have begun to realize the necessity to develop a strategy for the sustainable use of electricity. It was the first time to consider the problem of implementing programs aimed at energy efficiency. Some of the critical issues are: the energy crisis and environmental impact. Resolving these two issues is the responsibility of specialist engineers who aim to find energy sources that produce less pollution possible one. A first result of their efforts is the use of renewable energy: solar, wind, hydro. Our work aims at presenting the economic impact of these types of energy that does not damage the environment.
L90|The future of the transport industry| This publication aims to bridge the gap between the analysis of the trends in the European transport system and the evaluation of their impacts on competitiveness. Specifically, this report presents the future challenges, demand drivers and upcoming innovations which can have a considerable impact on the global demand patterns for the passenger and freight transport and how this might affect the competitiveness of related industries and service providers. Emphasis is given to targeted research strategies. The goal is to investigate the challenges for the European transport sector in the long term, in order to develop the suitable strategic options for European transport research policy.
L90|EU Survey on issues related to transport and mobility| The main purpose of the survey was to collect data on car use, on use of transport modes for long distance mobility as well as on some other policy relevant issues (e.g. the attitude towards internalisation of road external costs by means of road charging). The survey involved all the 28 European countries. In each country a sample of 1000 individuals (500 in Cyprus, Luxembourg and Malta) was asked to fill in a questionnaire divided into four sections: a. general information on the respondent (e.g. age, gender, living area) as well as details on availability of cars and public transport service. b. information on everyday mobility in terms of mode used, frequency of trips, duration, distance, inter-modality and opinions on main problems experienced. c. information long distance trips (between 300 km and 1000 km as well as over 1000 km) made in the last 12 months; number of trips by purpose and main mode; connections between rail and air transport. d. opinions on aspects related to the European transport policy and especially on the scope for road charging.
L90|Smart guide on regional transport innovation strategy: Transport innovation roadmaps| This guide provides regions with information and guidelines useful for the development of smart specialisation strategies (RIS3) in transport. The guide follows the six steps for Smart Specialization with a special focus in transport. The six steps include the analysis of the regional context and potential for innovation, the discussion of governance structure, the development of a shared vision about the future of the region, approaches for the selection of transport related priorities for regional development, policy mixes and options for the integration of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The recommended process consists of a bottom-up analysis of regional capabilities of the industry and scientific community that needs to be aligned with national and European objectives. At the European level, the Strategic Transport Technological Plan (STTP) identifies ten innovation areas that will be extremely important for the future competitiveness of the transport sector. The guide also analyses different innovation area in the context of RIS3 methodology, showing specific examples and roadmaps on how these could be implemented in the regional innovation strategies. Finally tools are offered to analyse the innovation potential, performance and priorities in the transport sector, such as data and indicators regarding regional transport innovation, as well as methodologies to analyse innovation capabilities of European regions.
L90|Performance of small- and medium-sized enterprises in services trade: evidence from French firms|This paper empirically investigates the key firm- and industry-specific restrictions to the performance of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in services trade. For this purpose, we use firm-level data from firms in France operating in different services sectors over the time period 1998–2007 and formulate two-part models consisting of (1) (dynamic) export equations and (2) (dynamic) export share equations. Our results confirm the view that a relatively low share of SMEs engages in services trade. In line with the new-new trade theory, our results also corroborate that more productive SMEs have a higher export probability. The key finding of this paper is that the export decisions of SMEs in services sectors are estimated to be extremely persistent, implying that trade policy efforts, including the allocation of scarce trade promotion budgets, should be directed at addressing the barriers faced in establishing the first export operation. Finally, our sub-sectoral estimates reveal considerable heterogeneity across different types of services. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
L90|Hidden climate change related risks for the private sector|Climate change related risks impact and challenge the private sector in many different ways. This also applies to risk drivers like a companies’ reputation and a changing consumer behavior. Since significant risk drivers for companies differ just as much as companies themselves, a sector specific guideline to evaluate possible climate change related risk drivers is indispensable. Further, a sector specific analysis on these risk drivers can foster cross sectoral cooperation, innovation and learning processes with regard to climate change related risks.
L90|A Snapshot of China's Service Sector|The share of the tertiary sector in China’s value added has increased steadily, overtaking the share of the secondary sector in 2013. With increasing incomes, the share of services is expected to grow further as at higher incomes a larger share of income is spent on services. In addition to final demand, intermediate demand can be another driving force for service industries. As liberalisation leads to a greater role for the market in allocating resources, service industries are expected to become more competitive and therefore it may become cheaper to outsource services than to produce them in-house. Liberalisation will likely also lead to greater specialisation to remain competitive, thereby making specialised services available for outsourcing. This will likely spur the development of some high value-added logistics services such as warehousing or order handling. By the same token, professional services such as accounting or engineering are also likely to benefit from a greater reliance on the market and greater competition. In the envisaged transition from “made in China” to “created in China”, the service sector is expected to play a prominent role. To that end, the service sector is gradually being provided a more even playing field as privileges for manufacturing industries are being withdrawn and a more equal treatment of producers across sectors is being adopted. This paper provides a snapshot of the service sector, its size, the ownership of its firms, and productivity across types of firms depending on ownership, sector, age, size and geographical region. This Working Paper relates to the 2015 OECD Economic Survey of China www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-china.htm. Un état des lieux du secteur des services en Chine La part du secteur tertiaire dans la valeur ajoutée de la Chine n’a cessé de croître pour dépasser celle du secteur secondaire, en 2013. Compte tenu de l’augmentation des revenus, la part des services devrait continuer de progresser car plus le revenu est élevé, plus les dépenses consacrées aux services augmentent. Outre la demande finale, la consommation intermédiaire devrait constituer un autre facteur de consommation à la hausse de services. Les mesures de libéralisation laissant un plus grand rôle au marché dans l’allocation des ressources, le secteur des services devrait gagner en compétitivité et c’est pourquoi leur externalisation pourrait désormais coûter moins cher que leur production en interne. Pour préserver la compétitivité, la libéralisation entraînera également une plus grande spécialisation et des services spécialisés s’offriront ainsi à l’externalisation. Le développement de certains services logistiques à forte valeur ajoutée, comme la gestion d’entrepôts ou de commandes, devrait s’en trouver très certainement stimulé. De même, il est probable que les services de professions spécialisées comme la comptabilité et l’ingénierie bénéficieront eux aussi d’un plus large recours aux mécanismes du marché et d’une concurrence renforcée. Le secteur des services entend jouer un rôle de premier plan dans la future transition du « fabriqué en Chine » au « créé en Chine ». Dans cette optique, ce secteur voit s’instaurer peu à peu des règles de jeu plus égales, les industries manufacturières se voyant retirer certains de leurs privilèges et le principe d’égalité de traitement des producteurs entre les secteurs étant adopté. Ce document dresse un état de lieux du secteur des services et analyse sa taille, les structures de propriété de ses entreprises et la productivité de différents types d’entreprises en fonction de leur propriété, leur activité, leur ancienneté, leur taille et leur région. Ce document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de la Chine, OCDE, 2015 www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-chine.htm.
L90|La conectividad de los puertos españoles del Mediterráneo|Los efectos de la crisis mundial y la emergencia de nuevas rutas marítimas provocan cambios sustanciales en lo que concierne a la polarización de las zonas económicas y logísticas. Se alteran los tradicionales parámetros de atracción y las perspectivas de los puertos quedan determinadas por nuevos criterios de conectividad interna y externa que delimitan una nueva jerarquía portuaria internacional. Esta investigación propone una medición de la influencia de los puertos españoles del Mediterráneo en lo que se refiere a la conectividad externa (foreland). Esta medición será desarrollada destacando las distintas especializaciones y conexiones inter-portuarias.
L90|Rola usług rynkowych w procesach rozwojowych gospodarki Polski|Celem artykułu jest weryfikacja hipotezy, że usługi rynkowe odgrywały, obok przemysłu, kluczową rolę w procesach rozwojowych gospodarki Polski w latach 1995-2012. Cel ten zrealizowano poprzez uszczegółowioną, wielowątkową analizę empiryczną, pozwalającą odpowiedzieć na pytania badawcze związane z rolą obserwowanej w Polsce zmiany strukturalnej oraz zmian cen względnych w objaśnianiu dynamiki wzrostu gospodarczego, a także zachowaniem przemysłu i usług w cyklu koniunkturalnym oraz zróżnicowaniem wewnętrznym usług rynkowych. Wyniki analiz makroekonomicznych oparto na danych z rachunków narodowych z lat 1995–2012. Ponadto opierając się na danych jednostkowych na poziomie firm z lat 2005–2012, przeanalizowano różnice pomiędzy poszczególnymi branżami usługowymi pod względem poziomu oraz dynamiki produktywności pracy i zatrudnienia. Uzyskane wyniki są następujące. W latach 1995–2012 obserwowano w Polsce systematyczny wzrost udziału usług rynkowych w zatrudnieniu. Równocześnie jednak produktywność pracy oraz całkowita produktywność czynników (TFP) rosły wolniej w tym sektorze w porównaniu z sektorem przemysłowym, w związku z relatywnie szybszym postępem technologicznym w przemyśle. Systematycznie spadała też cena względna dóbr przemysłowych w porównaniu z usługami. Zmienność zatrudnienia i wartości dodanej w cyklu koniunkturalnym była natomiast wyraźnie mniejsza w usługach rynkowych. Na tle wysokiej heterogeniczności firm w ramach poszczególnych branż, nie stwierdzono istotnie różnej dynamiki rozwojowej usług eksportointensywnych, relatywnie kapitałochłonnych, skierowanych do biznesu (B2B), ani usług opartych na wiedzy. Z uzyskanych wyników wyprowadzono prognozę, że gospodarka polska będzie w przyszłości wskutek zwiększającej się roli usług rynkowych rosnąć nieco wolniej, ale stabilniej niż dotychczas.
L90|Editor’s Overview|The 28th issue of the International Productivity Monitor features articles on the following topis: the measurement of industry contributions to labour productivity growth; the benefits of closing the Aboriginal education gap; the impact of public policies on bargaining power and the pay/productivity linkage; the relationship between employment and productivity growth; and the contribution of ICT diffusion and investment to labour productivity growth.
L90|Measuring Industry Contributions to Labour Productivity Change: A New Formula in a Chained Fisher Index Framework|Canada and the United States use Fisher indexes in their input-output accounts. Existing methods for decomposing aggregate labour productivity growth into industry contributions in a Fisher index framework either leave some productivity growth unaccounted for or are poorly suited for answering relevant questions about the industry sources of productivity growth. This article derives formulas for analyzing industry contributions to productivity change that add up exactly to the aggregate change in productivity and that have useful economic interpretations. These formulas show that the manufacturing sector made a positive contribution to productivity growth in the Canada in 2000-2010 and in the United States in 1998-2012, whereas the widely used GEAD formula implies that manufacturing made a negative contribution. Methods that can be used to decompose chained Laspeyres measures of productivity growth are also developed. These methods would be applicable in countries other than Canada and the United States.
L90|Upstream Competition and Open Access Regimes: Experimental Evidence|We investigate the effects of alternative open access regimes on market performance. In particular, by means of an economic laboratory experiment we compare the market outcomes under unregulated wholesale competition, under a price-fixing rule (where firms must maintain their wholesale price for a fixed period of time), and under a margin squeeze rule (where the retail price of integrated firms must exceed their wholesale price). Our analysis suggests that wholesale and retail prices are substantially reduced by the introduction of a price-fixing rule at the upstream level compared to the unregulated scenario. In contrast, we do not find evidence that a margin squeeze regulation reduces retail market prices. In fact, while such a rule benefits the reselling firm by allowing for a viable profit margin, prices for consumers tend to be even higher than in the unregulated case.
L90|Regulating Rates of Return Do Gravitate in US Manufacturing!| In this paper we test for the gravitation of regulating return rates, namely those return rates yielded by capital goods incorporating the best methods of production. We define them within a vintage capital model taking into consideration capacity utilization, capital depreciation and wages of workers using past capital vintages. We consider two data sets regarding US manufacturing activities and we find that gravitation does take place. Our results are contrasted with those of the previous literature. Research and policy implications are discussed.
L90|Deutsche Industrie: Erhöhte Investitionsbereitschaft|Nach den aktuellen Ergebnissen des ifo Investitionstests wollen die Unternehmen des deutschen Verarbeitenden Gewerbes 2014 ihre Investitionen um rund 9% erhöhen. Für das Jahr 2013 ergaben die Meldungen der Testteilnehmer einen Anstieg von 3%. Erweiterungsinvestitionen und Investitionen in Ersatzbeschaffungen halten sich 2013 und 2014 in etwa die Waage. In diesem Jahr sind je rund 30% der Sachanlageinvestitionen den beiden Investitionsmotiven zuzuordnen. Rationalisierungsmaßnahmen spielen im Vergleich zu den 1990er Jahren nur noch eine untergeordnete Rolle.
L90|Taximarkt: kein Markt für eine vollständige Liberalisierung|The current discussion about deregulating the taxi market raises the fundamental question as to whether unregulated competition in this market can lead to efficient results or whether there are sound economic reasons for government intervention. In weighing up different theoretical arguments and experience gained in other countries with a deregulated taxi market, we have come to the conclusion that government intervention certainly can increase the efficiency of the taxi market. As a result, full deregulation does not appear to be an option. Die aktuelle Diskussion über die Deregulierung des Taximarktes wirft die grundsätzliche Frage auf, ob unregulierter Wettbewerb auf diesem Markt zu effizienten Ergebnissen führen kann, oder ob es nicht auch aus ökonomischer Sicht gute Gründe für staatliche Eingriffe gibt. Eine Abwägung verschiedener theoretischer Argumente sowie Erfahrungen, die in anderen Ländern mit der Liberalisierung des Taximarktes gemacht wurden, führen zu dem Ergebnis, dass staatliche Eingriffe die Funktionsfähigkeit des Taximarktes durchaus erhöhen können. Eine vollständige Liberalisierung scheint daher nicht geboten.
L90|Qualificazione, aggiudicazione e subappalti nei lavori pubblici: cosa insegnano le riforme locali?|The presence of a pervasive and evolving local regulation in the Italian public procurement offers a way to study the effects of a vast series of reforms involving firms qualifications, contracts awarding and subcontracting. This paper documents the legal aspects of these local regulations and, for some of these rules, exploits their changes over time to analyze their effects on firms participation, winning bids, renegotiations and subcontracts. The paper also investigates how the type and availability of data affects the robustness of the effects of the different reforms evaluated. Finally, it also compares the estimates obtained to those coming from the recent experimentation undertaken by the municipality of Turin regarding the auction formats..
L90|Future employment in transport: Analysis of labour supply and demand| This report presents the results of the analysis carried out by the Joint Research Centre (JRC) in support of DG MOVE for the analysis of employment and skills issues in the EU transport sector, with the purpose of designing the policies targeting an increased competitiveness in the sector, and improving the labour productivity and job quality. The study analyses the development of employment in various transport sectors from different viewpoints, and by means of a variety of analytical approaches. The study addresses both the supply side (i.e. the workforce capacity) and the demand side (i.e., the number of employees required in order to meet the future transport activity). In doing so it aims to identify the gap between the supply and demand side and to provide some indications on the degree of change required in the labour force dynamics in order to close this gap. The analysis mainly focuses on the quantitative discrepancies between capacity and demand, but also addresses relevant qualitative aspects including the demographic composition of the workforce.
L90|Logistics Performance Measurements - Issues and Reviews|Logistics is a backbone for the global supply chains. In Malaysia, logistics are now recognized as strategic industry that positively contribute to gross domestic product (GDP) and performance of logistics is foremost significant. Whereas most of the logistics performance has focused on investigating operational and trade facilitation contexts. Thus, the purpose of this paper is to examine the issues and reviews by practitioners and found 7 key components that translated it into operations performance objectives. It, thus, provided a base for future research to examine the relationships of this context empirically.
L90|A better deal for consumers and an attractive environment for investors: How the UK’s economic regulators are developing the use of regulatory and competition powers|There are great expectations in the UK for infrastructure and its role in delivering for customers and society, promoting efficiency and economic growth. These expectations are matched by an ambitious forward programme of investments in renewal and expansion of network capacity and quality across sectors, in some cases backed by the government and in others by private investors. Economic regulation and competition have a big role to play in aligning the interests of investors with the interests of customers and society. Specifically, in relation to investors, economic regulation and competition help to ensure investment is efficient, with the right investment taking place the right place, at the right time and at efficient cost. In this context, regulatory coherence and stability has rarely been so important. 2 In this paper we discuss • the relationship between competition and regulation, and the way regulators use their powers; • the importance of independent regulation in helping to ensure the delivery of what customers and society need, want and can afford from regulated sectors, particularly against a background of major investments in UK infrastructure; • how economic regulation needs to learn and evolve if it is to continue to help ensure delivery of what customers and society expect, given that regulated sectors and the environment in which they operate change over time; and • how the regulators are working together to maximise the benefits from coordination or read across between sectors.
L90|Myanmar: The Key Link between South Asia and Southeast Asia|This paper examines the road and railway links in Myanmar connecting northeast India on the one side with the rest of Southeast Asia on the other. It also discusses the importance of new deep-sea ports in creating alternative shipping routes, essential for Myanmar's international links. It also reviews the country's external trade patterns, and analyzes issues related to trade facilitation, exchange rate policy, financial sector reform, and private sector development. The extent to which these gaps can be addressed will depend on the costs and benefits. South Asia–Southeast Asia connectivity can only be accomplished if Myanmar improves the hard and soft infrastructure aspects of connectivity.
L90|Volatility Spillovers and Nonlinear Dynamics between Jet Fuel Prices and Air Carrier Revenue Passenger Miles in the US|This paper investigates the nonlinearities in the behavior of jet fuel prices and air carrier yields as measured by revenue passenger miles(RPMs), where one RPM is defined as one passenger flown one mile in revenue traffic. It indicates that previous research might have overlooked the possibilities of nonlinear dynamics between these two series. Drawing on existing tests of nonlinearities and chaos, this paper first investigates the existence of chaotic behavior as the source of nonlinearities in the monthly prices of jet fuel and RPMs. The findings show strong evidence that the two series exhibit nonlinear dependencies. Evidence is found, however, that this behavior may be inconsistent with chaotic structure. We propose and estimate bivariate GARCH(1,1) and bivariate EGARCH(1,1) models to ascertain the flow of information between jet fuel prices and revenue passenger miles. Estimation results of the bivariate GARCH models offer evidence that the shock transmission between the two series is mainly asymmetric, that is that positive and negative shocks impart degree of volatility differently. It is shown that the positive shocks to jet fuel prices show a substantially higher reaction from the revenue passenger miles. The conclusion is that, RPMs are quite responsive to upward volatility in prices of jet fuel, while falling jet fuel prices may not translate into efficiency gains.
L90|Estructura de Prestación de los servicios públicos domiciliarios (SPD) de energía eléctrica en Bogotá y la Costa Atlántica|La estructura del articulo está dirigida a evaluar la prestación de los Servicios Públicos Domiciliarios de Energía por las empresas públicas municipales EPMs de Bogotá y la Costa Atlántica desde la dirección y presencia de capital chileno y español, a través de las compañías (Emgesa y Endesa) dentro de Condesa y (Electricaribe y Electro costa) en el marco de Unión Fenosa, ubicadas respectivamente en las regiones mencionadas. A diferencia del resto de las EPMs prestadoras de servicios públicos domiciliarios en el país, comparten el haber incursionado en empresas de régimen estatal en las que se combina la tenencia pública con la gestión privada, en un presente, en el que se cuestiona la viabilidad y sostenibilidad de un negocio como este, que requiere grandes inversiones. El análisis sistémico responde a los elementos económicos y jurídicos para considerar el asunto, en tanto, se desconoce la composición organizacional de ellas.******The structure of the article is directed to evaluate the provision of the services public home of energy by the municipal public enterprises EPMs of Bogotá and the Atlantic coast from the address and the presence of Chilean and Spanish, capital through (Emgesa and Endesa) companies within the Countess and (Electricaribe and Electro costa) within the framework of Union Fenosa located respectively in the mentioned regions. Unlike the rest of the EPMs providers of public utilities in the country, having dabbled in companies of State regime which combines with the privately run public holding, in a present, in which is questioned the viability and sustainability of a business such as this, which requires large investments they share. The systemic analysis responds to the economic and legal elements to consider the matter, while the organizational composition of them is unknown.
L90|Chile: congestión portuaria y racionamiento eficiente en la transferencia de carga|El sistema de precios difícilmente puede eliminar la congestión en la transferencia de carga portuaria en períodos de máxima afluencia (peak), pues el uso del puerto no depende tanto de factores estacionales como sobre todo de la llegada simultánea de barcos, situación que conduce al racionamiento de su uso. En este artículo se muestra que el racionamiento eficiente debe hacerse de acuerdo con el valor de la carga transferida más que según el orden de arribo de las naves (first-come-first-served ). Se evidencia que en un racionamiento eficiente se da prioridad a la carga en contenedores, luego a la fraccionada y por último a la carga en graneles. Se aplican estos resultados a la transferencia de carga en el puerto concesionado de San Antonio Terminal Internacional de Chile.
L90|Chile: Port congestion and efficient rationing in cargo transfer operations|No pricing system is likely to be able to do away with congestion in port cargo transfer operations at peak times, since port use is determined not so much by seasonal factors as, first and foremost, by the simultaneous arrival of vessels, which results in rationing. This article shows that rationing, to be efficient, needs to go by the value of the cargo transferred rather than following a first-come-first-served rule. It demonstrates that efficient rationing gives priority to containerized cargo, followed by break bulk cargo, with bulk cargo in last place. These findings are applied to cargo transfer at the San Antonio Terminal Internacional franchised port in Chile.
L90|Reluctant regulation|We study the effect of state ownership on the market-to-book ratios of publicly traded European utilities from 1994 to 2005. We find that when the company is subject to independent regulation, state ownership seems positively associated with firm value. This relation tends to appear in countries where weak checks and balances and political fragmentation do not constrain the power of the executive. Our results suggest that, where political institutions are weak, politicians may influence regulatory agencies in order to benefit state-owned firms.
L90|A review of recent theoretical and empirical analyses of asymmetric information in road safety and automobile insurance|Road safety policies and automobile insurance contracts often use incentive mechanisms based on traffic violations and accidents to promote safe driving. Can these mechanisms improve road safety efficiently? Do they reduce asymmetric information between drivers and insurers and regulators? In other words, is there residual asymmetric information in observed distributions of accidents and infractions? We answer these questions in this article by reviewing recent theoretical and empirical results that rest on various data and methodologies. We present recent tests related to the identification of residual asymmetric information in road safety management and in automobile insurance contracting. We also propose a theoretical analysis of the foundations of point-record driver's licenses observed around the world.
L90|Strategic Interaction vs. Regulatory Compliance among Regulated Utilities: The Swedish Water Sector|This study provides the first empirical test of strategic interactions in the pricing decisions of regulated utilities. Since publicly owned water utilities in Sweden are governed by a cost-of-service regulation, prices in neighboring municipalities should not affect the own price other than through spatially correlated cost factors. In contrast, spatial dependence is pronounced. This behavior can be explained in terms of an informal yardstick competition: When consumers use neighboring utilities' prices as benchmarks for costs or as behaviorally based reference prices, utilities will face the risk of consumer complaints and successive regulatory reviews if deviating too much from neighbors' prices.
L90|X-factor estimation and controversies : the case of Lima´s airport|In theory, X-factor regulation provides better incentives for cost reduction than previously widely-used rate-of-return regulation. However, a deeper look into how this factor is effectively estimated shows the regulator enjoys a great deal of discretion, especially when selecting the methodologies used to estimate its components. This paper describes how the X-factor is estimated in Peru and analyzes the main controversies (both theoretical al practical) that arose when the X factor for the country’s main airport was estimated. Conclusions are the following: i) careful planning of the concession process reduces the probability of unnecessary controversies when the X factor is estimated retrospectively, since this methodology requires data that needs to be collected at the time of the concession; ii) cost of capital estimation is a main source of controversies due to the subjective criteria used in its calculation and its impact in the final result; and, iii) transparent procedures improve the legitimacy of regulatory decisions, especially in contexts of limited public resources and weak institutions, typical of developing countries.
L90|Port Competition and Welfare Effect of Strategic Privatization|Private operation of port facilities is becoming increasingly common worldwide and many governments consider the privatization of public ports as a policy option. We investigate the effect of port privatization in a setting with two ports located in different countries, serving their home market but also competing for transshipment traffic from a third region. Each government chooses whether to privatize its port or to keep port operations public. We show that there exist equilibria in which the two governments choose privatization. In these equilibria, national welfare is higher relative to a situation where both ports are public. Since port charges are strategic complements, privatization can act as a valuable precommitment tool for the two governments and allows for a better exploitation of the third region. However, from the perspective of maximizing the joint national welfare of both port countries, there is an inefficiently low incentive to privatize. It is also shown that a country with a smaller home market has a larger incentive to choose private port operation.
L90|Favouritism and Inefficiency in Procurement: Evidence from Public Works in Italy|This paper shows how favoritism in public procurement can emerge despite the use of rigid procedures for awarding contracts and of transparent criteria for allowing firms to bid. The paper analyzes data on the awarding of public works in Italy to illustrate how differences in fine regulation details across Italian local administrations have major implications in terms of favoritism toward local contractors and the overall efficiency of the procurement process. The findings are a cautionary tale about the benefits and risks of a decentralized procurement regulation and a warning about the problems facing green and innovation procurement.
L90|Introduction to the volume: PUBLIC PROCUREMENT'S PLACE IN THE WORLD. THE CHARGE TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION|The seven essays in this volume address different issues related to green and innovation procurement as well as more general challenges in public procurement. These studies address both general, abstract problems of optimal public procurement and concrete cases of national or even local public procurement systems.The evidence that they present covers a broad spectrum of countries including Italy, Latvia, the Netherlands and several African countries. Reflecting the different expertise of the authors, the studies draw from the Economics, Engineering, Law and Organization approaches to public procurement and use both theoretical and empirical methods. We divided these studies into three groups on the basis of their main topic area: green procurement, innovation procurement and challenges in public procurement.
L90|Elektro-Mobilität wird deutlich überschätzt|E-mobility technology is commonly expected to fully meet future mobility demands. However, during the next two or three decades, the number of vehicles powered by an internal combustion engine (ICE) will not only remain high but will probably increase in absolute numbers. Oil as the dominant energy source for transportation purposes is limited, and it is expected that e-mobility will not be able to substitute the demand for ICE vehicles. Renewable liquid energy sources will be needed to ensure future mobility. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
L90|Globalization and the development of logistics infrastructure of the freight transport by road|Development of countries and regions is possible thanks to their adequate infrastructure. The globalization of economic processes has contributed to the increase in the intensity of the movement of all kinds of goods, which is possible due to the transport infrastructure. Transport is one of the functional systems of logistics, which covers all activities consisting in the movement of material goods, people and information, in time and space, with appropriate technical equipment. Thus, it constitutes an element of the technical infrastructure of logistics. Road transport is the main branch of Polish transport both in terms of the mass of and the revenues from the freight. Therefore the authors have conducted an in-depth study of the logistics infrastructure of the freight transport by road, not only for Poland, but also for other European countries. The purpose of this article is to analyze the concentration of the elements of the road transport infrastructure and to examine the competitiveness of companies providing road transport services in selected European countries in the years 2001-2011, and to examine the road network saturation. The following indices were used in the analysis: Herfindahl-Hirschman concentration index, location quotient, weighted average rate of road network density and Engel's road network density index. The Herfindahl-Hirschman index measures the concentration and determines the estimated level of concentration in a given industry and the level of competitiveness on a given market. The location quotient determines the level of the analyzed variable in relation to the so-called reference variable and allows one to determine whether the analyzed area has a higher level of the variable in a given section, compared to the average for the reference area, whether there is a potential shortage of certain activities in the examined area, or whether the level of a feature in a given area is sufficient. Weighted average rate of the road network density refers to the density of the road network in relation to the area and population of a given country. The Engel's network density ratio in turn takes into account, apart from the area and population, the size of the transported goods. The performed analyses provide information on the uniformity of equipment in the road transport infrastructure of the examined countries and show similarities and differences in the road network saturation. The applied measures allow one to compare the analyzed countries in terms of the discussed variables, and in particular: the total length of motorways (kilometers), annual road freight transport (thousands of tonnes), length of e-roads (kilometers) length of other roads (kilometers), number of goods road transport companies.
L90|Außenwirtschaftsaktivitäten von kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen im Lichte der amtlichen Statistik|Der internationale Waren- und Dienstleistungshandel hat für deutsche KMU eine große Bedeutung. Die Ausfuhren und Einfuhren sind im letzten Jahrzehnt tendenziell ebenso gestiegen wie die Anzahl international aktiver Unternehmen. Im Jahr 2010 waren mindestens 345.000 KMU als Exporteure und 512.000 als Importeure tätig. Insgesamt gut 11 % aller Unternehmen werden von der Statistik als Exporteure ausgewiesen (Import: 17 %). Im Verarbeitenden Gewerbe liegt die Exporteurquote der KMU bei fast 30 %. Der Anteil der Exporteure je Unternehmensgrößenklasse steigt mit der Unternehmensgröße: von 9 % bei Kleinstunternehmen, 47 % bei Kleinunternehmen bis auf 68 % bei mittleren Unternehmen. Oberhalb eines Jahresumsatzes von 2 Mio. € ist somit gut jedes zweite KMU im Exportgeschäft tätig. KMU sind dabei in gleicher Anzahl inner- und außerhalb der EU im Exportgeschäft aktiv.
L90|La infraestructura aeroportuaria del Caribe colombiano|Airports are one of the most important components of the physical infrastructure of a country, because through them aircrafts can move large volumes of passengers and cargo. However, their construction requires consideration of a number of environmental, economic, territorial and social factors that have great influence on the environment in which they develop. This paper shows the current status of airports in the Caribbean, their impact to the region and presents a review the flow of passengers and cargo in recent years. Finally, we estimate the elasticity of demand for air transport of domestic passengers traveling to and from the Caribbean to GDP of the main cities of the region. RESUMEN: Los aeropuertos son uno de los componentes más importantes de la infraestructura física de un país, ya que a través de ellos aterrizan y despegan aeronaves que pueden movilizar importantes volúmenes de pasajeros y carga. Sin embargo, la construcción de éstos requiere tener en cuenta una serie de factores ambientales, económicos, territoriales y sociales que tienen gran influencia sobre el entorno en el cual se desarrollan. En este trabajo se expone el estado actual de los aeropuertos del Caribe, su impacto económico y ambiental en la región y se presenta una revisión el flujo de pasajeros y carga de los últimos años. Por último, se estima la elasticidad de la demanda por transporte aéreo respecto de los pasajeros nacionales que viajan desde y hacia el Caribe respecto al PIB de las capitales de la región.
L90|Steuern, Wettbewerb und Wettbewerbsneutralität|Bei der Besteuerung nicht oder nur begrenzt handelbarer Dienstleistungen (wie z.B. lokale Postdienstleistungen) entfällt der Anpassungsdruck des internationalen Steuerwettbewerbs weitgehend, sodass etwaige Wettbewerbsverzerrungen insbesondere zwischen verschiedenen inländischen Marktteilnehmern leicht fortbestehen können. Der vorliegende Beitrag illustriert dieses Problem anhand von zwei aktuellen Beispielen und zeigt auf, wie Verbrauchsteuern den Wettbewerb auf Produktmärkten beeinflussen können. Zum einen wird das Mehrwertsteuerprivileg der Deutschen Post AG erörtert, zum anderen die jüngst in Deutschland eingeführt Luftverkehrsteuer.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L90|Les partenariats public-privé : l'avenir du financement des infrastructures|According to a recent OECD study, the global needs for infrastructure investment amount to 40,000? billion by 2040. Faced with the scarcity of public funds, the financing of these needs is seen as a burden or a challenge, at a time when austerity is required even if the term itself is still taboo. Yet, through the existing legal and financial tools that are PPPs or concessions, the state has the capacity to use the private sector to ensure funding of projects to meet the fundamental changes in contemporary societies. But many obstacles remain for private investment, and especially the mobilization of capital over the long term. Infrastructure is requiring stable and sustainable investments. That is why the needs in economic and social development largely depend in the future, on the ability of states to shift long-term savings and to rely on specialized actors to fill the ?? infrastructure gap??. Classification JEL: L90, O18.
L90|La infraestructura aeroportuaria del Caribe colombiano|Los aeropuertos son uno de los componentes más importantes de la infraestructura física de un país, ya que a través de ellos aterrizan y despegan aeronaves que pueden movilizar importantes volúmenes de pasajeros y carga. Sin embargo, la construcción de éstos requiere tener en cuenta una serie de factores ambientales, económicos, territoriales y sociales que tienen gran influencia sobre el entorno en el cual se desarrollan. En este trabajo se expone el estado actual de los aeropuertos del Caribe, su impacto económico y ambiental en la región y se presenta una revisión el flujo de pasajeros y carga de los últimos años. Por último, se estima la elasticidad de la demanda por transporte aéreo respecto de los pasajeros nacionales que viajan desde y hacia el Caribe respecto al PIB de las capitales de la región.
L90|The Impact of Green Supply Chain Management on Transportation Cost Reduction in Turkey|Supply chain management (SCM) has become an important competitive approach for organizations. The issue of green supply chain management is critical for the successful implementation of industrial ecosystems and industrial ecology. Organizations have a number of reasons for implementing these green supply chain policies, from reactive regulatory reasons, to proactive strategic and competitive advantage reasons. From an overall environmental and organizational perspective, it is important to understand the situation and what issues exist in this field. Many organizations worldwide have already experienced globalization and a shifting focus to competition among networks of companies in this environment. Multinational enterprises have established global networks of suppliers that take advantage of country-industry specific characteristics to build this competitive advantage. To success having this competitive advantage, logistics and supply chain managers have to balance efforts to reduce costs and innovate while maintaining good environmental (ecological) performance (Pagell et al., 2004). Therefore, today, competition is not between companies, between supply chains. This study brings us the effect of Green Supply Chain Management (GSCM) on the Transportation Cost Reduction (TCR).
L90|Infrastructure and economic growth in Peru|This article reviews the literature analysing the importance of infrastructure for economic growth, and performs an econometric estimation to discover the relation between the two variables in the case of Peru. Different estimators are used with panel data from the 24 regions of Peru for the period 1980-2009. The econometric results confirm that public-service infrastructures (roads, electricity and telecommunications) are important in explaining temporary differences in regional output, in keeping with neoclassical exogenous growth theories. Evidence is also found of significant differences in the repercussions of the different infrastructures on per capita gdp in each region. Consequently, the policy authorities should streamline the development of projects that help to reduce the infrastructure disparities that hinder the development of Peru's regions.
L90|Strategic accessibility competition|We analyze the effect of competition in market-accessibility enhancement among quality-differentiated firms. Firms are located in regions with different ex-ante transport costs to reach the final market. We characterize the equilibrium of the two-stage game in which firms first invest to improve market accessibility and then compete in prices. Efforts in accessibility improvement crucially depend on the interplay between the willingness to pay for the quality premium of the median consumer and the ex-ante difference in accessibility between regions. From the social standpoint, also the accessibility investment depends on such a comparison. Finally, we endogenize quality choice and check the robustness of the result to some natural modifications of our assumptions.
L90|Incentive Regulation, Investments and Technological Change|Digital markets worldwide are in rapid flux. The Internet and World Wide Web have traditionally evolved in a largely deregulated environment, but recently governments have shown great interest in this rapidly developing sector and are imposing regulations for a variety of reasons that are changing the shape of these industries. This book explores why the industrial organization of broadband ISPs, Internet backbone providers and content/application providers are in such turmoil.
L90|Dead Battery? Wind Power, the Spot Market, and Hydro Power Interaction in the Nordic Electricity Market|"It is well established within both the economics and power system engineering literature that hydro power can act as a complement to large amounts of intermittent energy. In particular hydro power can act as a ""battery"" where large amounts of wind power are installed. In this paper I use simple distributed lag models with data from Denmark and Norway. I find that increased wind power in Denmark causes increased marginal exports to Norway and that this effect is larger during periods of net exports when it is difficult to displace local production. Increased wind power can also be shown to slightly reduce prices in southern Norway in the short run. Finally, I estimate that as much as 40 percent of wind power produced in Denmark is stored in Norwegian hydro power magazines."
L90|Usage d'Internet et du téléphone mobile en Afrique : une comparaison des déterminants d'adoption sur données gabonaises|Dans les pays développés, la téléphonie mobile et l?Internet ont suivi des trajectoires A l?inverse, le continent africain se caractérise par des processus de diffusion asynchrones, la pénétration de la téléphonie mobile (41% fin 2010) étant bien supérieure à celle de l?Internet (9,7%). Partant de ce constat d?une fracture numérique duale en Afrique (plus forte sur l?Internet que sur la téléphonie mobile), l?objectif de cet article est de comparer les déterminants de l?usage d?Internet et de la téléphonie mobile. Pour cela, nous utilisons une enquête individuelle réalisée au Gabon. Nos résultats économétriques montrent que les freins à l?utilisation d?Internet et de la téléphonie mobile sont assez différents. Les deux principaux facteurs expliquant l?usage d?Internet sont le niveau d?éducation et les compétences informatiques. L?entourage ou le réseau social joue aussi un rôle significatif dans l?adoption d?Internet. Du côté de la téléphonie mobile, les principaux freins sont de nature économique. Enfin, l?âge joue en sens opposé sur l?usage de la téléphonie mobile et d?Internet. Les différences constatées dans les profils d?adoption d?Internet et de la téléphonie mobile devraient inciter les gouvernements des pays africains à développer des politiques numériques plus centrées sur la téléphonie mobile afin d?offrir des services et applications innovants (en matière de santé ou d?éducation par exemple) accessibles au plus grand nombre.
L90|Infrastructure and Economic Growth: What About the Future?|New infrastructure investments are deemed to be essential in any policy to contrast the current economic crisis and to boost economic growth. However, the relationship between infrastructures and economic growth is far more complex. To be effective, infrastructural policies thus require a deep analysis of the causal links between infrastructure and economic system. In this perspective, the article points out that a change is necessary in the way economic theory deals with infrastructural investments to take into account their strategic relevance. Secondly, it is briefly analyzed the potential role of the infrastructural policies to speed up the structural change required to exit the current economic crisis.
L90|Regulatory Choices for a New Economic Development|This paper aims to give some remarks about the regulatory choices in Italy on the main network industries, former public monopolies (telecommunications, transport, water, energy). In particular, it focuses on the main legislative actions taken by the current Italian Government and provides some brief comments with particular attention to the transport sector and to the new competencies given to the National Regulatory Authority for Electricity and Gas about water sector.
L90|Public Interest and International Competition: An European View|The creation of a pan-European integrated energy market, based on a harmonized regulatory framework and on integrated distribution networks, aims to encourage the development of new opportunities by removing entry barriers and by fostering competition. However, the path of liberalization has not yet led to the creation of a complete free market, but to an oligopoly of a few major players in the sector, applying an expansionist policy supported by significant investments. The awareness of the context now leads the operators to review their strategic orientations towards structure and business rationalization.
L90|Data Issues In Total Factor Productivity Benchmarking: A Central European Perspective|Total factor productivity is a method of measuring overall productivity of businesses, industries or economies. It is an approach which is recently becoming popular among government regulatory agencies when applying the so-called performance-based regulation. This principle induces regulated companies (for instance, electricity or natural gas distributors) to behave efficiently even if their industries are not exposed to competitive pressures, since they are rewarded for being more productive than other firms in the industry, and penalized in the opposite case.The aim of this article is to deal with the question what are the main data issues when comparing total factor productivity among firms or industries with focus on the Central European region, which is very heterogeneous in terms of geographic, social, economic and historic conditions.In the first part, we introduce total factor productivity and the most common methods of its measurement Ã¯Â¿Â1/2 Malmquist and TÃ¯Â¿Â1/2rnqvist indexes. Consequently, we divide the data issues into separate categories and discuss them more in detail. The first category of issues is related to defining the set of comparable firms. Many factors, such as the degree of competition in the market, the extent of government regulation, economies of scale, firm size, geographical conditions and historic development have to be taken into consideration. The second category is associated with specifying the time period. TFP estimates should be based on long time series and the period should include the whole business cycle and be representative and exclude extraordinary events. The third group of issues is related to defining and measuring the inputs and outputs. Since a number of difficulties are associated with labor input measurement, it is often included into operating expenditures along with materials and services. The measurement of capital is even more contentious. The outputs should reflect performance, complexity and quality of service rendition. Finally, the fourth category of problems concerns determining the costs of inputs and outputs (cost-based indexes) or defining and measuring the reference technology (distance-based indexes), where some degree of arbitrary judgment and inaccuracy is inevitable.We conclude with the suggestion to avoid methods requiring large time series such as frontier-based methods of efficiency benchmarking (data envelopment analysis or econometric methods) or Malmquist TFP benchmarking in the Central European region due to huge differences between firms and their environment. However, the question of the best performing regulatory methods is still not clarified and is subject to intensive academic debate.
L90|Services Economy in the Context of Globalization|Development of services in the current context of globalization, through efficient allocation of resources, will provide a higher volume of services with increasingly less resources. Free movement of services requires a general abolition of restrictions, nondiscrimination on grounds of nationality or residence and their liberalization by all countries.
L90|The Real Economy Of Romania In 2005 – 2010|The purpose of this study is to give a financial synoptic, annual image of the state of the real economy, using the annual balance sheets of the economic agents. The objectives of the paper aim to implement some significant indicators (secondary, tertiary, aggregate, etc.) in the economic evaluation, with a higher significance than the known primary indicators, the current calculation of some indicators determined by the economic and financial theory which are not, however, used currently. The financial statistic aspects, with annual frequency and at the aggregate (national) level are recorded and published in official documents and reports (NBR, NSI, Governmental), but most of them are primary, macroeconomic indicators which, mist times, don’t give a structural image of the particular phenomenon. Within this context, the quantitative and qualitative interpretation of the economic and financial processes from the real economy is rather difficult. Hence, it is necessary that this huge mass of information from the accounting balances of the companies is processed with the purpose to produce significant indicators so that the economic-financial phenomenology from the real economy is revealed with more accuracy.
L90|The Real Economy Of Romania In 2005 – 2010 (Ii)|The purpose of this study is to give a financial synoptic, annual image of the real economy state using the balance sheets of the economic units. Hence, the paper analyses and evaluates economically some significant indicators (secondary, tertiary, aggregate, etc.) with a higher significance than the known primary indicators; it makes the current calculation of some indicators set by the economic and financial theory which are not currently used. The financial statistics with annual frequency, at the aggregate (national) level are calculated and published in many official documents and reports (NBR, NIS, Government), but most of them are primary macroeconomic indicators which many times do not provide a thorough (structural) image of the studied phenomenon. Within this context, the quantitative and qualitative interpretation of the economic and financial processes from the real economy is rather difficult. It is therefore necessary to process this huge mass of information piled up in the balance sheets of the companies in order to produce significant indicators which reveal more accurately the economic and financial phenomenology of the real economy.
