L91|Formative Experiences and the Price of Gasoline|An individual’s initial experiences with a common good, such as gasoline, can shape their behavior for decades. We first show that the 1979 oil crisis had a persistent negative effect on the likelihood that individuals that came of driving age during this time drove to work in the year 2000 (i.e., in their mid 30s). The effect is stronger for those with lower incomes and those in cities. Combining data on many cohorts, we then show that large increases in gasoline prices between the ages of 15 and 18 significantly reduce both (i) the likelihood of driving a private automobile to work and (ii) total annual vehicle miles traveled later in life, while also increasing public transit use. Differences in driver license age requirements generate additional variation in the formative window. These effects cannot be explained by contemporaneous income and do not appear to be only due to increased costs from delayed driving skill acquisition. Instead, they seem to reflect the formation of preferences for driving or persistent changes in the perceived costs of driving.
L91|Prices, Schedules, and Passenger Welfare in Multi-Service Transportation Systems|We consider a multi-service transportation system in which passengers are heterogeneous along two dimensions, namely ideal departure time and value of time, leading to both horizontal and vertical differentiation. We investigate the behavior of passengers, and assess how service pricing and scheduling affect their travel choices and welfare. We show that this depends, first, on whether passengers are uninformed or informed about the timetable of services, supplied at different prices, upon arrival at the station. Besides, given the information passengers hold, it also depends on their (individual-specific) value of time. The market segmentation results accordingly, and is found to be finer, in general, when passengers are informed. Our analysis offers policy-makers a scientifically founded tool to make sensible decisions, based on the exact identification of those who would gain and those who would lose from policy changes. The analysis further highlights the potential benefits of information, and points to the importance of facilitating information accessibility to passengers.
L91|Formative Experiences and the Price of Gasoline|An individual's initial experiences with a common good, such as gasoline, can shape their behavior for decades. We first show that the 1979 oil crisis had a persistent negative effect on the likelihood that individuals that came of driving age during this time drove to work in the year 2000 (i.e., in their mid 30s). The effect is stronger for those with lower incomes and those in cities. Combining data on many cohorts, we then show that large increases in gasoline prices between the ages of 15 and 18 significantly reduce both (i) the likelihood of driving a private automobile to work and (ii) total annual vehicle miles traveled later in life, while also increasing public transit use. Differences in driver license age requirements generate additional variation in the formative window. These effects cannot be explained by contemporaneous income and do not appear to be only due to increased costs from delayed driving skill acquisition. Instead, they seem to reflect the formation of preferences for driving or persistent changes in the perceived costs of driving.
L91|Libéralisation du rail : qui va gagner, qui va perdre?|Cette étude aborde la libéralisation du rail dans les trois pays où celle-ci est la plus avancée (Grande-Bretagne, Suède et Allemagne). Nous étudions les impacts de la libéralisation sur les principaux acteurs susceptibles d’être affectés positivement ou négativement par celle-ci. Les résultats sont contrastés selon les variables étudiées et les pays. De manière générale, il semble que le coût pour le contribuable ne se soit pas réduit. Les subsides publics ont augmenté, que ce soit suite ou parallèlement aux expériences de libéralisation. La part modale du train et la ponctualité se sont améliorées dans tous les pays concernés, même s’il est difficile d’en attribuer la cause à la libéralisation, puisque celle-ci a été accompagnée d’un important refinancement et réinvestissement public. Les autres aspects de la qualité du service (prix, sécurité,...) ne semblent quant à eux pas avoir été sensiblement affectés par la libéralisation. Seule une différenciation des tarifs semble s’être généralisée, avec des billets plus coûteux en heure de pointe et moins coûteux en heure creuse. Enfin, il apparaît que le nombre de cheminots ait été considérablement réduit après la mise en place de la concurrence, entraînant plus de flexibilité et une augmentation des cadences pour le personnel restant. Les conditions de travail des cheminots se sont généralement détériorées.
L91|Effects of the Digital Transition in Passenger Transport - an Analysis of Energy Consumption Scenarios in Europe|The transport sector has rarely seen disruptive evolutions after the diffusion of the internal combustion engine, and today the European mobility is still heavily relying on oil derivates and on private cars. However, there is a significant push in cities towards more sustainable mobility paradigms, and digital technologies are playing a major role in unleashing possible alternatives to a car- and fossil-based mobility. Three major digital trends can be highlighted, with different levels of maturity and some potential synergies among them: Mobility as a Service, Shared Mobility and Autonomous Vehicles. The effects of these trends are also related to the strong push towards electric mobility, which currently appears as the most supported solution by companies and regulators to decarbonize the transport sector. This working paper discusses an investigation of the potential effects of digital transition, by means of a data-driven model for the calculation of the impacts of mobility demand in Europe in terms of primary energy consumption and CO2 emissions. The results show that digitalization may have a positive effect on energy consumption and CO2 emissions for passenger transport, given the strong efficiency improvements expected by technological development in the vehicles powertrains. The benefits are maximized if digital technologies are used towards a collective optimization, by increasing the share of available mobility options. Conversely, if digital technologies are limited to increase the quality of private mobility, the environmental benefits will likely remain very limited. Thus, there is a need of tailored policies supporting the right mobility models to fully exploit the potential benefits of digitalization.
L91|Formative Experiences and the Price of Gasoline|An individual's initial experiences with a common good, such as gasoline, can shape their behavior for decades. We first show that the 1979 oil crisis had a persistent negative effect on the likelihood that individuals that came of driving age during this time drove to work in the year 2000 (i.e., in their mid 30s). The effect is stronger for those with lower incomes and those in cities. Combining data on many cohorts, we then show that large increases in gasoline prices between the ages of 15 and 18 significantly reduce both (i) the likelihood of driving a private automobile to work and (ii) total annual vehicle miles traveled later in life, while also increasing public transit use. Differences in driver license age requirements generate additional variation in the formative window. These effects cannot be explained by contemporaneous income and do not appear to be only due to increased costs from delayed driving skill acquisition. Instead, they seem to reflect the formation of preferences for driving or persistent changes in the perceived costs of driving.
L91|The Blue Maritime Cluster Crisis: Financial Instability and Supply Chain Management Effects|The present paper investigates the offshore crisis 2015-2017 and its impact on one of the most complete maritime clusters, more precise the Blue Maritime Cluster, located at Møre og Romsdal at the North Western Coast of Norway. As this cluster is heavily involved in offshore petroleum operations, it experienced an almost devastating blow during the crisis. The cluster lost almost one third of its employees as its value added contracted by 39 percent. The crises is basically seen as result of the falling oil prices and, thus, lower activity and squeezed profit margins, particularly in marginal oil and gas fields. The paper does not dispute this. However, it also investigates the crisis in the light of financial instability and chain reactions down the maritime supply chain. By collecting data from the Blue Maritime Cluster and the Norwegian central company register one is able, both to trace the fall in activity due to the crisis and measures of financial strength. The study approaches the data by using structural time series analysis in order to map cycles as deviations from polynomial trends. The conclusions are that financial instability was dominant within the Blue Maritime Cluster during its boom before the crisis. Debt ratios, and thereby gearing or leverage was high. Thus, the companies could not meet their obligations when the crisis hit, due to low solidity and loss of financial stability. The paper also finds that narrow focused supply chain management, made the cluster fall deep in to the abyss when ship owning companies and shipyards were hit. Companies with a more diversified portfolio were able to meet the hard years better than others.
L91|Cross-border transport infrastructure in the EU|The report provides a set of indicators and tools that allow policy makers to measure accessibility and connectivity of border regions in Europe at both national and international levels. The methodology can be used to identify areas where transport infrastructure may be lacking and prioritize potential investments based on specific policy relevant criteria. The approach uses very detailed spatially disaggregate data covering EU28 plus Norway and Switzerland at grid level (1km by 1km), as well as the complete road network. This level of resolution allows many of the specificities of the areas covered to be taken into account.
L91|The future of road transport|"A perfect storm of new technologies and new business models is transforming not only our vehicles, but everything about how we get around, and how we live our lives. The JRC report ""The future of road transport - Implications of automated, connected, low-carbon and shared mobility"" looks at some main enablers of the transformation of road transport, such as data governance, infrastructures, communication technologies and cybersecurity, and legislation. It discusses the potential impacts on the economy, employment and skills, energy use and emissions, the sustainability of raw materials, democracy, privacy and social fairness, as well as on the urban context. It shows how the massive changes on the horizon represent an opportunity to move towards a transport system that is more efficient, safer, less polluting and more accessible to larger parts of society than the current one centred on car ownership. However, new transport technologies, on their own, won't spontaneously make our lives better without upgrading our transport systems and policies to the 21st century. The improvement of governance and the development of innovative mobility solutions will be crucial to ensure that the future of transport is cleaner and more equitable than its car-centred present."
L91|“The impact of curbside parking regulations on car ownership”|Car ownership is a major driver of household travel behavior and has a marked impact on transport demand, energy consumption, emission levels and land use. However, just how curbside parking regulations (i.e. paid parking) affects car ownership remains unclear. Here, we employ a two-way fixed effect model using panel data and difference-in-differences estimations to determine the causal impact of changes in parking regulations and the specific impact of the extension of a city-wide parking policy in Barcelona. Our results suggest that the introduction of paid parking to reduce non-resident/visitor demand has a positive impact on resident car ownership levels. Our welfare analysis suggests that the welfare loss derived from the residents’ parking subsidy and their likely increase in car usage can easily offset the benefits derived from visitor-trip deterrence. This being the case, the tradeoff between efficiency and acceptability requires careful consideration.
L91|Do pump prices really follow Edgeworth cycles? Evidence from the German retail fuel market|Most of the literature on retail fuel markets find high-frequency and asymmetric price cycles. This is typically explained by the model of Edgeworth price cycles. A key element of this model is that prices fall to marginal costs during a cycle. It seems challenging to address this assumption empirically. However, I use a natural experiment in the German fuel market to analyze the effects of an external cost shock. I find strong evidence that prices do not fall to marginal costs. This is not in line with Edgeworth cycles and thus, should be taken into account when analyzing fuel markets.
L91|The economic importance of the Belgian ports : Flemish maritime ports, Liège port complex and the port of Brussels – Report 2017|This Working Paper analyses the economic importance of the Belgian ports largely based on annual accounts data for the year 2017. As the years prior to 2017 have been described in earlier papers in the same series, the emphasis lies on the ﬁgures for 2017 and the developments between 2016 and 2017 . After the stagnation in 2016, direct value added at the Belgian ports rose by 7.3% from € 18 052 million to € 19 368 million (current prices) or roughly 4.4% of Belgium’s GDP. All ports, with the exception of the Liège port complex, contributed to value added growth at the Belgian ports. The ports of Antwerp and Ghent were the most important players. The biggest contributing sectors to value added growth were the chemical industry and, to a lesser extent, cargo handling and the metalworking industry. In 2017, indirect value added was around 82% of direct value added. Direct value added increased significantly at the ports of Ghent, Brussels and Antwerp, by 13.4%, 16.0% and 6.1% respectively. The increase by more than 3% of direct value added at the ports of Zeebrugge and Ostend was also substantial. Direct value added fell by 2.4% at the Liège port complex. After the decline between 2012 and 2015, direct employment at the Belgian ports was up for the second year in a row. Between 2016 and 2017, the number of direct full-time equivalent jobs rose by 0.8%, from 115 401 to 116 311 or approximately 2.8% of Belgium’s total domestic employment. All ports, with the exception of Ostend and Brussels, contributed to employment growth at the Belgian ports. The ports of Antwerp and Ghent were the most important players. The biggest contributing sectors to employment growth were cargo handling and, to a lesser extent, the chemical industry. In 2017, indirect employment was around 120% of direct employment. Direct employment increased by around 1% at the ports of Antwerp, Ghent and Zeebrugge. Growth at the Liège port complex was more modest at 0.4%. The number of direct full-time equivalent jobs fell at the ports of Ostend and Brussels, by 1.2% and 4.2% respectively. The pattern of investment is closely linked to projects and is therefore highly volatile. After the decline between 2012 and 2014, direct investment at the Belgian ports was up for the third year in a row. Between 2016 and 2017, investment was up by 2.4%, from € 4 711 million to € 4 825 million. The port of Ghent and, to a lesser extent, the Liège port complex contributed to investment growth at the Belgian ports. The biggest contributing sectors to investment growth were the ‘port construction and dredging’ sector and, to a lesser extent, cargo handling, and the energy and chemical industries. Based on the figures of the traffic, the Flemish ports can be considered as real bridgeheads for trade with the UK. Developments regarding the modalities and consequences of the Brexit therefor should be followed with the greatest attention. Given the existing import and export volumes in terms of tonnage, it seems it will mostly be a challenge in Zeebrugge and to some extent for Antwerp. As a supplier to both China and the United States, Belgium is indirectly involved in trade between the two countries. If protectionism would close the United States off to exports from abroad, Belgian economy might get impacted one of the most in Europe.
L91|Formative Experiences and the Price of Gasoline|An individual’s initial experiences with a common good, such as gasoline, can shape their behavior for decades. We first show that the 1979 oil crisis had a persistent neg-ative effect on the likelihood that individuals that came of driving age during this time drove to work in the year 2000 (i.e., in their mid 30s). The effect is stronger for those with lower incomes and those in cities. Combining data on many cohorts, we then show that large increases in gasoline prices between the ages of 15 and 18 sig-nificantly reduce both (i) the likelihood of driving a private automobile to work and (ii) total annual vehicle miles traveled later in life, while also increasing public tran-sit use. Differences in driver license age requirements generate additional variation in the formative window. These effects cannot be explained by contemporaneous in-come and do not appear to be only due to increased costs from delayed driving skill acquisition. Instead, they seem to reflect the formation of preferences for driving or persistent changes in the perceived costs of driving.
L91|Transformational Leadership in Digital Era: Analysis of Nadiem Makarim (Founder of GO-JEK Indonesia) Leadership Figure|Technology and internet have driven innovation and new opportunities by digitizing customers, companies, products, services, and processes. In the digital era, the company has potential to touch all aspects of the business, including customers, employees, partners, business processes, and also a global network of businesses and things from every industry around the world. These conditions bring fundamental changes to community behaviours and its potential consequences. When the organizations adapt themselves to the changes, they require transformational leadership. The objective of this paper is to describe the concept of transformational leadership as a hallmark of a future digital business leader. From the evidence in the literature, in many successful organizations, transformational leaders have contributed to increasing the effectiveness and performance of the organizations. By using the descriptive method with a phenomenological approach, the practice of transformational leadership of Nadiem Makarim as the founder of GO-JEK Indonesia (an Indonesian-owned and run technology start-up that specializes in ride-hailing, logistics, and digital payments) is examined. Then, this paper as a preliminary study provides a review of how Makarim’s leadership philosophy and practice has brought GO-JEK into success, Indonesia’s biggest start-up.
L91|Effort under alternative pay contracts in the ride-sharing industry|"We study hours worked by drivers in the peer-to-peer transportation sector with cross-side network effects. Medallion lease (regulated market), commission-based (Uber-like pay) and profit-sharing (""pure"" taxi coop) compensation schemes are compared. Our static model shows that network externalities matter, depending on the number of active drivers. When the number of drivers is limited, in the presence of positive network effects, a regulated system always induces more hours worked, while the commission fee influences the comparative incentives towards effort of Uber-like pay versus profit-sharing. When the number of drivers is infinite (or close to it), the influence of network externalities on optimal effort vanishes."
L91|When Particulate Matter Strikes Cities: Social Disparities and Health Costs of Air Pollution|Socio-economic characteristics can determine large differentials in exposure and vulnerability to air pollution, generating environmental inequality. In this paper we investigate unequal effects of daily particulate matter (PM) concentrations on Italian hospitalizations by exploiting daily episodes of public transportation strikes as an instrumental variable for pollution exposure. We show that hospitalizations resulting from higher pollution are not only more likely to occur, but are also more complex to deal with. Moreover, our predictions show that conditional on PM exposure levels, hospitalization costs follow a strong socio-economic gradient, with the health burden being larger for the young, less educated individuals and migrants from low income countries. These inequality mechanisms imply that the effects of air pollution should be addressed not only by environmental and health actors, but should be coordinated with other sectors, such as education and transport, shaping a common policy approach.
L91|The Political Economy of an Optimal Congestion Tax: An Empirical Investigation|Despite widely prescribed by economists, a congestion tax is seldom used in practice. Why? This paper combines a structural econometric model with a simulation algorithm to estimate an optimal congestion tax and investigate its political acceptance. Results for Sao Paulo show the tax to be 2 USD per trip. Policy simulations indicate that (i) commuters that switch to the public transportation bears the largest share of the tax burden and (ii) revenue recycling is essential for the policy to be accepted. Skepticism about the use of tax revenues is the likely cause for the low use of the congestion tax.
L91|The limits of laws: traffic law enforcement in South Africa|The aim of many public policies is to change behaviour. Governments tend to rely on regulations, taxes and subsidies to effect such change. These measures, which affect agents' economic incentives, have a mixed record. A key insight of the New Institutional Economics is that the efficacy of such formal institutions depends on the strength of their enforcement and the extent to which they are compatible with prevailing informal institutions. This paper uses the road safety situation in South Africa as a case study to explore aspects of the relationships among formal institutions, law enforcement and informal institutions. South Africa has a strong suite of road safety laws but poor road safety outcomes. The paper argues that improved law enforcement cannot fully solve the problem; complementary changes to the informal institutions shaping the behaviour of road-users are essential. It points out that institutional economists have to take a greater interest in the insights of research in behavioural economics, behavioural and cognitive science and other disciplines in order to provide useful advice in settings where such change is an important policy objective.
L91|Nonlinear Effects of the Transport Costs on the Wage Inequality|This paper examines how transport costs affect wage inequality. Goods produced by the unskilled must pay higher transport costs because they have low market values. Reduction in transportation cost changes the relative wage. At first, only the skilled gains from the transportation improvement. Then the unskilled also gains from international trade. Therefore, transportation development causes Kuznets curve.
L91|The Mediation Effect of Regional Development in Relationship Between Community Participation to Sustainable Transportation in The City of Medan, North Sumatra Indonesia|The paper aims is to investigate the mediation effect of regional development on the relationship between community participation to sustainable transportation in the city of Medan, North Sumatra Indonesia. This research was conducted by an explanatory approach using primary data with purposive sampling technique method based on criteria of 300 respondents. Data analysis techniques used was SEM (Structural Equation Modeling). The results of this study indicate that community participation has positive influence on regional development in the city of Medan, regional development has positive direct effect on sustainable transportation in the city of Medan, community participation has positive direct effect on sustainable transportation in the city of Medan, and community participation has positive indirect effect on sustainable transportation in the city of Medan. Regional development has positive mediation effect between community participation to sustainable transportation in the city of Medan, North Sumatra Indonesia.
L91|Measuring Long-Run Price Elasticities in Urban Travel Demand|This paper develops a structural model of urban travel to estimate long-run price elasticities. A dynamic discrete choice demand model with switching costs is estimated, using a panel dataset with public market-level data on automobile and public transit use for Chicago. The estimated model shows that long-run own- (automobile) and cross- (transit) price elasticities are more elastic than short-run elasticities, and that elasticity estimates from static and myopic models are downward biased. The estimated model is used to evaluate the response to a gasoline tax. Static and myopic models mismeasure long-run substitution patterns, and could lead to incorrect policy decisions.
L91|Measuring Long-Run Price Elasticities in Urban Travel Demand|This paper develops a structural model of urban travel to estimate long-run price elasticities. A dynamic discrete choice demand model with switching costs is estimated, using a panel dataset with public market-level data on automobile and public transit use for Chicago. The estimated model shows that long-run own- (automobile) and cross- (transit) price elasticities are more elastic than short-run elasticities, and that elasticity estimates from static and myopic models are downward biased. The estimated model is used to evaluate the response to a gasoline tax. Static and myopic models mismeasure long-run substitution patterns, and could lead to incorrect policy decisions.
L91|Break-even distance estimation between combined and unimodal road freight transport|The purpose of this research is to examine the impact of distance on choosing between combined and unimodal road transport. In doing so, the break-even distances between the two modes are calculated. The calculation relies on a Monte Carlo simulation that takes account of a randomly generated shipper and receiver?s locations in two separated market areas, independently of a certain transport corridor. Methodically, the ideas and elements of the transport system analytical modelling found in the literature are used. The results confirm the importance of distance on the mode choice and show there is not only one but in fact many break-even distances between the two modes. They vary considerably depending on different travel plans, and shipper/receiver locations within market areas. Despite the inevitable assumptions made in such general analysis, the results reveal combined transport can provide a good alternative to unimodal road transport even over relatively very short distances if the drayage costs are not too high. We believe the research helps better understand competitiveness in the freight transport sector and may also be useful for policy- and other decision-makers seeking to improve their evaluation of the opportunities and competitiveness of combined transport. Nevertheless that could lead to a more sustainable transport system.
L91|Internalization of External Costs and its Impact on Modal Split in the Freight Transport Market|The purpose of this research is to examine the impact of internalization of external costs on modal split in the freight transport market. It is expected that the internalization of transport externalities will contribute to the redistribution of freight volumes in favor of non-road transport modes, especially railway. To answer this expectation, the break-even distances between intermodal rail-road and unimodal road are calculated. The calculation is based on the costs, as the most important factor that influences the mode choice in the freight transport market. In order to establish as general as possible a model, independent of a certain transport corridors, the model relies on a Monte Carlo simulation that takes account of a randomly generated shipper and receiver?s locations in two separated market areas. The model consists of a submodule for calculating drayage distances and costs in a circular market area and another submodule for calculating the distances and costs between two separated market areas, taking different distance metrics into account. The results confirm the importance of internalization of external costs on the mode choice and its contribution to the more sustainable transport system. Additionally, the results show there is not only one but, in fact, many break-even distances between the two modes. They vary considerably depending on different travel plans, and shipper/receiver locations within market areas. Despite the inevitable assumptions made in such general analysis, the results reveal that intermodal rail-road transport can provide a good alternative to unimodal road transport, even over relatively very short distances if the drayage costs are not too high and if external cost of transport are included in the price of all transport modes. We believe the research helps better understand competitiveness in the freight transport sector and may also be useful for policy- and other decision-makers to decide the priority of policy options, such as providing subsidies to stimulate intermodal rail-road transport. Increasing truck rates, e.g., by adding taxes, has been found to be effective policy to increase the intermodal rail-road mode share.
L91|Adverse Selection and Moral Hazard in the Leasing Market: Are Buybacks the Solution?|We study the problem faced by a car-leasing firm in the presence of both adverse selection and moral hazard. While the literature has primarily focused on the role of leasing in avoiding adverse selection and the role of an above market buyback price in this environment, we show how this result reverses when moral hazard concerns are severe. The key driver of this result is that a low buy back price can incentivize non-contractible investment. We test the model using a difference-in-differences technique to compare accident outcomes of individuals driving leased company vehicles in Israel before and after a tax change and differentiate between drivers by their probability of utilizing the buyback clause. Our analysis shows that once exiting the leasing cycle becomes a relevant option due to a 110 percent increase in the tax rate on company cars it decreases the at-fault accident rate by half an accident per year (s.e. 0.25) for relevant drivers.
L91|Carpooling and the Economics of Self-Driving Cars|We study the interplay between autonomous transportation, carpooling, and road pricing. We discuss how improvements in these technologies, and interactions among them, will affect transportation markets. Our main results show how to achieve socially efficient outcomes in such markets, taking into account the costs of driving, road capacity, and commuter preferences. An important component of the efficient outcome is the socially optimal matching of carpooling riders. Our approach shows how to set road prices and how to share the costs of driving and tolls among carpooling riders in a way that implements the efficient outcome.
L91|The supply side of discrimination: evidence from the labor supply of Boston taxi drivers|This paper investigates supply-side discrimination in the labor market for Boston taxi drivers. Using data on millions of trips from 2010–2015, I explore whether the labor supply behavior of taxi drivers differs by the gender, racial/ethnic, or age composition of Boston neighborhoods. I find that disparities in shift hours due to neighborhood demographics exist even when differences in local earnings opportunities are taken into account. I observe heterogeneity in the amount that drivers discriminate and find that this discrimination is primarily statistical rather than taste-based. As drivers gain experience and learn to better anticipate wage variation, discrimination decreases.
L91|Commuting, Labor, and Housing Market Effects of Mass Transportation: Welfare and Identification|REVISED MARCH 2019 This paper studies the effects of Los Angeles Metro Rail on the spatial distribution of people and prices. Using a panel of bilateral commuting flows, I estimate a quantitative spatial general equilibrium model to quantify the welfare benefits of urban rail transit and distinguish the benefits of reduced commuting frictions from other channels. The subway causes a 7%-13% increase in commuting between pairs of connected tracts; I select plausible control pairs using proposed subway and historical streetcar lines to identify this effect. The structural parameters of the model are also estimated and are identified using a novel strategy that interacts tract-specific labor demand shocks with the spatial configuration of the city. These parameters indicate people are relatively unresponsive to changes in local prices and characteristics, implying that the commuting response corresponds to a large utility gain. The welfare benefits by 2000 are significant: LA Metro Rail increases aggregate welfare by $246 million annually. However, these benefits are only about one-third of annualized costs. While benefits did not outweigh costs by 2000, I employ more recent data to show that there are dynamic effects: Commuting continues to increase between connected locations.
L91|Parking, transit and traffic: Evidence from SFpark|Demand-responsive parking pricing programs, in which parking is priced based upon occupancy, are increasingly being used in cities experiencing rapid growth as a way to optimize parking. Despite the potential of demand-responsive parking in minimizing parking-related externalities, there are few empirical estimates regarding the effects of parking management policies, particularly around transit usage and traffics flow. We use data from SFpark, a demand-responsive on-street parking pricing program for the city of San Francisco, along with a rich micro data-set on transit bus usage from the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. Using a difference-in-difference strategy, we find that SFpark is associated with sizeable increases in transit bus usage of about 21 and reductions in lane occupancy of 5 percentage points per census block. Our welfare computations suggest economic benefits of $36 million over the duration of the program (2011-2013) resulting from avoided pollution due to increased transit usage and from reduced congestion. These benefits easily exceed the nominal costs of the program. Our results not only suggest that demand-responsive pricing programs achieve their stated goals, but also mitigate many traffic-related externalities, yielding significant welfare benefits.
L91|Economic implications of phantom traffic jams: Evidence from traffic experiments|Traffic jams occur even without bottlenecks, simply because of interaction of vehicles on the road. From a driver's point of view, the instability of the traffic flow arises stochastically. Because the probability of a traffic jam increases with the number of cars on the road, there is a traffic flow breakdown externality. This paper offers a method to calculate this externality for traffic on a circuit. Ignoring the stochastic nature of traffic flow breakdowns results in congestion charges that are too small.
L91|Subways and Urban Air Pollution|We investigate the relationship between the opening of a city’s subway network and its air quality. We find that particulate concentrations drop by 4% in a 10km radius disk surrounding a city center following a subway system opening. The effect is larger near the city center and persists over the longest time horizon that we can measure with our data, about eight years. We estimate that a new subway system provides an external mortality benefit of about $594m per year. Although available subway capital cost estimates are crude, the estimated external mortality effects represent a significant fraction of construction costs.
L91|Carpooling and the Economics of Self-Driving Cars|We study the interplay between autonomous transportation, carpooling, and road pricing. We discuss how improvements in these technologies, and interactions among them, will affect transportation markets. Our main results show how to achieve socially efficient outcomes in such markets, taking into account the costs of driving, road capacity, and commuter preferences. An important component of the efficient outcome is the socially optimal matching of carpooling riders. Our approach shows how to set road prices and how to share the costs of driving and tolls among carpooling riders in a way that implements the efficient outcome.
L91|Frictions in a Competitive, Regulated Market Evidence from Taxis|This paper presents a dynamic general equilibrium model of a taxi mar- ket. The model is estimated using data from New York City yellow cabs. Two salient features by which most taxi markets deviate from the efficient market ideal is the need of both market sides to physically search for trading partners in the product market as well as prevalent regulatory limitations on entry in the capital market. To assess the relevance of these features we use the model to simulate the effect of changes in entry and an alternative search technology. The results are contrasted with a policy that improves the inten- sive margin of medallion utilization through a transfer of medallions to more efficient ownership. We use the geographical features of New York City to back out unobserved demand through a matching simulation.
L91|Subways and urban growth: Evidence from earth|We investigate the relationship between the extent of a city’s subway network, its population and its spatial configuration. For the 632 largest cities in the world we construct panel data describing population, measures of centralization calculated from lights at night data, and the extent of each of the 138 subway systems in these cities. These data indicate that large cities are more likely to have subways but that subways have an economically insignificant effect on urban population growth. Our data also indicate that subways cause cities to decentralize, although the effect is smaller than previously documented effects of highways on decentralization. For a subset of subway cities we observe panel data describing subway and bus ridership. For those cities we find that a 10% increase in subway extent causes about a 6% increase in subway ridership and has no effect on bus ridership.
L91|Do Digital Platforms Reduce Moral Hazard? The Case of Uber and Taxis|Digital platforms like Uber can enhance market transparency and mitigate moral hazard via ratings of buyers and sellers, real-time monitoring, and low-cost complaint channels. We compare driver choices at Uber with taxis by matching trips so they are subject to the same optimal route. We also study drivers who switch from taxis to Uber. We find: (1) drivers in taxis detour about 7% on airport routes, with non-local passengers experiencing longer detours; (2) these detours lead to longer travel times; and (3) drivers on the Uber platform are more likely to detour on airport routes with high surge pricing.
L91|The Impact of Uber and Lyft on Taxi Service Quality: Evidence from New York City| Using detailed trip-level taxi and for-hire-vehicle data and new incident-level complaints data, we study how the entry of Uber and Lyft has affected the quality of taxi services in New York City. In a panel setting with 263 NYC taxi-zones over the time period from 2014 to 2017, we find that increased competition measured by the number of daily Uber/Lyft trips in a given taxi-zone has led to more complaints regarding a variety of service quality dimensions such as unsafe driving, rude behavior and fare refusal. Our results are robust to accounting for potential simultaneity in the determination of complaints and Uber and Lyft penetration.
L91|When Labor Disputes Bring Cities to a Standstill: The Impact of Public Transit Strikes on Traffic, Accidents, Air Pollution, and Health|Many governments have banned strikes in public transportation. Whether this can be justified depends on whether strikes endanger public safety or health. We use time-series and cross-sectional variation in powerful registry data to quantify the effects of public transit strikes on urban populations in Germany. Due to higher traffic volumes and longer travel times, total car hours operated increase by 11 to 13 percent during strikes. This effect is accompanied by a 14 percent increase in vehicle crashes, a 20 percent increase in accident-related injuries, a 14 percent increase in particle pollution, and an 11 percent increase in hospital admissions for respiratory diseases among young children.
L91|Revisión de gasto sector transporte|Este documento corresponde al informe final del estudio de Revisión de Gasto del sector Transporte. El ejercicio busca implementar un método permanente para analizar la eficiencia y efectividad de los recursos públicos y proveer recomendaciones. El documento contiene 4 grandes secciones. La primera hace una descripción del gasto en el sector transporte. La segunda, describe el proceso de implementación de fases y actividades de la revisión de gasto. La tercera explica los resultados de la priorización en el sector transporte y la cuarta resume las lecciones aprendidas y recomendaciones.
L91|Costo promedio ponderado del capital (WACC) del transporte de gas natural en Colombia: Discusión de la metodología D-50-16 y proyecto de resolución CREG 90 de 2016 para la remuneración del transporte de gas natural|Este documento recoge observaciones relevantes de los miembros de Naturgas al Entregable 1. Se reordena el material de discusión de las propuestas del documento CREG D-050-16 “Metodología para remunerar la actividad de transporte de gas natural”, y del proyecto de Resolución CREG 90 de 2016 “Por la cual se establecen los criterios generales para la remuneración del servicio de transporte de gas natural y el esquema general de cargos del Sistema Nacional de Transporte, y se dictan otras disposiciones en materia de transporte de gas natural”, y documentos y decisiones relacionadas. Luego se efectúan propuestas a los asuntos que pueden mejorar en el esquema de remuneración del transporte de gas natural bajo los principios de eficiencia económica, prudencia y transparencia. Específicamente, se presentan recomendaciones para asegurar (i) coherencia entre riesgo y remuneración de la actividad de transporte de gas natural en Colombia, (ii) mayor calidad y estabilidad de las estimaciones de parámetros del costo promedio ponderado del capital (WACC).
L91|Geography, Search Frictions and Endogenous Trade Costs|In this paper we study the role of the transportation sector in world trade. We build a spatial model that centers on the interaction of the market for (oceanic) transportation services and the market for world trade in goods. The model delivers equilibrium trade flows, as well as equilibrium trade costs (shipping prices). Using detailed data on vessel movements and shipping prices, we document novel facts about shipping patterns; we then flexibly estimate our model. We use this setup to demonstrate that the transportation sector (i) implies that net exporters (importers) face higher (lower) trade costs leading to misallocation of productive activities across countries; (ii) creates network effects in trade costs; and (iii) dampens the impact of shocks on trade flows. These three mechanisms reveal a new role for geography in international trade that was previously concealed by the common assumption of exogenous trade costs. Finally, we illustrate how our setup can be used for policy analysis by evaluating the impact of future and existing infrastructure projects (e.g. Northwest Passage, Panama Canal).
L91|Optimal transmission planning under the Mexican new electricity market|This paper addresses electricity transmission planning under the new industry and institutional structure of the Mexican electricity market, which has engaged in a deep reform process after decades of a state-owned-vertically-integrated-non-competitive-closed industry. Under this new structure, characterized by a nodal pricing system and an independent system operator (ISO), we analyze welfare-optimal network expansion with two modeling strategies. In a first model, we propose the use of an incentive price-cap mechanism to promote the expansion of Mexican networks. In a second model, we study centrally-planned grid expansion in Mexico by an ISO within a power-flow model. We carry out comparisons of these models which provide us with hints to evaluate the actual transmission planning process proposed by Mexican authorities (PRODESEN). We obtain that the PRODESEN plan appears to be a convergent welfare-optimal planning process.
L91|Vehicle miles (not) traveled: Fuel economy requirements, vehicle characteristics, and household driving|A major concern with addressing the negative externalities of gasoline consumption by regulating fuel economy, rather than increasing fuel taxes, is that households respond by driving more. This paper exploits a discrete threshold in the eligibility for Cash for Clunkers to show that fuel economy restrictions lead households to purchase vehicles that have lower cost-per-mile, but are also smaller and lower-performance. Whereas the former effect can increase driving, the latter effect can reduce it. Results indicate that these households do not drive more, suggesting that behavioral responses do not necessarily undermine the effectiveness of fuel economy restrictions at reducing gasoline consumption.
L91|Do all transport modes impact on industrial employment? Empirical evidence from the Spanish regions|This paper examines the direct, indirect and total impacts of all transport modes on industrial employment in Spain from 1995 to 2008. Through spatial econometric methods, this study finds that only ports are able to generate positive total effects, and that the increase in industrial employment that a region obtains from having more kilometers of motorways results in less industrial employment in other nearby regions. In contrast, airports and railways do not have a relevant impact on industrial employment. Overall, the level of employment in a country's manufacturing activities is related with those transport infrastructures that improve its international connectivity.
L91|Should I go by bus? The liberalization of the long-distance bus industry in France|The opening up of the French long-distance bus industry is one of the outcomes of the Loi Macron. In this study, we build a unique data set of several representative bus routes and show that the effects of the liberalization have been encouraging in terms of fares, new entry, higher frequency, and higher quality. First, with regard to international routes that used to be under cabotage, we find that relaxing quantitative restrictions has led to the expected results on the Lyon–Torino and Paris–London routes. Second, with regard to domestic routes newly created from the Loi Macron, mostly all procompetitive expected variations in the variables have been observed, except for fares. Indeed, we show that bus operators used an initial aggressive pricing strategy to induce demand for the new services and then increased fares once customers became accustomed with the service.
L91|How does transportation shape intrametropolitan growth? An answer from the Regional Express Rail|This paper analyzes the influence of transportation infrastructure, and in particular of the Regional Express Rail (RER), on employment and population growth in the Paris metropolitan area between 1968 and 2010. In order to make proper causal inference, we rely on historical instruments and control for all other transportation modes that could be complement or substitute to the RER. A dynamic analysis accounting for spatial heterogeneity reveals that for municipalities located less than 13 kilometers from an RER station, each kilometer closer to the station increases employment and population growth by 12% and 8% respectively. Regarding the time pattern of these effects, we find no impact of the RER expansion on employment growth during the first part of the period, while the effect on population growth appears earlier but declines over time.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L91|Public Transport Authorities’ use of Cost-Benefit Analysis in practice|Given the Swedish national goals for transport and infrastructure, economic efficiency is essential also in public transport. In 2003, Ljungberg (2007) sought to answer to which extent PTAs use Cost-Benefit analyses (CBA), a methodology to assess economic efficiency, in their planning of operations and infrastructure. It was found that CBA was seldom used. This paper tries to answer the same question, but for year 2016. The aim of this paper is to see to what extent PTAs are using CBA at the time of the survey, and investigate whether there are any changes with the previous study.
L91|How many want to drive the bus? Analyzing the number of bids for public transport bus contracts|This paper examines how different factors related to contract characteristics and the operational and tender environments affect the number of unique bidders placing bids in tenders for bus contracts. A generalized Poisson model is used with a comprehensive data set containing most of the recently tendered bus contracts in Sweden, spanning the period 2007–2015.
L91|The distance factor in Swedish bus contracts: how far are operators willing to go?|One of the factors differentiating operators the most in bus services is, arguably, the respective distances from their workplaces to the area of a procured contract. More dead running kilometers implies higher costs, and the same should affect operators’ probability to participate in tenders. As previous studies have discussed, this is a relevant competitive factor, but the transport literature lacks studies aiming to assess the size of this distance factor. This paper examines what impact operators’ distance to tendered bus contracts has on their probability to participate in the tender, and how this probability differs across operator types. To address this, an econometric analysis was undertaken using probit regressions with data on tendered Swedish bus contracts over the period 2007–2015 along with operator workplace data. The results show that operators’ distance from a contract has a significantly negative effect on their probability of placing a bid for the contract. While being located near the contract gives, on average, an over 90 percent probability of participating, being 10 kilometers away results in a 30 percent probability. The rival’s distance to the contract also has an effect, but only to a limited extent. Large operators are found to be less affected by their distance to a contract, and they are also more inclined to bid if the procuring authority offers a depot to use.
L91|Incumbents' Asymmetric Responses to Environmentally Friendly Entrants in the Automotive Industry|The influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is considered important for technological change. We analyze this influence for the global transition towards alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Our results indicate that entrants' ATV-related knowledge accumulation stimulates average incumbent's ATV-related research. Regarding global entrants, incumbents with higher ATV patent stocks increased patenting stronger; supporting previous literature on competitive reactions to entry. Responding to domestic entrants, however, incumbents with low ATV patent stocks increased whereas incumbents with high stocks decreased patenting; suggesting that advanced incumbents outsource research or overtake entrants. Further, certain characteristics and not merely the quantity of entrants drive incumbents' responses.
L91|Did UberX reduce ambulance volume?|Ambulances are a vital part of emergency medical services. However, they come in single, high intervention form, which is at times unnecessary, resulting in excessive costs for patients and insurers. In this paper, we ask whether UberX's entry into a city caused substitution away from traditional ambulances for low‐risk patients, reducing overall volume. Using a city‐panel over‐time and leverage that UberX enter markets sporadically over multiple years, we find that UberX entry reduced the per capita ambulance volume by at least 6.7%. Our result is robust to numerous specifications.
L91|Állami magvető tőke és a kereskedelmi űrhajózás új modelljének első évtizede<BR>[The first decade of a new model of state seed capital and commercial space travel]|Az amerikai űrkutatási hivatal, a NASA egy évtizede indította el a Kereskedelmi Orbitális Szállítási Szolgáltatások (COTS) elnevezésű programját, amelyben - szemben az általános gyakorlatával - magánűrhajózási cégektől vásárol teher- és személyszállítási kapacitást. Ennek az újfajta, a világűr gazdasági kiaknázását előmozdító modellnek az elemzésekor bemutatjuk a COTS programban szereplő vállalatok hátterét, stratégiájukat és finanszírozásukat majd Heckit-féle panelregresszió segítségével megvizsgáljuk az egyes vállalatok programba kerülését és rendelésállományát - tekintettel arra, hogy a NASA eredetileg innovatív startup vállalatok által megvalósított, olcsón üzemeltethető platformok létrehozását tűzte ki célul. A program eredményeit elemezve megállapítható, hogy az eredeti célcsoportból csak egy innovatív vállalatot sikerült felnevelni, a többi résztvevő ugyanis a repülési-védelmi szektor hagyományos szereplői közül került ki. Emellett a kapott NASA-megrendelések összege a múltbeli repülések számától és nem a fajlagos költségek szintjétől függött. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) Kód: G24, H54, L52, L91, O43.
L91|To pay or not to pay for parking at shopping malls - A rationale from the perspective of two-sided markets|A shopping mall is a meeting platform for retailers and their customers, and may therefore subsidize one particular market side. We consider suburban malls as competitive bottlenecks, because shops are mainly opened up by retail chains which operate in many malls, but whose customers visit only one suburban mall, so as to save transport costs. If the consumer-to-shop externality is larger than the shop-to-consumer externality, parking is subsidized. If customers generate high revenue, the mall operator will generally refrain from charging an entry fee, and offer free parking to its visitors. This result is shown in a model with variety-loving consumers and two competing malls at the end point of a Hotelling line on which their potential visitors, and thus the retailersâ€™ customers, are located.
L91|A duopoly of transportation network companies and traditional radio-taxi dispatch service agencies|Transportation network companies commonly enter the market for taxi ride intermediation and alter the market outcome. Compared to cooperatively organized radio-taxi dispatch service agencies, transportation network companies run larger fleets and serve more customers with lower fares, when the fixed costs of the dispatch office are relatively small. The same holds for private dispatch firms, when the fixed costs of a taxicab are not too small. These results are shown in a two-stage duopoly of fare and fleet size competition with fare- and waiting-time-dependent demand.
L91|Economic importance of the Belgian ports: Flemish maritime ports, Liège port complex and the port of Brussels - Report 2015|This paper is an annual publication issued by the Microeconomic Analysis service of the National Bank of Belgium. The Flemish maritime ports (Antwerp, Ghent, Ostend, Zeebrugge), the Autonomous Port of Liège and the port of Brussels play a major role in their respective regional economies and in the Belgian economy, not only in terms of industrial activity but also as intermodal centers facilitating the commodity flow. This update paper1 provides an extensive overview of the economic importance and development of the Flemish maritime ports, the Liège port complex and the port of Brussels for the period 2010 - 2015, with an emphasis on 2015. Focusing on the three major variables of value added, employment and investment, the report also provides some information based on the social balance sheet and an overview of the financial situation in these ports as a whole. These observations are linked to a more general context, along with a few cargo statistics. Annual accounts data from the Central Balance Sheet Office were used for the calculation of direct effects, the study of financial ratios and the analysis of the social balance sheet. The indirect effects of the activities concerned were estimated in terms of value added and employment, on the basis of data from the National Accounts Institute. As a result of the underlying calculation method the changes of indirect employment and indirect value added can differ from one another. The developments concerning economic activity in the six ports in 2014 - 2015 are summarized in the table on the next page. In 2015 the growth of maritime traffic in the Flemish maritime ports was due to developments in the port of Antwerp and the port of Ghent. Direct value added increased in all Flemish maritime ports in 2015. However, direct employment is continuing to decline. Investment was down everywhere except in the port of Zeebrugge. Cargo traffic in the Liège port complex declined in 2015, whereas it slightly slowed down in the port of Brussels. At the same time, direct value added in Liège shrank while it rose sharply in the port of Brussels. By contrast, direct employment was down in both ports. This report provides a comprehensive account of these issues, giving details for each economic sector, although the comments are confined to the main changes that occurred in 2015.
L91|Economic importance of the logistics sector in Belgium|This Working Paper assesses the economic importance of the logistics sector in Belgium for the period 2010-2015 on the basis of the data from the annual accounts submitted to the NBB’s Central Balance Sheet Office. The logistics sector was defined on the basis of the NACE-Bel nomenclature of activities and corresponds to what is generally referred to as the professional logistics sector. The sector’s economic importance was calculated via two different channels, namely the direct and indirect effects. The direct effects concern the contribution made within the sector itself in terms of value added, employment and investment. Those results are also broken down according to firm size and region. The indirect effects generated by the sector through its links with the rest of the economy are estimated for the variables employment and value added. The sensitivity of the results to the definition of the sector is then assessed by a rough estimate of the logistic activities taking place outside the defined sector. The results of the calculations show that in 2015 the logistics sector directly created € 11.9 billion in value added and employed 134 000 full-time equivalents; in so doing, the sector contributed 2.9% of GDP and 3.3% of domestic employment expressed in full-time equivalents). The total economic importance of the logistic sector – i.e. including the indirect effects generated by the sector– came to 4.6% of GDP and 5.4% of domestic employment. If the definition of the sector is extended to include logistic activities outside the defined sector, the estimates for both percentages increase by more than half, to roughly 7.6% of GDP and 8.0% of domestic employment. In the Working Paper, the analysis of the sector’s economic importance is supplemented by an analysis from the social and financial point of view, presenting the findings relating to the social balance sheet, the financial ratios, the NBB’s financial health indicator, and credit risk based on the NBB’s In-house Credit Assessment System.
L91|Gasoline price uncertainty and the design of fuel economy standards|What are the implications of gasoline price volatility for the design of fuel economy policies? I show that this problem has a strong parallel to Weitzman's (1974) classic model of using price or quantity controls to regulate an externality. Changes in fuel prices act as shocks to the marginal cost of complying with the standard. Assuming constant marginal damages from fuel consumption, an application of Weitzman (1974) implies that a fixed fuel economy standard reduces expected welfare relative to a “price” policy such as a feebate or, equivalently, a fuel economy standard that is indexed to the price of gasoline. When the regulator is constrained to use a fixed standard, I show that the usual approach to setting the standard—equate expected marginal compliance cost to marginal damage—is likely to be sub-optimal because the standard may not bind if the realized gasoline price is sufficiently high. Instead, the optimal fixed standard will be relatively relaxed and may be non-binding even at the expected gasoline price. Finally, I show that although an attribute-based standard allows vehicle choices to flexibly respond to gasoline price shocks, the resulting distortions imply that the optimal fuel economy standard is not attribute-based.
L91|Subsidizing Fuel Efficient Cars: Evidence from China's Automobile Industry|The Chinese automobile market is the largest in the world with annual sales exceeding 20 million vehicles. The tremendous growth in sales---over 200 percent from 2008 to 2015---and concerns over local air quality have prompted China's policy makers to incentivize the adoption of more fuel efficient vehicles. We examine the response of vehicle purchase behavior to China's largest national subsidy program for fuel efficient vehicles during 2010 and 2011. Using variation from the program's eligibility cutoffs, we find that the program boosted sales for subsidized vehicle models, but that the program also created a substitution effect within highly fuel efficient vehicles and most subsidies went to inframarginal consumers. This substitution effect greatly reduces the cost effectiveness of the program. We calculate that the average cost per ton of carbon dioxide saved is over 82 USD, well above the social cost of carbon used in U.S. regulatory filings. Using the framework in Boomhower and Davis (2014) and accounting for local pollution benefits, we show that ignoring the substitution effect would lead one to conclude that the program is welfare enhancing, whereas in fact the marginal cost of the program exceeds the marginal benefit by almost as much as 300 percent. We also show that the program was not well-targeted; the effect of the subsidy on sales of fuel efficient vehicles was smaller in areas where consumers were more likely to purchase fuel inefficient models or were lower educated.
L91|Are Consumers Poorly Informed about Fuel Economy? Evidence from Two Experiments|It is often asserted that consumers are poorly informed about and inattentive to fuel economy, causing them to buy low-fuel economy vehicles despite their own best interest. This paper presents evidence on this assertion through two experiments providing fuel economy information to new vehicle shoppers. Results show zero statistical or economic effect on average fuel economy of vehicles purchased. In the context of a simple optimal policy model, the estimates suggest that current and proposed US fuel economy standards are significantly more stringent than needed to address the classes of imperfect information and inattention addressed by our interventions.
L91|The Value of Flexible Work: Evidence from Uber Drivers|Participation in non-traditional work arrangements has increased dramatically over the last decade, including in settings where new technologies lower the transaction costs of providing labor flexibly. One prominent example of flexible work is the ride-sharing company Uber, which allows drivers to provide (or not provide) rides anytime they are willing to accept prevailing wages for providing this service. An Uber-style arrangement offers workers flexibility in both setting a customized work schedule and also adjusting the schedule from week to week, day to day, and hour to hour. Using data on hourly earnings for Uber drivers, we document the ways in which drivers utilize this real-time flexibility and we estimate the driver surplus generated by this flexibility. We estimate how drivers’ reservation wages vary from hour to hour, which allows us to examine the surplus and supply implications of both flexible and traditional work arrangements. Our results indicate that, while the Uber relationship may have other drawbacks, Uber drivers benefit significantly from real-time flexibility, earning more than twice the surplus they would in less flexible arrangements. If required to supply labor inflexibly at prevailing wages, they would also reduce the hours they supply by more than two-thirds.
L91|Geography, Search Frictions and Endogenous Trade Costs|We leverage detailed data on vessel movements and shipping contracts to shed new light on world trade costs and trade flows. The data reveal new facts about shipping patterns, and motivate us to build a framework modeling the behavior of exporters and ships. Our framework has two novel features: (i) trade costs are endogenous and determined jointly with trade flows; as a result, they depend on the entire network of countries; (ii) search frictions between exporters and ships can limit trade. We estimate the model and recover flexibly the matching process between ships and exporters. Endogenous trade costs provide a novel link to understand trade patterns and we showcase this by considering the impact of (i) an improvement in shipping efficiency; (ii) a slow-down in China; (iii) the opening of the Northwest Passage; (iv) search frictions.
L91|Robot path planning in a dynamic and unknown environment based on Colonial Competitive Algorithm (CCA) and fuzzy logic|Robot path planning has been one of the favorite areas for many Machine Learning researchers from the past up to date. The trajectory designed for a robot can be simple or complex. The robot must pass through obstacles which are either movable or fixed. One of the considerable ways for robot path planning in the dynamic and unknown environment is a combination of Evolutionary algorithm and Fuzzy logic. There are different kinds of evolutionary algorithms such as Genetic algorithm, Ant Colony algorithm, Colonial Competitive algorithm, etc. A new approach has been proposed in this paper for robot path planning in the dynamic and unknown environment based on both the Colonial Competitive algorithm and fuzzy rules. The implemented results of the proposed method present its superiority over previous methods which used only fuzzy logic method.
L91|Environmental policies and practices in Cruise Ports: Waste reception facilities in the Med|With cruise activities continuing to grow, the cruise world and related decision makers take initiatives aiming to handle the produced externalities. Among the key environmental issues is the handling of the various wastes produced on cruise ships. In recent times, cruise lines and ports have put efforts into reducing, selecting and managing generated wastes implementing the requirements of the international regulatory framework (MARPOL 73/78), as well as those imposed by the European legislation. This study focuses on the state port reception facilities (PRF) in the case of the second biggest cruise region of the world, the Mediterranean and its adjoining seas. In particular, it sheds light on the extent that the current practices of cruise ports have achieved a satisfactory level of compliance to the emerging environmental related international regulatory framework. The paper does so via a survey that maps the existing conditions and port based practices followed by 40 port entities that manage 52 cruise ports in the region. The findings record the available facilities, technologies and services suggesting a widespread effective correspondence to required adjustment. It also details a variation as regards the charging practices, that might affect the level playing field. The analysis generates knowledge on the emphasis given by cruise ports in addressing environment challenges. Given that the European Directive governing PRF is currently (2016) under review, the study provides practical recommendations to decision makers and practitioners on what can be done so as to further secure a sustainable cruise future.
L91|Green Car Adoption and the Supply of Alternative Fuels|"Easy access to stations serving alternative fuels is an obvious concern for customers considering to buy a ""green"" car. Yet, the supply of fuel is seldom considered analyzing how to promote the adoption of environmentally friendly vehicles. I develop and estimate a joint model of demand for cars and supply of alternative fuels. I use this framework to compare the effectiveness of a subsidy to consumers who buy cars running on alternative fuels to that of a subsidy to gas stations installing alternative fuel pumps. Counterfactual simulations suggest that subsidizing fuel retailers to offer alternative fuels is a more effective policy that indirectly increases low emission car sales."
L91|Cross-Elasticities in Frequencies and Ridership for Urban Local Routes|Observational data from the Minneapolis-Saint Paul region’s Metro Transit, are analyzed to determine the effects of service levels on ridership levels at different intervals. This research is innovative because it compares changes in service levels and ridership in several service intervals, and includes the elasticities and cross elasticities, or the influence that these service levels have on different service intervals’ ridership. These cross-elasticities are not known to have been researched previously, and are found to have little effect during the week; however, weekend ridership was found to be influenced by rush hour and overnight frequencies. Future research should replicate this study in other cities, and should use express and suburban routes.
L91|Traffic system in function of sustainable development|The goal of this paper is to identify advantages of traffic systems on economic development at a national level, and to address undesirable factors of traffic systems with respect to sustainable development. The methods used in this research include the historical method, comparative method, analysis and synthesis, inductive and deductive methods. Research results indicate the extremely negative influence of traffic on the environment and the fact that existing traffic systems are not sustainable with respect to the environment. The fundamental conclusion in the paper is the need to achieve a balance between the advantages provided by transport for economic development and the disadvantages caused by such growth. This balance also guarantees the long-term existence and transport success. One of the most significant challenges in the development of future transport systems is the integration of ecological and environmental goals.
L91|Improving transport and energy infrastructure investment in Poland|Poland has significantly upgraded its infrastructure network over the past decade. However, bottlenecks still weigh on productivity growth and environmental and health outcomes. The EU 2014-20 programming period is an opportunity to improve the management of infrastructure investment. In the transport sector, the country allocated most recent funding to roads, but it plans significant investment in railway and urban public transport in 2014-20. Strengthening metropolitan governance, building up medium-term infrastructure management capabilities and reducing funding uncertainty would ensure more efficient spending. In the energy sector, electricity generation capacity is tight, while regulatory uncertainty, administrative burdens and a lack of interregional and international trade capacity has hampered the development of renewables. The authorities are seeking to develop nuclear power, but they need to take fully into account tail risks involved and its long-term costs. More energy efficiency investment would also be valuable, as current support systems do not provide sufficient incentives. Améliorer l'investissement en infrastructures de transports et énergétiques en Pologne La Pologne a significativement renforcé son réseau d’infrastructures au cours de la dernière décennie. Cependant, des goulets pèsent toujours tant sur la croissance de la productivité que sur la santé de la population et l’environnement. La période de programmation 2014-20 de l’UE est une opportunité d’améliorer la gestion de l’investissement en infrastructures. Dans le secteur des transports, après avoir financé principalement les infrastructures routières, la Pologne prévoit de consacrer d’importants investissements aux transports ferroviaires et publics urbains entre 2014 et 2020. Une meilleure gouvernance des métropoles, des capacités accrues de gestion des infrastructures à moyen terme et une réduction de l’incertitude des financements garantiraient une plus grande efficience des dépenses. Par ailleurs, dans le secteur de l’énergie, les installations de production électrique satisfont tout juste les besoins, tandis que l’incertitude réglementaire, le poids des charges administratives et les capacités commerciales insuffisantes aux niveaux interrégional et international freinent le développement des énergies renouvelables. Les autorités cherchent à développer le nucléaire, mais elles doivent tenir pleinement compte des risques extrêmes et de ses coûts à long terme. La Pologne aurait également intérêt à investir davantage dans l’efficacité énergétique car les dispositifs de soutien actuels ne fournissent pas des incitations suffisantes.
L91|Regulations in services sectors and their impact on downstream industries: The OECD 2013 Regimpact Indicator|This document presents the new 2013 set of the OECD Regulatory Impact (REGIMPACT) indicator. It measures the impact of regulatory barriers to competition in non-manufacturing sectors on all industries, through intermediate inputs. The paper describes how the indicator is calculated and discusses a number of challenges and trade-offs when constructing the indicator. They relate to the composition of the indicator, how the slow-moving or time-invariant retail and professional services regulation data are integrated with the annual energy, transport and communication regulation (ETCR) indicator and what sector weights are used for the calculation of the REGIMPACT indicator. The document then compares the 2003, 2008 and 2013 vintages of the REGIMPACT indicator and the alternative (narrow and wide) definitions of the 2013 indicator. Finally, the paper uses sectoral data to illustrate the extent to which different vintages and alternative indicator definitions can possibly influence sector-level panel regression results for outcome variables such as productivity, investment and labour inputs. Réglementation dans les secteurs des services et leur impact sur les industries en aval : la version 2013 de l'indicateur REGIMPACT de l'OCDE Ce document présente une version révisée en 2013 de l'indicateur REGIMPACT de l'OCDE. Il mesure pour chaque industrie, l'impact des obstacles réglementaires à la concurrence, par le biais des intrants intermédiaires dans les secteurs non manufacturiers. Ce document décrit la méthodologie utilisée pour calculer cet indicateur et examine un certain nombre de défis et de compromis liés à sa construction. Ils se rapportent à la composition de l'indicateur, notamment l’intégration de séries avec peu de variation temporelle telles que l’indice de réglementation dans le commerce de détail ou les services professionnels avec les indicateurs annuels de réglementation dans les secteurs de l'énergie, du transport et des télécommunications (ETCR) ainsi qu’aux pondérations sectorielles utilisées pour le calcul de l’indicateur REGIMPACT. Le document compare ensuite les versions 2003, 2008 et 2013 de cet indicateur et les définitions alternatives (étroites et larges) de l'indicateur REGIMPACT. Enfin, le document utilise des données sectorielles pour illustrer dans quelle mesure les différentes versions et définitions peuvent éventuellement influencer les résultats de régression en données de panel au niveau sectoriel pour des variables telles que la productivité, l'investissement et l’emploi.
L91|Costa Rica: Boosting productivity to sustain income convergence|In the latest 30 years, Costa Rica's real GDP per capita has more than doubled, driven by increasing labour utilisation. Labour productivity has instead stagnated at around 30% of the more advanced OECD countries. Productivity growth has been lacklustre despite the opening up of markets to international competition and large FDI inflows. Several obstacles continue to hamper the development of domestic firms and markets. They have fostered a dual speed economy characterised, on the one hand, by an innovative, productive and export oriented FDI sector – increasingly focussing on high value added sectors – and, on the other hand, a domestic sector – dominated by small firms and focused on traditional industries – that is neither innovative nor very productive. Boosting national productivity to sustain the convergence process towards OECD countries living standards will hinge on creating the right conditions for domestic firms to thrive and become more innovative and productive, while maintaining the long-standing commitment to open international markets and investment. To make this happens the government should: 1) encourage innovation and improving links between domestic and foreign firms by better enforcing and implementing intellectual property rights, shifting public R&D spending towards tertiary education institutions, and improving the coordination of public programmes promoting innovation of local firms and linkages with foreign affiliates; 2) strengthen competition in product markets and ease access to finance for SMEs by eliminating anti-trust exemptions, empowering the competition commission and giving it more independence, reducing barriers to entrepreneurship, ameliorating the corporate governance of state-owned enterprises and creating a level-playing fields between state-owned and private banks; 3) enhance the institutional and legal framework of the transport and other infrastructure sectors by reducing the number of agencies involved in policy development and project executions, and establishing an institutional framework to reduce policy uncertainty and attract more private investment. This Working Paper relates to the 2016 OECD Economic Assessment of Costa Rica (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-costa-rica.htm). Costa Rica: Stimuler la productivité pour soutenir la convergence des revenus Dans les dernières 30 années, le PIB réel par habitant du Costa Rica a plus que doublé, grâce à une utilisation croissante du travail. La productivité du travail a stagné autour de 30% des pays les plus avancés de l'OCDE. La croissance de la productivité a été terne, malgré l'ouverture des marchés à la concurrence internationale et de grandes entrées d'IDE. Plusieurs obstacles continuent d'entraver le développement des entreprises et des marchés intérieurs. Ils ont favorisé une économie à deux vitesses caractérisée, d'une part, par un secteur de l'IDE innovateur, productif et orienté vers l'exportation - se concentrant de plus en plus sur les secteurs à forte valeur ajoutée - et, d'autre part, un secteur domestique - dominé par les petites entreprises et concentré sur les industries traditionnelles - qui ne sont ni innovantes, ni très productives. Stimuler la productivité nationale pour soutenir le processus de convergence vers des pays de l'OCDE le niveau de vie dépendra de la création des conditions pour les entreprises nationales de se développer et de devenir plus innovantes et productives, tout en maintenant l'engagement de longue date pour ouvrir les marchés et les investissements internationaux. Pour que cela arrive, le gouvernement devrait: 1) encourager l'innovation et l'amélioration des liens entre les entreprises nationales et étrangères par une meilleure application et par la mise en oeuvre des droits de propriété intellectuelle, en déplaçant les dépenses de R&D vers les établissements d'enseignement supérieur, et par l'amélioration de la coordination des programmes publics de promotion de l'innovation des entreprises locales et des liens avec des sociétés étrangères affiliées; 2) renforcer la concurrence sur les marchés de produits et de faciliter l'accès au financement pour les PME en éliminant les exemptions anti-trust, habilitant la commission de la concurrence et en lui donnant plus d'indépendance, de réduire les obstacles à l'entrepreneuriat, améliorer la gouvernance des entreprises publiques et la création d'une concurrence equitable entre les banques publiques et privées; 3) renforcer le cadre institutionnel et juridique du transport et d'autres secteurs de l'infrastructure, en réduisant le nombre d'organismes impliqués dans les exécutions de développement des politiques et des projets, et l'établissement d'un cadre institutionnel pour réduire l'incertitude politique et d'attirer davantage d'investissements privés. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de la Costa Rica 2016 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-costa-rica.htm).
L91|A bird-eye view of Costa Rica's transport infrastructure|Costa Rica's transport infrastructure sector has long suffered from insufficient and ineffective investment and maintenance spending, resulting in a congested and poor-quality transport network. Public spending has been below the OECD average and private sector participation is limited. The road network is extensive but of poor quality, railways are in disrepair and only slowly being reactivated after having been shut down in the 1990s, seaports quality and capacity are deficient. Internal transportation overly relies on private road vehicles as the public transport system, especially railways, is inadequate. As a result, the transport sector is the major source of greenhouse emissions. Major challenges hindering the sector performance are: excessive institutional fragmentation, which reduces transparency and accountability of public sector agencies, poor strategic planning, which results in haphazard infrastructure development and poor intermodal connections, aversion to private sector participation and absence of an infrastructure-project pipeline, which discourage private investment, poor project preparation and slow project execution due to no cost benefit analyses, unclear project selection criteria and insufficient stakeholder engagement. This working paper relates to the 2016 OECD Economic Survey of Costa Rica (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-costa-rica.htm). Une vue globale de l'infrastructure de transport du Costa Rica Le secteur des infrastructures de transport du Costa Rica a longtemps souffert des insuffisantes et inefficaces dépenses d'investissement et de maintenance, qui ont déterminé un réseau de transport congestionné et de mauvaise qualité. Les dépenses publiques ont été en dessous de la moyenne de l'OCDE et la participation du secteur privé est limitée. Le réseau routier est vaste, mais de mauvaise qualité, les chemins de fer sont en mauvais état et sont en train d'être lentement réactivé, après avoir été arrêté dans les années 1990, la qualité et capacité des ports maritimes sont insuffisant. Le transport interne repose excessivement sur les véhicules routiers privés puisque le système de transport public, en particulier les chemins de fer, est peu développé. Par conséquent, le secteur des transports est la principale source des émissions à effet de serre. Les défis majeurs qui entravent la performance du secteur sont: la excessive fragmentation institutionnelle, ce qui réduit la transparence et la responsabilité des organismes publics, une mauvaise planification stratégique, qui se traduit par un développement désordonné des infrastructures et des liaisons intermodales insuffisantes, l'aversion à la participation du secteur privé et l'absence d'une liste des projets d'infrastructure, qui découragent l'investissement privé, la faible qualité de la préparation des projets et leur exécutions lent en raison de la manque d'analyses coûts avantages, des critères flous pour la sélection des projets et engagement des parties prenantes insuffisantes. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de Costa Rica 2016 (www.oecd.org/fr/eco/etudes/etude-economique-costa-rica.htm).
L91|Drills and Training on board Ship in Maritime Transport|In maritime transport, drills are methods of practicing how a team or individuals should behavein case of an emergency on board ship (fire, explosion, piratesâ€™ attacks, ship sinking, shipgrounding, capsizing etc.). Most commonly acknowledged in the shipping domain, drills aresynonyms to training exercises. Drills are extremely important for the safety of ship, crew andpassengers and are mandatory to be performed in any sea voyage. In this paper is made anoverview on regulatory framework and strategic role of efficient maritime drills and training.
L91|Managerial Ship Procedures in Case of Oil Pollution in Maritime Transport|Sea oil spills produce unfortunate environmental damage with huge impact on sea life, humanhealth and economic prejudices for interconnected communities and industries. As prevention isbetter than to cure, specific managerial procedures in case of oil pollution are prepared,implemented and communicated by shipping companies. Ship oil pollution emergency plan(SOPEP) is a prevention plan carried on board by almost all commercial ships, which technicallysynthesize the managerial procedures in case of oil pollution. This paper present an overview onpollution emergency plans (SOPEP), emphasizing useful guidelines for establishing an efficient SOPEP.
L91|Transactional approach in assessment of operational performance of companies in transport infrastructure|Purpose: Offer an alternative method to assess operational performance of companies in transport infrastructure of a region by making a comparison between transaction costs. The method is supposed to be a cross-functional and possibly applied to an analysis of economic entities of a different order (country, region, sector, companies) while evaluating “viscosity” / complexity of the outside and the inside. Design/methodology/approach: The paper includes an analysis of various methodological approaches to assess a development level of the transport infrastructure in a region. Within the author's approach and for purposed of the research, an index of transaction capacity or the transactionalness index is proposed, which determines a level of transaction costs calculated against the cost of production and revenue. The approach is piloted using the region-wise consolidated financial data of companies involved in the Russian transport infrastructure for 2005/2013. Findings: The proposed alternative way to measure corporate operating efficiency has proved its academic consistency. A specific comparison between the transaction costs using the transactionalness index allows first to identify companies or regions/sectors, where there is excess complexity of economical communication in bargaining. Secondly, the index does not only point out indirectly to a degree of development in the institutional environment, but also the infrastructure (the transport one in the example given). Third, the transactionalness level may say of uncertainty and risks. As an addition to theoretical and methodological aspects of transaction costs, the authors justify an approach to their size estimation, as well as their differentiation dividing them into two groups: those of a natural type and a background type. In a course of their discussion, the authors have concluded that there are such transaction costs in place, which are standard in a manner of speaking. Originality/value: There is a discussion whether it is scientifically reasonable to use an index of transactionalness. There are reasons for applicability of the alternative approach to assess operational performance of companies in transport infrastructure as an indicative criterion of favouring external conditions to execute exchange transactions. According to the authors, a high level of transactionalness is associated with a low development level of transport infrastructure in a region. This says that their competitiveness is specifically less.
L91|Port Regionalization and Landlocked Hinterland: The Czech Republic|The expansion of the European Union (EU) and economic growth have propelled the devel-opment of intermodal transportation and logistics activities in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Yet, the inland location of most CEE economies requires improved connectivity to port terminals on both the Atlantic/Baltic and Mediterranean/Black Sea ranges. The paper pro-vides a broader research perspective on inland logistics platforms focusing on the CEE region, particularly as it concerns the role of the public sector in port hinterland infrastructure devel-opment. The paper identifies the current bottlenecks in logistics activity in regard to the whole range of the national transport chains. A dual regionalization process is taking place between the ports of the Northern and Mediterranean ranges and that the Northern Range is more ef-fective at servicing the CEE region, including the Czech Republic, in spite of the proximity advantage of Mediterranean ports.
L91|Determination of Socially Equitable Guarantees for PPPs: A Toll-Road Case from Turkey|In toll-road projects there is exogenous demand risk. Thus, the government may be required to provide a minimum-traffic guarantee to induce potential private partners to participate. The government must offer the most appropriate level of guarantee while also justifying this controversial fiscal policy tool to society. This study demonstrates the use of financial modeling, risk analysis, and economic evaluation in a toll-road project in Turkey, contributing to the narrowing of a capacity gap in the field. One criterion is proposed to produce a socially equitable guarantee level. This case study exemplifies the policy implications discussed in the conclusions.
L91|Un análisis regional de la eficiencia técnica de las empresas de transporte urbano colectivo en España|En el presente trabajo se investiga la eficiencia técnica de las empresas de transporte urbano colectivo en España durante el periodo 2010-2013. El estudio se realiza sobre 53 empresas que prestan su servicio en las principales ciudades españolas, clasificándolas por Comunidades Autónomas y utilizando una metodología no paramétrica (DEA). Se aplica un modelo orientado a inputs con rendimientos variables a escala. Con los resultados se ha fijado la posición de cada Comunidad Autónoma, evidenciándose que pocas empresas se sitúan en la frontera de eficiencia, así como las holguras existentes en los gastos de personal, aprovisionamientos, amortizaciones y otros gastos de explotación. In this paper the technical efficiency of urban public transport companies in Spain during the period 2010-2013 is being investigated. The study was performed on 53 companies operating in the main Spanish cities. These companies are classified by autonomous regions and their data are processed using a nonparametric methodology (DEA). An input-oriented model with variable returns to scale is applied. With the results the position of each region has been established, showing that few companies are at the efficiency frontier and existing gaps in staff costs, supplies, depreciation and other operating expenses.
L91|A New Approach: Maximizing Load Ratios Of Vehicles To Maintain Profitability In Open Vehicle Problems|Open vehicle routing problem (OVRP) is a special case of the well-known vehicle routing problem (VRP), which is one of the most popular optimization issues in transportation. In open vehicle problems, the ultimate goal is usually defined as finding the routes with the optimum costs, by means of fleet size and the travelled distance. Vehicles do not return to the depot after delivering their goods to the customer nodes. There is a classical approach of finding the shortest paths and minimum fleet size to solve these problems. However, most logistic companies are often interested in the load ratio of their vehicles as well. They expect their vehicles to take long distances with reasonable load ratios. For a vehicle to leave the big percentage of the load in the first delivery points and take the remaining much longer distance almost empty is an unwanted situation. In this study, a solution to the open vehicle routing problems is proposed from this perspective. To solve these kinds of NP-Hard problems, using metaheuristics is a fine way of obtaining good-enough solutions within reasonable time. In this study, a modified genetic algorithm is coded and a user-friendly decision support system is designed to solve this specific problem.
L91|Productivity Trends in the Canadian Transport Sector: An Overview|In recent decades, the overall growth in productivity of many subsectors of the Canadian transportation and warehousing sector has been above average. In particular, while labour productivity (real GDP per worker) grew an average of 0.64 per cent per year between 2000 and 2014 in the transportation and warehousing sector, labour productivity grew an average of 1.83 per cent per year in the truck transportation subsector, 3.25 per cent per year in the air transportation subsector and 2.09 per cent in the train transportation subsector for the same period. Conversely, in the urban transit subsector, labour productivity decreased an average of 0.76 per cent per year between 2000 and 2014. This report provides a detailed analysis of output, input and productivity trends in four subsectors of the Canadian transportation and warehousing sector. It also examines drivers of the productivity growth for each subsector as well as policies that could enable faster growth. Given the impact that the transportation sector has on many Canadian industries as well as the Canadian economy, maintaining productivity growth is important.
L91|Assessing the Impact of the Latest Deregulatory Developments in the EU28 Transport Industry Production: a Critical Review Based on Empirical Data|The European Transport Industry has been heavily deregulated during the past 30 years, through initiatives that increase competition among incumbents primarily by reducing the entry restrictions and by opening the market(s) for non-state owned companies. This paper discusses the impact the latest interventions by the European Commission in terms of further opening the transport industry have had. By analyzing current data, the impact of economic deregulation on the volume of transport industry production is studied. The empirical evidence confirm the positive impact on the system wide level suggesting the further use of deregulatory tools in order to support the industry growth. Additionally, recommendations for further research are made in order to understand more in depth the indirect effects of deregulation.
L91|An adaptive structure of a hub-and-spoke system with direct and depot shipments in the case of volatile demand over time|Abstract The classical logistic structure for a group age delivery system in a defined geographic region is often created by a hub-and-spoke system consisting of depots, service areas of the depots, routes for each depot from and to the customers in the service area, and a line haul design. The hub-and-spoke structure is fixed as part of strategic planning. Due to the long planning horizon of strategic planning it is often difficult to predict demand over time. Operating a certain hub-and-spoke system in case of highly variable demand during the life cycle can result in inefficiency of the transportation system. In this paper an adaptive planning system is developed that can rearrange the service areas and the depots as well as the trans-loading points between line haul and local tours of the service areas and determine new vehicle routes. Our hub-and-spoke system also allows direct service from the hub to a single customer. The re-optimization of the hub-and-spoke system is based on a solution of a multi-depot variable service areas vehicle routing problem (MD-VSA-VRP). The problem is NP-hard. In this paper we present a mixed integer linear program and a metaheuristic solution concept. Further, we show via case studies the applicability of the new planning model.
L91|A Model of Rush-Hour Traffic Dynamics in an Isotropic Downtown Area|For a quarter century, a top priority in transportation economic theory has been to develop models of rush-hour traffic dynamics that incorporate hypercongestion â€“ situations of heavy congestion where throughput decreases as traffic density increases. Unfortunately, even the simplest models along these lines appear to be analytically intractable, and none of the models that have made approximations in order to achieve tractability has gained widespread acceptance. This paper takes a different tack focusing on a special case â€“ the isotropic model with identical commuters and the Î± âˆ’ Î² âˆ’ Î³ cost function â€“ for which an analytical solution is possible. A complete, closed-form solution is presented for the no-toll equilibrium in which departures and arrivals occur in masses, and the solution for the social optimum is fully characterized.
L91|Highway to Success: The Impact of the Golden Quadrilateral Project for the Location and Performance of Indian Manufacturing|We investigate the impact of transport infrastructure on the organisation and efficiency of manufacturing activity. The Golden Quadrilateral (GQ) project upgraded a central highway network in India. Manufacturing activity grew disproportionately along the network. These findings hold in straight‐line IV frameworks and are not present on a second highway that was planned to be upgraded at the same time as GQ but subsequently delayed. Both entrants and incumbents facilitated the output growth, with scaling among entrants being important. The upgrades facilitated better industrial sorting along the network and improved the allocative efficiency of industries initially positioned on GQ.
L91|Infrastructure and poverty in Sub-Saharan Africa: A review|This paper reviews the book 'Infrastructure and Poverty in Sub-Saharan Africa' by Antonio Estache and Quentin Wodon. The authors summarize the political debate on infrastructure policy in Africa in a very compelling and knowledgeable way and make a convincing case for pro-poor subsidies. Yet, this review points out two reservations: The evidence on the welfare enhancing benefits of infrastructure investments is less conclusive than suggested in the book. The book also misses out on the recent technological developments that enable the provision of decentralized services, which might render classical network based infrastructure partly redundant in the future.
L91|Bamboo bicycle – past or future?|In this article the experiment was carried out to establish tensile strength values of two different bamboo species, which are obtained by the static tensile test. The tensile strength results of two tested species Tonkin Cane and Ku Zhu bamboo are presented and compared with traditional materials used for bicycle frame to determine their suitability for designing a frame. Physiology and other properties of bamboo were elaborated as well. The purpose of this study was to gain more knowledge on bamboo and prove his suitability in use as an alternative for ecologically unacceptable materials. Therefore, application of the natural materials is essential for the sustainable development. The fact that they have unlimited resources the use of bamboo has great potential and this article explains why
L91|Kosten der Grenzkontrollen an der Südgrenze von Österreich und Deutschland für das Transportgewerbe|Wolfgang Gerstenberger schätzt die für das Transportgewerbe entstehenden Kosten bei Grenzkontrollen an der Südgrenze von Österreich und Deutschland.
L91|Caracterización de la movilidad de transporte regional de la RAPE Región Central|El presente documento presenta una propuesta de institucionalidad para la gestión de la infraestructura de transporte en la RRC, adaptando/potenciando el instrumento de Contrato Plan (sección 2); luego discute la metodología de construcción de la Red Básica y la Red de Integración de la RRC (sección 3), la metodología de priorización dentro de cada una de las dos categorías de red (sección 4), y finalmente, muestra los resultados de la priorización (sección 5). Los resultados tienen un carácter preliminar en tanto se hará una revisión con los resultados del estudio sobre ‘territorios funcionales’ y en conjunto al denominado ‘mapa de impactos’.
L91|Stress from an administrative perspective in public transport drivers in Mexico City: Minibus and metrobus|Stress is one of the occupational diseases that affect workers worldwide, affecting their own productivity and performance (as well as that of the organizations where they work), and even their physical and mental health. According to the International Labour Organization, Mexican workers suffer from stress the most all over the world, since theirs is one of the most stressful professions. With this in mind, the aim of this research is to study the work stress in bus rapid transit drivers and minibus in Mexico City. The method used is based on an exploratory statistical factorial analysis. It is concluded that the factors which a higher influence in the onset of stress are organizational, environmental (physical/individual), inherent to the position, extra organizational and individual. Although divergent among drivers, minibus drivers are the workers who suffer the most from stress.
L91|The Fehmarn Belt duopoly – Can the ferry compete with a tunnel?|The Fehmarn Belt is a strait between Denmark and Germany, currently served by a ferry operator. We analyse competition between the ferry service and a planned tunnel, the Fehmarn Belt Fixed Link. We develop a differentiated duopoly model to address two questions: 1. Will the tunnel induce the ferry to exit the market once it operates? 2. Will the tunnel’s toll revenue suffice to cover its cost? Using real-world data and traffic forecasts, we show that it should not be taken for granted that the ferry will exit the market, and that if the ferry competes, the tunnel project will make a loss.
L91|Using Measures of Agreement to Evaluate a Chronic Problem of Congestion in the Empty Container Depots|Container-based transportation through a combination of truck, rail and ocean shipping services has become an important part of supporting local and international cargo flows. However, congestion or bottlenecks of empty container-trucks may hinder the supply chain and logistics performance of the country in hinterland transport. The factors causing the bottlenecks of empty container-trucks at the depots around Port Klang, Malaysia, were first derived from interviews conducted with 30 participants working in different logistics companies. This paper intends to describe the application of Fleiss kappa to evaluate or validate the congestion factors and involves six experienced evaluators from the field of empty container logistics. Therefore, key steps and procedures are presented by extracting the qualitative data from a previous study that addressed this phenomenon. A resulting Fleiss generalised kappa value of 0.8203, which can be assumed as satisfactory and reflecting the strength of the congestion factors, as well as it would convince the real situation that occurs in bottlenecks at the empty depot. Truly, Fleiss kappa has proved to be an efficient and useful approach to measure the agreements for many purposes, including validating the chronic congestion factors.
L91|Equilibrium traffic dynamics in a bathtub model: A special case|For a quarter century, a top priority in transportation economics has been to develop models of rush-hour traffic dynamics that incorporate hypercongestion – situations of heavy congestion where throughput decreases as traffic density increases. Unfortunately, even the simplest models along these lines appear in general to be analytically intractable, and none of the models that have made approximations in order to achieve tractability has gained widespread acceptance. This paper takes a different tack, developing an analytical solution for a special case – a no-toll equilibrium in an isotropic downtown area with identical commuters, Greenshields' congestion technology, and the α−β cost function (no late arrivals permitted). This is followed by a discussion of directions for future research.
L91|Why truck distance taxes are contagious and drive fuel taxes to the bottom|This paper analyzes the way in which countries with international and local truck traffic decide to switch from a simple fuel tax system to a dual system of fuel and distance charge taxes. We show what drives a country to switch and how this affects the level of fuel taxes as well as incentives for other countries to also adopt the dual system. The model is partially able to explain the gradual extension of kilometer charging for trucks in Europe. The model also shows that, in the absence of diesel cars, the gradual introduction of kilometer charges will make fuel taxation for trucks virtually disappear and will lead to a system where truck use is (1) taxed mainly based on distance, (2) is taxed too heavily, and (3) where highest distance taxes are expected in transit countries with a strong market position. When the fuel tax must in addition serve as an externality tax for diesel cars, the introduction of distance charges for trucks will give rise to diesel taxes that are lower than the external cost of diesel cars. For trucks, this leads to a sum of diesel taxes and distance charges that are higher than the external cost of trucks.
L91|Intentions to introduce electric vehicles in the commercial sector: A model based on the theory of planned behaviour|Light and heavy duty commercial vehicles are a cause of concern in urban areas because of their cumulative stress on the system in terms of air pollution, congestion, and noise. This cumulative stress is expected to increase with the expected growth in commercial vehicle movements. While electric commercial vehicles (ECVs) may provide a possible technological solution, the research on the market penetration of ECVs is scarce. This study proposes a comprehensive framework for understanding the motivations and barriers of small and medium-size firms to the introduction of ECVs in commercial vehicle fleets. The framework is based on the Theory of Planned Behaviour (TPB), and it is modelled with a structural equation model with latent variables. The model is estimated on the basis of 1443 responses from a large-scale survey in Austria, Denmark, and Germany. The results establish a linkage between the ECV procurement intentions, the TPB constructs (i.e., positive attitudes and subjective norms towards ECVs, familiarity with ECVs and perceived operational ease) and their relative importance. It also provides information regarding the relationship between the TPB constructs and the characteristics of the fleet manager as the individual decision maker, the industrial sector and the fleet management and tour pattern. Last, it provides insights regarding the transferability of the revealed TPB- ECV procurement intentions across industrial sectors and across countries.
L91|Workshop 5 report: Harnessing big data|A group of researchers, consultants, software developers, and transit agencies convened in Santiago, Chile over 3 days as part of the Thredbo workshop titled “Harnessing Big Data”, to present their recent research and discuss the state of practice, state of the art, and future directions of big data in public transportation. This report documents their discussion. The key conclusion of the workshop is that, although much progress has been made in utilizing big data to improve transportation planning and operations, much remains to be done, both in terms of developing further analysis tools and use cases of big data, and of disseminating best practices so that they are adopted across the industry.
L91|Global environmental standards with heterogeneous polluters|We introduce environmental quality standards into a model of intra-industry trade with heterogeneous polluters. Pollution stems from consumption and pollution intensity declines with product-specific environmental quality. We formally analyze the effects of global environmental standards and three trade-liberalization policies. When consumer preferences for environmental quality are weak (strong) relative to the environmental quality elasticity of production costs, firms discovering dirtier (cleaner) products are more profitable and engage in exporting. More stringent environmental standards or trade liberalization policies enhance per-capita real consumption. The effects of these policies on global pollution and welfare are ambiguous.
L91|When it comes to container port efficiency, are all developing regions equal?|In this paper we carry out a container port performance analysis of the developing world between 2000 and 2010, using both parametric and nonparametric approaches. From a unique dataset – our sample covers 70 developing countries, 203 ports, and 1750 data points–, we examine the evolution and drivers of productivity and efficiency changes across developing regions. We show that productivity growth rates between 2000 and 2010 vary significantly and that this heterogeneity is explained by pure efficiency changes rather than scale efficiency of technological changes. Therefore, we carry out a detailed efficiency analysis to determine the drivers of port efficiency. Time series results show an upward trend for port efficiency in developing regions, as it increased from 51 percent in 2000 to 61 percent in 2010. Our analysis indicates that private sector participation, the reduction of corruption in the public sector, improvements in liner connectivity and the existence of multimodal links increase the level of port efficiency in developing regions.
L91|Public regulation and technical efficiency in the Spanish Port Authorities: 1986–2012|This research analyses the impact of public regulation on the efficiency of the Spanish Ports Authorities during the last three decades. To this end, using Stochastic Frontier Analysis (SFA), an input-oriented distance model has been estimated for a sample of 26 Port Authorities during the period 1986–2012. This paper contributes to the literature by establishing a direct correlation between the reform and the change in efficiency.
L91|A new evaluation and decision making framework investigating the elimination-by-aspects model in the context of transportation projects' investment choices|The Transportation Elimination-by-Aspects (TEBA) framework, a new evaluation and decision making framework (and methodology) for large transportation projects, is proposed to elicit, structure and quantify the preferences of stakeholder groups across project alternatives. The decision rule used for group decision making within TEBA is the individual non-compensatory model of choice elimination by aspects (EBA). TEBA is designed to bring out the decision rule employed by decision makers when ranking the options presented, incorporate various criteria types and ease communication of relevant information related to options and criteria for multiple stakeholder groups. It is a platform for democratizing the decision making process. The TEBA framework was tested using a case study investigating alternative land connections between Beirut and Damascus. Key results showed that (1) stakeholders have employed EBA in making decisions, (2) a defined group of decision makers will rank options differently when provided with modified sets of criteria, (3) the public sector and general public groups ranked Impact on Employment among the top criteria, (4) the most important criterion per group from EBA was as expected; (5) the EBA analysis suggested that only 3–4 criteria are significant in reaching a decision; (6) aggregation of user assigned weights masked relative importance of criteria in some cases; and (7) analysis of user assigned weights and Minimum Threshold (MT) values suggest higher risk perception with increased criterion importance. Policy implications include recommendation to reach out to stakeholders for input on decisions, including the “people” but refrain from relying on criteria weights assigned by “experts” and reduce the “experts”’ role in decision making. Also, it is recommended to model the decision making in a probabilistic framework rather than a deterministic “one score” approach, seek to identify a consensus ranking, place particular attention on determining the values of the criteria that emerged as “top” at the evaluation stage and continue to emphasize risk measures.
L91|Social value of high bandwidth networks: creative performance and education|No abstract is available for this item.
L91|Medieval market making brokerage regulations in Central Western Europe, ca. 1250-1700|This paper examines brokerage regulations in Central and Western Europe from approximately 1250 to 1700. Based on a sample of 70 cities with more than 1609 sets of regulations, we find that brokerage was a multifunctional institution, which served matchmaking, quality certification, and tax collection functions, mainly in product wholesale markets but also in finance and real estate markets. We argue that the implementation of regulations for matchmaking and certification solved incentive problems related to asymmetric information between buyers and sellers, consequently improving the allocation process and fostering trade. In line with these results, we find that most brokerage regulations occur along trade routes and in merchant towns.
L91|Benefits of Coastal Shipping: Scope for Sea Change in Domestic Freight Transportation in India|The share of coastal shipping in the modal mix of domestic freight transportation in India is currently very low despite it being more costeffective, fuel-efficient and environment-friendly compared to other modes of transportation. This paper estimates the benefits of coastal shipping, which are simply the costs avoided by transporting goods via sea as opposed to transporting them by road or rail. The economic, environmental and social benefits of coastal shipping are valued in the range of Rs. 16 – 64 billion per annum in 2012-13 prices. In physical terms, greenhouse gas emissions reductions amount to between 1 – 22 lakh tonnes of carbon per annum. The lower- and upper-bound values in the range represent cost savings (or emissions reductions) with respect to rail and road transport respectively. The results indicate that the country would stand to gain from a modal shift in freight transportation from road and rail transport to coastal shipping.
L91|Sharing and Tourism: The Rise of New Markets in Transport|This paper analyses the implications of sharing on tourists and tourism focusing on the transportation sector. The shifts from ownership to access, from products to services have induced dramatic changes triggered by the emergence of innovative marketplaces. The services offered by Knowledge Innovative Service Suppliers, start-ups at the origin of innovative marketplaces run through platforms allow the tourists to find solutions to run themselves their activities, bypassing the traditional tourism industry. The paper builds a taxonomy to apprehend the diversity attached to this growing platform economy, and uses this analytical framework to depict significant cases drawn from ridesharing or carsharing.
L91|Issues and paradoxes of the French maritime economy at the start of the 21st century|Arguments about the dwindling French power became intense. They also involve the maritime (or “blue”) economy. Several activities are to be taken into account: Shipbuilding, fishing, harbour and logistics flows, shipping companies, and firms specialised in undersea digital connections foster a large field for the assessment of French competitiveness. The issue is to gauge the factors of weakness, but moreover the leverage forces contributing to resistance and even rebirth of the various poles of entrepreneurship and growth fuelled by the sea economy.
L91|Improving Supply Chain Information Sharing Using Design For Six Sigma / Mejorar El Intercambio De Información De La Cadena De Suministro Mediante El Diseno˜ Para Six Sigma|Accurate and reliable information is needed to support decision-making processes. Due to the large number of participants typically involved in supply chain operations, organizations often find thatitis difficult to effectively share information within a supply chain; hence, this research examined ways to improve information sharing within supply chain operations for one marine transportation services organization. An action research, case study approach used the Design for Six Sigma (DFSS) methodology to design an information technology solution that effectively communicates information between the layers within the supply chain regarding the movement of materials via inland tank barges. The comparative analysis of verification and baseline measurements conducted suggests this project was successful because the new process fulfilled the needs of the work environment for which it was designed. For the organization that participated in this research, the successful adoption of the new approach for information sharing improved communication and decision making within their supply chain. / Este trabajo se fundamenta en la necesidad de contar con información precisa y fiable en los procesos de toma de decisiones. Debido al gran número de personas que suelen participar en las operaciones de la cadenade suministro,las empresas se encuentranconque resultadifícil compartir información de manera efectiva en estas operaciones. En este trabajo se examinaron las maneras de mejorar el intercambio de información en estas operaciones en una empresa de servicios de transporte marítimo. Para ello, se realizó el estudio de un caso en el que se empleó la metodología de Diseño para Six Sigma (DFSS) para obtener una solución que permita la comunicación eficaz de la información entre las distintas etapas de la cadena de suministro con respecto al movimiento de materiales en aguas interiores a través de barcazas cisterna. El análisis comparativo de las medidas que se realizaron sugiere que este proyecto tuvo éxito gracias a que el nuevo proceso se ajusta a las necesidades del entorno de trabajo para el que fue diseñado. La puesta en marcha del nuevo enfoque para el intercambio de información mejoró sustancialmente la comunicación y la toma de decisiones dentro de la cadena de suministro de esta empresa.
L91|Regulatory design and technical efficiency: public transport in France|Abstract The provision of local public transport in France involves private and public firms and the use of incentive contracts to regulate them. We study the effect of these institutional features on the sector’s efficiency using a long panel data of firms, with a two-stage estimation procedure. First, we use nonparametric data envelopment analysis techniques to estimate input usage efficiency, following a conditional approach that controls for differences in the environments in which the firms operate. Second, we estimate semiparametric censored regressions, using fixed effects to control for unobserved sources of heterogeneity. Our results point to a differential effect of private and mixed public-private companies. In particular, having the performance of public operators as the benchmark, efficiency is relatively higher for private firms, but lower when the service is delegated to a mixed public-private firm. In the latter case, the effects diverge by contract type: when the contract is of the cost reimbursement type, performance is lower than the public firm benchmark, while for other contract types, there are no statistically significant differences.
L91|Analysis About The European Shipping And Payment Trends 1975 – 2015|In shipping, more than in other economic sectors, changing trends are very frequent, because of the specific dynamic of markets. The freight rates and second hand prices in the dry bulk market seem to be stationary. This result is in contrast to the findings of a number of papers. However, the results confirm that classical shipping market was stationary in freight rates, which is not the case, if the freight rates followed a random walk. By transforming, all observations, from US$, to Japanese yen, showed that freight rates and prices saw to become stationary and volatility, reduced.
L91|Notes on the 1st International Congress on Economics and Business|In this paper, the assessment of the First International Congress on Economics and Business (ICEB 2015) held between 10-14 June in Gostivar, Macedonia will be referred.
L91|Joint Provision of International Transport Infrastructure|This paper considers the following scheme for the joint provision of an international transport infrastructure: two countries jointly establish an operator for the infrastructure who is then responsible for collecting the user charges. The costs of the infrastructure investment are covered by nancial contributions from the two countries, and the revenue from the user charges is distributed according to the share of contribution. The governments of the two countries choose the contribution that maximizes their national welfare. Assuming that the infrastructure use is non-rival, we show that nancing the infrastructure with revenue from user charges is better than nancing with tax revenue. We extend the analysis by incorporating congestion in infrastructure use. It is shown that independent decisions on contributions by two governments attain the rst-best optimum when the operator sets the user charge such that the toll revenue just covers the cost of the investment. We further examine the conditions under which joint provision is realized at Nash equilibrium.
L91|Benefits of Coastal Shipping: Scope for Sea Change in Domestic Freight Transportation in India|The share of coastal shipping in the modal mix of domestic freight transportation in India is currently very low despite it being more costeffective, fuel-efficient and environment-friendly compared to other modes of transportation. This paper estimates the benefits of coastal shipping, which are simply the costs avoided by transporting goods via sea as opposed to transporting them by road or rail. The economic, environmental and social benefits of coastal shipping are valued in the range of Rs. 16 â€“ 64 billion per annum in 2012-13 prices. In physical terms, greenhouse gas emissions reductions amount to between 1 â€“ 22 lakh tonnes of carbon per annum. The lower- and upper-bound values in the range represent cost savings (or emissions reductions) with respect to rail and road transport respectively. The results indicate that the country would stand to gain from a modal shift in freight transportation from road and rail transport to coastal shipping. [Working Paper No. 147/2016].
L91|Assessment Of Competitiveness Of Shipbuilding Industry In Russia|Shipbuilding is one of the most important sectors of the Russian economy. The competitiveness of naval shipbuilding is at a high level. The proof is Russia's position in the world market of naval equipment. Civilian shipbuilding is not only uncompetitive in the global market, but poorly represented in the internal. The future of civil shipbuilding is connected with such promising niches as the producing of machinery to develop fields in the Arctic, ice technicians to service the Northern sea route, sea and river vessels for domestic transport. Due to the nature of the industry, in particular the duration, the complexity and costs of building ships that need state support. In the last decade, the state has adopted a number of policy documents, carried out a structural transformation of the industry.
L91|Economic importance of the Belgian ports: Flemish maritime ports, Liège port complex and the port of Brussels - Report 2014|This paper is an annual publication issued by the Microeconomic Analysis service of the National Bank of Belgium. The Flemish maritime ports (Antwerp, Ghent, Ostend, Zeebrugge), the Autonomous Port of Liège and the port of Brussels play a major role in their respective regional economies and in the Belgian economy, not only in terms of industrial activity but also as intermodal centers facilitating the commodity flow. This update paper1 provides an extensive overview of the economic importance and development of the Flemish maritime ports, the Liège port complex and the port of Brussels for the period 2009 - 2014, with an emphasis on 2014. Focusing on the three major variables of value added, employment and investment, the report also provides some information based on the social balance sheet and an overview of the financial situation in these ports as a whole. These observations are linked to a more general context, along with a few cargo statistics. Annual accounts data from the Central Balance Sheet Office were used for the calculation of direct effects, the study of financial ratios and the analysis of the social balance sheet. The indirect effects of the activities concerned were estimated in terms of value added and employment, on the basis of data from the National Accounts Institute. As a result of the underlying calculation method the changes of indirect employment and indirect value added can differ from one another. The developments concerning economic activity in the six ports in 2013 - 2014 are summarised in the table on the next page: In 2014 the growth of maritime traffic in the Flemish sea ports was once again due solely to developments in the port of Antwerp. However, that did not necessarily mean that direct value added followed the same trend: except for the port of Zeebrugge, all other lemish ports recorded an increase. Direct employment is continuing to decline, except in the port of Ghent where it remains steady. Investment appears to be picking up, after last year’s weak figures. Cargo traffic in the ports of Liège and Brussels was up in 2014, but that did not result in any increase in value added. The decline in direct employment also persisted, certainly in the port of Liège. This report provides a comprehensive account of these issues, giving details for each economic sector, although the comments are confined to the main changes that occurred in 2014. This report is available for download at the following address http://www.nbb.be.
L91|High Frequency Evidence on the Demand for Gasoline|Daily city-level expenditures and prices are used to estimate the price responsiveness of gasoline demand in the United States. Using a frequency of purchase model that explicitly acknowledges the distinction between gasoline demand and gasoline expenditures, the price elasticity of demand is consistently found to be an order of magnitude larger than estimates from recent studies using more aggregated data. Estimating demand using higher levels of spatial and temporal aggregation is shown to produce increasingly inelastic estimates. A decomposition is then developed and implemented to understand the relative importance of several different factors in explaining this result.
L91|Are Fuel Economy Standards Regressive?|Despite widespread agreement that a carbon tax would be more efficient, many countries use fuel economy standards to reduce transportation-related carbon dioxide emissions. We pair a simple model of the automakers’ profit maximization problem with unusually rich nationally representative data on vehicle registrations to estimate the distributional impact of US fuel economy standards. The key insight from the model is that fuel economy standards impose a constraint on automakers that creates an implicit subsidy for fuel-efficient vehicles and an implicit tax for fuel-inefficient vehicles. Moreover, when these obligations are tradable, permit prices make it possible to quantify the exact magnitude of these implicit subsidies and taxes. We use the model to determine which vehicles are most subsidized and taxed, and we compare the pattern of ownership of these vehicles between high- and low-income census tracts. Finally, we compare these distributional impacts with existing estimates in the literature for a carbon tax.
L91|Are Fuel Economy Standards Regressive?|Despite widespread agreement that a carbon tax would be more efficient, many countries use fuel economy standards to reduce transportation-related carbon dioxide emissions. We pair a simple model of the automakers' profit maximization problem with unusually-rich nationally representative data on vehicle registrations to estimate the distributional impact of U.S. fuel economy standards. The key insight from the model is that fuel economy standards impose a constraint on automakers which creates an implicit subsidy for fuel-efficient vehicles and an implicit tax for fuel-inefficient vehicles. Moreover, when these obligations are tradable, permit prices make it possible to quantify the exact magnitude of these implicit subsidies and taxes. We use the model to determine which U.S. vehicles are most subsidized and taxed, and we compare the pattern of ownership of these vehicles between high- and low-income census tracts. Finally, we compare these distributional impacts with existing estimates in the literature on the distributional impact of a carbon tax.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L91|Benefits of Transportation Investments: How You Measure Matters|No abstract is available for this item.
L91|Automobile et nouveaux modèles économiques de la mobilité électrique, au cœur d'une diversité institutionnelle|In an uncertain economic context, the electric vehicle represents a new field of innovation along with the development of business models based on a shared use, but also the increasing importance of technologies related to smart grids. Beyond the technological aspects, we aim to analyze the electric vehicle and its battery from an institutional perspective, which includes the relative complexity of property rights of these new models. To better illustrate these issues, a comparison is made between Better Place and Tesla Motors models that will allow us to draw several lessons from their respective strategies, particularly on innovation as a common good. JEL Codes: L91, L94, O31, O32, 033
L91|Do entrants increase incumbents' innovation activity? Escaping the lock-in, stimulating technological change and the transition towards environmentally friendly vehicles|In the context of technological transitions, the influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is a major driving force. Using worldwide patent data, the present study analyzes this influence for the case of the transition from combustion engine vehicles towards electrically powered alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Lateral entrants and start-ups play a key role in developing ATV-related patents, whereas automotive incumbents are considered as being less motivated in pursuing this new technology. The empirical results indicate that innovative entrants have an influence on incumbents? innovation activities, and also underline the importance of cross-country entry. The findings further suggest that entrants stimulate ATV-related innovations in those incumbents that show low ATV-related patent productivity whereas incumbents with high ATV-related patent productivity react with a decrease in ATV-related patenting, which is assumed to be a sign of outsourcing research and development activities. JEL Codes: Q550, O3, Q520, R490, L910, L260, O310
L91|Railroad Blues: How to Get Canada's Rail Policy Back on Track|No abstract is available for this item.
L91|The Benefits of Forced Experimentation: Striking Evidence from the London Underground Network|We present evidence that a significant fraction of commuters on the London Underground do not travel on their optimal route. We show that a strike on the Underground, which forced many commuters to experiment with new routes, brought lasting changes in behavior. This effect is stronger for commuters who live in areas where the Underground map is more distorted, which points to the importance of informational imperfections. Information resulting from the strike improved network efficiency. Search costs alone are unlikely to explain the suboptimal behavior.
L91|A Model of Rush-Hour Traffic in an Isotropic Downtown Area|"For a quarter century, a top priority in transportation economic theory has been to develop models of rush-hour traffic dynamics that incorporate traffic jams (hypercongestion). The difficulty has been that ""proper"" models result in mathematical intractabilty, while none of the proposed approximating models has gained general acceptance. This paper takes a different tack, focusing on a particular proper model in which commuters decide when to travel so as to minimize a trip cost function that is linear in travel time and schedule delay (the so-called Î±-Î²-Î³ variant of the bottleneck model). Solutions of all the model variants entail departure/arrival masses."
L91|Soft Budgets and Renegotiations in Public-Private Partnerships:Theory and Evidence|Public-private partnerships (PPPs) are an increasingly popular organizational form of providing public infrastructure. They can increase efficiency and improve resource allocation, yet pervasive contract renegotiations cast doubts on whether they should be preferred over public provision. Renegotiating a PPP contract allows the present government to extract resources from future governments in exchange for current infrastructure spending by the PPP. This option is not available under public provision. We develop a model that formalizes this idea and predicts that government will use renegotiations to anticipate spending and shift payments to future administrations. Regulating renegotiation procedures so as to avoid opportunistic behavior does not avoid the use of renegotiations to anticipate government spending, changing fiscal accounting rules does. We analyze data from Chile, Colombia and Peru, comprising 59 highway PPPs and 535 renegotiation processes, to conclude that the evidence is broadly consistent with the predictions of our model. We find that the magnitude of renegotiations is substantial: renegotiations per concession year average 9.5% of the initial investment in Colombia, 3.6% in Peru and 1.3% in Chile. With concessions that last many decades, this suggests that the magnitude of renegotiations will end up being larger than the initial investment for many concessions, as is already the case for 11 out of the 25 concessions in Colombia. Most of the cost of renegotiations falls on future administrations and in the three countries more than 45% of renegotiations, as measured by volume, occur during the construction phase, which can be interpreted as evidence against incomplete contract models of renegotiations and in favor of our model.
L91|The rebound effect for automobile travel: Asymmetric response to price changes and novel features of the 2000s|Previous research suggests that the elasticity of light-duty motor vehicle travel with respect to fuel cost, known as the “rebound effect,” is modest in size and probably declined in magnitude between the 1960s and the late 1990s. However, turmoil in energy markets during the early 2000s has raised new questions about the stability of this elasticity. Using panel data on U.S. states, we revisit the simultaneous-equations methodology of Small and Van Dender (2007) and Hymel et al. (2010) to see whether structural parameters have changed. Using data through 2009, we confirm the earlier finding of a rebound effect that declines in magnitude with income, but we also find an upward shift in its magnitude of about 0.025 during the years 2003–2009. In addition, we find that the rebound effect is much greater in magnitude in years when gasoline prices are rising than when they are falling. It is also greater during times of media attention and price volatility, which explains about half the upward shift just mentioned.
L91|Forecasting gasoline prices in the presence of Edgeworth Price Cycles|Forecasting is a central theme in economics. The ability to forecast prices enables economic agents to make optimal decisions for the present and future. In this article, we investigate if and how gasoline prices can be forecast in retail gasoline markets that are subject to high-frequency, asymmetric price cycles known as Edgeworth Price Cycles. We examine a series of purchase timing decision rules and a series of feasible forecasting algorithms for updating those rules over time. We find that, in the presence of cycles, agents in our five Australian markets can systematically reduce purchase prices below market average the equivalent of 11 to 15 U.S. cents per gallon, using simple decision rules and feasible forecasting algorithms.
L91|Do Edgeworth price cycles lead to higher or lower prices?|A recent literature seeks to understand the causes of the high-frequency, asymmetric retail price cycles observed in many retail gasoline markets. However, much less attention has been given to the effects of the cycles, in particular, whether the cycles lead to higher or lower prices and margins. The leading theory for the underlying cause of the price cycles, Edgeworth price cycles, is silent on the issue. The challenge in addressing this most important question has been the difficulty in isolating cycle effects from other confounding factors, especially market structure. In this article, I exploit a unique natural experiment to isolate the effect of cycles — a refinery fire that, in a matter of days, halted cycles that had previously persisted for decades. I find that Edgeworth price cycles lead to lower prices and lower margins. I conclude with implications for competition policy.
L91|Downtown curbside parking capacity|Current debates on downtown parking policy have been concentrating on downtown parking pricing, while overlooking downtown parking capacity. This paper focuses on how much curbside to allocate to parking when the private sector provides garage parking. In the first-best optimum, no cruising for parking occurs, and only curbside parking is provided when demand is low relative to street capacity, both curbside parking and garage parking are provided when demand in intermediate, and only garage parking is provided when demand is high. In the second-best optimum where curbside parking is underpriced, cruising for parking occurs only when both curbside and garage parking are both present. As the fee differential between garage and curbside parking increases, cruising for parking becomes more severe, and the range of demand levels over which curbside and garage parking are both present shrinks and eventually disappears.
L91|How service bundling can increase the competitiveness of low market share transportation services|While transportation service providers continuously seek for new linkages to create value and to offset the risk of competition, they are compelled to restructure their business models and processes to become more integrable. A consequence of this has been a shift from the traditional focus on individual service strategies to a focus on bundle strategies. Building on bundle value is gradually becoming a key ingredient for the long-term viability of services as it fosters better allocation of resources and investment choices. This entails the assessment of the value that customers assign to bundles and the alignment of business models to match this value. To address this issue, this paper investigates the conditions under which a low share transportation service, bundled together with a ferry service and a tie-in recreational package, can compete with a faster transportation connection. By merging the conceptually rich business model research with the more rigorous bundling literature, the current paper proposes a mixed service bundling strategy as an effective way to increase market share and create customer value over time. This bundling strategy is applied in the case of an illustrative example of the connection between Patras, Kalamata and Crete and the results are reported.
L91|Air pollution dynamics and the need for temporally differentiated road pricing|In this paper we investigate the effects of the temporal variation of pollution dispersion, traffic flows and vehicular emissions on pollution concentration and illustrate the need for temporally differentiated road pricing through an application to the case of the congestion charge in Stockholm, Sweden. By accounting explicitly for the role of pollution dispersion on optimal road pricing, we allow for a more comprehensive view of the economy–ecology interactions at stake, showing that price differentiation is an optimal response to the physical environment. Most congestion charges in place incorporate price bands to mitigate congestion. Our analysis indicates that, to ensure compliance with air quality standards, such price variations should also be a response to limited pollution dispersion.
L91|Course set for a cap? A case study among ship operators on a maritime ETS|International shipping is an important emitter of greenhouse gases. The International Maritime Organization (IMO) is discussing different approaches to reduce maritime CO2 emissions, in particular market-based mechanisms. In this paper, we assess potential implications of a maritime emission trading scheme (ETS) on the organisation and operations of shipping companies, primarily on the basis of a case study involving ship operators. Our results suggest that there is no major reason why a cap-and-trade approach should not work in the shipping sector in practice. A maritime ETS has the potential to engage this sector into cost-efficient emission reduction if designed to account for the special characteristics of the international shipping industry.
L91|When supply travels far beyond demand: Causes of oversupply in Spain's transport infrastructure|Spain's transport infrastructure policy has become a paradigmatic case of oversupply and of mismatch with demand. The massive expansion of the country's transport infrastructure over the last decade has not been a response to demand bottlenecks or previously identified needs. For this reason, the intensity of use today on all interurban modes of transport in Spain falls well below that of other EU countries. This paper analyzes the institutional and regulatory factors that have permitted this policy, allowing us to draw lessons from the Spanish case that should help other countries avoid the pitfalls and shortcomings of Spanish policy. Based on our analysis, we also discuss policy remedies and suggest reforms in different regulatory areas, which could help improve the performance of Spain's infrastructure policy.
L91|News in the community? Investigating emerging inter-local spaces of news production/consumption|This article examines the emergence of new, inter-local spaces of news production and consumption, drawing on extensive fieldwork and interviews with community reporters trained by a community reporter organisation based in the north of England. Practices of news production and content generation are focused on people's own communities and they are underpinned by an ethos of production, which is grounded in a critical consumption of news and collective processes of skill acquisition. Through an analysis of motivations and practices, we account for the values that sustain community reporter communities and discuss how such practices, while emerging from the place of local community, also extend across wider communities of interest. It is suggested that an evolving practice of skill sharing and mutual recognition could potentially stimulate the regrowth of democratic values.
L91|Coordinating density; working through conviction, suspicion and pragmatism|Achieving higher density development has become, as part of sustainable development, a core principle of the contemporary planning professional. The appeal of density is its simplicity, it is an independent measurable element to which various separate claims can be and are attached; it achieves greater public transport use, makes it possible to live nearer to work, supports mixed uses providing a more lively street-scene and so on. As the academic literature has shown the reality is much more complex as achieving a positive outcome through adjustments to density may lead to negative outcomes elsewhere; it can allow more people to live near public transport nodes but can be detrimental in terms of housing affordability for example. Given this tension between the simplicity of the claims and the complexity of application we are interested in how planners seek to balance the multiple advantages and disadvantages of density; to what extent do they approach density as a simple variable or as a complex act of balancing. We address this question by looking at four higher density developments in London.
L91|Custody chains and asset values: why crypto-securities are worth contemplating|Computerisation facilitates instantaneous and direct links between all of us in our work and social lives. At the same time, and counterintuitively so, securities are increasingly held indirectly through chains of custodians that operate between issuers and investors. This disconnects investors from issuers and can significantly reduce the value of assets. The regulatory framework does not prevent this effect. UK regulated holders of client securities should be required to hold these directly in the name of the investor. At an international level it is worth asking if the technology underlying bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies can be used to create an un-intermediated securities ledger connecting investors and issuers directly.
L91|The humanitarian makeover|We examine how the makeover paradigm is mobilized in contemporary humanitarian communications—a practice we call “humanitarian makeover.” We demonstrate its operation in the Finnish television programme Arman and the Children of Cameroon and Plan's 2013 International Day of the Girl event. The analysis shows how helping distant others is configured within a makeover and self-transformation narrative, providing a stage for performance of an “ethical self.” We argue that while the humanitarian impetus is to disturb and redress global inequality and injustice, which includes exposing and interrupting the failures of neoliberalism, the makeover paradigm is intimately connected to and reinforces individualized “moral citizenship,” which conforms to and reinforces neoliberal values.
L91|RELATIONSHIP SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATION IN PRODUCTION PROCESSES TO IMPROVE COMPETITIVENESS OF MANUFACTURING SMEs IN AGUASCALIENTES,LA RELACION DE LA GESTION DE LA CADENA DE SUMINISTRO Y LAS TECNOLOGIAS DE LA INFORMACION Y COMUNICACIÃ“N EN LOS PROCESOS PRODUCTIVOS PARA MEJORAR LA COMPETITIVIDAD DE LA PYME MANUFACTURERA EN AGUASCALIENTES|This research examines the relationship and importance of competitiveness in manufacturing SMEs regarding Supply Chain Management and the use of Information Technology and Communication in Production Processes. We analyze the influence managers of manufacturing SMEs for communication. We find information technologies significantly improve communication and information flow between suppliers, actors and integrated supply customers. The supply of resources improve the efficiency of the production processes. Results were obtained from employers through a personalized survey conducted between March and April 2012. The objective is to determine how manufacturing SMEs in Aguascalientes, improve their competitiveness by having a close link between production processes, Supply Chain Management and appropriate use of Information Technology and Communication. We examine a sample of 120 companies which have from 11 to 250 employees each.
L91|Alcances de la política fiscal contracíclica: el caso reciente de América Latina|Resumen: En el marco de un modelo de Ciclos Económicos Reales -CER-, estetrabajo pretende identificar los beneficios que brinda una política fiscal estable, que se desarrolle en forma contracíclica y cuyos objetivos no se encuentren ligados a metas diferentes a las relacionadas con la estabilidad macroeconómica. El estudio contempla el cálculo y análisis de diferentes indicadores y elasticidades y una evaluación empírica para un conjunto de países de América Latina. A partir del análisis, se concluye que, aquellos países en los cuales se presentó un ahorro público en los años de buen crecimiento económico, son a su vez, los que tienen un mayor margen de acción para la política fiscal y en los que, también, el sector productivo logra asimilar en forma más eficaz las medidas instrumentadas por los gobiernos en tiempos de crisis. Adicionalmente, es el gasto de capital (infraestructura) un mecanismo idóneo para impulsar el crecimiento económicoen fases de bajo crecimiento.
