L92|Le volet agricole de l’Observatoire Socio-Économique de la LGV Bretagne Pays-de-la-Loire|[paper in French] In the frame of the socio-economic monitoring of the Bretagne-Pays-de-la-Loire high-speed line (LGV BPL), a dedicated working group has been set up to study the direct and indirect impacts of the infrastructure on the farming sector. Gathering all the concerned stakeholders, this group aims to coordinate and follow the progress of the various studies on the topic. Three of this studies are presented here in addition to a benchmark description of the main agricultural characteristics in the concerned area. Are so reported a study on the degree of farmland fragmentation, another one on the size change dynamics of farms, and a last one dealing with farmers’ adaptation strategies in reaction to such a large project. Even though these studies have not yet all produced operational results, we hope that they will all contribute to objectivize the debate which arose when the project was launched and the observatory was set up.
L92|Le volet agricole de l’Observatoire Socio-Économique de la LGV Bretagne Pays-de-la-Loire| In the frame of the socio-economic monitoring of the Bretagne-Pays-de-la-Loire high-speed line (LGV BPL), a dedicated working group has been set up to study the direct and indirect impacts of the infrastructure on the farming sector. Gathering all the concerned stakeholders, this group aims to coordinate and follow the progress of the various studies on the topic. Three of this studies are presented here in addition to a benchmark description of the main agricultural characteristics in the concerned area. Are so reported a study on the degree of farmland fragmentation, another one on the size change dynamics of farms, and a last one dealing with farmers’ adaptation strategies in reaction to such a large project. Even though these studies have not yet all produced operational results, we hope that they will all contribute to objectivize the debate which arose when the project was launched and the observatory was set up.
L92|The impact of cumulative tonnes on track failures: An empirical approach|Cost-benefit analysis is often used in appraisal of rail infrastructure investments. A corresponding decision support is, however, not available for rail infrastructure maintenance and renewal. To for example decide whether to renew or continue to maintain an infrastructure asset, a relationship between cumulative traffic and infrastructure failures is required. This relationship is established in this paper, using an empirical (top-down) approach on Swedish data for years 2003 to 2016. It is shown that the average elasticity for track failures with respect to cumulative tonnes is 0.32, and that the elasticity varies for different levels of traffic and for different infrastructure characteristics. The results in this paper can for example be used to calculate the impact cumulative tonnes have on train delay costs, which together with a relationship between cumulative traffic and infrastructure maintenance costs are essential in an economic optimization of maintenance and renewal activities.
L92|Empirical analysis of unbalanced bidding on Swedish roads|Based on anecdotal evidence, claims are made that unbalanced bidding is a major problem in the construction industry. This concept refers to a sealed price auction setting with asymmetric information and unit prices, where information rents are extracted. Theoretical literature has shown that it is rational for an informed contractor to skew unit prices. However, empirical studies on the magnitude of the problem are lacking. As the first quantitative study based on European data, it is shown that unbalanced bidding exists, but in small magnitudes. The result is in line with earlier studies from the US.
L92|Getting a Lift: The Impact of Aerial Cable Cars in La Paz Bolivia|This paper studies the effects of areal cable cars on mode of transport, time use and employment in the metropolitan area of La Paz, Bolivia. Using an instrumental variables approach, we estimate local average treatment effects of cable car use for residents who use the system due to proximity to a cable car station. Results suggest that cable-car users substitute private transport in favor of public transit and experience large savings in commute time, which is reallocated toward educational and recreational activities. Users also increase self-employment activities, potentially reflecting improved access to local labor markets. The positive effects of the cable-car are driven by residents of the city of El Alto, a city with high concentration of poor and indigenous households on the high plateau bordering La Paz. The economic benefits of the cable car outweigh costs by a ratio of 1.05 to 2.16.
L92|“On the modal shift from motorway to high-speed rail: evidence from Italy”|The development of high-speed rail (HSR) has had a notable impact on modal market shares on the routes on which its services have been implemented. The aim of this study is to analyse whether the HSR expansion in Italy has led to a modal shift from motorway to HSR. We empirically test i) whether HSR openings adjacent to motorway sectors have reduced the total km travelled by light vehicles on these sectors during the period 2001-2017; and ii) whether this reduction has been persistent or even more evident after the opening of on-track competition between two HSR operators. To do so, we carried out a generalized difference-in-differences estimation, using a unique panel dataset that exploits the heterogeneous traffic data within all tolled motorway sectors in a quasi-experimental setting. Our findings reveal that neither HSR openings nor the opening of on-track competition led to a modal shift from motorway to HSR services, as the two transport modes are non-competing. Conversely, both phenomena had a slightly positive impact on motorway traffic. The extent to which HSR demand could be the result of a modal shift from motorways is a relevant issue in any cost-benefit analysis of HSR investments.
L92|Going Places: Rail Transport in Japan|The purpose of this short paper is to summarize the state of rail transportation in Japan and to recount recent developments. Points of focus here are organization and types of competition in the rail industry in Japan, the evolution of passenger and freight rail transportation, yardstick regulation as a competition tool, and recent vertical separation in Japan. Several distinguishing factors of the Japanese rail industry are discussed. First, passenger rail transportation is still vital in Japan, but the freight rail business is weaker than in other major industrial countries. The second notable feature of the rail industry in Japan is the extraordinary number of rail operators, the vast majority of which are privately owned passenger railways. Third, most railways are vertically integrated, and entry into and exit from the market are not free but are regulated. Fourth, there are eight types of competition, among which is yardstick competition, an indirect form that is applied to separate markets and has existed in Japan since the 1970s. Fifth, as for the evolution of passenger and freight rail transportation, two developmentsâ€”the Ekinaka business for passenger rail and the Eco-Rail-Mark certificate system for freightâ€”are underway in the rail industry. Sixth, yardstick regulation is effective to some degree, but it is unknown how long the effect will continue. Last, while vertical integration is the norm in Japan, there are cases of vertical separation in some urban area operations. Recently, however, new types of vertical separation have been emerging, mostly for financial reasons. As competition in Japanâ€™s rail industry has been very limited up to now, Japanese policy makers would be wise to seek lessons from the European experience.
L92|The economic importance of the Belgian ports : Flemish maritime ports, Liège port complex and the port of Brussels – Report 2017|This Working Paper analyses the economic importance of the Belgian ports largely based on annual accounts data for the year 2017. As the years prior to 2017 have been described in earlier papers in the same series, the emphasis lies on the ﬁgures for 2017 and the developments between 2016 and 2017 . After the stagnation in 2016, direct value added at the Belgian ports rose by 7.3% from € 18 052 million to € 19 368 million (current prices) or roughly 4.4% of Belgium’s GDP. All ports, with the exception of the Liège port complex, contributed to value added growth at the Belgian ports. The ports of Antwerp and Ghent were the most important players. The biggest contributing sectors to value added growth were the chemical industry and, to a lesser extent, cargo handling and the metalworking industry. In 2017, indirect value added was around 82% of direct value added. Direct value added increased significantly at the ports of Ghent, Brussels and Antwerp, by 13.4%, 16.0% and 6.1% respectively. The increase by more than 3% of direct value added at the ports of Zeebrugge and Ostend was also substantial. Direct value added fell by 2.4% at the Liège port complex. After the decline between 2012 and 2015, direct employment at the Belgian ports was up for the second year in a row. Between 2016 and 2017, the number of direct full-time equivalent jobs rose by 0.8%, from 115 401 to 116 311 or approximately 2.8% of Belgium’s total domestic employment. All ports, with the exception of Ostend and Brussels, contributed to employment growth at the Belgian ports. The ports of Antwerp and Ghent were the most important players. The biggest contributing sectors to employment growth were cargo handling and, to a lesser extent, the chemical industry. In 2017, indirect employment was around 120% of direct employment. Direct employment increased by around 1% at the ports of Antwerp, Ghent and Zeebrugge. Growth at the Liège port complex was more modest at 0.4%. The number of direct full-time equivalent jobs fell at the ports of Ostend and Brussels, by 1.2% and 4.2% respectively. The pattern of investment is closely linked to projects and is therefore highly volatile. After the decline between 2012 and 2014, direct investment at the Belgian ports was up for the third year in a row. Between 2016 and 2017, investment was up by 2.4%, from € 4 711 million to € 4 825 million. The port of Ghent and, to a lesser extent, the Liège port complex contributed to investment growth at the Belgian ports. The biggest contributing sectors to investment growth were the ‘port construction and dredging’ sector and, to a lesser extent, cargo handling, and the energy and chemical industries. Based on the figures of the traffic, the Flemish ports can be considered as real bridgeheads for trade with the UK. Developments regarding the modalities and consequences of the Brexit therefor should be followed with the greatest attention. Given the existing import and export volumes in terms of tonnage, it seems it will mostly be a challenge in Zeebrugge and to some extent for Antwerp. As a supplier to both China and the United States, Belgium is indirectly involved in trade between the two countries. If protectionism would close the United States off to exports from abroad, Belgian economy might get impacted one of the most in Europe.
L92|Collusive Investments in Technological Compatibility: Lessons from U.S. Railroads in the Late 19th Century|Collusion is widely condemned for its negative effects on consumer welfare and market efficiency. In this paper, I show that collusion may also in some cases facilitate the creation of unexpected new sources of value. I bring this possibility into focus through the lens of a historical episode from the 19th century, when colluding railroads in the U.S. South converted 13,000 miles of railroad track to standard gauge over the course of two days in 1886, integrating the South into the national transportation network. Route-level freight traffic data reveal that the gauge change caused a large shift in market share from steamships to railroads, but did not affect total shipments or prices on these routes. Guided by these results, I develop a model of compatibility choice in a collusive market and argue that collusion may have enabled the gauge change to take place as it did, while also tempering the effects on prices and total shipments.
L92|A critical evaluation of the economics of Indian automobile industry|It is a well-known fact that India is emerging as an ‘automobile hub’ for the entire global economy on account of its large pool of talented automobile designers and cost competitive workforce. The present rate of growth in India’s GDP is more than that of China. This promising growth story is also partially on account of robust growth in India’s automobile industry. Almost all the global automobile manufacturers are now directly and indirectly associated with Indian economy for a sustainable business. Yet, there are quite a few gaps in the overall economics of Indian automobile industry. This paper attempts to present these gaps with micro analysis of each aspect impacting the future journey of this most value-adding industry. The paper also attempts to present a few original ideas essential for strengthening the economics of Indian automobile industry. The coverage of this paper comprises of an inquiry into ten different dimensions of the present state of affairs of the Indian automobile industry. It also explores a possible analysis of the potentiality of this industry to act as a growth engine for India’s sustainable economic prosperity. Virtually India also should prove to be a growth engine to push the global economy to its normalcy during the present difficult days.
L92|Cost Benefit Analysis of a Regional Arterial PPP Toll Road Project: A Case Study of the Proposed R-1 Toll Road|Road infrastructure is of vital importance for the economic development of a country. Roads facilitate the movement of people, goods, services and resources. Traditionally, public infrastructure such as roads has been provided using national budgetary resources. Over time the participation of the private sector has increased in the procurement and provision of road infrastructure. Public authorities have been partnering with the private sector due to the limitation of capital to undertake such projects. Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) of various forms have been used extensively in road transportation projects as an alternative to state and local government procurement and provision of road infrastructure. The objective of this study is to undertake an integrated investment appraisal of a proposed PPP toll road project in the Southern African country of Zimbabwe using Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA).
L92|The Political Economy of an Optimal Congestion Tax: An Empirical Investigation|Despite widely prescribed by economists, a congestion tax is seldom used in practice. Why? This paper combines a structural econometric model with a simulation algorithm to estimate an optimal congestion tax and investigate its political acceptance. Results for Sao Paulo show the tax to be 2 USD per trip. Policy simulations indicate that (i) commuters that switch to the public transportation bears the largest share of the tax burden and (ii) revenue recycling is essential for the policy to be accepted. Skepticism about the use of tax revenues is the likely cause for the low use of the congestion tax.
L92|Search Frictions and Evolving Labour Market Dynamics|This paper puts search frictions models under novel empirical scrutiny and tests their ability to match empirical observations. To capture changing dynamics we ﬁt an extended Bayesian time-varying parameter VAR to US labour market data from 1962–2016. We ﬁnd strong evidence against key predictions of the search frictions model, namely a large surge in vacancy creation in response to productivity shocks and a negative relationship between the volatilities of unemployment and wages. Our results question the ampliﬁcation mechanism embedded in search frictions models and cast doubt on wage rigidity as a source of unemployment volatility.
L92|Testing for collusion in bus contracting in London|We investigate the London bus market, a large market with regular procurement of bus services, for possible collusion using a wide variety of techniques, making use of the data at our disposal. There is little evidence of collusion in bidding for contracts apparent from our data, despite some features of the market that might lead to collusive behaviour.
L92|From Import Substitution to Integration into Global Production Networks: The Case of the Indian Automobile Industry|This paper examines the growth trajectory and the current state of the Indian automobile industry, paying attention to factors that underpinned its transition from import substitution to integration into global production networks. Market-conforming policies implemented by the government of India over the past 2 decades, which marked a clear departure from protectionist policies in the past, have been instrumental in transforming the Indian automobile industry in line with ongoing structural changes in the world automobile industry. India has emerged as a significant producer of compact cars within global automobile production networks. Compact cars exported from India have become competitive in the international market because of the economies of scale of producing for a large domestic market and product adaptation to suit domestic market conditions. Interestingly, there are no significant differences in prices of compact cars sold in domestic and foreign markets. This suggests that the hypothesis of â€œimport protection as export promotionâ€ does not hold for Indian automobile exports.
L92|Pricing of Complements in the U.S. Freight Railroads: Cournot Versus Coase|Monopolists selling complementary products charge a higher price in a static equilibrium than a single multiproduct monopolist would, reducing both the industry profits and consumer surplus. However, firms could instead reach a Pareto improvement by lowering prices to the single monopolist level. We analyze administrative nationally-representative pricing data of railroad coal shipping in the U.S. We compare a coal producer that needs to ship from A to C, with the route passing through B, in two cases: (1) the same railroad owning AB and BC and (2) different railroads owning AB and BC. We do not find that price in case (2) is higher than price in case (1), suggesting that the complementary monopolist pricing ineficiency is absent in this market. For our main analysis, we use a specification consistent with the previous literature; however, our findings are robust to propensity score blocking and machine learning algorithms. Finally, we perform a difference-in-differences analysis to gauge the impact of a merger that made two routes wholly-owned (switched from case 2 to case 1), and these results are also consistent with our main findings. Our results have implications for vertical mergers, tragedy of the anticommons, mergers of firms selling complements, and royalty stacking and patent thickets.
L92|Trade facilitation, transport costs and the price of trucking services in East Africa|We examine how increased trade facilitation affects the price for trucking services in East Africa. Using a combination of qualitative and quantitative data from primary and secondary sources we are able to provide a detailed account of the market structure of trucking services on a key trading route between Mombasa and Kampala, which is used by importers and exporters across the region. We find that trucking services on this route are provided on a competitive basis and that increased trade facilitation would lead to significantly lower transport prices. In total, we estimate that transport prices could fall by as much as 30% from their current levels through a combination of trade facilitation measures that reduce transit time and transit cost to a minimum.
L92|Restructuring the Chinese Freight Railway: Two Scenarios|Twenty years of debate regarding the restructuring of the Chinese freight railway have failed to yield a consensus. Early policy statements favoring the creation of above-the-rail competition over a monopoly infrastructure – the “European” model of rail restructuring – have broadened into a lively policy and scholarly debate that includes as an alternative the division of the system into competing vertically integrated railways – the “Americas” model of restructuring. To date, however, there have been no tangible reform steps beyond organizational restructuring, the construction of new coal railroads, some with private-sector participation, and the introduction of scheduled service, especially for containers, between China and Europe. In this paper we argue in favor of the Americas model as a basis for restructuring and offer two alternative scenarios for the creation of multiple vertically integrated freight railways. Both plans enable competition between independent firms and routes for import/export traffic, one a southern, One Belt/One Road path, the other a northern path via the Trans-Siberian Railway.
L92|Maintenance of the railway user?under?the aging society in Tokyo metropolitan suburban area|Japan has been facing problems related to decline of population and aging. Also Tokyo metropolitan area is estimated depopulation and hard aging. Additionally a new urban planning that targets the reduction of automobile dependence and the use of public transit is required for realization of sustainable city. Tokyo metropolitan area is originally excellent in railway usage on commuting transit. Under this situation it is important that railway passengers preserve. I study the influence of land use patterns, aging and traffic means to railway station around above 580 railway stations on railway passengers from the viewpoint of sustainable rail transit service, especially viewpoint of TOD (Transit Oriented Development) using multiple regression analysis. In this study I set railway station influence area 800m in land use analysis and 500m in population aging analysis. I use railway passenger?s data from 1999 to 2015. In this study land use classification is farmland, forest, low-rise housing, crowd low-rise housing, middle and high-rise housing, commercial and business use, park and green land, manufacturing, public institution and development land. Traffic means to railway station in this study analysis are bicycle, bus, motor bicycle and working. As a result, it?s found that aging around railway station affect decrease railway passengers and mixed land use around railway stations has a constant effect on the increase and retention of the number of railway passengers. On the other hand, traffic means to railway station is not related to maintenance of the railway user. In addition aging around railway station is related to land use. Namely, in high component of low-rise housing areas hard aging is advancing. I will introduce success example of railway passengers? maintenance. It is important to perform mixed land use around railway station, urban redevelopment around railway station at high component of low-rise housing area, especially, unplanned sprawl area.
L92|The Static-Dynamic Efficiency Trade-off in the US Rail Freight Industry: Assessment of an Open Access Policy|Considering the US railroad industry, which is characterized by seven integrated firms that provide freight services on tracks they own and maintain, this paper provides a structural model that allows to evaluate the potential effects of opening the rail network to new firms on prices and investment incentives. In particular, we propose a framework for analyzing the tension between static efficiency (pricing behavior) and dynamic efficiency (investment behavior). The investment behavior is rendered endogenous by means of a dynamic model where the current investment depends on the expected future profits. We then use a forward simulation procedure to analyze the effect of an open-access market structure where a new firm uses the network of one of the biggest railroad firm. Under a simple access charge equaled to the marginal cost of access, investment in network infrastructure decreases by 10% per year, leading to a significant decrease in network quality over time. Under this setting, despite the increase of price competition, the decrease in network quality leads to a fall in consumer welfare. Other types of (more evolved) access charges might even allow to relax the tension between static efficiency and dynamic efficiency, allowing more price competition while preserving investment incentives. This topic deserves further research and is beyond the scope of this paper.
L92|Die „Europäische Seidenstraße“|The English version can be found here. In dieser Studie argumentieren wir für einen „Big Push“ bei den Infrastrukturinvestitionen im größeren Europa. Wir schlagen den Bau einer „Europäischen Seidenstraße“ vor, welche die industriellen Zentren im Westen mit den bevölkerungsreichen, aber weniger entwickelten Gebieten im Osten des Kontinents verbinden und damit für mehr Wachstum und Beschäftigung sowohl kurz- als auch mittel- und langfristig sorgen soll. Im Vollausbau soll die „Europäische Seidenstraße“ auf dem Landweg rund 11.000 Kilometer auf einer Nordroute von Lissabon bis Uralsk an der russisch-kasachischen Grenze und auf einer Südroute von Mailand bis nach Wolgograd und Baku verlaufen. Kernstücke sind im Norden die Strecke von Lyon bis Moskau und im Süden von Mailand bis Konstanza. Die Südroute würde Mitteleuropa mit dem Schwarzmeerraum und den Anrainerstaaten des Kaspischen Meeres verbinden. Eine moderne Autobahn- und Hochgeschwindigkeitszugstrecke mit einer Reihe von Logistikzentren, See-, Fluss- und Flughäfen soll neue europäische Standards unter anderem in der E-Mobilität setzen. Der Vollausbau würde rund 1.000 Milliarden Euro oder rund 8% des Bruttoinlandsproduktes der auf den beiden Routen liegenden Länder ausmachen. Die Kosten relativ zur Wirtschaftsleistung der EU machen rund 7% aus. Über einen Investitionszeitraum von 10 Jahren könnte die „Europäische Seidenstraße“ entlang der Routen nach einer konservativen Schätzung zu einem Wirtschaftswachstum von durchschnittlich 3,5% und einem Anstieg der Beschäftigung von rund 2 Millionen führen. Unter günstigen Umständen und bei weiterhin anhaltenden niedrigen Zinsen kann mit einem Beschäftigungseffekt von über 7 Millionen im größeren Europa gerechnet werden. Alleine auf der Nordroute in den russischen Zentralraum könnte die verbesserte Infrastruktur der Kernstrecke bedeutende Zeitersparnisse von über 8% im Straßentransport bringen. Das wäre im Schnitt und beispielsweise auch ab Wien eine Ersparnis von rund 2,5 Stunden. Damit könnten die Länder entlang der Nordroute ihre Exporte nach Russland um über 11% steigern. Dies würde zusätzliche Exporte von über 12,5 Milliarden Euro bedeuten. Die österreichische Exportwirtschaft würde ganz besonders von diesen Infrastrukturmaßnahmen profitieren. Österreichs Russland-Exporte würden um über 14% ansteigen. Das sind rund 330 Millionen Euro. Die Baumaßnahmen bringen Österreich 34.000 Arbeitsplätze. Unter günstigen Umständen könnten bis zu 121.000 neue Jobs in Österreich geschaffen werden. English Summary A ‘European Silk Road’ The study concludes that Europe should respond to China’s New Silk Road initiative with a coherent infrastructure network and transport strategy of its own to leverage its economic potential. It should not rely on China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to achieve this, but invest itself to ensure that it suits European priorities. Nevertheless, a ‘European Silk Road’ can be seen as complementary to China’s efforts. The study finds that the development of a European Silk Road could create 2-7 million new jobs and could increase GDP on average by 3.5% in Wider Europe over a ten-year period. Eastern Europe in particular needs an upgrading of its transport infrastructure. If this is achieved, the boost to incomes and living standards would be particularly significant in that part of the continent, as a ‘big push’ in transport infrastructure investment has the potential to industrialise broad sectors of the economy.
L92|A ‘European Silk Road’|The German version can be found here. In this study we argue for a ‘Big Push’ in infrastructure investments in greater Europe. We propose the building of a European Silk Road, which connects the industrial centres in the west with the populous, but less developed regions in the east of the continent and thereby is meant to generate more growth and employment in the short term as well as in the medium and long term. After its completion, the European Silk Road would extend overland around 11,000 kilometres on a northern route from Lisbon to Uralsk on the Russian-Kazakh border and on a southern route from Milan to Volgograd and Baku. Central parts are the route from Lyon to Moscow in the north and from Milan to Constanţa in the south. The southern route would link Central Europe with the Black Sea area and the Caspian Sea littoral states. A state-of-the-art motorway and high-speed railway line with a string of logistics centres, seaports, river ports and airports shall set new European standards, among others in e-mobility. The full extension would constitute around EUR 1,000 billion or approximately 8% of the gross domestic product of the countries situated along its two routes. The costs relative to the EU’s economic output amount to about 7%. According to a conservative estimate, the European Silk Road could lead to an economic growth of 3.5% on average and an increase in employment of around 2 million along its routes in the course of an investment period of 10 years. Under favourable circumstances and at continued low interest rates, an employment creation of over 7 million can be expected in greater Europe. The improved infrastructure of the key route could yield significant time savings of over 8% in road transport on the northern route into the central region of Russia alone. On average this would save approximately 2.5 hours, for instance from Vienna. Thus the countries along the northern route would be able to increase their exports to Russia by more than 11%. This would imply additional exports of over EUR 12.5 billion. The Austrian export industry would particularly benefit from these infrastructural measures. Austria’s exports to Russia would rise by over 14%. This corresponds to about EUR 330 million. The construction projects would create 34,000 jobs in Austria. Under favourable conditions, up to 121,000 new jobs could be created in Austria. Summary A ‘European Silk Road’ The study concludes that Europe should respond to China’s New Silk Road initiative with a coherent infrastructure network and transport strategy of its own to leverage its economic potential. It should not rely on China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to achieve this, but invest itself to ensure that it suits European priorities. Nevertheless, a ‘European Silk Road’ can be seen as complementary to China’s efforts. The study finds that the development of a European Silk Road could create 2-7 million new jobs and could increase GDP on average by 3.5% in Wider Europe over a ten-year period. Eastern Europe in particular needs an upgrading of its transport infrastructure. If this is achieved, the boost to incomes and living standards would be particularly significant in that part of the continent, as a ‘big push’ in transport infrastructure investment has the potential to industrialise broad sectors of the economy.
L92|Infrastructure Investment in the Western Balkans: A First Analysis|This study provides a first analysis of the recent development in infrastructure investment in the Western Balkans. It identifies infrastructure gaps as well as key infrastructure initiatives in the region, outlines the political dimension and provides the respective detailed infrastructure investment data as collected from the Western Balkans statistical offices. The Western Balkans are a good case study also for other regions in the EU neighbourhood that have similar developmental problems. It teaches that (i) intensity of involvement is important; (ii) the composition of the funds matters; (iii) infrastructure funding will not automatically lead to more political cooperation; (iv) infrastructure development funds can also be used as a sort of reward for more political cooperation. These principles could be applied in the EU’s neighbourhood policy for the Eastern Partnership countries as well as the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership countries, according to the local requirements.
L92|Please in my back yard: the private and public benefits of a new tram line in Florence|Urban agglomerations, revealing the highest levels of productivity and growth, raise severe congestion problems. This issue can be mitigated by the construction of transport facilities allowing a higher centre-suburbs permeability. The returns of similar infrastructures are under debate, especially in cities characterized by huge artistic and urbanistic constraints. The purpose of this paper is to estimate the private and public benefits of a new tramline recently built in Florence. We apply the synthetic control method on metropolitan micro-zones in order to estimate the impact of the facility on house prices in the suburbs located close to the tram stops. We also estimate a hedonic pricing model on individual bids downloaded from a popular real estate agency. The results, coherent in both approaches, demonstrate that houses located in proximity to the new tram network register a price increase of 200-300 euros per square meter, the 7-10 per cent of the total value. The study also confirms the presence of public benefits related to the facility in terms of accidents reduction and improved air quality.
L92|Pass-through, profits and the political economy of regulation|Government regulation, such as the pricing of externalities, often raises the unit costs of regulated firms, and its impact on their profits is important to its political economy. We introduce a reduced-form model (“GLM”) that nests existing models of imperfect competition under weaker assumptions. We show how a firm's cost passthrough is a sufficient statistic for the profit impact of regulation. We apply the GLM to carbon pricing for US airlines. We find large inter-firm heterogeneity in pass-through, even for a uniform cost shock. The GLM allows us to sidestep estimation of a consumer demand system, firm markups and conduct parameters. We derive the second-best emissions tax including lobbying a government “for sale”.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L92|Pass-through, profits and the political economy of regulation|Government regulation, such as the pricing of externalities, often raises the unit costs of regulated firms, and its impact on their profits is important to its political economy. We introduce a reduced-form model (“GLM”) that nests existing models of imperfect competition under weaker assumptions. We show how a firm's cost passthrough is a sufficient statistic for the profit impact of regulation. We apply the GLM to carbon pricing for US airlines. We find large inter-firm heterogeneity in pass-through, even for a uniform cost shock. The GLM allows us to sidestep estimation of a consumer demand system, firm markups and conduct parameters. We derive the second-best emissions tax including lobbying a government “for sale”.
L92|The HSR competition in Italy: How are the regulatory design and practices concerned?|Italy is nowadays the only European country to have organized a head-on competition on its whole high speed railway (HSR) network. This paper discusses the issues of this new market structure for the Italian Rail Regulator, both in terms of regulatory design and economic regulation practices. Such HSR competition and regulation took place in a very specific and ambivalent context (including declining Italian railway demand, negative European macroeconomic environment), together with a new ambitious and innovating private competitor (NTV) and strong reactions from the incumbent (Trenitalia). The Italian Rail Regulator's interventions look like more or less a set of everyday life decisions and empirical trade-off than a duly achieved economic doctrine and policy. The level of access charges seems to be a strategic variable to enlarge the scope for profitable entry in Italy. However, this new context still does not answer the question whether HSR operators reach their economic equilibrium in open access competition.
L92|Railway line capacity utilisation and its impact on maintenance costs|In this paper, we analyse how railway maintenance costs are affected by different levels of railway line capacity utilisation. Previous studies have focused on the wear and tear of the infrastructure, while this paper shows that it is important to also acknowledge the heterogeneity of the maintenance production environment. Specifically, we estimate marginal costs for traffic using econometric methods on a panel dataset from Sweden and show that these costs increase with line capacity utilisation. The results are significant considering that current EU regulation (2015/909) states that track access charges can be based on marginal costs, with the aim of creating an effective use of available infrastructure capacity.
L92|The marginal cost of track reinvestments in the Swedish railway network: Using data to compare methods|In this study, we analyze the difference between survival and corner solution models in estimating the marginal cost of reinvestments. Both approaches describe the reinvestment process in rather intuitively similar ways but have several methodological distinctions. We use Swedish railway data on track segment and section levels over the period 1999-2016 and focus on reinvestments in track superstructure. Results suggest the marginal costs from survival and corner solution models are SEK 0.0041 and SEK 0.0103, respectively. The conclusion is that the corner solution model is more appropriate, as this method consider the impact traffic has on the risk of reinvestment as well as on the size of the reinvestment cost. The survival approach does not consider the latter, which is problematic when we have systematic variations in costs due to traffic and infrastructure characteristics.
L92|Marginalkostnader för reinvesteringar i järnvägsanläggningar: En delrapport inom SAMKOST 3|Reinvesteringar i järnvägsanläggningar påverkas av trafik och utgör därför en komponent i marginalkostnaden för nyttjandet av infrastrukturen. Tidigare studier har traditionellt fokuserat på reinvesteringskostnader i banöverbyggnad. I denna studie skattas separata marginalkostnader för reinvesteringar i Bana (banöverbyggnad, banunderbyggnad, bangårdar), El, Signal, Tele och Övriga anläggningar. Trots att slitage av exempelvis signal- och teleanläggningar inte torde variera med trafik, finner vi statistiskt signifikanta samband mellan trafik och reinvesteringar i samtliga anläggningar. En förklaring är att trafikökningen innebär en ökad störningskostnad, även i frånvaron av ett trafikberoende slitage, och därmed att reinvesteringen tidigareläggs. Analysen visar även att de skattade effekterna främst kommer från jämförelser mellan bandelar, vilket innebär en risk att de (delvis) är korrelationer och inte kausala samband mellan trafik och reinvesteringar. När marginalkostnaderna för anläggningsgrupperna läggs samman hamnar de på 0,0141 kr per bruttotonkilometer och 4,4520 kr per tågkilometer.
L92|Marginalkostnader för järnvägsunderhåll: trafikens påverkan på olika anläggningar|En del av banavgiften för nyttjandet av infrastrukturen består av kostnader för järnvägsunderhåll som uppstår som en direkt följd av tågtrafiken. Då nedbrytning och slitage av vissa järnvägsanläggningar och komponenter inte påverkas av trafik, kan det göras gällande att underhållskostnader för dessa inte bör ingå i en marginalkostnadsbaserad avgift. I denna studie skattar vi kostnadselasticiteter med en ekonometrisk metod för att undersöka om och hur trafik påverkar underhållskostnader för olika grupper av järnvägsanläggningar. Resultaten visar att det finns statistiskt signifikanta samband mellan trafik och underhållskostnader för anläggningsgrupperna Bana, El, Signal och Tele. En förklaring till sambanden för exempelvis signal- och teleanläggningar är att mer förebyggande underhåll genomförs för att upprätthålla en viss tillförlitlighet hos anläggningen när trafiken ökar och därmed undvika en ökad kostnad för inställda och försenade tåg – en kostnad som kan öka oavsett om mer trafik orsakar en ökad nedbrytning eller inte.
L92|“Do public-private partnership enabling laws increase private investment in infrastructure?”|Rising use of public-private partnerships, or PPPs, is an important development in U.S. infrastructure delivery. PPPs are detailed contracts between a public-sector infrastructure project sponsor and a private-sector provider that bundle delivery services. PPPs represent a middle ground between pure-public project delivery and complete privatization. As of 2016, thirty-five U.S. states had enacted PPP enabling laws. That legislation defines the broad institutional framework surrounding a PPP agreement. It addresses such questions as the mixing of public- and private-sector funds, the treatment of unsolicited PPP proposals, and need for prior legislative approval of PPP contracts, among other key issues. We provide the first thorough empirical assessment of the impact of PPP enabling laws on a state’s utilization of private investment. We analyze the overall effect of having a PPP enabling law while controlling for a variety of factors, including the state’s indebtedness, its broad political disposition, union membership, per-capita income, and other variables. We then assess the impact of thirteen individual PPP enabling-law provisions. We develop an expertinformed weighted index reflecting the degree to which a state’s law is encouraging or discouraging of private investment. We find that more favorable PPP enabling laws increase private investment: when our favorability index increases by one-tenth, the proportion of infrastructure investment delivered via PPP in a state increases by 0.5-0.6. We find that PPP enabling-law provisions allowing unsolicited proposals and the comingling of public and private funds are particularly important in attracting private investment.
L92|Is internet on the right track? The digital divide, path dependence, and the rollout of New Zealand’s ultra-fast broadband|Using data on internet access for New Zealand’s 46,637 meshblocks, we examine issues of path dependence and the digital divide. We test whether areas that had the best railway access in the 1880s also have best access to new fibre internet infrastructure. Results suggest strong path dependence with respect to topography: people in areas that lacked 19th century rail due to remoteness or terrain are much less likely to have prioritised fibre access and slightly less likely to have current or (planned) future fibre access. Next, we examine path dependence with respect to ethnicity, given that 19th century railways deliberately avoided predominantly M?ori areas. The results suggest weak path dependence: countrywide, M?ori are slightly less likely to get fibre access than other New Zealanders, though are slightly more likely to have access within urban areas. Finally, we examine whether the rollout of fibre is increasing or decreasing the digital divide in access between rich and poor. Results show that those in more deprived areas are the most likely to benefit from fibre access, because these areas also tend to be denser and density was a factor in determining the path of the fibre rollout.
L92|Sustainable economic policy and well-being: The relationship between adjusted net savings and subjective well-being|We analyse the relationship between subjective wellbeing (SWB) and the World Bank’s measure of a country’s economic sustainability, adjusted net savings (ANS). We model SWB at individual level and at aggregated group level as a function of past ANS levels, after controlling for a country’s initial levels of SWB. The empirical models utilise World Values Surveys (WVS) data for self-reported life-satisfaction (our proxy for SWB). Our results show that ANS is negatively associated with future SWB outcomes over relatively short timespans (10-15 years) but this relationship is neutralised, or even reversed, for a longer timespan (20 years). The results demonstrate an important challenge in political economy. Governments that choose to save less in the short term may be able to spend more on the well-being of the current generation (i.e. current voters) but they diminish the reserves available to improve future generations’ well-being. At a more technical level, our results reinforce the concept that ANS is a useful sustainability indicator for infinite (or at least very long) time horizons, but it is not a good indicator of well-being developments over short time horizons.
L92|Analyzing the Risk of Transporting Crude Oil by Rail|In this paper, I combine data on incidents associated with rail transportation of crude oil and detailed data on rail shipments to appraise the relation between increased use of rail to transport crude oil and the risk of safety incidents associated with those shipments. I find a positive link between the accumulation of minor incidents and the frequency of serious incidents, and a positive relation between increased rail shipments of crude oil and the occurrence of minor incidents. I also find that increased shipments are associated with a rightward shift in the distribution of economic damages associated with these shipments; the implied marginal impact of an additional 1,000 rail cars carrying oil between two states in a given month is $1,836. In addition, I find larger average effects associated with states that represent the greatest source of tight oil production.
L92|Benchmark Regulation of Multiproduct Firms: An Application to the Rail Industry|"A number of formerly regulated multiproduct industries have a transitional or permanent residual regulatory mandate to protect consumers from ""excessive"" prices. The legislation that deregulated most rail rates contains a statutory mandate for the regulator to protect shippers from ""excessive"" prices. Fulfilling this mandate has been challenging because of the cost and administrative burden to shippers in obtaining regulatory relief. Moreover, as argued by Wilson and Wolak (2016), the existing rate relief mechanism is based on a cost concept that does not reflect the actual incremental cost of a shipment and it does not adequately address the question of what constitutes an ""excessive"" rate for a multiproduct firm with significant common costs. This paper analyzes a benchmark price approach to identifying ""excessive"" prices in multiproduct industries subject to residual price regulation. Our empirical analyses demonstrate how the mechanism can be used to fulfill the statutory mandate to protect shippers from ""excessive"" prices at substantially lower cost, with less administrative burden, and without significant adverse consequences for the long-term financial viability of the railroads."
L92|Effect of timetable change on job accessibility|Accessibility is often not a performance measure for transit services. This study is conducted following the introduction of new timetables which intended to improve passenger throughput for Sydney’s transit services, but resulted in major delays experienced by passengers thereafter. Accessibility at 30-minute travel threshold before and after the timetable change are calculated between 8 to 9 am, to measure accessibility benefits, if any, from the new timetable. The results show a lack of systematic improvement by the new table, and downgrade of accessibility on average. The overall person-weighted accessibility dropped by 3%, from 45,070 to 43,730, and 63.3% of the population’s access to jobs would be adversely affected after its implementation. This study advocates for the inclusion of accessibility metrics into transit performance measures to connect with people who use transit.
L92|Learning by Driving: Productivity Improvements by New York City Taxi Drivers|We study learning by doing by New York City taxi drivers, who have substantial discretion over their driving strategies and receive compensation closely tied to their success in finding customers. In addition to documenting learning overall by these entrepreneurial agents, we exploit our data's breadth to investigate the factors that contribute to driver improvement across a variety of situations. New drivers lag further behind experienced drivers when in difficult situations. Drivers benefit from accumulating neighborhood-specific experience, which affects how they search for their next customers.
L92|Digital Transformation in the Service Sector: Insights from Consultations with Firms in Wholesale, Retail and Logistics|Firms increasingly rely on digital technologies such as e-commerce, cloud computing, big data, digital tracking and digital platforms that are reshaping business operations, business models and market structures. In this context, the Bank of Canada consulted with firms in wholesale, retail and logistics, as well as with related industry associations to yield insights on the adoption of digital technologies. Results show that firms are increasingly investing in digital technologies, most often to increase operational efficiency or to enhance customer experience. The survey also aimed to shed light on the various channels through which digital transformation may affect firms’ prices in order to discern the implications of digitalization for inflation. Survey respondents point to some disinflationary pressures overall: first, firms view e-commerce as putting downward pressure on prices, due to increased transparency and comparability in online markets, which amplifies competition and reduces firms’ pricing power. Second, thanks to the adoption of technologies, cost savings and efficiencies are in some cases being passed on to the customer although, for many firms, cost savings are yet to be realized. Finally, firms view digital technologies as a driver of actual or expected changes in market structure, citing consolidation and concentration of market power among dominant players, forcing smaller players out of the market.
L92|Reassessing Railroads and Growth: Accounting for Transport Network Endogeneity|Motivated by the seminal work of Robert Fogel on U.S. railroads, I reformulate Fogel's original counter- factual history question on 19th century U.S. economic growth without railroads by treating the transport network as an endogenous equilibrium object. I quantify the effect of the railroad on U.S. growth from its introduction in 1830 to 1861. Specifically, I estimate the output loss in a counterfactual world with- out the technology to build railroads, but retaining the ability to construct the next-best alternative of canals. My main contribution is to endogenize the counterfactual canal network through a decentralized network formation game played by profit-maximizing transport firms. I perform a similar exercise in a world without canals. My counterfactual differs from Fogel's in three main ways: I develop a structural model of transport link costs that takes heterogeneity in geography into account to determine the cost of unobserved links, the output distribution is determined in the model as a function of transport costs, and the transport network is endogenized as a stable result of a particular network formation game. I find that railroads and canals are strategic complements, not strategic substitutes. Therefore, the output loss can be quite acute when one or the other is missing from the economy. In the set of Nash stable networks, relative to the factual world, the median value of output is 45% lower in the canals only counterfactual and 49% lower in the railroads only counterfactual. With only one of the transportation technologies available, inequality in output across cities would have been lower in variance terms but sharply higher in terms of the maximum-minimum gap. Such a stark output loss is due to two main mechanisms: inefficiency of the decentralized equilibrium due to network externalities and complementarities due to spatial heterogeneity in costs across the two transport modes.
L92|Eco-driving training and fuel consumption: Impact, heterogeneity and sustainability|In this paper, we assess the impact of an eco-driving training session on fuel consumption using panel data. A random coefficient model is estimated to measure the effect of the course over a ten-month period, controlling for confounding factors and individual heterogeneity. We find that eco-driving training induced average city and highway fuel consumption reductions of 4.6% and 2.9% respectively. The effects are highly heterogeneous between individuals, with standard deviations of about 5%. Drivers' socio-demographic characteristics are not helpful to explain these discrepancies but we find that drivers of vehicles with manual transmissions achieve significantly larger reductions: 10% on city roads and 8% on highways. Finally, we show that reductions faded gradually after the course. City reductions go from 4.6% to 2.5% within ten months. Highway fuel use decreases average 3.5% in the first ten weeks after the course but become statistically insignificant after about thirty weeks. Overall, the average impact translates into an annual fuel saving cost of about 60$ per driver.
L92|Platform intermediation to sponsor alternative fuel vehicles|Many governments promote green technological innovation within the automobile sector as a means of combating climate change. Most of these innovations are driven by alternative fuels. Subsidies for buyers and governmental investment in service infrastructure are widely used. This paper investigates the question of efficient market intervention by considering the two-sided market character of the automobile market. This study shows that network effects, competitive effects triggered by an increase in automobile users, decreasing marginal utilities of additional service stations and, in the case of governmental support, environmental externalities determine the welfare-efficient extent of platform intermediation. Regarding green technologies, the results of the analysis indicate that governmental promotion of service infrastructure is reasonable, although governments should be cautious about subsidizing buyers. Intervention in favor of dirty technologies is rarely justifiable.
L92|Sulphur Abatement Globally in Maritime Shipping|In 2016, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) decided on global regulations to reduce sulphur emissions to air from maritime shipping starting 2020. The regulation implies that ships can continue to use residual fuels with a high sulphur content, such as heavy fuel oil (HFO), if they employ scrubbers to desulphurise the exhaust gases. Alternatively, they can use fuels with less than 0.5% sulphur, such as desulphurised HFO, distillates (diesel) or liquefied natural gas (LNG). The options of lighter fuels and desulphurisation entail costs, including higher energy consumption at refineries, and the present study identifies and compares compliance options as a function of ship type and operational patterns. The results indicate distillates as an attractive option for smaller vessels, while scrubbers will be an attractive option for larger vessels. For all vessels, apart from the largest fuel consumers, residual fuels desulphurised to less than 0.5 % sulphur are also a competing abatement option. Moreover, we analyse the interaction between global SOX reductions and CO2 (and fuel consumption), and the results indicate that the higher fuel cost for distillates will motivate shippers to lower speeds, which will offset the increased CO2 emissions at the refineries. Scrubbers, in contrast, will raise speeds and CO2 emissions.
L92|Striking Evidence? Demand Persistence for Inter-City Buses from German Railway Strikes|This paper investigates the effect of the largest rail strikes in German history in 2014-2015 on long-distance buses – a newly liberalized market. Using a novel dataset of detailed bus ticket sales and rail cancellations, I find that the primary channel that drives ticket sales during the strike is whether the absolute bus travel time was sufficiently short. In a difference-indifferences framework, I exploit this variation to identify any demand persistence. Although the common trend assumption does not seem to be completely tenable in the given context, my results point to a persistent effect on the ticket sales for inter-city buses on the affected routes.
L92|Entry deterrence due to brand proliferation: Empirical evidence from the German interurban bus industry|In 2016, the largest operator in the German interurban bus industry, Flixbus, acquired its major rival, Postbus. We study the effects of that takeover using route-level data covering more than 6,000 routes. We find that Flixbus, on average, provided a lower frequency of bus rides and slightly decreased prices after the takeover. This indicates that Flixbus pursued a strategy of preemption: to decrease residual demand for Postbus, Flixbus offered a high number of bus rides. After the takeover, Flixbus decreased the supply of transportation services and lowered the prices to compensate the consumers for the resulting increase in inconvenience costs.
L92|The European Railway Sectors: Understanding and Assessing Change|This paper aims at explaining and assessing the process of change that European railway sectors have experienced over the last decades. It has been organized in two parts: the first part (section 2) explains change and the second part (section 3) empirically assesses change. In the first part we argue that the roots of this change process date back to the 1950s when, because of competitiveness reasons, the market share of most European railways began to decrease compared to other transport modes. Since national reformers ascribed these performance shortcomings to the traditional organization of the railway sector which was that of vertically-integrated state- owned monopoly. Therefore, between the 1970s and 1980s many governments in Europe adopted reforms that tried to inject competition in national railway sectors by supporting liberalization policies. Then, since early-1990s the European Commission has released a number of regulatory instruments aimed at pursuing three main goals: 1) liberalization of the rail services; 2) unbundling of infrastructure and service level, and 3) creation of the common transport market. The empirical analysis conducted in the second part of this paper suggests that state-controlled structures still play a crucial role in the management and performance of national railway industries as lower service prices are associated with greater presence of the state in the sector. Results show that liberalization-friendly regulation does not necessarily benefit railway service consumers since increased levels of market access, unbundling and privatization are not necessarily associated with lower prices. Our analysis shows that the long-lasting transition from state-owned monopolies to competitive market arrangements in the railway sectors provided mitigated results. We conclude this paper by launching a reflection on the future developments of railways in Europe.
L92|Market Structure and State Involvement: Passenger Railways in Europe|Over the past 25 years railways in Europe have experienced substantial changes in terms of legislative measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector. This chapter will provide an overview of the different reform measures and the outcomes to date with particular emphasis on the issues linked to passenger transportation. In particular, the chapter will be structured as follows. Firstly, the background to the reform initiatives will be outlined. Secondly, the specific reform elements will be described. Thirdly, the implementation of the reform measures at country level will be examined in order to identify variation between EU Member States. Subsequently, the outcomes will be examined in terms of market structure, competition and state involvement as well as how the reforms have impacted the overall performance of the railway sector. Finally, the chapter will put forward future perspectives in terms of how the railways in Europe will develop over the coming years.
L92|Economic importance of the Belgian ports: Flemish maritime ports, Liège port complex and the port of Brussels - Report 2015|This paper is an annual publication issued by the Microeconomic Analysis service of the National Bank of Belgium. The Flemish maritime ports (Antwerp, Ghent, Ostend, Zeebrugge), the Autonomous Port of Liège and the port of Brussels play a major role in their respective regional economies and in the Belgian economy, not only in terms of industrial activity but also as intermodal centers facilitating the commodity flow. This update paper1 provides an extensive overview of the economic importance and development of the Flemish maritime ports, the Liège port complex and the port of Brussels for the period 2010 - 2015, with an emphasis on 2015. Focusing on the three major variables of value added, employment and investment, the report also provides some information based on the social balance sheet and an overview of the financial situation in these ports as a whole. These observations are linked to a more general context, along with a few cargo statistics. Annual accounts data from the Central Balance Sheet Office were used for the calculation of direct effects, the study of financial ratios and the analysis of the social balance sheet. The indirect effects of the activities concerned were estimated in terms of value added and employment, on the basis of data from the National Accounts Institute. As a result of the underlying calculation method the changes of indirect employment and indirect value added can differ from one another. The developments concerning economic activity in the six ports in 2014 - 2015 are summarized in the table on the next page. In 2015 the growth of maritime traffic in the Flemish maritime ports was due to developments in the port of Antwerp and the port of Ghent. Direct value added increased in all Flemish maritime ports in 2015. However, direct employment is continuing to decline. Investment was down everywhere except in the port of Zeebrugge. Cargo traffic in the Liège port complex declined in 2015, whereas it slightly slowed down in the port of Brussels. At the same time, direct value added in Liège shrank while it rose sharply in the port of Brussels. By contrast, direct employment was down in both ports. This report provides a comprehensive account of these issues, giving details for each economic sector, although the comments are confined to the main changes that occurred in 2015.
L92|The External Costs of Transporting Petroleum Products by Pipelines and Rail: Evidence From Shipments of Crude Oil from North Dakota|This paper constructs new estimates of the air pollution and greenhouse gas costs from long-distance movement of petroleum products by rail and pipelines. While crude oil transportation has generated intense policy debate about rail and pipeline spills and accidents, important externalities – air pollution and greenhouse gas costs – have been largely overlooked. Using data for crude oil transported out of North Dakota in 2014, this paper finds that air pollution and greenhouse gas costs are nearly twice as large for rail as for pipelines. Moreover, our estimates of air pollution and greenhouse gas costs are much larger than estimates of spill and accidents costs. In particular, they are more than twice as big for rail and more than eight times as big for pipelines. Our findings indicate that the policy debate surrounding crude oil transportation has put too much relative weight on accidents and spills, while overlooking a far more serious source of external cost: air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
L92|An empirical analysis of taxi, Lyft and Uber rides: Evidence from weather shocks in NYC|Using all taxi, Lyft and Uber rides in New York City, we show that the number of Uber and Lyft rides is significantly correlated with whether it rained. The number of Uber (Lyft) rides per hour is about 22 (19)% higher when it is raining, while the number of taxi rides per hour increases by only 5% in rainy hours-suggesting that surge pricing (prime time) encourages an increase in supply. We show that while the number of taxi rides, passengers and fare income all significantly decreased after Uber entered the market in May 2011, taxis do not respond differently to increased demand in rainy hours than non-rainy hours since the entrance of Uber. Last, we test whether Lyft’s entry in the market affected Uber. Our estimates suggest that Uber was still growing after Lyft entered the market, but that Uber rides during rainy hours decreased by about 9%. Our findings suggest that dynamic pricing make Lyft and Uber drivers compete for rides when demand suddenly increases, i.e., during rainy hours.
L92|Climate Zone Crucial for Efficiency of Ski Lift Operators|This paper investigates the efficiency of ski lift companies across different climate zones in a group of countries based on establishment data. By a joint estimation of the stochastic frontier production and efficiency equations, the results indicate that ski areas in subarctic climate zones are far more efficient than their counterparts in warmer zones. Presence of a large local market and elevation of the ski area are factors not relevant for efficiency. Output of ski lift operators (companies) increases with the length of ski runs, number of ski lifts, share of slopes covered by snowmaking facilities and availability of fast lifts. Productivity is also significantly higher for ski lift companies owned by a large conglomerate.
L92|Royalty stacking in the U.S. freight railroads: Cournot vs. Coase|Monopolists selling complementary products charge a higher price in a static equilibrium than a single multiproduct monopolist would, reducing both the industry profits and consumer surplus. However, firms could instead reach a Pareto improvement by lowering prices to the single monopolist level. We analyze administrative nationally-representative pricing data of railroad coal shipping in the U.S. We compare a coal producer that needs to ship from A to C,with the route passing through B, in two cases: (1) the same railroad owning AB and BC and (2) different railroads owning AB and BC. We find no price difference between the two cases, suggesting that the complementary monopolist pricing inefficiency is absent in this market. For our main analysis, we use a specification used by previous literature; however, we confirm our findings using propensity score blocking and machine learning algorithms. Finally, we confirm the results by using a difference-in-differences analysis to gauge the impact of a merger that made two routes wholly-owned (switched from case 2 to case 1). Our results have implications for royalty stacking and patent thickets, vertical mergers, tragedy of anti-commons, and mergers of firms selling complements.
L92|Modell eines selbstregulierenden, räumlich ausgedehnten Marktplatzes für Rohstoffhandel<BR>[Model for selfregulating, spacially extended market place for commodity trading]|"The concept of a ""Commodity Hub"" is extended to the large areas with consumers, who differ in their transport costs. A marketplace operator defines regionalized contract standards, that can reduce price discrimination. For a duopoly, contract standards that are valid in one region react to relative price reductions in this region by expanding the region of their validity, if the marketplace operator wants to maximize its turnover."
L92|Robot path planning in a dynamic and unknown environment based on Colonial Competitive Algorithm (CCA) and fuzzy logic|Robot path planning has been one of the favorite areas for many Machine Learning researchers from the past up to date. The trajectory designed for a robot can be simple or complex. The robot must pass through obstacles which are either movable or fixed. One of the considerable ways for robot path planning in the dynamic and unknown environment is a combination of Evolutionary algorithm and Fuzzy logic. There are different kinds of evolutionary algorithms such as Genetic algorithm, Ant Colony algorithm, Colonial Competitive algorithm, etc. A new approach has been proposed in this paper for robot path planning in the dynamic and unknown environment based on both the Colonial Competitive algorithm and fuzzy rules. The implemented results of the proposed method present its superiority over previous methods which used only fuzzy logic method.
L92|Maintaining competition in recurrent procurement contracts: A case study on the London bus market|Under recurrent procurement, the awarding of a contract to a firm may put it in an advantageous position in future tenders, which may reduce competition over time. The objective of this paper is to study the dynamics of competition for tendered contracts, focusing on factors that may generate incumbent advantage. Particular attention is given to learning economies, sunk costs of entry and switching costs for the procurer. The paper then applies these insights to analyse empirically the evolution of competition in the market for local bus services in London.
L92|Fission, forking and fine tuning|Perhaps because we live in the age of the Internet and social networks, everyone seems agreed that innovation is all about recombination. Although not fully dissenting from this consensus, and perhaps in the end affirming it in an important way, I want to draw attention to some apparently different mechanisms of innovation, both suggested by Adam Smith: subdivision (or differentiation) and fine-tuning. On the surface at least, these – especially the second – do not appear to be processes of recombination. I will attempt to elucidate what I mean by these concepts and try to think about how they fit together with recombination in a full Smithian account of innovation. Whether innovation proceeds from the top down or the bottom up depends crucially on the structure of complementary stages in the process of production. Especially if it takes place in a non-modular way, recombination may require unified decision rights, implying the vertical integration of complementary stages of production, in order to overcome the dynamic transaction costs of change. But the processes of subdivision and differentiation may also require changes in decision rights in order to overcome dynamic transaction costs. I illustrate these points with a case study of three generations of an American family of inventor-entrepreneurs in electricity and electronics.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L92|Patterns of entry and exit in the deregulated German interurban bus industry|We study patterns of entry and exit in the German interurban bus industry in the first three years after its deregulation in January 2013. Using a comprehensive data set of all firm and route entries and exits, we find that the industry grew much quicker than originally expected – with particularly a few new entrants being most successful in quickly extending their route networks from regional to national coverage. Although the clear majority of routes is operated on a monopoly basis, competition does play a key role on routes with a sufficiently large base of (potential) customers. From a spatial perspective, three years after deregulation, the entire interurban bus network connects 60 percent of all 644 larger German cities – with the intensity of entry being dependent on the number of inhabitants, average income, the share of under 24 years old and the presence of intermodal competition by intercity railway services.
L92|The Strange Career Of Independent Voting Trusts In U.S. Rail Mergers|Voting trust arrangements have a long history at both the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) and the Surface Transportation Board (STB) as devices to protect the incentives of acquiring firms and maintain the independence of acquiring and target firms during the pendency of regulatory investigation of the merger proposal. However, they are not without problems. The STB argued in 2001 that as Class I railroads have become fewer and larger, it may be difficult to find alternative purchasers for the firm whose shares are in the trust if the STB turns down the proposal. The Antitrust Division argued in 2016 that joint stock ownership creates anticompetitive and/or otherwise undesirable incentives, even if the independence of the voting trustee is complete. On the other hand, the functions served by voting trusts in railroad mergers are served by simple lockup agreements in other parts of the economy, without the same incentive problems as voting trusts. Thus voting trusts may no longer serve a useful function in railroad merger deliberations.
L92|Reforming and Restructuring Ukrzaliznytsia: A Crucial Task for Ukrainian Reformers|If the Ukrainian economy is to be successfully restructured going forward, a restructured railway system will have to be part of the picture. Ukraine’s economy depends on the production and sale of a number of bulk commodities, including coal, iron ore, steel, and agricultural products, that require shipment by rail in order to reach both domestic and export markets economically. In this paper we first discuss in more detail the crucial role that UZ plays in the Ukrainian economy. We follow with a survey of the world experience with railways restructuring: a large number of countries have already undertaken the task of converting aging government-owned monopoly railways into more dynamic and competitive transport enterprises, and their experience in very diverse settings may have important lessons to offer. We then examine the current state of rail reform plans in Ukraine. We conclude with discussions of an alternative path forward that seems most likely to be successful in Ukraine, based on both the experience elsewhere and the country’s current situation.
L92|Privatizzazione senza liberalizzazione? Lo strano caso delle ferrovie italiane<BR>[Privitisation withour liberalisation? The strange case of Italian railways, and how adjustments to the government’s reforms could achieve gains for rail users and taxpayers]|The Italian government is proceeding with the privatisation of the Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane group, and is considering a merger with the government-owned highways company. In this article, we argue that changes could be made to the privatisation and reform process, learning from the British experience, which would bring substantial benefits to Italian rail users and taxpayers.
L92|Approaches to Czech Passenger Railway Market Liberalisation|Competition on the Czech railway passenger market has been developing recently. It is possible to distinguish two types of competition - unregulated competition (competition on the market) and regulated competition (competition for the market). Competition on the market is present on the Prague-Ostrava route and competition for the market has been applied in a few public tenders for subsidised services. However, the substantial part of the Czech railway passenger market has remained closed and there is a question how to proceed with the competition development - whether to promote competition on the market or competition for the market. Based on European and modelling experience, there is an argument for more competition for the market.
L92|Grid Investment and Support Schemes for Renewable Electricity Generation|The unbundling of formerly vertically integrated utilities in liberalized electricity markets led to a coordination problem between investments in the regulated electricity grid and investments into new power generation. At the same time investments into new generation capacities based on weather dependent renewable energy sources such as wind and solar energy are increasingly subsidized with different support schemes. Against this backdrop this article analyzes the locational choice of private wind power investors under different support schemes and the implications on grid investments. I find that investors do not choose system optimal locations in feed-in tariff schemes, feed-in premium schemes and subsidy systems with direct capacity payments. Consequently, inefficiencies arise if transmission investment follows wind power investment. A benevolent transmission operator can implement the first-best solution by anticipatory investment behavior, which is however only applicable under perfect regulation. Alternatively a location dependent network charge for wind power producers can directly influence investment decisions and internalize the grid integration costs of wind power generation.
L92|Concentración, especialización y liderazgo de los puertos españoles. Análisis de los efectos de la crisis económica|La distribución del tráfico portuario en España ha mostrado tradicionalmente altos niveles de concentración, sobre todo en relación con la carga en contenedores. Sin embargo, los movimientos de contenedores en su conjunto ocultan un carácter diferencial de flujos. Así, existen distintos movimientos de contenedores: entre puertos españoles (cabotaje), entre los puertos internacionales (exportación e importación), o simplemente movimientos que utilizan el puerto como plataforma logística (en tránsito). En este trabajo se analiza la evolución de la concentración de los movimientos de contenedores, medidos en TEUs, para los tres tipos de transporte indicado, durante el periodo comprendido entre 2007 (que se podría considerar como año inmediatamente anterior al comienzo de la crisis económica iniciada en 2008) y 2015, en base a los índices de Herfindahl y Gini, con el fin de hacer una distinción entre las fuentes de concentración de cada tipo de movimientos. Esto permite identificar la posible especialización portuaria. Los resultados confirman el comportamiento diferencial de los tráficos de contenedores, así como la especialización y la jerarquía de las autoridades portuarias. The distribution of port traffic in Spain has traditionally shown high levels of concentration, especially for containerized cargo. However, the container movements as a whole hide a differential nature of containers’ flows: container movements: between Spanish ports (national cargo), between international ports (export and import cargo), or simply movements of containers using the port as a logistics platform (cargo in transit). In this paper, we have analyzed the evolution of concentration in the global container traffic (TEUs). The reference period is 2007 (such as immediately preceding the commencement of the economic crisis in 2008) and 2015. We calculated Herfindahl indices and Gini and on the three kind of movements (the national, the import-export and the transit cargo), in order to make a distinction between the concentration sources, related to the type of movements. So, the possible port specialization is analyzed. The results confirm the differential behavior of different types of traffic, as well as the specialization and headship of the ports authorities.
L92|"The prospect - in the continuation of reforms (of the monograph of F.I. Khusainov ""The reform of the railway sector in Russia: an unfinished liberalization of the problem"")<BR>[Перспектива — В Продолжении Реформ (О Монографии Ф.И. Хусаинова ""Реформа Железнодорожной Отрасли В России: Проблемы Незавершенной Либерализации""]"|The book Farida Iosifovicha Khusainova analyzed the course of the reform of one of the key sectors of the Russian economy - the railway - and address key economic issues of the industry. The author comes to the reasonable conclusion that these problems are due primarily to the incompleteness of the reforms. Reflections on the book by FI Khusainova lead to the conclusion that the prospect of a long-term effective development of not only the rail industry but also the entire Russian economy lies in the deepening of market reforms and the development of market institutions.
L92|As Evidenced by Theage-old Dynamics of Indicators of Major Rail System<BR>[О Чем Свидетельствует Столетняя Динамика Показателей Крупнейших Железнодорожных Систем]|The article compared results of economic development in terms of market mechanisms and centralized planning, based on an analysis of key indicators of the domestic and North American railroads for the century-long period. It was revealed that the higher and more sustainable dynamics of volume indicators, achieved in certain periods in a centrally planned economy does not show its advantages in comparison with the market economy, which is characterized by cyclical. It is shown that on the basis of centralized planning and control can not be implemented the strategy of “catching up development”. At the same time it found that the degree of success ensuring productive use of various resources in the framework of centralized planning and control is inversely proportional to their importance in the modern economy. This demonstrates the impossibility of the effective implementation of such methods of economic management. In conditions of market relations ensured advancing more efficient use of the main economic resource of our time — human capital. It is showing positive results of economic reforms in the railway transport. Made the conclusion about the necessity of development of market mechanisms and institutional framework (in particular, the removal of restrictions on the involvement of private capital in the development of the existing rail infrastructure) for the successful solution of problems of the Russian railway sector and the entire economy
L92|Estimating Total Factor Productivity Growth: Canadian Freight Railways, 1986 to 2009|Canadian railways are a vital part of the country’s transportation sector, moving goods and people across the country. We perform firm-level productivity analysis of Canadian freight railways for 1986 to 2009, focusing on the two railways which dominate the market: Canadian National (CN) and Canadian Pacific (CP). We obtain total factor productivity (TFP) estimates both by constructing productivity indices and by econometrically estimating cost functions. Driven in part by operational improvements, the strong TFP growth at both firms considerably outpaced aggregate TFP growth in Canada over the period of interest. This robust TFP growth, together with significant capital deepening, led to impressive labour productivity gains. We pay special attention to the productivity effects of the 1995 privatization of CN. While CN enjoyed much stronger productivity growth over the 1986-2009 period than CP, its performance was equally superior before and after the 1995 privatization.
L92|Productivity Trends in the Canadian Transport Sector: An Overview|In recent decades, the overall growth in productivity of many subsectors of the Canadian transportation and warehousing sector has been above average. In particular, while labour productivity (real GDP per worker) grew an average of 0.64 per cent per year between 2000 and 2014 in the transportation and warehousing sector, labour productivity grew an average of 1.83 per cent per year in the truck transportation subsector, 3.25 per cent per year in the air transportation subsector and 2.09 per cent in the train transportation subsector for the same period. Conversely, in the urban transit subsector, labour productivity decreased an average of 0.76 per cent per year between 2000 and 2014. This report provides a detailed analysis of output, input and productivity trends in four subsectors of the Canadian transportation and warehousing sector. It also examines drivers of the productivity growth for each subsector as well as policies that could enable faster growth. Given the impact that the transportation sector has on many Canadian industries as well as the Canadian economy, maintaining productivity growth is important.
L92|Firm-level Total Factor Productivity Growth: Canadian Freight Railways, 1986 to 2009|Canadian railways are a vital part of the country’s transportation sector, moving goods and people across the country. We perform firm-level productivity analysis of Canadian freight railways for 1986 to 2009, focusing on the two railways which dominate the market: Canadian National (CN) and Canadian Pacific (CP). We obtain total factor productivity (TFP) estimates both by constructing productivity indices and by econometrically estimating cost functions. Driven in part by operational improvements, the strong TFP growth at both firms considerably outpaced aggregate TFP growth in Canada over the period of interest. This robust TFP growth, together with significant capital deepening, led to impressive labour productivity gains. We pay special attention to the productivity effects of the 1995 privatization of CN. While CN enjoyed much stronger productivity growth over the 1986-2009 period than CP, its performance was equally superior before and after the 1995 privatization.
L92|Socioeconomic development and the risk of maritime piracy|Abstract Maritime piracy is a phenomenon with implications for international trade. It is usually of two types: armed robbery and hijacking of vessels. This paper uses general estimating equations (GEE) modelling to assess factors that determine the risk of piracy attacks. We consider the impact which the level of economic and institutional development in a number of regions may have on the frequency and success and failure rates of piracy attacks. We find that the frequency of piracy attacks is higher in regions where the quality of institutions is low and that most attacks take place in close proximity to a port. We also find that successful attacks are most likely in regions that are poor and have low military capacity. The success rate of the hijacking version of piracy has no effect on the probability of the armed robbery form of piracy. In the horn of Africa and South–East Asia, the probability of piracy attacks decreases during the month of Ramadan. While in the short-term, military responses may have a role to play, long-term sustainable policy requires that this is combined with enhancement of economic opportunity, governance and human capital development.
L92|Managerial psychology and transport firms efficiency: a stochastic frontier analysis|This paper presents an original essay that explains how managerial psychology affects the efficiency of transport firms. Stochastic frontier analysis methods are applied to our sample over a 12-year period from 2000 to 2011, where we aim to detect the potential effect of a well-documented bias in behavioral economic and finance theory: the managerial optimism bias. We initiate a debate concerning the potential role of Chief Executive Officers’ (CEO) irrationalities in explaining the inefficiency of public transport operators, such as the shortfall between the optimal production function and the observed production level. We find strong evidence of the negative impact of CEOs’ optimism bias on transport firms’ technical efficiency, meaning that managerial optimism decreases transport firms’ technical efficiency. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
L92|Creating a National Champion: International Competition and Unbundling in Rail Transportation| This article investigates the incentives to unbundle operations and infrastructure in the railway industry in a two-country model from the viewpoint of national governments. The analysis shows that the decision to unbundle institutionally or organisationally with separated accounts depends crucially on the importance of cross-border transportation. If cross-border transportation is sufficiently important, national governments choose accounting separation. However, for low-efficiency gains within a bundled firm, national governments are stuck in a Prisoner's Dilemma and would be better off coordinating on institutional separation. This result justifies major policy initiatives of the European Union and explains the behaviour of national governments. © 2016 LSE and the University of Bath
L92|Introducing Railway Time in the Balkans: Economic eﬀects of railway construction in Southeast Europe and beyond since the early 19th century until present days|Abstract In this paper we analyse the economic eﬀects of railway infrastructure at the national level for European countries as well as at the local level for Southeast European cities based on a novel railway database capturing decades of the 19th century up to the early 21th century. A panel ﬁxed eﬀects regression analysis at the country level indicates a positive economic impact emanating from railway infrastructure, whereby the eﬀect appears to be even stronger for less developed Southeast European countries. In addition, a linear spatially augmented multilevel model at the city level sheds light on the positive eﬀects resulting from railway infrastructure on urban development. Its positive spillover eﬀects occur within countries as well as across borders.
L92|Highway to Success: The Impact of the Golden Quadrilateral Project for the Location and Performance of Indian Manufacturing|We investigate the impact of transport infrastructure on the organisation and efficiency of manufacturing activity. The Golden Quadrilateral (GQ) project upgraded a central highway network in India. Manufacturing activity grew disproportionately along the network. These findings hold in straight‐line IV frameworks and are not present on a second highway that was planned to be upgraded at the same time as GQ but subsequently delayed. Both entrants and incumbents facilitated the output growth, with scaling among entrants being important. The upgrades facilitated better industrial sorting along the network and improved the allocative efficiency of industries initially positioned on GQ.
L92|Governmental platform intermediation to promote alternative fuel vehicles|Many governments promote green technological innovation within the automobile sector as a means of combating climate change. Most of these innovations are driven by alternative fuels. Buyer's premiums and governmental investment in service infrastructure are widely used. This paper investigates the question regarding whether market intervention is adequate by considering the two-sided market character of the automobile market. This study shows that network effects, competition effects triggered by more automobile users and decreasing marginal utilities of further service stations determine the welfare-efficient extent of governmental intervention. The results of the analysis indicate that governmental promotion of service infrastructure is reasonable, although governments should be cautious about buyer's premiums.
L92|Deregulation and the determinants of entry: Evidence from the German interurban bus industry|Two years after the deregulation of the German interurban bus industry in January 2013, two new entrants emerged as market leaders: MeinFernbus (MFB) and FlixBus (FB). We use a comprehensive route-level data set to investigate the determinants of route entry for both providers. Applying survival models, we find that both companies show an increased probability to enter populous, centrally located routes with large shares of young inhabitants; however, they both avoid entries into routes including an airport or with low quality rail connection. Furthermore, both market leaders refrain from entering small and medium-sized routes in which another provider is already operating. In large markets, however, they both show an increased entry probability independent of the presence of a competitor.
L92|Deregulation and the determinants of network access: evidence from the German interurban bus industry| We investigate the characteristics of cities gaining access to the German interurban bus network in the first two years following the deregulation of the industry in January 2013. Applying both parametric and semi-parametric survival models, we find strong evidence that the probability of a city to be added to a provider’s network increases not only with the mere size of its population but also with further demographic characteristics such as average income or the share of young and old inhabitants. Additionally, while an increasing importance of tourism has a further positive effect, a rising automobile density is imposing a significantly negative impact on the probability of a city to gain access to the network.
L92|The power of active choice: Field experimental evidence on repeated contribution decisions to a carbon offsetting program|We investigate how the introduction of an Active Choice requirement influences subject proclivity to contribute to an impure public good in one time and repeated interactions. In a large-scale field experiment, we analyze more than 10000 contribution decisions to a carbon offsetting program in the context of online ticket sales for long-distance buses. We find that the simple requirement of an Active Choice – which circumvents the ethical issues posed by an opt-out design – not only increases participation rates by almost 50% in a first booking decision, but also boosts participation in subsequent bookings. At the same time, the introduction of Active Choice does not induce a substantial decline in returning customer rates. Our data support the theoretical assumption that anticipated guilt is a causal mechanism by which Active Choice induces higher contribution rates, as the opportunity for “choice avoidance” that is inherent to opt-in settings may help subjects circumvent feelings of guilt that would otherwise result from explicit free-riding.
L92|Disruptive Change in the Taxi Business: The Case of Uber|In most cities, the taxi industry is highly regulated and has restricted entry. Ride sharing services, such as Uber and Lyft, which use mobile internet technology to connect passengers and drivers, have begun to compete with traditional taxis. This paper examines the efficiency of ride sharing services vis-a-vis taxis. In most cities with data available, UberX drivers spend a significantly higher fraction of their time, and drive a substantially higher share of miles, with a passenger in their car than do taxi drivers. Reasons for this efficiency advantage are explored.
L92|Trade Costs, CO2, and the Environment|This paper quantifies how international trade affects CO2 emissions and analyzes the welfare consequences of regulating the CO2 emissions from shipping. To this end, the paper describes a model of trade and the environment, compiles new data on the CO2 emissions from shipping, and estimates key parameters using panel data regressions. Results show that the benefits of international trade exceed trade's environmental costs due to CO2 emissions by two orders of magnitude. While proposed regional carbon taxes on the CO2 emissions from shipping would increase global welfare and increase the implementing region's GDP, they would also harm poor countries.
L92|On Ya Bike? A Review of the Christchurch Cycleway Network Business Case|Transport consulting firm QTP Ltd has estimated that the proposed Christchurch cycleway network provides $8 of economic benefits for every dollar invested; i.e., a benefitcost ratio (BCR) of 8.0. As a result, the Christchurch City Council has labelled the network’s business case as “proven”. However, this “proven” business case has been the subject of precisely zero public scrutiny. We provide that scrutiny and find, in contrast to QTP, that the cycleway network is a doubtful proposition from an economic efficiency perspective, having an estimated BCR in the 0.7-1.6 range, at best.
L92|Un modelo Casi Ideal de Demanda de Combustibles para la Industria de Transporte|Abstract: This article presents an Almost Ideal Demand System (AIDS) for different types of fuels in Colombia, focusing specifically on the transport industry. Estimates of price, expenditure and cross elasticities are computed using a Seemingly Unrelated Regressions (SUR) model and based on 10 years observations (2003-2012). Results show that diesel and regular gas behave as inelastic goods while natural gas is more elastic. Also, diesel fuels and natural gas seem to behave as substitutes while there’s a complementary relation among the others (regular gas-Diesel; regular fuels-Natural Gas). Regarding the expenditures elasticities, this paper concludes that regular gas and diesel behave as normal goods while natural gas seems be an inferior type of fuel for the transport sector. Resumen: Este paper utilizando el Modelo Casi Ideal de Demanda (AIDS) por medio de ecuaciones aparentemente no relacionadas para la industria de combustibles en el sector transporte en Colombia, analiza las elasticidades precio de la demanda, precio cruzada de la demanda y gasto de la demanda de la Gasolina motor, Diesel y Gas Natural Vehicular (GNV), dada la recomposición que ha presentado esta industria entre el 2003 y 2012, con el objetivo de determinar si estos combustibles se comportan como sustitutos o complementarios y se trata de bienes necesarios o no. Los principales resultados indican que la elasticidad precio de la demanda de la Gasolina y el Diesel son bienes inelásticos, mientras que el GNV se comporta como un bien elástico. Por su parte, por medio de la elasticidad precio cruzada de la demanda, se encuentra que solo el Diesel y el GNV se comportan como bienes sustitutos, mientras que para el resto de relaciones (Gasolina-Diesel y Gasolina-GNV) se observa un comportamiento de complementariedad. Además desde la elasticidad gasto de la demanda se encontró que la Gasolina y el Diesel se comportan como bienes normales, mientras que el GNV resulta ser un bien inferior.
L92|Caracterización de la movilidad de transporte regional de la RAPE Región Central|El presente documento presenta una propuesta de institucionalidad para la gestión de la infraestructura de transporte en la RRC, adaptando/potenciando el instrumento de Contrato Plan (sección 2); luego discute la metodología de construcción de la Red Básica y la Red de Integración de la RRC (sección 3), la metodología de priorización dentro de cada una de las dos categorías de red (sección 4), y finalmente, muestra los resultados de la priorización (sección 5). Los resultados tienen un carácter preliminar en tanto se hará una revisión con los resultados del estudio sobre ‘territorios funcionales’ y en conjunto al denominado ‘mapa de impactos’.
L92|Electrification of a City Bus Network: An Optimization Model for Cost-Effective Placing of Charging Infrastructure and Battery Sizing of Fast Charging Electric Bus Systems|The deployment of battery-powered electric bus systems within the public transportation sector plays an important role to increase energy efficiency and to abate emissions. Rising attention is given to bus systems using fast charging technology. This concept requires a comprehensive infrastructure to equip bus routes with charging stations. The combination of charging infrastructure and bus batteries needs a reliable energy supply to maintain a stable bus operation even under demanding conditions. An efficient layout of the charging infrastructure and an appropriate dimensioning of battery capacity are crucial to minimize the total cost of ownership and to enable an energetically feasible bus operation. In this work, the central issue of jointly optimizing the charging infrastructure and battery capacity is described by a capacitated set covering problem. A mixed-integer linear optimization model is developed to determine the minimum number and location of required charging stations for a bus network as well as the adequate battery capacity for each bus line of the network. The bus energy consumption for each route segments is determined based on individual route, bus type, traffic and other information. Different scenarios are examined in order to assess the influence of charging power, climate and changing operating conditions. The findings reveal significant differences in terms of needed infrastructure depending on the scenarios considered. Moreover, the results highlight a trade-off between battery size and charging infrastructure under different operational and infrastructure conditions. The paper addresses upcoming challenges for transport authorities during the electrification process of the bus fleets and sharpens the focus on infrastructural issues related to the fast charging concept.
L92|Using Measures of Agreement to Evaluate a Chronic Problem of Congestion in the Empty Container Depots|Container-based transportation through a combination of truck, rail and ocean shipping services has become an important part of supporting local and international cargo flows. However, congestion or bottlenecks of empty container-trucks may hinder the supply chain and logistics performance of the country in hinterland transport. The factors causing the bottlenecks of empty container-trucks at the depots around Port Klang, Malaysia, were first derived from interviews conducted with 30 participants working in different logistics companies. This paper intends to describe the application of Fleiss kappa to evaluate or validate the congestion factors and involves six experienced evaluators from the field of empty container logistics. Therefore, key steps and procedures are presented by extracting the qualitative data from a previous study that addressed this phenomenon. A resulting Fleiss generalised kappa value of 0.8203, which can be assumed as satisfactory and reflecting the strength of the congestion factors, as well as it would convince the real situation that occurs in bottlenecks at the empty depot. Truly, Fleiss kappa has proved to be an efficient and useful approach to measure the agreements for many purposes, including validating the chronic congestion factors.
L92|Economic impacts of debottlenecking congestion in the Chinese coal supply chain|The fast pace of development in China's coal industry created bottlenecks in its transportation infrastructure. These bottlenecks likely affected not only China's domestic coal market, but also global coal markets. In this paper, we estimate the costs and consequences of these bottlenecks using a production and multimodal transportation model. We find that coal transportation inefficiencies increased the price of Chinese domestic coal at coastal locations and thereby influenced global seaborne coal prices. According to our model results, the resulting extra costs of coal supplied to the Chinese economy totaled 228 billion renminbi (RMB) in 2011 and 105 in 2013. The subsequent debottlenecking, on the other hand, has reduced the price of Chinese domestic coal delivered to coastal regions and contributed to the reduction in global seaborne coal prices since 2011. Our analysis also suggests that current tariffs for coal transport, with their embedded taxes to cover investments in rail capacity, result in economic efficiencies similar to charging marginal transportation costs and that planners have not introduced distortions that impose significant additional costs on the Chinese economy. Many projects that expanded transport capacity delivered strongly positive rates of return. However, some have poor or negative rates of return, which can reflect either overinvestment or preinvestment in future needs.
L92|Does public transit reduce car travel externalities? Quasi-natural experiments' evidence from transit strikes|One of the unanswered questions in the field of urban economics is to which extent subsidies to public transit are justified. We examine one of the main benefits of public transit, a reduction in car congestion externalities, the so-called congestion relief benefit, using quasi-natural experimental data on citywide public transit strikes for Rotterdam, a city with mild congestion levels. On weekdays, a strike induces travel times to increase only marginally on the highway ring road (0.017min/km) but substantially on inner city roads (0.224min/km). During rush hour, the strike effect is much more pronounced. The congestion relief benefit of public transit is substantial, equivalent to about 80% of the public transit subsidy. We demonstrate that during weekends, travel time does not change noticeably due to strikes. Furthermore, we show that public transit strikes induce similar increases in number of cyclists as number of car travelers suggesting that bicycling-promoting policies to reduce car congestion externalities might be attractive in combination with first-best congestion pricing.
L92|The long-term impact of matching and rebate subsidies when public goods are impure: Field experimental evidence from the carbon offsetting market|In this paper, we investigate both short- and long-term impacts of financial stimuli on public goods provision when contributions are tied to individual harm-related behavior. We conduct a large-scale field experiment to examine voluntary contributions to a carbon offsetting program during the online purchase of a bus ticket. We systematically vary the individual payoff structure by introducing different price rebates (25%, 50%, 75%) and corresponding matching grants (1/3:1, 1:1, 3:1). Using data on returning customers, we investigate the long-term effects of the different stimuli, both while treatments were in place as well as their persistence for the time after treatment removal. In the first bookings, our results show that all price rebate schemes increase the participation rate in the offsetting program, while we find weaker effects for matching grants. When bookers are treated repeatedly, only the equal (1:1) matching scheme continues to lead to higher participation rates. Even after removing the subsidies, we report higher participation rates for customers previously facing a 1:1 matching scheme. This treatment is also the only one increasing net contributions of customers compared to the control group.
L92|Deja Vu all over again? Rail franchising in Britain|This paper reviews the progress of passenger rail franchising in Britain since the mid-1990s, building on earlier contributions to the Thredbo Conferences and identifies five main phases. A welfare assessment suggests that the reforms were mildly welfare positive up to the middle of the third phase, but some concerning trends have emerged, not least the spiralling transaction costs associated with franchise bids and the apparent prevalence of strategic bidding. The problems that emerged, and some of the lessons learnt, in the aborted award of the West Coast franchise in 2012 are assessed. A detailed assessment is also made of the East Coast franchise. The awards that commenced operation in May 2005 and December 2007 (both of which failed) are compared with the new franchise that commenced operations in March 2015. Issues related to the cap and collar regime, GDP support, subordinated loans facility and parent company support are examined. The prospects for movement towards a more variegated set of franchise contracts will be considered.
L92|Public transport governance in the Netherlands: More recent developments|Like in the 2013 version of this paper, it recaps the latest developments in the governance of public transport in the Netherlands, focusing on bus, tram, metro and train concessions. Most of the concessions are competitively tendered, since the introduction of a legal obligation to tender in 2001. Dutch public transport authorities have since chosen a variety of concession setups and forms of contract remuneration. This variety has remained large in terms of ways of tendering, but in addition, the three major cities were allowed in 2012 to choose not to tender out their concessions. This paper again explores that variety and describes recent changes at the national and regional levels from 2013 onwards and looks at the developments that were first coming up in 2012. The paper describes key trends and lessons from the Dutch experience based on a nine-year project drawing lessons on competitive tendering with authorities, operators and consultants, and based on interviews with representative of 13 of the 14 public transport authorities. Key trends are a national focus on rail transport, dealing with austerity measures, implementing the earlier push for defragmentation by the national government, tweaking of the governance and preparing for bigger changes that might have major impacts on the markets for public transport. Finally, the article presents a four phase model of implementation of governance changes after in the introduction of competitive tendering in 2001.
L92|The impact of alternative governance forms of regional public rail transport on transaction costs. Case evidence from Germany and Switzerland|This article addresses transaction costs of different governance forms in regional public rail transport by comparing Germany's competitive contract awarding model with Switzerland's direct contract awarding model. We propose a concept of transaction costs with four dimensions, namely the awarding procedure, the institutional framework, provision of system services, and the impact of learning and innovation. We then identify drivers and amounts of transaction costs in both governance forms. In Germany's competitive model, public transport authorities (PTAs) must guarantee effective competition using different instruments, whereas transaction costs are lowered by clear definition and allocation of responsibilities. In Switzerland's cooperative model, costly competition surrogates serve to overcome information asymmetries. An informal and trusting culture of cooperation prevents high transaction costs. Factors such as complexity of different kinds or unforeseen behaviour of PTAs increase transaction costs in any model. Summing up, our results illustrate that transaction costs are no legitimate argument against competition if the high amounts of subsidies are taken into account. Introducing competition for the market in Switzerland's regional public rail transport, however, would be challenging and trigger high one-time reform costs since it would relate to a radical ‘cultural change’.
L92|Workshop 5 report: Harnessing big data|A group of researchers, consultants, software developers, and transit agencies convened in Santiago, Chile over 3 days as part of the Thredbo workshop titled “Harnessing Big Data”, to present their recent research and discuss the state of practice, state of the art, and future directions of big data in public transportation. This report documents their discussion. The key conclusion of the workshop is that, although much progress has been made in utilizing big data to improve transportation planning and operations, much remains to be done, both in terms of developing further analysis tools and use cases of big data, and of disseminating best practices so that they are adopted across the industry.
L92|Demand and service impacts of competition for the market – Australian urban bus case studies|In the urban bus sector, the international literature on the effects of competition for the market (through competitive tendering) has focused mainly on the resulting efficiency gains and public sector cost savings. Relatively little attention has been paid to the effects of the competitive environment on the quantity, quality and customer focus of the services provided and on the resultant patronage impacts.
L92|Workshop 7 report: Market initiative: Regulatory design, implementation and performance|This workshop reviewed recent good and bad practice with respect to market initiatives in public transport, with consideration of express coach, rail, local bus and unconventional modes. The options for market-led initiatives, and the associated regulatory requirements, were re-assessed with a new model posited, inspired by the ski-lift industry. It is recommended that more pro-active development (by operators, authorities and third parties) of new measures is required, particularly to permit service coordination and fare, ticketing and information integration.
L92|Transaction and transition costs during the deregulation of the Swedish Railway market|The research on regulatory reform has identified and measured three types of costs associated with the shift from monopoly to competition: transaction costs, misalignment costs and transition costs. In this article we use a case study approach to measure and compare these costs during the deregulation of the Swedish railway system from 2000–2015. Our case studies confirm earlier research that vertical separation and the introduction of competition in the railway markets result in comparatively small direct transaction costs. Extraordinary transaction costs in the form of interrupted contracts are also a minor problem for the railway system as a whole but might create major problems for the affected region. Our research concurs with earlier research on the British railway system and a CER study that misalignment costs seem to be significantly bigger and more troublesome to handle than direct transaction costs. Railway maintenance costs in Sweden using competitive tenders are increasing four to five times faster than railway operations with no measurable improvement in performance. Transition costs have been and continue to be important in the deregulated Swedish railway system. First, procrastination in the form of delayed changes in the allocation of train paths results in misalignment costs that seem to be growing. Second, adjustment costs in the form of handouts to the former monopolist have been ten times higher than the costs for interrupted contracts.
L92|Towards a liberalised European rail transport: Analysing and modelling the impact of competition on productive efficiency|This paper contributes to the railway benchmarking literature in three ways. Firstly, we used the stochastic distance function to measure productive efficiency and productivity change while considering multiple outputs in the railway sector. This method is less used among the studies that compare the performance of railway. Secondly, we calculate the evolution and decomposition of the total factor productivity for European railway. The average rate of productivity showed a slight annual improvement of 27% and the core engine of this was a 25% increase in technical progress. Results by country identify those needing improvement, to be more attractive. Finally, we use a limited dependent variable model to test the impact of rail liberalization process on productive efficiency. Results show that competition tendering improves productive efficiency, whereas free entry delivers the opposite result. Our results also show that competition and the overall liberalization have no impact on productive efficiency. It seems that liberalization process in not the key success factor for the railway industry. Our suggestion is that, in Europe, instead of focusing on rail liberalization process, policy maker should give priority to productivity gains.
L92|Big buses in a small country: The prospects for bus services in Wales|The evolution of the bus market and industry in Wales since deregulation in the mid-1980s is reviewed. After a brief period of competition, which seemed to offer the prospect of welfare gains, the industry rapidly consolidated, with resulting losses in bus usage and welfare, similar to the rest of Great Britain outside London. There were large increases in subsidy following the introduction of a national free concessionary fares scheme in 2002. There is some evidence that some of this subsidy has leaked, at least some of the time, into super-normal profits, in part due to generous concessionary fare reimbursement terms. For the urban parts of Wales, particularly in the North East (centred on Wrexham) and the South East (centred on Cardiff), there are aspirations to develop Bus Rapid Transit to supplement the existing rail network. For rural Wales, there have been long standing aspirations to develop more flexible public transport services and long distance bus services, but this has often been thwarted by lack of funding. Organisational reforms that might assist the Welsh Government in delivering these aspirations are reviewed, including Quality Contracts, Quality Partnerships and Community Partnerships.
L92|Improving bus service reliability: The Singapore experience|In February 2014, Singapore embarked on a 2-year trial of a Bus Service Reliability Framework (BSRF) to improve en-route bus regularity and reduce instances of bus bunching and prolonged waiting times. Based on London's Quality Incentive Contract, the Singapore model also imposes penalties or provides incentives to operators for increases/reductions of Excess Wait Time (EWT) beyond a certain route-specific baseline.
L92|Strategic partnerships in local public transport|We present a rationale for the delegation of regulatory functions in public transport to a partnership that rebalances social and commercial interests according to an agreed and predetermined objective function. This allows for the improvement of economic efficiency providing a constructive commitment to tariff and subsidy policies. Using a simple model, we determine the optimal corporate structure for such a partnership between the local government and any regulated monopoly. The government's strategic option of using its stake in the partnership to generate budget revenue from sale proceeds and/or dividends encourages the relevant authorities to increase the commercial attractiveness of the joint enterprise by setting appropriate tariffs. We show that such a strategic partnership can lead to improvements in welfare if the local cost of public funds is relatively high. These theoretical findings are then examined through the prism of suburban railway transport reform in Russia.
L92|Yardstick regulation and the operators' productivity of railway industry in Japan|In Japan, the yardstick regulation was implemented as an incentive only for large private railway companies, in 1997. This study examined the effects of yardstick regulation on productivity of private railway companies by comparing TFP (Total Factor Productivity) of a large private railway group with that of a small private railway group in Kansai metropolitan area. We interpreted a railway's service to conduct the stratified 3T activities; Track, Train and Transport and estimated TFP for individual and total 3T activities. Estimation results showed that both railway groups had increased their TFP of total 3T activities contributed by productivity improvements of track and train activities since 1997. On the other hand, we could not find obvious evidences to show that the yardstick regulation for large railway companies had generated productivity improvements compared with small railway companies to which the traditional rate of return regulation is applied.
L92|When it comes to container port efficiency, are all developing regions equal?|In this paper we carry out a container port performance analysis of the developing world between 2000 and 2010, using both parametric and nonparametric approaches. From a unique dataset – our sample covers 70 developing countries, 203 ports, and 1750 data points–, we examine the evolution and drivers of productivity and efficiency changes across developing regions. We show that productivity growth rates between 2000 and 2010 vary significantly and that this heterogeneity is explained by pure efficiency changes rather than scale efficiency of technological changes. Therefore, we carry out a detailed efficiency analysis to determine the drivers of port efficiency. Time series results show an upward trend for port efficiency in developing regions, as it increased from 51 percent in 2000 to 61 percent in 2010. Our analysis indicates that private sector participation, the reduction of corruption in the public sector, improvements in liner connectivity and the existence of multimodal links increase the level of port efficiency in developing regions.
L92|Cash flow sensitivities during normal and crisis times: Evidence from shipping|Using a system of equations model, we analyze how cash flow shocks influence the investment and financing decisions of shipping firms in different economic environments. Even financially healthy shipping firms felt strong negative effects on their financing activities during the recent crisis. These firms were nevertheless able to increase long-term debt. Banks internalized the impact of foreclosure decisions on vessel prices and avoided an industry-wide collateral channel effect. Even during benign economic conditions, financially weak shipping firms underinvest because of their inability to raise sufficient external capital. The substitution between long- and short-term debt during the pre-2008 crisis periods shows that the composition of financing sources is more indicative of whether firms face financial constraints than the pure size of the financing-cash flow sensitivities. An analysis of firms’ excess cash holdings confirms the importance of financial flexibility.
L92|Public regulation and technical efficiency in the Spanish Port Authorities: 1986–2012|This research analyses the impact of public regulation on the efficiency of the Spanish Ports Authorities during the last three decades. To this end, using Stochastic Frontier Analysis (SFA), an input-oriented distance model has been estimated for a sample of 26 Port Authorities during the period 1986–2012. This paper contributes to the literature by establishing a direct correlation between the reform and the change in efficiency.
L92|Do long-haul truckers undervalue future fuel savings?|The U.S. federal government enacted fuel efficiency standards for medium and heavy trucks for the first time in September 2011. Rationales for using this policy tool typically depend upon frictions existing in the marketplace or consumers being myopic, such that vehicle purchasers undervalue the future fuel savings from increased fuel efficiency. We measure by how much long-haul truck owners undervalue future fuel savings by employing recent advances to the classic hedonic approach to estimate the distribution of willingness-to-pay for fuel efficiency. We find significant heterogeneity in truck owners' willingness to pay for fuel efficiency, with the elasticity of fuel efficiency to price ranging from 0.51 at the 10th percentile to 1.33 at the 90th percentile, and an average of 0.91. Combining these results with estimates of future fuel savings from increases in fuel efficiency, we find that long-haul truck owners' willingness-to-pay for a 1 percent increase in fuel efficiency is, on average, just 29.5 percent of the expected future fuel savings. These results suggest that introducing fuel efficiency standards for heavy trucks might be an effective policy tool to raise medium and heavy trucks' fuel economy.
L92|Competition in Swedish passenger railway : entry in an open-access market|The Swedish market for passenger railway services has been open to competition since the year 2010. Although minor entries have been made since this date, the incumbent SJ only faced substantial competition when MTR Express entered the Stockholm-Gothenburg line in March 2015. Using unique Sweden ticket price data from operators' websites, this paper investigates what effects this entry has had on market prices. The results show that the incumbent's prices decreased by 12.8 percent on average between March 2015 and June 2016. The price level of the competitor is well below the average price that was offered on the railway market in the pre-entry period. Further, the largest price reduction, in percentage terms, was found on tickets booked 10 days before the departure date. Finally, the decrease in the average price of the incumbent seems to be an ongoing process, and a further drop in price would not be unexpected.
L92|Contract design and performance of railway maintenance: effects of incentive intensity and performance incentive schemes|In this paper we study the effect of contract design on the performance of railway maintenance in Sweden, using a panel data set over the period 2003-2013. The marginal effect of incentive intensity is estimated, showing that the power of incentive schemes improve performance as measured by the number of infrastructure failures. In addition, the performance incentive schemes result in a reallocation of effort from failures not causing train delays to failures causing train delays
L92|The impact of axle loads on rail infrastructure maintenance costs|In this paper we estimate the impact of axle loads on rail infrastructure maintenance costs in Sweden. The results are contrasted to the cost impact of ton density, a common measure in the literature on rail infrastructure costs. We find non-linear cost elasticities with respect to a ton per axle density measure, with an estimate at the sample median that is larger than the corresponding estimate for ton density. The results are relevant for the setting of track access charges in Europe, considering that the econometric results in this paper give support to the engineering perspective - that is, axle loads are important to consider when estimating the damage caused by traffic.
L92|Dynamics in rail infrastructure provision: maintenance and renewal costs in Sweden|In this paper we analyze the dynamics between rail infrastructure renewals and maintenance in Sweden, using a panel vector autoregressive model. The model estimation also comprises intertemporal effects for each of these activities. We find that past values of maintenance gives a better prediction of current renewal costs compared to only using past values of renewals as a predictor. Moreover, the results indicate intertemporal effects for both renewals and maintenance, where an increase in costs during a year predicts an increase in costs in the following year. The dynamic model also allows us to estimate equilibrium cost elasticities with respect to ton density, which are significantly larger than its static counterparts. Overall, this work highlights that dynamics in rail infrastructure costs are important to consider when setting track access charges with respect to the wear and tear caused by traffic.
L92|Estimating the marginal cost of different vehicle types on rail infrastructure|In this paper we combine engineering and economic methods to estimate the relative cost of damage mechanisms on the Swedish rail infrastructure. The former method is good at predicting damage from traffic, while the latter is suitable for establishing a relationship between damage and cost. We exploit the best features of both methods in a two-stage approach and demonstrate its applicability for rail infrastructure charging. Our estimations are based on 143 track sections comprising about 11 000 km of tracks. We demonstrate how the estimated relative costs of damage mechanisms can be used in order to calculate the marginal wear and tear cost of different vehicle types. The results are relevant for infrastructure managers in Europe who desire to differentiate their track access charges such that each vehicle pays its short run-marginal wear and tear cost, which can create a more efficient use of the rail infrastructure.
L92|Estimating the marginal maintenance cost of rail infrastructure usage in Sweden: does more data make a difference?|One cornerstone of EU’s railway policy is that track user charges should be based on marginal costs for infrastructure use. This paper updates knowledge about the marginal cost of maintaining Sweden’s railway network. Using an extended panel dataset, now comprising 16 years, we corroborate previous results using a static model framework. However, the results from the dynamic model show that an increase in maintenance cost during one year increases costs in the next year, which is contrasting previous estimates on a shorter panel dataset. We conclude that more data made a difference in a dynamic setting, but the estimated cost elasticities are rather robust in a European context.
L92|The impact of cumulative tons on rail infrastructure maintenance costs|In this paper the cost impact of rail infrastructure usage in Sweden is estimated, using a measure of the cumulative tons experienced by the tracks since they were renewed. The cost elasticity with respect to this measure is compared to the corresponding estimate from annual tons, a standard measure of output in the literature. The cumulative ton measure generates a higher cost elasticity compared to annual tons, and is quite high for tracks that have been extensively used. The results are informative for the Swedish infrastructure manager that needs to strike a balance between maintenance and renewals; the expected cost of maintenance with respect to accumulated use can be compared to the expected cost of a renewal.
L92|Batteries in Offshore Support vessels - Pollution, climate impact and economics|This paper assesses the pros and the cons of installing batteries on offshore support vessels. These vessels are specially designed to provide services to oil and gas operations, such as anchor handling, supply and subsea operations. They have multiple engines and advanced dynamic positioning systems to ensure that they can perform their duties with high reliability at nearly any sea state. Combined with high safety requirements, this has resulted in general operational patterns with vessels running multiple combustion engines even at calm water conditions. For emissions, low engine loads yield high emissions of exhaust gases such as nitrogen oxides (NOx) and aerosols such as black carbon (BC), due to less favorable combustion conditions. The high span for these vessels between low loads and high, and their great need for potential power at short notice, motivate our examination of hybrid setups with electric: the vessel segment should be more favorable than many. We find that combining batteries with combustion engines reduces local pollution and climate impact, while the economics with current battery cost and fuel prices is good enough for new vessels, but not good enough for retrofits.
L92|Transport link scanner: simulating geographic transport network expansion through individual investments|Abstract This paper introduces a GIS-based model that simulates the geographic expansion of transport networks by several decision-makers with varying objectives. The model progressively adds extensions to a growing network by choosing the most attractive investments from a limited choice set. Attractiveness is defined as a function of variables in which revenue and broader societal benefits may play a role and can be based on empirically underpinned parameters that may differ according to private or public interests. The choice set is selected from an exhaustive set of links and presumably contains those investment options that best meet private operator’s objectives by balancing the revenues of additional fare against construction costs. The investment options consist of geographically plausible routes with potential detours. These routes are generated using a fine-meshed regularly latticed network and shortest path finding methods. Additionally, two indicators of the geographic accuracy of the simulated networks are introduced. A historical case study is presented to demonstrate the model’s first results. These results show that the modelled networks reproduce relevant results of the historically built network with reasonable accuracy.
L92|Warranty regulation and consumer demand: evidence from China’s automobile market|Abstract Although government regulations on product warranties are common, few studies have empirically examined their effects on product demand. Using a natural experiment, we examine the effect of a newly introduced government warranty regulation in China’s automobile market on product demand. Exploiting the exogenous variation in warranty coverage caused by the regulation, we apply a difference-in-differences analysis and find that the regulation increases the sales of the affected vehicles. Moreover, we find that (1) the demand effects of the regulation decrease as vehicle quality increases, and that (2) these effects are weaker for luxury brand vehicles and stronger for non-luxury vehicles.
L92|Railway restructuring and organizational choice: network quality and welfare impacts|Abstract This paper compares alternative ways of structuring competition in a railway system: vertical separation (VS) and horizontal separation (HS). We compare each structure in terms of its impact on network quality, consumer surplus and social welfare. To do so, we use a two-stage game under HS and a three-stage game under VS to derive Nash equilibrium network qualities, consumer surplus and social welfare, respectively. We highlight four distinct incentive effects that shape network quality under each structure, and we point out that, on balance, they tend to favor higher network quality under HS. However, intensity of transport service competition under each system also plays a critical role in shaping consumer surplus and social welfare. The best case for HS occurs when there is a moderate amount of price competition between the vertically integrated systems, while the best case for VS occurs when there is intense price competition between transport operators. Using computational analysis, we show that it is more likely that HS dominates VS on all three performance metrics.
L92|Modernizing U.S. Freight Rail Regulation|Abstract By 1970, regulation of railroads under the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 had resulted in an industry that was in financial ruin and unresponsive to changes in the marketplace. Subsequent legislation, which culminated in the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, was intended to resurrect the industry and did so. A Congressionally-mandated National Academy of Sciences study examined trends in the industry and the current regulatory regime and offered a number of recommendations, arguing that modernization can yield substantial benefits by modernizing what has become an outdated and ineffective system. This paper summaries some of the main findings of that study.
L92|Freight Rail Costing and Regulation: The Uniform Rail Costing System|Abstract Railroad regulation in the post-Staggers Act regime compares the revenues earned to a measure of the “variable cost” of the shipment. While revenues are readily observed, the “variable cost” is calculated using the “Uniform Rail Costing System” (URCS) that was developed by the Interstate Commerce Commission. We characterize the properties of the URCS rail costing methodology and its role in rate regulation, and we assess whether it produces an economically valid estimate of the cost caused by a rail shipment. We find that the URCS methodology is an accounting cost allocation procedure that does not recover an estimate of the cost of a rail shipment that a rational railroad operator would use to make pricing or operating decisions. We then explain why in the post-Staggers Act regime, even if an economic meaningful shipment cost measure were available, this information would not come any closer to solving the problem of determining what is an unreasonable price for a railroad to charge. We conclude by arguing that the use of the URCS methodology should be abandoned in railroad rate reasonableness regulation and replaced with a price benchmarking approach.
L92|The Regulatory Determinants of Railroad Safety|Abstract The dramatic improvement in railroad safety since the 1970s has been accompanied by a substantial increase in safety regulation and a substantial reduction in economic regulation after 1980. We assess the effects of both regulatory changes on railroad safety with the use of RegData: a new data set that was developed by one of the authors that measures the amount of regulation that is imposed by specific regulatory agencies on specific industries. We find that partial economic deregulation is associated with improved safety. Safety regulation was most closely associated with improved railroad safety during the period when economic regulation curtailed railroads’ incentives to operate safely.
L92|Buy Here, or Keep Driving? The Effect of Geographic Market Density on Retail Gas Prices|This paper examines whether the presence of local competitors affects the retail price of gasoline in mid-sized American cities. Spatial regression analysis permits an answer that is clear of potentially confounding statistical problems. Results continue to show small impacts of local competition, especially compared to other factors.
L92|Economic importance of the Belgian ports: Flemish maritime ports, Liège port complex and the port of Brussels - Report 2014|This paper is an annual publication issued by the Microeconomic Analysis service of the National Bank of Belgium. The Flemish maritime ports (Antwerp, Ghent, Ostend, Zeebrugge), the Autonomous Port of Liège and the port of Brussels play a major role in their respective regional economies and in the Belgian economy, not only in terms of industrial activity but also as intermodal centers facilitating the commodity flow. This update paper1 provides an extensive overview of the economic importance and development of the Flemish maritime ports, the Liège port complex and the port of Brussels for the period 2009 - 2014, with an emphasis on 2014. Focusing on the three major variables of value added, employment and investment, the report also provides some information based on the social balance sheet and an overview of the financial situation in these ports as a whole. These observations are linked to a more general context, along with a few cargo statistics. Annual accounts data from the Central Balance Sheet Office were used for the calculation of direct effects, the study of financial ratios and the analysis of the social balance sheet. The indirect effects of the activities concerned were estimated in terms of value added and employment, on the basis of data from the National Accounts Institute. As a result of the underlying calculation method the changes of indirect employment and indirect value added can differ from one another. The developments concerning economic activity in the six ports in 2013 - 2014 are summarised in the table on the next page: In 2014 the growth of maritime traffic in the Flemish sea ports was once again due solely to developments in the port of Antwerp. However, that did not necessarily mean that direct value added followed the same trend: except for the port of Zeebrugge, all other lemish ports recorded an increase. Direct employment is continuing to decline, except in the port of Ghent where it remains steady. Investment appears to be picking up, after last year’s weak figures. Cargo traffic in the ports of Liège and Brussels was up in 2014, but that did not result in any increase in value added. The decline in direct employment also persisted, certainly in the port of Liège. This report provides a comprehensive account of these issues, giving details for each economic sector, although the comments are confined to the main changes that occurred in 2014. This report is available for download at the following address http://www.nbb.be.
L92|Regulations in services sectors and their impact on downstream industries: The OECD 2013 Regimpact Indicator|This document presents the new 2013 set of the OECD Regulatory Impact (REGIMPACT) indicator. It measures the impact of regulatory barriers to competition in non-manufacturing sectors on all industries, through intermediate inputs. The paper describes how the indicator is calculated and discusses a number of challenges and trade-offs when constructing the indicator. They relate to the composition of the indicator, how the slow-moving or time-invariant retail and professional services regulation data are integrated with the annual energy, transport and communication regulation (ETCR) indicator and what sector weights are used for the calculation of the REGIMPACT indicator. The document then compares the 2003, 2008 and 2013 vintages of the REGIMPACT indicator and the alternative (narrow and wide) definitions of the 2013 indicator. Finally, the paper uses sectoral data to illustrate the extent to which different vintages and alternative indicator definitions can possibly influence sector-level panel regression results for outcome variables such as productivity, investment and labour inputs. Réglementation dans les secteurs des services et leur impact sur les industries en aval : la version 2013 de l'indicateur REGIMPACT de l'OCDE Ce document présente une version révisée en 2013 de l'indicateur REGIMPACT de l'OCDE. Il mesure pour chaque industrie, l'impact des obstacles réglementaires à la concurrence, par le biais des intrants intermédiaires dans les secteurs non manufacturiers. Ce document décrit la méthodologie utilisée pour calculer cet indicateur et examine un certain nombre de défis et de compromis liés à sa construction. Ils se rapportent à la composition de l'indicateur, notamment l’intégration de séries avec peu de variation temporelle telles que l’indice de réglementation dans le commerce de détail ou les services professionnels avec les indicateurs annuels de réglementation dans les secteurs de l'énergie, du transport et des télécommunications (ETCR) ainsi qu’aux pondérations sectorielles utilisées pour le calcul de l’indicateur REGIMPACT. Le document compare ensuite les versions 2003, 2008 et 2013 de cet indicateur et les définitions alternatives (étroites et larges) de l'indicateur REGIMPACT. Enfin, le document utilise des données sectorielles pour illustrer dans quelle mesure les différentes versions et définitions peuvent éventuellement influencer les résultats de régression en données de panel au niveau sectoriel pour des variables telles que la productivité, l'investissement et l’emploi.
L92|The Real Effects of Relational Contracts|"Does the ""soft side"" of management matter? Many managers assert that ""firm culture"" is strongly correlated with productivity, but there are few robust tests of this assertion. In a set of field experiments, we study driver productivity within a large US logistics company that is arguably transitioning from one relational contract to another, while leaving formal practices and incentives unchanged. We find that sites under the new contract are associated with 1/8 percent higher productivity. Our findings suggest that relational contracts have a first-order effect on productivity and that they can be altered over time."
L92|Agricultural Transportation by Rail: Consolidation, Competition and Fuel Prices|No abstract is available for this item.
L92|Grain Handling and Transportation Policy in Canada: Implications for the United States|No abstract is available for this item.
L92|Railroad Competition and Wheat Rates|No abstract is available for this item.
L92|Microeconomic Reform And Income Distribution: The Case Of Australian Ports And Rail Freight|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12059-abs-0001""> We analyze structural changes in the Australian ports and rail freight industries that were driven by microeconomic reform; we find such reforms may generate welfare gains with reduced inequality. We estimate the effects on household income groups of these industry changes by applying a computable general equilibrium model incorporating microsimulation behavior. The structural changes lead to a small increase in household welfare in most regions, with an overall increase of 0.18%, and a small decrease in inequality. Our analysis suggests that policy makers in Australia and other high-income nations should give serious consideration to microeconomic reform of infrastructure industries . ( JEL C68, C69, D31, L92)"
L92|“The War For The Fare”: How Driver Compensation Affects Bus System Performance| Prior to 2007, two systems of bus driver compensation coexisted in Santiago, Chile: one paid drivers per passenger transported, while the other paid a fixed wage. Per-passenger drivers engaged in “The War for the Fare,” altering their driving patterns to compete for passengers. Examining these systems on similar routes in Santiago, we observed two key findings. Compared with the fixed-wage system, the per-passenger system leads to (1) 13% shorter passenger wait times, via reduced bunching of buses and (2) 67% more accidents per kilometer driven, via more aggressive driving. We discuss implications for the design of incentives in public transit . ( JEL L92, M52, R41)
L92|Railways and the Productivity Gap in Italy: Persistence and Divergence after Unification|The political unification of Italy in 1861 led to the establishment of a single market, by removing the trade barriers across the pre-existing states, with a single currency. Market integration was the economic outcome of this process. At the same time, the Kingdom of Italy started a large infrastructure project to spread railways, which were largely confined in Northern Italy, all over the country. Using tools from spatial econometrics, we find that railways played a positive effect on productivity, but this effect was stronger in the areas in which railways were already built. Moreover, railways helped industrial firms to locate closer to water sources and gain access from there to the overall market. This effect is in line with New Economic Geography according to which infrastructure lead to a widening of territorial disparities.
L92|Estimating the Effect of Transit on Residential Property Values: The Case of the Portland MAX System|"Using a hedonic price model with demographic, spatial, and house characteristic data, this study finds significant property value premiums associated with access to rail mass transit in the Portland, Oregon. Incremental changes to a ""benchmark"" model - similar to many used in the literature - lead to the adoption of a more appropriate ""target"" model that incorporates several innovations. This paper finds that assessment data is more appropriate and consistent than sale price data; that the use of a continuous measurement of the distance to transit is more powerful than a binary measure; and that the consideration of ""community amenities"" - such as schools or parks -in the model specification improves the resulting estimates. The target model finds significantly higher transit access premiums than prior models, suggesting that municipalities may see greater property tax benefits from transit construction than previously estimated."
L92|Gasoline and Diesel Will Continue to Dominate in the Future of Road Transport|The transport sector - road transport, in particular - accounts for more than half of world oil consumption. In the future, the transport sector’s share of oil consumption will grow even more, primarily due to the increasing use of motor vehicles in developing and emerging countries. Road freight transport will also take on greater significance. And overall, gasoline - and, increasingly, diesel - will continue to dominate the fuel mix. A trend reversal in which road transport moves toward a more intensive use of alternative fuels such as liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and natural gas, and alternative drive systems such as hybrid cars (HEVs) and battery electric vehicles (BEVs), still cannot be observed - despite government support. Given that gasoline and diesel will also be dominant in the future, additional efforts should be made to reduce CO2 emissions and improve the environmental friendliness of motor vehicle traffic. Given the deleterious environmental effects of diesel fuel, its preferential tax treatment should be abolished.
L92|Benzin und Diesel dominieren weiterhin im Straßenverkehr|The transport sector - road transport, in particular - accounts for more than half of world oil consumption. In the future, the transport sector’s share of oil consumption will grow even more, primarily due to the increasing use of motor vehicles in developing and emerging countries. Road freight transport will also take on greater significance. And overall, gasoline - and, increasingly, diesel - will continue to dominate the fuel mix. A trend reversal towards more intensive use of alternative fuels such as liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and natural gas, and alternative drive systems such as hybrid cars (HEVs) and battery electric vehicles (BEVs) still cannot be observe - despite political promotion., Given that gasoline and diesel will also be dominant in the future, additional efforts should be made to reduce CO2 emissions and improve the environmental friendliness of motor vehicle traffic. In view of the environmental harmfulness of diesel fuel, its preferential tax treatment should be abolished. Über die Hälfte des weltweiten Ölverbrauchs entfällt auf den Verkehrssektor, insbesondere den Straßenverkehr. Künftig wird der Anteil des Verkehrssektors am Ölverbrauch sogar noch steigen, vor allem aufgrund der zunehmenden Nutzung von Kraftfahrzeugen in Entwicklungs- und Schwellenländern. Auch der Straßengüterverkehr wird an Bedeutung gewinnen. Dabei werden weiterhin Benzin und zunehmend Diesel den Kraftstoffmix dominieren. Eine Trendwende hin zu alternativen Kraftstoffen wie Flüssig- und Erdgas oder alternativen Antrieben wie Elektro- und Hybridautos ist also (noch) nicht in Sicht – trotz einer teilweise massiven Förderung durch die Politik. Diese sollte daher zusätzlich auch auf weitere Effizienzsteigerungen bei konventionellen Kraftstoffen drängen, um die CO2-Emissionen im Straßenverkehr zu senken und dessen Umweltverträglichkeit zu erhöhen. Angesichts seiner besonders umweltschädlichen Emissionen erscheint es zudem ratsam, die Steuerprivilegien für Diesel abzuschaffen.
L92|Reform of Australian urban transport: A CGE-microsimulation analysis of the effects on income distribution|Australian urban transport industries experienced substantial reform during the 1990s leading to significant structural change. Urban transport is typically an important expenditure item for households and structural change in these services may affect households differently depending on their position in the distribution of income and expenditure. We estimate the effects on household income groups of this structural change by applying a computable general equilibrium model incorporating microsimulation behaviour with top-down and bottom-up links. We compare estimates based on a pure microsimulation approach, a top-down approach and a hybrid top-down/bottom-up approach. We estimate small reductions in real income and small reductions in inequality; this pattern is largely replicated across regions. Our results are insensitive to the inclusion of bottom-up links; in contrast, applying a pure microsimulation approach gives accurate results at the aggregate level but underestimates the variation in effects across deciles and regions.
L92|A regime switching approach for hedging tanker shipping freight rates|Tanker shipping is the primary means for the transportation of petroleum and petroleum products around the world and thus plays a crucial role in the energy supply chain. However, the high volatility of tanker freight rates has been a major concern for market participants and led to the development of the tanker freight derivatives in the form of forward freight agreements (FFAs). The aim of this paper is to investigate the performance of these instruments in managing tanker freight rate risk. Using a data set for six major tanker routes covering the period between 2005 and 2013, we examine the effectiveness of alternative hedging methods, including a bivariate Markov Regime Switching GARCH model, in hedging tanker freight rates. The regime switching GARCH specification links the concept of equilibrium freight rate determination underlying different market conditions and the dynamics of the conditional second moments across high and low volatility regimes. Overall, we find evidence supporting the argument that the tanker freight market is characterized by different regimes. However, while the use of a regime switching model allows for a significant improvement in the performance of the hedge in-sample, out-of-sample results are mixed.
L92|How service bundling can increase the competitiveness of low market share transportation services|While transportation service providers continuously seek for new linkages to create value and to offset the risk of competition, they are compelled to restructure their business models and processes to become more integrable. A consequence of this has been a shift from the traditional focus on individual service strategies to a focus on bundle strategies. Building on bundle value is gradually becoming a key ingredient for the long-term viability of services as it fosters better allocation of resources and investment choices. This entails the assessment of the value that customers assign to bundles and the alignment of business models to match this value. To address this issue, this paper investigates the conditions under which a low share transportation service, bundled together with a ferry service and a tie-in recreational package, can compete with a faster transportation connection. By merging the conceptually rich business model research with the more rigorous bundling literature, the current paper proposes a mixed service bundling strategy as an effective way to increase market share and create customer value over time. This bundling strategy is applied in the case of an illustrative example of the connection between Patras, Kalamata and Crete and the results are reported.
L92|Operation of freight railways in densely used mixed traffic networks – An impact model to quantify changes in freight train characteristics|As freight transport is a growing challenge for metropolitan areas, there are calls to reintegrate rail freight into urban logistics. The use of railway systems in urban logistics should help to mitigate negative externalities such as noise, congestion and air pollution. Additional strengths of rail transport are the use of road-independent infrastructure, providing a reliable secondary mean of transport, and the high energy efficiency. A number of different concepts have been outlined – mostly conceptually, focussing on the intermodal interface, i.e. urban road-rail terminals or urban cross docks.
L92|Modelling periodic operations on single track lines: Timetable design and stability evaluation|The paper analyses the application of high-frequency periodic timetables on single track railways. A mesoscopic approach is first of all presented, in order to provide a simple but rather complete model. On this basis, a mathematical and deterministic evaluation formula is presented, as well as a simulation tool able to evaluate the effects of traffic perturbations. All the main parameters which characterise railway operations (with a special focus on single track infrastructure) are taken into consideration and their influence is pointed out, as regards the possibility to realise high frequency periodic timetables. The analysis is subsequently extended for assessing how these timetables can behave in case of traffic perturbations, in order to provide also in these circumstances a sufficient service quality. The influence of the abovementioned parameters on buffer times and hence on timetable stability and robustness is therefore outlined, highlighting the benefits that an effective rescheduling algorithm could play. The presented calculation method is then applied to a real case, i.e. to a part of the railway network of Piedmont, Italy. This case study provides some considerations about the elements that can actually play a determinant role and what measures can be planned for achieving certain service targets. Finally, conclusions are drawn together with some considerations for future work about the possible implementation of effective rescheduling logics within advanced driver advisory systems as well as modern signalling and control systems.
L92|Planning and scheduling efficient heavy rail track maintenance through a Decision Rules Model|The most advanced preventive maintenance for railway track relies strongly on inspection and deterioration assessment to provide a given prediction for a maintenance need. Maintenance of track sections is then decided based on long-term planning for an extended track life and on short-term scheduling, combining maintenance tasks, to reduce the number of track possessions. In the particular case of track geometry correction (TGC), which requires moving costly heavy equipment and specialized crews working over-night, a large outlay is involved as well as relevant track possession costs. However, to the best of our knowledge, no research has yet addressed a combined tactical and operational analysis over the determinant logistics issue involved in the problem. In this sense, we propose a method to plan and schedule the heavy maintenance interventions for TGC, where both travel costs and number of workdays spent on track are minimized, ensuring at the same time, an adequate quality for the track.
L92|Modelling the influence of wagon technical parameters on variable costs in rail freight transport|Railway transport can be sustainable only when the unit price is comparable to that of road transport. This paper addresses variable costs from a management perspective and analyses the influence of technical parameters of the wagons on variable costs. Costs were calculated with a conversion calculation method using norms and standards for rail transport in Slovakia. Transport utilization was calculated on the basis of assumed wagon utilization in real conditions.
L92|Definition of energy-efficient speed profiles within rail traffic by means of supply design models|Nowadays, energy efficiency is a key requirement for railway systems in order to reduce operating costs. One of the main solutions for implementing energy efficiency is the optimization of train speed profiles to minimize tractive energy consumption. From a transportation systems point of view, the definition of optimized speed profiles should consider their possible impact on rail traffic flows, in order to evaluate their feasibility. To do so, an innovative optimization framework for the definition and the evaluation of energy efficient speed profiles, based on supply design modelling, is proposed. The framework operates on two levels: the first level generates energy efficient speed profiles with respect to timetable constraints, infrastructure characteristics and rolling stock features, and the second simulates these speed profiles on the rail network within the specific rail traffic conditions. Through this new integrated view, the evaluation of the proposed optimal speed profiles can fully take into account the operational requirements of the services, such as trains scheduling, absence of or small allowance for delays and respect for buffer times for passenger transfer at connecting stations. A numerical example based on a calibrated simulation model of the suburban S-Bahn S9 line that operates in the Canton of Zurich shows how energy efficient speed profiles can be defined considering the rail traffic influences, thus increasing the quality of the solutions.
L92|The economic viability of a Parallel Cross Country Route for England|This paper is a contribution to the debate about the uses to which Britain's existing rail infrastructure should be put following the completion of High Speed 2. The provision of rapid high capacity rail services from London to Leeds, Sheffield, Nottingham, Manchester and Birmingham will remove the principal long distance passenger flows from the East Coast Main Line (ECML), Midland Main Line (MML) and West Coast Main Line (WCML). Most of the suggestions for alternative uses of the released capacity on these routes have involved either increased connectivity between existing secondary stations, better connections from the principal population centres to off route destinations, or increased capacity for commuting in to London. This paper suggests an alternative proposal, namely that sections of the ECML, MML, WCML and Great Western Main Line (GWML) could be linked together to form a new long distance route running on a south west to north east axis; the route would provide a broadly parallel (but slower) alternative to the existing Cross Country Route between Bristol and York, as it would run via Swindon, Oxford, Milton Keynes, Northampton, Leicester, Nottingham and Doncaster. This paper will utilise various methods for estimating the capital expenditure required and passenger demand expected from the provision of this route and accompanying rail services (along with standard assumptions regarding operational expenditure), in order to gauge whether there may be a case for developing this proposal further.
L92|Competitive tendering versus performance-based negotiation in Swiss public transport|The purpose of this study is to assess differences in the levels of cost efficiency of bus lines operated under competitively tendered contracts and performance-based negotiated contracts. Following the revision of the Swiss railways act in 1996, regional public authorities were given the choice between two different contractual regimes to procure public passenger transport services. We directly compare the impact of competitive tendering and performance-based negotiation by applying a stochastic frontier analysis to the complete dataset of bus lines (n=630) operated by the main Swiss company (Swiss Post) at the same time (in 2009) throughout the country. The overall results show that the differences in the levels of cost efficiency between the two contractual regimes are not significant. Our findings are in line with recent evidence of cost convergence between competitive tendering and performance-based negotiation, and suggest that the practice of using both contractual regimes is challenging for the operators in terms of competitive pressure. The threat of competitive tendering may have a disciplining effect on negotiation since it prevents bus companies from bargaining inadequate rents and inducing asymmetric information advantages.
L92|Privatisation without Liberalisation? The Strange Case of Italian Railways, and How Adjustments to the Government’s Reforms Could Achieve Gains for Rail Users and Taxpayers|The Italian government is proceeding with the privatisation of the Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane (FSI Group), and is considering a merger with the government-owned highways company. A further proposal has been made to merge the FSI Group with Azienda Nazionale Autonoma delle Strade SpA (ANAS), the state-owned company which owns and manages large parts of the national road network. In this article both aspects will be examined. We argue that changes could be made to the privatisation and reform process, learning from the British experience, which would bring substantial benefits to Italian rail users and taxpayers.
L92|Price distortion under fixed-mobile substitution|This paper analyses the impact of substitution between fixed and mobile telephony on call prices. We develop a model where consumers differ in the benefits of mobility and firms price discriminate between on-net and off-net calls. We find that call prices are distorted downwards due to substitution possibilities and customer heterogeneity, and that this distortion increases with the fixed-mobile termination mark-up. Copyright Associazione Amici di Economia e Politica Industriale 2015
L92|Fixed-mobile substitution and termination rates|This paper studies the effect of termination rates on the observed substitution between fixed and mobile calls and access, in a model where consumers can subscribe to one or both types of offers. Simulations show that each (fixed or mobile) termination rate has a positive effect on the take-up of the corresponding service, via the waterbed effect, and lowers subscriptions to the other service, via a cost effect. The prevailing asymmetric regulation, with very low fixed and higher mobile termination rates, tends to have implemented the optimal fee structure. However, the interests of the mobile operators and of the different customer groups did not coincide, and this fee structure may have reduced overall market participation.
L92|O PAPEL DA GESTÃO DO CAMINHO DE FERRO E O IMPACTO REGIONAL – os casos de El Ferrocarril de La Robla e a Linha do Tua|Nas últimas três décadas, as orientações estratégicas definidas para o setor ferroviário em Portugal contribuíram para o progressivo encerramento e desmantelamento da rede ferroviária nacional, com particular incidência no transporte ferroviário regional. Em 25 anos o único troço que reabriu ao tráfego ferroviário após encerramento foi em 1995 e corresponde ao troço da Linha do Tua, entre Carvalhais e Mirandela (4 km). A realidade portuguesa contrasta com a europeia, onde ferrovia regional é parte fundamental de uma rede de transportes, desempenha um papel importante na mobilidade, na economia e no desenvolvimento regional – motivos suficientes para a reabertura de linhas ao tráfego ferroviário. Em Espanha reabre em 2003, após encerramento parcial em 1991, o Ferrocarril de La Robla. Este artigo apresenta uma comparação entre Portugal e Espanha no que diz respeito ao caminho de ferro regional, tendo como objeto a Linha do Tua e o Ferrocarril de La Robla. A metodologia é de carácter qualitativo e é um estudo descritivo-comparativo. O método de recolha de dados consistiu, para além da análise documental, numa entrevista semiestruturada efetuada a um Professor e Investigador em Economia dos Transportes de uma universidade portuguesa. As considerações finais mostram que a reabertura do Ferrocarril de La Robla, contribuiu para melhorar o transporte de mercadorias e de passageiros, potenciar turismo ferroviário e foi um “catalisador-chave” para a criação de novas atividades económicas e culturais em torno do caminho-de-ferro. Contrastando com esta realidade o encerramento progressivo da Linha do Tua trouxe consequências aos municípios por ela servidos.
L92|Оценка эффективности транспортных проектов: опыт и проблемы (часть 1).Transport project appraisal: experience and problems. part I|В статье рассматриваются сложившиеся в мире подходы к оценке эффективности крупномасштабных инвестиционных проектов, направленных на создание транспортных объектов. Выделены микроэкономический, многокритериальный и макроэкономический подходы. Данная часть статьи посвящена микроэкономическому подходу. Обсуждаются проблемы применимости отдельных положений этого подхода в российских условиях. This article considers approaches, prevalent in the world, to appraisal of large-scale investment projects aimed at construction of transport systems. The approaches are classed as microeconomic evaluation, multi-criteria evaluation, and macroeconomic evaluation. This part of the article considers the microeconomic evaluation. Problems of applicability of specific propositions of this approach to the Russian reality are discussed.
L92|Alcances de la política fiscal contracíclica: el caso reciente de América Latina|Resumen: En el marco de un modelo de Ciclos Económicos Reales -CER-, estetrabajo pretende identificar los beneficios que brinda una política fiscal estable, que se desarrolle en forma contracíclica y cuyos objetivos no se encuentren ligados a metas diferentes a las relacionadas con la estabilidad macroeconómica. El estudio contempla el cálculo y análisis de diferentes indicadores y elasticidades y una evaluación empírica para un conjunto de países de América Latina. A partir del análisis, se concluye que, aquellos países en los cuales se presentó un ahorro público en los años de buen crecimiento económico, son a su vez, los que tienen un mayor margen de acción para la política fiscal y en los que, también, el sector productivo logra asimilar en forma más eficaz las medidas instrumentadas por los gobiernos en tiempos de crisis. Adicionalmente, es el gasto de capital (infraestructura) un mecanismo idóneo para impulsar el crecimiento económicoen fases de bajo crecimiento.
