L99|The changing role of convention bureaus: An analysis of business models currently adopted by privately owned CBS|This study aims to describe how Italian Convention Bureau (CB) organisations faced the uncertainty about their future existence and role caused by government funding cuts and increased pressure from stakeholders to demonstrate market effectiveness and organisational efficiency. Firstly, it uses the business model concept to describe actors, activities and value creation processes of today’s CBs that largely rely on private funds. Secondly, it investigates the degree of concern of CB’s Board on measuring and monitoring the value created for the stakeholders that provide financial resources. Selected case studies relative to Italian CBs are analysed through in-depth interviews and document analysis. Findings point out that the profit model of the investigated CBs strongly relies on fees from partners and members or revenues from the sale of services to local operators. This implies that CBs make efforts to monitor the value created for these specific groups of stakeholders while less attention is given to the measurement of customers’ (i.e. event planners) satisfaction and impact of CB’s activities on the quality of life of local communities.
L99|The Economic Limits of Bitcoin and the Blockchain|The amount of computational power devoted to anonymous, decentralized blockchains such as Bitcoin's must simultaneously satisfy two conditions in equilibrium: (1) a zero-profit condition among miners, who engage in a rent-seeking competition for the prize associated with adding the next block to the chain; and (2) an incentive compatibility condition on the system's vulnerability to a “majority attack”, namely that the computational costs of such an attack must exceed the benefits. Together, these two equations imply that (3) the recurring, “flow”, payments to miners for running the blockchain must be large relative to the one-off, “stock”, benefits of attacking it. This is very expensive! The constraint is softer (i.e., stock versus stock) if both (i) the mining technology used to run the blockchain is both scarce and non-repurposable, and (ii) any majority attack is a “sabotage” in that it causes a collapse in the economic value of the blockchain; however, reliance on non-repurposable technology for security and vulnerability to sabotage each raise their own concerns, and point to specific collapse scenarios. In particular, the model suggests that Bitcoin would be majority attacked if it became sufficiently economically important — e.g., if it became a “store of value” akin to gold — which suggests that there are intrinsic economic limits to how economically important it can become in the first place.
L99|Eco-Efficiency Of The Road Freight Transport Of The Region North America In The International Trade|This research aims at quantifying and analyzing carbon footprint as an indicator of eco-efficiency in the Mexican international road freight transport industry. We compare Mexican efficiency to the United States and Canada. This evaluation is done using GHG emissions (Greenhouse Gas) of Quantis in its Scope 3 version. We examine data series for the period 2003-2011. The carbon footprint of Mexico, USA and Canada was calculated and then a comparative evaluation of the emissions was performed for each of the 3 countries. The results show that Mexico and Canada generate a higher percentage of indirect emissions, without downplaying direct emissions generated. In the US the total emissions from the sector study (80.62%) refers to emissions generated directly by operating units of the sector. It concludes with alternative solutions to mitigate emissions
L99|A Generalized Dynamic Factor Model for the U.S. Port Sector|Although rarely available ports produce a polymorphic set of timely available monthly import, export, transport and labor utilization series, providing frequent snapshots of freight volumes either as being transferred between modes, or trans-shipped to secondary destinations. Utilizing monthly inflows and outflows of several cargo types as well as cruise passenger volumes from U.S ports, we: a) demonstrate the potential and the added value of information carried by common factors shaped by ports with respect to outlining the underlying forces of a national economy and b) provide competitive forecasts of disaggregate trade series from single ports (such as, e.g. outgoing or incoming TEUs) by exploiting factor dynamics, We test this concept in the context of Forni et al. (2005) one-sided generalized dynamic factor model, exploring the links between ports and the driving factors of the U.S. economy, as these are captured through its common and idiosyncratic components. Our model, employing 192 series from 31 major port complexes -covering 84.4% of TEUs and 60.1% of the dry bulk volume between 2005 and 2012-, displays a promising forecasting performance for individual ports and aggregate economic indicators versus benchmark models at 4-7 months ahead and explains a high fraction of the US GDP and Industrial Production indices variance.
L99|Shared Value Potential of Transporting Cargo via Hyperloop|This research estimates the shared value created by constructing a hypothetical Hyperloop to transport cargo along 300 km in Northern Germany. Following Porter-Kramer (2011), we identified and evaluated eight factors that create shared value: travel speed, operating costs, safety, noise pollution, air pollution, climate effect/carbon footprint, separation effect/ property efficiency, and maintenance. Using official data compiled by several German institutes and organizations, we conducted comparative analysis to quantify and compare the abovementioned factors for Hyperloop and over-the-road cargo transport in Germany. Then, we monetized the individual and collective benefits of the shared value created by Hyperloop replacing a significant share of cargo transported by truck. Our findings indicate that the hypothetical Hyperloop project in Northern Germany would create €660 to €900 million of shared value annually. Our research method establishes a framework for assessing future transportation projects like Hyperloop, and our findings can be generalized to industrialized nations beyond Germany.
L99|EU Survey on issues related to transport and mobility| The main purpose of the survey was to collect data on car use, on use of transport modes for long distance mobility as well as on some other policy relevant issues (e.g. the attitude towards internalisation of road external costs by means of road charging). The survey involved all the 28 European countries. In each country a sample of 1000 individuals (500 in Cyprus, Luxembourg and Malta) was asked to fill in a questionnaire divided into four sections: a. general information on the respondent (e.g. age, gender, living area) as well as details on availability of cars and public transport service. b. information on everyday mobility in terms of mode used, frequency of trips, duration, distance, inter-modality and opinions on main problems experienced. c. information long distance trips (between 300 km and 1000 km as well as over 1000 km) made in the last 12 months; number of trips by purpose and main mode; connections between rail and air transport. d. opinions on aspects related to the European transport policy and especially on the scope for road charging.
L99|Smart guide on regional transport innovation strategy: Transport innovation roadmaps| This guide provides regions with information and guidelines useful for the development of smart specialisation strategies (RIS3) in transport. The guide follows the six steps for Smart Specialization with a special focus in transport. The six steps include the analysis of the regional context and potential for innovation, the discussion of governance structure, the development of a shared vision about the future of the region, approaches for the selection of transport related priorities for regional development, policy mixes and options for the integration of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The recommended process consists of a bottom-up analysis of regional capabilities of the industry and scientific community that needs to be aligned with national and European objectives. At the European level, the Strategic Transport Technological Plan (STTP) identifies ten innovation areas that will be extremely important for the future competitiveness of the transport sector. The guide also analyses different innovation area in the context of RIS3 methodology, showing specific examples and roadmaps on how these could be implemented in the regional innovation strategies. Finally tools are offered to analyse the innovation potential, performance and priorities in the transport sector, such as data and indicators regarding regional transport innovation, as well as methodologies to analyse innovation capabilities of European regions.
L99|The future of the transport industry| This publication aims to bridge the gap between the analysis of the trends in the European transport system and the evaluation of their impacts on competitiveness. Specifically, this report presents the future challenges, demand drivers and upcoming innovations which can have a considerable impact on the global demand patterns for the passenger and freight transport and how this might affect the competitiveness of related industries and service providers. Emphasis is given to targeted research strategies. The goal is to investigate the challenges for the European transport sector in the long term, in order to develop the suitable strategic options for European transport research policy.
L99|The Costs of Disposal and Recycling: An Application to Italian Municipal Solid Waste Services| Abrate G., Erbetta F., Fraquelli G. and Vannoni D. The costs of disposal and recycling: an application to Italian municipal solid waste services, Regional Studies . The paper investigates the costs of waste disposal and recycling services by using a well-behaved Composite cost function model. The estimates on a unique sample of more than 500 Italian municipalities highlight that the refuse collection technology exhibits constant returns to scale as well as scope economies between disposal and recycling. As far as the size of the municipality increases, scope economies rise up to 20%, but they are accompanied by overall diseconomies of scale. The findings suggest that, on the one hand, joint management of disposal and recycling should be encouraged and, on the other hand, that strategies aimed at increasing the share of waste sent for recycling would not imply a considerable increase in total costs.
L99|Future employment in transport: Analysis of labour supply and demand| This report presents the results of the analysis carried out by the Joint Research Centre (JRC) in support of DG MOVE for the analysis of employment and skills issues in the EU transport sector, with the purpose of designing the policies targeting an increased competitiveness in the sector, and improving the labour productivity and job quality. The study analyses the development of employment in various transport sectors from different viewpoints, and by means of a variety of analytical approaches. The study addresses both the supply side (i.e. the workforce capacity) and the demand side (i.e., the number of employees required in order to meet the future transport activity). In doing so it aims to identify the gap between the supply and demand side and to provide some indications on the degree of change required in the labour force dynamics in order to close this gap. The analysis mainly focuses on the quantitative discrepancies between capacity and demand, but also addresses relevant qualitative aspects including the demographic composition of the workforce.
L99|Structural change and income distribution: the case of Australian telecommunications| The Australian telecommunications sector experienced substantial structural change during the 1990s, a change that increased productivity and reduced costs. At this time, telecommunications was already an important item of household expenditure and input to production. We estimate the effect of the structural change on households depending on their location in the distribution of income and expenditure. Our estimates are calculated by applying a computable general equilibrium model incorporating microsimulation behaviour with top-down and bottom-up links. We estimate significant increases in real income and small increases in inequality from the changes; the pattern of effects is largely uniform across regions. Sensitivity analysis indicates that our results are insensitive to variations in model parameters.
L99|Dostępność towaru w magazynie a czas realizacji zamówienia w sklepie internetowym – wyniki badań<BR>[Availability of Goods in Stock and Delivery Time - Results of Research]|In this article the results of a comprehensive empirical study of 1,200 Polish online stores are presented. It was focused on elements that affect the lead time: information about the availability of goods, about the exact stocks and about the declared delivery time. The significant differences among analysed sectors are noticed. The next part of this article shows the correlation calculations between analysed variables. The calculations were enhanced by the excluding selected sectors and comparing results with entire population. The last part of article presents the problems, which the author met during obtaining data from the online stores websites.
L99|Metody dostarczania towarów przez polskie sklepy internetowe – wyniki badań<BR>[Methods of Order Deliveries in Polish E-shops - Results of Research]|In this article the results of surveys realized in 607 Polish e-shops were presented. First part of this word characterizes online stores in the context of number of purchases. The main part of article shows the analysis concerning methods of delivering purchases in Polish online stores. The comparison with previous research conducted in 2010, concerning the market share of courier companies was presented. The results of evaluation of courier companies service quality and determinants of the choice of courier company were shown in the last part of this article.
L99|Determinants and strategies for the development of container terminals|The paper examines an important player in the container industry: the container terminal. We evaluate how terminal efficiency operation is affected by the following factors: terminal type, operation type, scale efficiency and returns to scale. In so doing, we test how the typology and operation of terminals and the level of scale efficiency that a terminal can achieve, represent significant factors in the development and growth of the container terminal industry. The analysis is based on the assessment of 165 container terminals worldwide. We develop the estimation through the application of stochastic frontier analysis. We demonstrate that container terminals are more efficient than multi-purpose terminals, and that, compared with local operators, global terminal operators do not have a dominant position in international maritime trade in terms of productivity and efficiency. However, global terminal operators appear to be more dominant than local operators when we examine the Mediterranean Basin. In the final part of the paper we suggest how resource-constrained container terminals may improve their scale efficiency and identify general strategies related to container terminal investments. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
L99|È solo la punta dell'iceberg! Costi e ricavi del crocierismo a venezia|Una vivace polemica agita le acque della laguna di Venezia. L’attracco di navi da crociera sempre più grandi e più numerose, rappresenta un costo o un beneficio per Venezia? Quanto dovrebbero essere disposti a sacrificare i residenti rispetto a quello che possono aspettarsi da questa forma di turismo? Questo lavoro studia l’impatto economico delle navi da crociera a Venezia. Se una nave porta o fa perdere soldi alla città dipende dalle spese dei passeggeri, degli equipaggi e delle compagnie in città ma anche dalle diseconomie esterne che si associano al traffico delle navi da crociera. Le gigantesche navi da crociera generano costi sociali e ambientali per la città derivanti da emissioni nell’atmosfera, dall’inquinamento delle acque, dall'effetto serra e tali costi sono, per la prima volta, stimati. L’evoluzione morfodinamica della laguna di Venezia è messa in pericolo dai profondi canali necessari per portare le navi alla Stazione Marittima, il porto storico di Venezia, che sorge a poche centinaia di metri dal centro storico della città.
L99|Size and Density Economies in Refuse Collection|The focus of the paper is to analyze the costs of solid waste collection by applying a well-behaved multiproduct cost function model to a sample of more than 500 Italian municipalities. Beyond shedding light on the presence and on the extent of size (or scale) economies, our aim is to investigate in depth the issue of economies of density, which is still an underexplored topic in the literature. Our cost function specification, by being able to estimate several measures of density economies (such as output density economies, vertical density economies and horizontal density economies), allows to capture the impact of different urbanization models on the costs of refuse collection and disposal. The results of the estimates highlight the presence of output density economies as well as horizontal density economies. Conversely, there is significant and robust evidence of the existence of vertical density diseconomies, which suggests that congestion problems in densely populated councils are severely affecting garbage collection costs. Finally, there is evidence of diseconomies of size, which suggests that aggregating the refusal collection operations of several municipalities would not bring savings in the average costs.
L99|Size and Density Economies in Refuse Collection|The focus of the paper is to analyze the costs of solid waste collection by applying a well-behaved multi-product cost function model to a sample of more than 500 Italian municipalities. Beyond shedding light on the presence and on the extent of size (or scale) economies, our aim is to investigate in depth the issue of economies of density, which is still an underexplored topic in the literature. Our cost function specification, by being able to estimate several measures of density economies (such as output density economies, vertical density economies and horizontal density economies), allows to capture the impact of different urbanization models on the costs of refuse collection and disposal. The results of the estimates highlight the presence of output density economies as well as horizontal density economies. Conversely, there is significant and robust evidence of the existence of vertical density diseconomies, which suggests that congestion problems in densely populated councils are severely affecting garbage collection costs. Finally, there is evidence of diseconomies of size, which suggests that aggregating the refusal collection operations of several municipalities would not bring savings in the average costs.
L99|Environment and competition. On the waste management consortia in Italy|L'articolo si propone di verificare le complesse relazioni tra l'istituto consortile, previsto dal Codice civile, e la concorrenza, nell'ambito dei servizi ambientali in Italia. Nel nostro paese, infatti, anche sulla spinta della legislazione di settore, si è assistito a un ampio ricorso a Consorzi per la gestione di rifiuti, costituiti tra imprese che hanno fatto così fronte in maniera collettiva alle proprie responsabilità ambientali. Tali sistemi consortili hanno raggiunto importanti risultati operativi, ma, al contempo, condizionato numerosi mercati sotto il profilo concorrenziale: a questo proposito, gli autori prendono in esame i casi di COBAT e CONAI, rispettivamente deputati alla gestione di rifiuti piombosi e da imballaggi, di recente oggetto di specifiche attenzioni da parte dell'Autorità garante della concorrenza. Sullo sfondo delle questioni antitrust appena richiamate, l'articolo tenta infine alcune più generali considerazioni rispetto ai possibili rapporti tra attività economica e tutela ambientale.
L99|Unpacking the Meaning of “Market Access”| Improving farmers’ access to markets is widely recognized as a major development challenge. A review of the literature suggests that indicators of market access may bear little relationship to the specific processes of interest and hence provide misguided evidence of the impacts of improved market access. This paper attempts to “unpack” the dimensions of market access and, in the process, uses farm survey data from Kenya to investigate changes in multiple indicators during the post-liberalization period. Findings show that market access conditions experienced by rural Kenyans exhibit considerable variation across time, space, and indicator type. We suggest ways in which structured hypothesizing and sensitivity analysis may strengthen empirical treatments of market access issues in applied research.
L99|Aceptación del E-Commerce en Colombia: un estudio para la ciudad de Medellín|El e-Commerce es un fenómeno creciente en Latinoamérica y Colombia por lo que el estudio de su aceptación tecnológica es de alta importancia académica y empresarial. El objetivo de este artículo es identificar los antecedentes de la intención de uso de e-Commerce en Colombia. El Modelo deAceptación Tecnológica (TAM), es complementado en este estudio con los constructos de Confianza y Seguridad Percibida para proponer un modelo ajustado al caso colombiano. Dicho modelo es contrastado empíricamente con una muestra de consumidores de la ciudad de Medellín. Se evidencia la importancia de la confianza y la utilidad percibida como antecedentes directos de la intención de uso del e-Commerce. Los resultados llenan vacíos existentes en la literatura sobre el e-Commerce en Colombia y permiten identificar implicaciones empresariales relevantes para el desarrollo de actividades comerciales a través de la Internet.
L99|Power Sector in Andhra Pradesh: Trends and Prospects|The present study has made attempt to examine the historical trends in the power and its impact on the state economy and to explore the scope for enhancing its generation capacity in the state
L99|Analisi multicriteria per la classificazione di interventi di potenziamento logistico dell’Area vasta pometina|L’articolo affronta temi riguardanti il ruolo della logistica e del trasporto merci nei processi di pianificazione strategica territoriale, con riferimento all’Area vasta pometina, un’aggregazione di 18 comuni localizzati nel Lazio meridionale. In particolare, si è provveduto alla formulazione di alcuni schemi di analisi multicriteria per il confronto e la classificazione di interventi infrastrutturali rilevanti per il potenziamento logistico del territorio indagato, secondo le dimensioni d’indagine riguardanti l’ Autoregolazione , la Compensazione, l’ Invarianza e la Trasversalità (ACIT) , identificate a livello teorico dalla recente letteratura di logistica economica.
L99|Two Risk-aware Resource Brokering Strategies in Grid Computing:Broker-driven vs. User-driven Methods|Grid computing evolves toward an open computing environment, which is characterized by highly diversified resource providers and systems. As the control of each computing resource becomes difficult, the security of users¡¯ job is often threatened by various risks occurred at individual resources in the network. This paper proposes two risk-aware resource brokering strategies: self-insurance and risk-performance preference specification. The former is a broker-driven method and the latter a user-driven method. Two mechanisms are analyzed through simulations. The simulation results show that both methods are effective for increasing the market size and reducing risks, but the user-driven technique is more cost-efficient.
L99|Интегрированная Информационная Система Управления Ресурсами Предприятия<BR>[Integrated information system of enterprise's resource management]|Nowadays the most topical is a problem of economic efficiency assessment of enterprises’ resource management within technological chains, financial structures and logistic systems and so on. Especially it covers Ukraine’s economy, that fell under the impact of world financial crisis and hereby requires restructuring and creating such structures of economic objects capable to secure production growth, investment flow into country’s economy as well as improving competitiveness of production at world market. Functioning of any economic system is connected with decision making that is on the present economic stage is revealed and developed more and more like decision making support systems. The purpose of such system is achieving of synergy effect from complementary action of decisions, which summarized value exceeds detached operational results of the economic objects. In scientific papers dedicated the investigation problems of decision making support systems, a decision making process is studied from different sides, that results in missing the unique approach to the sense of resource management support. The paper reviews decision making problems for economic objects aiming to achieve a synergy effect from complementary actions of resource management decisions, which total value exceeds isolated functioning results. It is shown that application of IT systems such as Decision Support System to investigation the efficiency of resource decisions of economic objects with regards of process design peculiarities of managerial decisions allows maximum accurate analyzing the results of interaction of economic units within unified integrated structure. It has been proposed a structure of DSS developed on the base of conceptual description the function results for integrated formation. Developed Decision Making Support System in Resource Management allows to provide optimized and balanced material flows in procurement chain accounting for inventories, manufacturing capacity of equipment, production cycles and technological constraints, in-time and effective material delivery, higher users satisfaction, reduction of unnecessary operations, increase of control of calendar planning process and improvement of the quality of shipment process.
L99|A Marketplace and its Market Mechanism for Trading Commoditized Computing Resources|This paper presents the design and implementation of the GridEcon Marketplace. In addition to supporting a market mechanism for trading computing resources on a pay-per-use basis, this marketplace also provides an environment for integrating value-added support services. These value-added services help consumers to use the utility computing market more efficiently. The GridEcon Market Mechanism for virtual machines specifies in detail the unit-of-trade, the bids and asks, as well as the matching algorithm. The marketplace and market mechanism are validated by using the GridEcon Platform, which is a service-oriented platform for composing market scenarios. Our validation results show that the GridEcon Marketplace fulfills all functional requirements and that the GridEcon Market Mechanism is computationally and economically efficient.
L99|Distance matters – The environmental impact of regional and national supply chains of canned tomatoes|"The environmental impact of food transportation depends on the trade-off between (increased) distances and the efficiency of modern logistics procedures. The relevant literature points out that such a trade-off is place and product specific, thus supporting the broadening of ""food miles"" research to new territories and product categories. Here we analyze the environmental impact – in terms of global warming, local pollution and traffic congestion – of two different canned tomatoes brands produced in Italy and consumed in Sassari (Sardinia, Italy). The supply chain of the first brand extends over the whole continental Italian territory, while the second one is mainly located in Sardinia. Different distribution patterns (modern vs. independent retail) and shopping modalities (foot vs. car) are also considered. The case study shows that the national supply chain contributes to global warming much more than the regional one, and therefore supports the view that shorter supply chains can be more sustainable than efficient logistics. The case study also confirms the very high impact of shopping by car, both in terms of global warming and local pollution."
L99|Education and Training Needs in the Field of Logistic Structures and Services in the Lower Danube Region|The approach of the subject concerning the training of specialists in the domain of logistic structures and services in the region of the inferior Danube is enlisted within a larger context, the Strategy of the Danube, but also in a more restrained one, the Program of Cross-Border Cooperation Romania – Bulgaria, 2007-2013. The Strategy of the Danube represents a project initiated in the year 2008 by Germany, Austria and Romania to which subsequently there adhered the other states on the Danube and which became a program of the European Commission. It shall have allotted a budget of 50 milliards euro until the year 2013. It shall be preponderantly addressed to the population in the Danube Basin, which is estimated at 115 millions, following to be developed through cross-border projects. In December 2010 there is foreseen the approval of the Action Plan for the program the Strategy of the Danube by the European Commission. The integration process needs premises and conditions for further development. One of them is the connectivity and it supporting system – the logistics. The problem of the connectivity is one of the pillars of the Danube strategy, which could play an important role in the Lower Danube Macro region’s development. Those problems need different approaches, specialized research and training. The situation of the two countries in the domain of fluvial logistics may be characterized as unsatisfactory in relation to their potential. At the present moment there is a single bridge which connects the two countries (Giurgiu – Ruse) and several travels with the passage boat. The harbour infrastructures are old and inefficient. There are no modern multi-modal platforms or a coherent vision in their design. The transportation on the Danube is insufficiently exploited. As well, the river is not capitalized in other domains, too: agriculture, pisciculture, energy, ecology, tourism, arrangement of the territory, etc.Within a more restrained context, but correlated with the Strategy of the Danube, Romania and Bulgaria cooperate within the Cross-Border Program 2007-2013. Within it, the Academy of Economic Studies in Bucharest and thee Economic Academy Dimitar Apostolov Tsenov in Svishtov proposed themselves to collaborate in the domain “Cooperation concerning the development of human resources – the joint development of abilities and knowledge”.
L99|La criminalità organizzata nelle regioni meridionali: effetti sullo sviluppo economico e sul costo dei servizi pubblici locali|A well known characteristic of Italy is the deep gap in the economic development between the North and the South, but there is also a huge difference in the quality of social capital, so that the culture of illegality is much more present in some of southern regions, where organised crime is particularly strong. The first part of this paper describes the main differences among the most important criminal organizations of Southern Italy. The second part examines the major effects of organised crime in the economy of Mezzogiorno. In addition to a description of the link between the presence of mafia and the economic underdevelopment, that has been already discussed in other researches, this study focuses on local public service costs in some southern municipalities where the work of mafia is more pervasive. The econometric analyses confirms the hypothesis that the presence of mafia can be the cause of higher costs, especially in funeral transports and in the collection and disposal of waste material.
L99|Identyfikacja Czynników Ryzyka W Bilateralnym Monopolu Kopalni I Elektrowni<BR>[Identification Of Risk Factors In A Bilateral Monopoly Of A Mine And A Power Plant]|The objective of this paper is identification of risk factors in a bilateral monopoly of a lignite mine and a power plant. The paper described a bilateral monopoly market and risk factors which appear on each step of value creation chain from the lignite deposit, through mine and power plant until the sale of electric energy an the energy market. The sources of risk have been depicted and different types of risk have been described including: political, economical, legal, social, geological, financial, technological, ecological, connected with fuel price variation, organizational and price of energy risk in long term planning horizon.
L99|Les gestionnaires d’actifs dans les infrastructures et les services essentiels : le modèle Macquarie|[eng] Managers of infrastructure and essential services investments : the Macquarie model . The managers of infrastructure and essential services investments have the potential to play a considerably large role in making money available to the needs of public infrastructure given difficulties that communities encounter in providing it. For more than 15 years, Macquarie Bank of Australia has been developing an investment model that can only be described as unique, characterized by the following attributes : long-term investment, partnership with management, investment for asset development, and « responsible returns » (the interests of a long-term investor are not served by ignoring the needs of other stakeholders). . JEL classification : G29, L99 [fre] Les gestionnaires d’actifs dans les infrastructures et les services essentiels ont un rôle potentiel considérable à jouer dans la solvabilisation de la demande d’infrastructure compte tenu des difficultés des collectivités à y faire face. Depuis plus de quinze ans, Macquarie a développé un modèle d’investissement que l’on peut considérer comme unique caractérisé par les éléments suivants : l’engagement à long terme ; le partenariat avec le management ; l’investissement pour développer l’actif ; la « rentabilité responsabilisée » (les intérêts d’un investisseur à long terme ne sont pas servis en négligeant les besoins d’autres parties prenantes). . Classification JEL : G29, L99
L99|Settlement internalization: the production and distribution of services in the (clearing and) settlement industry|The aim of this paper is to clarify the likely consequences of settlement internalisation by custodian banks with respect to the competitive nature of the (clearing and) settlement industry, regardless of the extent of internalisation that is actually carried out. The intuition of the model presented in this paper is based on the assumption that the CSD knows the investors' final demand of (clearing and) settlement services, even though it is only faced with a fraction of such demand, i.e. the investors' final demand that is not internalised by custodians. As a consequence, the CSD's monopoly power is not constrained by the possibility of custodian banks internalising part of the (clearing and) settlement activity. The model structurally differentiates the (clearing and) settlement activity of the CSD from that of custodians. The difference between the (clearing and) settlement activity of the CSD and that of custodians refers to the fact that the (clearing and) settlement activity of the CSD is the highest or primary level where settlement can be achieved. To the extent that the probability of settlement internalisation is less than one, not all settlements are internalised. As a consequence of this, the CSD can adjust its price to take into consideration the level of settlement internalisation, making it irrelevant from the point of view of its profits. As regards the appropriate market definitions, the paper proposes to apply to the settlement industry the classical distinction between “production” and “distribution” of services. It then tests such a distinction against the Commission Communication on clearing and settlement of April 2004, the industry Code of Conduct – to clarify the extent to which they can be interpreted as promoting competition in the sector – and against the Commission decision on Clearstream.
L99|Job Loss and the Decline in Job Security in the United States|Job tenure and the incidence of long-term employment have declined sharply in the United States. However, rates of job loss as measured by the Displaced Workers Survey (DWS), while cyclical, have not increased. This presents a puzzle that has several potential solutions. One is that, while overall rates of job loss have not increased, rates of job loss for high-tenure workers have increased relative to those for lower-tenure workers. Another is that there has been an increase in rates of job change that is not captured in the limited questions asked in the DWS. Some of this seemingly voluntary job change (e.g., the taking of an offered buy-out) may reflect the kind of worker displacement that the DWS was meant to capture but is not reported as such by workers. In this study, I address these issues by 1. documenting the decline in job tenure and longterm employment using data from various supplements to the Current Population Survey (CPS) from 1973-2008, 2. documenting the lack of secular change in rates of job loss using data from the DWS from 1984-2008, and 3. exploring the extent to which the observed patterns result from a relative increase in rates of job loss among high-tenure workers. I find that these has been no such relative change and that reconciliation of the trends in the tenure and displacement data must lie with a failure to identify all relevant displacement in the DWS.
L99|A comparative assessment of aggregate car ownership model estimation methodologies|"This work examines the implications of advances in time series analysis on car ownership modeling in Greece. Variables include adults population ratio, GDP per capita, car occupancy, bus kilometers, inflation and unemployment. We developed and compared (a) a classical regression model estimated on raw levels, (b) an econometric model estimated on data stationarized using graphical and unit root tests and (c) an ""atheoretical"" ARIMA model. Although significant methodological implications were noted, all models forecast 48 to 49 private cars per 100 inhabitants by the year 2010, a development of momentous energy and environmental implications."
L99|Regulating the Dutch Waste Market|Elbert Dijkgraaf defended his PhD-thesis 'Regulating the Dutch Waste Market' at 5 november 2004. This thesis analyses whether the risen costs of waste collection and treatment can be diminished by changing policy instruments. The thesis shows that user fees are very effective in reducing the total waste quantity, while they also result in better separation behavior. Furthermore, the use of contracting out to private or public firms reduces total collection costs. Third, a social cost benefit analysis, in which environmental effects are included, shows that landfilling is much cheaper than incineration. Finally, the use of international competition might reduce treatment costs. In total the thesis concludes that a cost saving of nearly 40% of current costs is possible when all four changes are implemented.
L99|Working Paper 11-05 - Hervorming van de posterijen in België. Lessen uit Zweden en Nederland|No abstract is available for this item.
L99|Burn or bury? A social cost comparison of final waste disposal methods|This paper uses private and environmental cost data for the Netherlands to evaluate the social cost of two final waste disposal methods, landfilling versus incineration using waste-to-energy (WTE) plants. The data only provide some support for the widespread policy preference for incineration over landfilling if the analysis is restricted to environmental costs alone. Private costs, however, are so much higher for incineration, that landfilling is the social cost minimizing option at the margin even in a densely populated country such as the Netherlands. Implications for waste policy are discussed as well. Proper treatment of and energy recovery from landfills seem to be the most important targets for waste policy. WTE plants are a very expensive way to save on climate change emissions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
L99|Platform Competition and Broadband Uptake: Theory and Empirical Evidence from the European Union|Broadband access provides users with high speed, always-on connectivity to the Internet. Due to its superiority, broadband is seen as the way for consumers and firms to exploit the great potentials of new applications. This has generated a policy debate on how to stimulate adoption of broadband technology. One of the most disputed issues is about competition policies: these may be intended to promote competition in the Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) segment of the market (intra- platform competition), or to stimulate entry into the market for alternative platforms such as cable access or fiber optics (inter- platform competition). Using a model of oligopoly competition between differentiated products, our paper explicitly studies the effect of inter and intra platform competition on the diffusion of broadband access. The implications of the model are then tested using data from 14 European countries. The econometric evidence confirms the results of the theoretical model and indicates that while inter-platform competition drives broadband adoption, competition in the market for DSL services does not play a significant role. The results also confirm that lower unbundling prices stimulate broadband uptake.
L99|Direktmarknadsföring i Sverige - en studie av vad som produceras, i vilken omfattning och av hur många|The paper reports a study in which the turnover and employment generated by the production of Direct Marketing in Sweden is measured. What is generated by the use of Direct Marketing is not reported. First, a basis for defining Direct Marketing is presented, based on purpose with the marketing activity, type of response (direct or indirect) and type of media (direct or mass). The turnover generated by production of Direct Marketing was estimated to SEK 38.7 billions, and the number of employees to 67,700.
L99|De structurerende werking van ondergrondse logistieke systemen : een verkenning| With this article we discuss the issue of the spatial structuring impacts of underground logistical systems. Until now the research is focussed on technological, strategic, legal, conceptual and economic aspects of the construction of underground logistic systems. We argue that underground logistical systems may have a large impact on the spatial structure of urban areas in the long term. In this article we give some information of some recently started pilot projects on the construction of underground logistic systems. Next we give a brief state-of-art review of the research efforts in the Netherlands. We conclude by addressing the issue of the spatial structuring effects of underground logistical systems. Special attention is paid to possible spatial implications of the gradual evolution of such a system.
L99|Die Katastrophen-Versicherung in Spanien|This paper studies the state building insurance monopoly in Spain, the Consorcio the Compensacion de Seguros. It is shown that, just like its Swiss counterparts, the Consorcio operates with exceptionally low transactions costs. Furthermore it allows the supply of a very low cost insurance cover in a domain, where competition would usually lead to market failure due to problems of adverse selection. The existence of the Consorcio is in contradiction with the 3rd EU guidelines on the insurance market, however Spain managed to get an exemption.
L99|L'assurance contre les catastrophes en Espagne|This paper studies the state building insurance monopoly in Spain, the Consorcio the Compensacion de Seguros. It is shown that, just like its Swiss counterparts, the Consorcio operates with exceptionally low transactions costs. Furthermore it allows the supply of a very low cost insurance cover in a domain, where competition would usually lead to market failure due to problems of adverse selection. The existence of the Consorcio is in contradiction with the 3rd EU guidelines on the insurance market, however Spain managed to get an exemption.
L99|Beyond Privatization. The second Wage of telecommunications reforms in Mexico|From 1989 to 1994 the government of Mexico carried out a major restructuring of the telecommunications sector. Telefonos Mexico was privatized, and cellur, value-added and private networks and services were liberalized. In late 1994 the government moved toward further opening up the market, this time liberalizing local, long-distance, and international voice and video, as well as provatizing the government's domestic satellites, auctioning the radio spectrum, and establishing a firm legal and regulatory basis for a fully private, competitive market structure. This paper gives a concise overview of the context, issues, and options for telecommunications policy and regulatory reform in Mexico as the second wave of the sector reform unfolds.
L99|Compatibility and competition in airlines demand side network effects|No abstract is available for this item.
L99|The Demand for Telecommunication Services|No abstract is available for this item.
L99|Race, Ranking and Promotions at a Federal Facility: A Logit Analysis|In this paper we analyze rank assignments and promotions of a group of Federal civilian employees. with special attention to racial differences. To do so, we estimate a multinomial logit model. using pooled data from four different years, on the civilian employees of a large U.S. Army base in the southeastern United States. We derive implications of the estimated parameters concerning the effects of a number of employee characteristics on the relative likelihood of a person's being in the various ranks. To measure the effect of race on rank assignments and promotions, we use a simulation method that provides information for a polytomous discrete dependent variable that is equivalent to that given by a linear regression coefficient for a continuous dependent variable. _Our application of the multinomial logit model to pooled time series cross section data assumes that the stochastic error terms are independently distributed. across persons and ranks and over time. We test the adequacy of this assumption for analyzing three aspects of ranking and promotions: 1) the rank distribution of employees at a given time, 2) shifts over time in the aggregate rank distribution of a cohort of employees, and 3) rank-to-rank movements of individual employees over time. We find that the model performs adequately in the first two cases, but fails in the third.
L99|The Boston MPO Planning Process and Low-Income Suburban-to-Suburban Transportation Needs|The rapid evolution in the Boston MPO transportation planning process is discussed as well as its particular application to the suburban-suburban transportation needs of low income individuals. The results of two experiments designed to improve access to transportation for low income suburban individuals are discussed and policy suggestions are made for improving such access.
L99|Massachusetts’ Clean Energy Cluster|The renewable energy industry in Massachusetts is identified through a “topdown” and “bottom-up” processes to determine the total employment and boundaries of this sector. Related sectors are also identified that are linked to the core renewable energy sector in the state and policies for enhancing this cluster are suggested.
