M10|What does not kill us makes us stronger: the story of repetitive consumer loan applications|We investigate borrower and lender behaviours when the borrower has experienced a sequence of failed loan applications. Our analysis is based on half a million observations from an established peer-to-peer (P2P) loan platform in China over 2010-2018. We find that borrowers with better credit scores and those who can offer higher rates are likely to reapply for funds after a failed attempt. Yet, females and applicants with better education are discouraged quickly. On the funding supply side, lenders strive to fund safe borrowers with high credit rating and high income, not those who offer high interest rate. We investigate borrower and lender behaviours when the borrower has experienced a sequence of failed loan applications. Our analysis is based on half a million observations from an established peer-to-peer (P2P) loan platform in China over 2010-2018. We find that borrowers with better credit scores and those who can offer higher rates are likely to reapply for funds after a failed attempt. Yet, females and applicants with better education are discouraged quickly. On the funding supply side, lenders strive to fund safe borrowers with high credit rating and high income, not those who offer high interest rate.
M10|The emergence of an innovation ecosystem in a low innovation region: Disrupting inertia by a young university|Innovation ecosystems are characterised by a variety of complementary actors and relationships among them. Universities are considered a key player in innovation ecosystems for their ability of generating knowledge and qualified expertise for entrepreneurial innovation. While much attention has been paid to mature ecosystems characterised by cutting-edge technologies, the role of less established universities in less innovative regions, characterised by a lack of relationships, familyowned firms, difficult university-industry collaborations, but great potential, has remained very much underexplored. Based on a longitudinal case study of a young university in Italy, this paper aims at contributing to existing literature by looking at the role of the university in defining actors’ positions and relationships in establishing an innovation ecosystem. In doing so, we contribute to existing literature in several ways. First, we highlight that the formation of an innovation ecosystem in a small area highly depends on the university’s potential of disrupting established relationships, creating new ones and, thus, playing an active role in designing the ecosystem. Second, we provide a process-based view for understanding the establishment of an innovation ecosystem through the evolution of interactions, roles and activities. Finally, we describe the micro-dynamics characterising innovation ecosystem emergence and institutionalisation and we show that bottomup approaches are possible as well.
M10|Mapping the emergence of a new research field: an exploration of the intellectual structure of the B Corp research|The paper explores the emergence of a new research field, implementing a bibliometric analysis of the literature on the B Corp. We built a database including 82 articles collected by Scopus and published from 2009 to 2019 that discuss the B Corp, or the benefit corporation, or, more generally, social entrepreneurship. We performed descriptive and citation analyses, with the objective of identifying the roots and the evolution of the concept of B Corp. This emergent field is an important component of the structural change occurring in our society, which, in recent years, has seen the emergence of new for-profit organizational forms with a strong social consciousness. The bibliometric analysis reveals the foundational works and the historical evolution of the research field, which, while rooted in the corporate social responsibility literature, opened up into the analysis of how the legislation, the firmâ€™s strategy, the entrepreneurial orientation, and the policy interventions are intertwined in the concrete development of socially and environmentally conscious businesses.
M10|The emergence of the joint-stock companies in the Dutch Republic and their democratic elements in business|In the present essay we analyse the emergence of joint-stock companies during the 16th and 17th centuries in business (the Dutch partenrederij), and the VOC East India Companies). We suggest that in the Dutch Republic (DR) characterised by relative weak central authority, market solutions were found to solve organisation problems and these solutions, the first joint-stock companies, are efficient but also democratic in their structure. The DR demonstrate that democratic elements emerge in parallel in the economy (sometimes even preceding) and in the political field, which can be mutually reinforcing.
M10|Pengaruh Motivasi Dan Kompensasi Terhadap Disiplin Karyawan Dan Dosen Di Sekolah Tinggi Ilmu Kesehatan (Stikes) Abdi Nusa Pangkalpinang<BR>[The Effect Of Motivation And Compensation On Employee Discipline And Dosage In High School Of Health Science (Stikes) Abdi Nusa Pangkalpinang]|Higher education has an important role in producing quality human resources. In order to be able to carry out its role well, universities are required to be able to implement good human resource management, especially in improving the performance of employees and lecturers. This study was intended to analyze the effect of motivation and compensation on the discipline of employees and lecturers at the Abdi Nusa Pangkalpinang School of Health Sciences. The population and sample are all employees and lecturers totaling 52 people. Measurement of research variables with instruments in questionnaires quantified with a Likert scale. The method of analysis uses multiple regression analysis. Hypothesis testing uses the t-test. The results of this study result that the motivation and compensation respectively partially have a positive and significant effect on the discipline of employees and lecturers at the Abdi Nusa Pangkalpinang School of Health Sciences. The recommendation of this research is that the institution is expected to provide support and awards to improve the performance of employees and lecturers.
M10|Transforming Society by Creating Innovators through Skill & Research Focussed Education – A Case Study of Srinivas University|Innovation is considered as the lifeblood of higher education institutions and universities in order to survive, sustain, differentiate, monopoly, and develop in their industry. It is postulated that the core Innovations of universities should be focussed in five areas to develop core resources which include physical infrastructure, digital infrastructure, innovative teaching-learning infrastructure, intellectual property infrastructure, emotional infrastructure, and network infrastructure. It is also postulated that the Skill focussed education model contributes to the creation of innovative teaching-learning infrastructure and Research oriented education model contributes to the intellectual property infrastructure of the organization. This paper highlights how a new innovative private university can plan and implement strategies to grow in its lifecycle of survival stage, sustainability stage, differentiation stage, monopoly stage, and developed stage by means of skill enhancement through industry integration model and research oriented curriculum based education model by considering Srinivas university as a case study. This case study elaborates how Srinivas university implements its strategy aggressively to grow as most innovative skill and research focussed education system in India with an objective of transforming society by creating innovators.
M10|A New Attitude-Behaviour (AB) Theory for Organizational Leadership|The organizational fate depends on a committed effective decision maker who can predict the future business situations based on various affecting parameters on the organizational business. The right decisions taken at right time can elevate an organization as a winning organization and the decision maker can transform himself as an acceptable leader. Such decisions can also decide the fate of the organization along with the livelihood of its employees. A winning leader is an asset of an organization and the employees are directly and indirectly get the benefits of such a leader. If the leader fails in predicting the future of a profit oriented organization or not for profit organizations, the employees are directly going to be the victims of such wrong decisions. Leaders should able to make a correct judgment while taking decisions based on effective predictions by using predictive analysis framework. The attitude of the leader plays an important role while making decisions on solving organizational/individual problems. In Simon’s model of decision making, the attitude of the leader decides his ability to identify a problem, finding alternative solutions, analysing these alternatives to find optimum alternative, and finally to implement the best alternative to practically solve the problem. Attitude is the mental status of a human being which represents the emotions based on his/her feelings at a given time and controls his/her instantaneous behaviour. In this paper, we have developed a theory of winning leaders actions based on their behaviour in organizations. It is argued that the behaviour of a leader depends on his/her attitude which may be positive or negative depends on the four factors identified as feelings, emotions, belief, and environment. Thus a supportive, effective, good environment creates a positive attitude and hence winning leaders. The bad environment supports a negative attitude due to wrong belief, negative emotions, and frustratiive feelings which are again depend on the present and past environment of the decision maker. The various components which are affecting leaders’ environmental factor and their important characteristic elements are identified.
M10|Entrepreneurial Quality of Tionghoa Ethnicity and Malay Ethnicity: Are There Any Differences?|Objective – This study aims to analyse the differences of entrepreneurial quality between Tionghoa entrepreneurs and Malay entrepreneurs. In this study, quality was measured by the need for achievement, locus of control, risk-taking behaviour, perseverance, independence, creativity, and knowledge. Methodology/Technique – The data in this research was collect using self-report questionnaires which were distributed to 60 Tionghoa respondents and 60 Malay respondents. The data then was then tested using a T-test. Findings – The T-test analysis shows that there are significant differences between Tionghoa entrepreneurs and Malay entrepreneurs. Novelty – This study investigates the differences in entrepreneurial quality between Malay and Tionghoa entrepreneurs in the province of West Kalimantan, Indonesia, whereas previous studies have focused on other countries. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M10|The Effect of Productivity and Innovation on the Competitiveness of Batik SMEs in West Java Indonesia|Objective – This research aims to test the effect of productivity and innovation toward competitiveness of batik SMEs in West Java. Methodology/Technique – The study uses Partial Least Square (PLS) for data analysis, as well as an explanatory method and simple random sampling. Findings – The results of the data testing show that competitiveness is effected by productivity and innovation by 71.7%. Novelty – The objective of this study is to analyse the gap in productivity and innovation and its effect on the competitiveness of batik SMEs in West Java Indonesia. Batik centre in West Java was developed by the government in collaboration with the private sector to increase the level of production of batik SMEs. In reality, there is a gap in productivity between written batik and stamped batik. Written batik design innovations and production methods need to be improved to compete and survive in the batik industry. Porter (1995:5) describes competition as the core of the success or failure of firms. Productivity of written batik has declined in the past 5 years. From recent BPS data, processed by the Pusdatin Ministry of Industry 2017, the industry has declined by around 10% per year between 2012 and 2017. Type of Paper: Empirical
M10|Planned Behaviour Theory: An Examination of the Intention to Return among Indonesian Hotel Resort Tourists|Objective – The intention of visitors of resort hotels is a highly studied topic. More specifically, the aim of the study is to analyse the intention of tourists to return to resort hotels in Indonesia. Methodology/Technique – An explanatory method was used with 388 visitors of resort hotels selected as the sample based on a random sampling technique. The chosen data analysis method is covariant SEM. Findings – The results confirm that the intention to return is based on the planned behaviour theory with variable factor weights. The intention to return can be predicted from the statements of hotel visitors based on responses about their affection, cognition and behaviour. Novelty – The statements provided in this study that show that visitors' expectations of multidimensional resort hotels identifies a need for improvement. This research emphasizes the importance of examining the behaviour of hotel visitors. Type of Paper: Empirical
M10|Model for Strengthening Employee Performance|Objective – The instability of employee performance in the last three years requires a solution to strengthen employee performance. This study aims to develop a model for strengthening employee performance. Methodology/Technique – This study uses quantitative exploratory techniques with SPSS software, with the following independent variable: Employee Performance (Y), and dependent variables: Organizational Change (X1), Organizational Culture (X2), and Achievement Motivation (X3). The case study is conducted in the Jakarta Islamic Centre, which has a population of 46 people. Findings – The regression Results (1) of the regression equation are Y = 0.099 + 0.148X1 + 0.037 X2 + 0.797X3; RSq = 0.737: F calculated 35.435 with Sig = 0,000. The findings show that employee achievement motivation is a factor that determines high employee performance, organizational changes and organizational culture have no significant effect but when taken together with motivation, have a significant influence on employee performance. Novelty – If there is no policy or implementation of organizational change, organizational culture, and motivation to support employee performance, then employee performance will be low, around 0.099 on scale 1-5. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M10|Work Engagement: The Impact of Psychological Capital and Organizational Justice and Its Influence on Turnover Intention|Objective - To remain competitive, organizations must be able to adapt to change and increase their performance. In order to increase performance, organizations must focus on how they manage their employees, including how to retain them. Previous studies have shown that work engagement (WE) has a positive effect on employee retention (Schaufeli & Bakker, 2004). The JD-R Model suggests that WE is influenced by enhancing personal and job resources (Schaufeli, 2017). This research aims to investigate the impact of both of those resources on WE. The personal resource measured in this study is psychological capital while the job resource measured is organizational justice. Furthermore, this research also aims to determine the extent to which WE can be used to predict employee turnover. Methodology/Technique - A quantitative method is implemented in this study by distributing a Utrecth Work Engagement Scale, Psychological Capital Questionnaire, Organizational Justice Questionnaire, and Turnover Intention Scale to 243 employees working in a manufacturing company in Jakarta, Indonesia. Findings - The results of this research conclude that psychological capital and organizational justice have a significant effect on WE (F= 15.231; p
M10|Psychosocial Safety Climate and Burnout: The Mediating Role of Challenge and Hindrance Demands|Objective – In recent years, the prevalence of job burnout among Malaysian research universities (RU) academics has accelerated due to the demands of teaching, in addition to administrative work, consultation, research, and publications. Methodology/Technique – This study reviews literature relating to burnout, and the use of Psychosocial Safety Climate (PSC) to create a better working environment by managing demands and providing a high level of resources to deal with demands or tasks at work. This study presents a better job design by PSC through challenge and hindrance demands which may decrease the level of burnout among RU academicians. Therefore, this paper suggests that challenges and hindrance demands are a potential mediator of the relationship between PSC and burnout. Findings – This study concludes that PSC can be used to minimize burnout among academics by providing references for an excellent job design, enhancing job demands whilst diminishing hinderance demands. Novelty – RU management or policy-makers may apply PSC in their design of the role of academics within their institution, so that the related work policies, practices, and procedures are enhanced. This method is crucial to ensure that the challenge and hindrance demands of academicians are properly managed to reduce their risk of burnout.
M10|Human Capital and Social Capital as Moderators of Start-up Support and Start-up Success|Objective - Start-up support has not received enough research attention although it is an integral element of the start-up ecosystem that provides resources and services in the form of various support to start-ups. There is a need to explore the effectiveness of various start-up support because the question as to whether such supports contribute to start-up success remains unanswered. Methodology/Technique - While human capital and social capital has been linked to entrepreneurial success, little is known about how these capitals moderate the effect of start-up access to support. Finding - This paper contributes to start-up literature by presenting a conceptual framework appropriate to investigate the effect of a start-up's access to support on start-up success as well as how this effect is accentuated by the human and social capital of start-up entrepreneurs. Novelty - Further understanding of how human capital and social capital could strengthen the contribution of support to start-up success represents an important direction for future entrepreneurship research. This paper also discusses the limitations of relevant previous research and offers suggestions for future research.
M10|How Commitment, Satisfaction, and Cost Fluctuations Influence Customer Loyalty|Objective - The purpose of this study is to investigate which factors have a stronger influence on final purchase decisions from the perspective of the chemical market. The factors under consideration are customer satisfaction, commitment and cost fluctuations. Methodology/Technique - By understanding the factors that influence purchase decisions, a chemical company or other industrial company can place greater focus on the factors that will improve or enhance customer loyalty. The research design is a conclusive-descriptive and quantitative method. Findings & Novelty - The results of the analysis confirm that customer commitment and satisfaction have a stronger influence on customer loyalty, compared to fluctuating costs. Satisfaction does not have a direct influence on loyalty, except where commitment is used as a mediator.
M10|Scientific Knowledge in Management and its Praxeology|"Objective - The praxeology recognized by some theorists as the relevance of the results of the research process for managerial and academic practice, is evidenced by others as absent. The purpose of this paper is to propose an evaluation of the results of the research process in management, particularly in the ""doctoral theses"" in management in Colombia over the last 9 years, from a reflexive approach as the epistemology of human sciences and critical performativity that allows us to answer the question: What is the level of knowledge praxeology generated in doctoral theses in management in Colombia? Methodology/Technique - The work proposes to start with an exploratory sequential approach to identify the categories of praxeological focus in the literature and theses. Then, a strategy of quantitative evaluation of the observable aspects in the theses is designed. Finally, the strategy is applied to the theses and the results are documented. Findings & Novelty - The current scope of this proposal is limited to the information that will be collected in the observation of doctoral theses. The results should be interpreted considering this restriction. This proposal presents an approach to interpret the praxeological focus from the functionalist explanation to the comprehensive in doctoral research in management where the traditional scheme has been positivism."
M10|Increasing Employee's Job Satisfaction Through the Implementation of Transformational Leadership and Work Stress Level Management|Objective - The objective of this paper is to examine the relationship between transformational leadership, work stress and job satisfaction. Based on previous studies, we proposed that work stress will mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and employees' job satisfaction. Methodology/Technique - Data was collected from 248 employees working in three organizations in Java Island, Indonesia. To test the hypotheses, we used regression analysis and a boostrapping approach with a Macro Process. Finding - The results of this study show that transformational leadership has a positive relationship with employee job satisfaction. However, transformational leadership does not have significant relationship with work stress. This therefore means that there is no mediation of work stress either. Novelty – This empirical study provides a first glance at the correlation between the variables. Future studies should consider using more participants from across Indonesia to properly reflect the cultural difference among other provinces. Type of Paper - Empirical.
M10|Rescued Wild Boar Soccer Team members in the Tham Luang Cave: Transforming an Impossible Mission to a Possible Mission|When problems have solutions in hand, they are not too difficult to solve. On the other hand, for an unprecedented case which has many unknown factors and threatens the survival of the victims, it is risky and challenging. The Tham Luang Cave is located in the Maesai District, Chiangrai Province, Northern Thailand. Thirteen members of the Wild Boar Soccer Team decided to visit the cave after they finished practice. Although some members had visited the cave in the past, this time, conditions in the cave were different from their previous visits. The rainy season came earlier than usual and heavy rain caused them to be trapped in the cave for more than two weeks. As soon as it became known that they were still in the cave, a rescue operation was mounted.In the first stage, there were many limitations for rescue operations in terms of details of the cave map, cave diving skills and rescue operation techniques. However, international cooperation together with systematic local management could make the rescue mission possible. The rescue of the Wild Boar Soccer Team members is a unique case. This study aims to better understand the crisis management process. Knowledge of crisis management is still limited and more work needs to be done to enhance the field. Therefore, this study illustrates the framework of integrated crisis management through an analysis of the rescued Wild Boar Soccer Team members case. Research Results Analysis help to shed new light on the crisis management process and to provide lessons learnt from an unprecedented crisis management case.
M10|Role of Transformational Leadership and Transactional Leadership on Organization Innovation|This study investigates the mediating effect of entrepreneurial orientation on the relationship between transformational leadership, transactional leadership, and organizational innovation. The data were collected by using a questionnaire from 135 software industry in Thailand. We use structural equations modeling (SEM) to explore the mediating effect of entrepreneurial orientation on a positive relationship between transformational leadership, organizational innovation directly and indirectly through the construct. The mediating effect of entrepreneurial orientation on a positive relationship between transactional leadership, organizational innovation directly and indirectly through the construct.
M10|Process orientation in the modern controlling|The controlling is a combination of the target-oriented control activity, the used methods and other soft factors as well. The controlling is constantly changing because it always must meet the current challenges. Each company receives and generates a lot of data, Big Data and Data Mining help in predictive, secure and user-friendly analysis. One of the most important trend is the Industry 4.0 and the compliance to the Digital Business Models through intelligent networks and Cyber-Physical Systems. The controller is responsible for identifying and evaluating the business changes and requirements; so he will support the management in the implementation of it. We are reviewing the importance of the Industry 4.0 and how have to develop the process orientation of controlling at the modern Digital Business Models. In the paper, we will illustrate how can be achieved it by taking into account the Industry 4.0 strategy and how digitalisation can help.
M10|The Impact Of National Culture On Leadesrhip In Socety And Organizations: Why Do Serbs Love Authoritarian Leaders|The paper analyses the impact of national culture on leadership and leadership styles. It has been determined that national culture impacts leadership and leadership styles by defining the meanings that both the leader and his followers ascribe to the reality that surrounds them. The analysis includes the impact that the dimensions of national culture, identified in the Geert Hofstede?s and GLOBE?s researches, have on leadership. The paper analyses the impact that the dimensions of national culture have on two main dimensions used to differentiate leadership styles: authoritarianism?participative orientation and task orientation?people orientation. It has been determined that power distance and individualism?collectivism as well as uncertainty avoidance and assertiveness decisively impact the selection between authoritarian and participative leadership styles. The national culture?s ?masculinity???femininity? dimension, as well as gender equality, performance orientation, people orientation, and future orientation correlated with it, impact the selection between people orientation and task orientation. In certain contexts, a high uncertainty avoidance also impacts this leadership dimension. By intertwining two leadership styles? dimension, four leadership styles are created, as well as cultural contexts in which each of the styles is favoured, preferred, and thereby more effective. Serbian national culture, with its assumptions and values, implies using of authoritarian people-oriented style.
M10|Social inclusion in an alternative food network: values, practices and tensions|This paper explores challenges a consumer food cooperative must address to combine social inclusion and embeddedness in its urban environment with the food quality standards it targets. While the difficulty in making alternative food networks (AFNs) socially accessible is well documented, little is known about organizational practices that foster inclusion in AFNs. Our research—based on over 100 participant observations of meetings held at the cooperative and on food activities with members of community organizations—has generated insight on how a participative process—through collective decisions, knowledge exchanges and workslot commitments—could facilitate or restrain social inclusion. Our results suggest that promotion of the value of equality for the largest number is hindered by differences in food, material and consumer cultures between cooperative members and non-members. The value of equality for the largest number is pragmatically applied through social inclusion regarding food supply and voluntary work participation.
M10|On the Strategic Benefits of Diversity|This paper studies the relationship between functional diversity and team performance. The main question is whether diversity may entail strategic benefits that enable diverse teams to outperform homogenous teams even if the homogenous teams are more skilled on average, or diversity entails a direct efficiency loss a la Benabou (1996). Both ability diversity and cognitive diversity (Johnson- Laird (1983), Page (2008)) are studied, and the paper also considers the role of Becker and Murphy (1992)-type coordination costs. In all cases, the main message is that effort adjustments set off by greater diversity may significantly change the outcome in comparison with an assessment based on the more familiar direct effects. For example, a diverse team may outperform a homogenous team even if the elasticity of substitution is positive and less capable individuals therefore “drag down” the more capable individuals productivities; and under the same condition, a “superstar” may outperform a cognitively diverse team even though a positive elasticity of substitution implies decreasing returns to talent in the sense of Rosen (1981). The paper discusses the implications of these findings for the general diversity debate, for optimal team selection, and for market salaries. The main insights, as well as the tools developed to reach those insights, are very general and extend to other contexts where diversity plays a role.
M10|Fluch und Segen der Digitalisierung im Kontext einer Entwicklung zur Nachhaltigkeit|Digitalisierung bzw. digitale Transformation sowie Nachhaltigkeit zählen gegenwärtig zu den wichtigsten globalen Megatrends. Die zunehmende Digitalisierung bringt vielfältige positive Entwicklungen und zugleich auch zahlreiche negative Folgen im Kontext einer Entwicklung zur Nachhaltigkeit mit sich. Wie sind Fluch und Segen der Digitalisierung dahingehend zu verorten? Die positiven und negativen Auswirkungen der Digitalisierung auf die Nachhaltigkeit werden im Rahmen einer Literaturanalyse und Interviewstudie erfasst und zusammengeführt. Concept Maps zur Visualisierung von Schlüsselthemen im Hinblick auf Digitalisierung und Nachhaltigkeit sowie eine Gegenüberstellung von Flüchen und Segen ermöglichen einen umfassenden Blick auf Digitalisierung und Nachhaltigkeit. Um ganzheitlich-nachhaltige Konzepte zu schaffen, sind umfassende Analysen und Bewertungen von grundlegenden digitalen Entwicklungen unerlässlich. Die digitale Transformation resultiert in einer Vielzahl positiver Auswirkungen, dennoch sind adäquate Rahmenlegungen, Maßnahmen und Bewertungen notwendig, um zu verhindern, dass exponentielle Technologieanpassungen die Transparenz und Resilienz des Gesamtsystems schwächen. Digitalisation, digital transformation and sustainability are currently among the most important global megatrends. Increasing digitalisation has many positive developments and at the same time numerous negative consequences in the context of a development towards sustainability. What is boon and bane of digitalisation in the context of a development towards sustainability? The positive and negative effects of digitisation on sustainability are noted and combined by means of a literature analysis and interview study. Concept maps of key themes are chosen for visualization and enable a comprehensive view of digitisation in the field of sustainable development. In order to create holistic sustainable concepts, comprehensive analyses and evaluations of fundamental digital developments are indispensable. Digital transformation results in a multitude of positive effects, yet adequate frameworks, measures and evaluations are needed to prevent exponential technology adaptations from weakening the transparency and resilience of the overall system.
M10|Performance Management in educational institutions – the Balanced Scorecard as a holistic management approach for steering and managing educational institutions|Effectiveness and efficiency oriented thinking supplements more and more management decisions in the educational context. This development is not only based on socio-economic changes like the decreasement of public funds. The market of educational services grows also constantly and privat companies are heating the competition.The crucial challenge lies within the architecture of the performance management. What kind of figure systems fits best? How to execute a set strategy and of course how to control the achievement? Hence, to draw a comprehensive picture of the situation of an educational institution, the controlling must also deal with soft-facts like teaching or process quality, even motivation and capability of the staff are playing a vital role. The Balanced Scorecard in its adaption to the specific needs of an educational institution seems to be a fruitful approach to tackle these multidimensional steering requirements. The following article is going to discuss the benefits and the success factors of the Balanced Scorecard as a systemic management approach to be understood as a center of management navigation for educational institutions.
M10|Produktportfolio-Management im Zeitalter der Digitalisierung|Dieses Papier beschäftigt sich mit dem Produktportfolio-Management (PPM) und seiner Rolle im Zeitalter der Digitalisierung. Während einige betonen, dass strategische, langfristige Planung und PPM in Zeiten kürzerer Produktlebenszyklen, digitaler Innovationen und disruptiver Geschäftsmodelle veraltet zu sein scheinen, betonen andere die zunehmende Bedeutung von PPM, die Notwendigkeit einer effektiven Ressourcenallokation und eines Risikoausgleichs bei der Integration von Smart Products und digitalen Produkt-Service-Systemen in bestehende Produktportfolios. In der Praxis ist die Aufgabe des Value Proposition Design und Portfoliomanagements oft auf verschiedene Geschäftseinheiten, Abteilungen und Rollen (z.B. Produktmanagement, New Product Business, Servicegeschäft, Digital Business) verteilt. Die Mehrheit der Unternehmen erkennt das Potenzial eines systematischen Produktportfoliomanagements noch nicht vollständig. Sowohl die Literatur als auch die Ergebnisse unserer empirischen Studie zeigen, dass ein systematischer Ansatz für das Produktportfolio-Management zu höheren Gewinnmargen und erfolgreicheren Innovationen führt. Um den Kundennutzen zu maximieren und die Effizienz zu steigern, ist ein integrierter Ansatz erforderlich. Basierend auf einem umfassenden Literaturüberblick stellt dieses Papier einen integrierten PPM-Rahmen vor. Es soll eine Grundlage für die Diskussion darüber geschaffen werden, wie PPM in Bezug auf physische Produkte, digitale Produkte, Dienstleistungen und Produkt-Dienstleistungssysteme im Zeitalter der Digitalisierung organisiert werden kann.
M10|A look at Airline Management as Event Management: About the challenging task of trying to run a profitable Airline|Warren Buffett once famously stated that airlines were infamous for destroying shareholder value . His hindsight proposition to better have taken the Wright brothers out of the sky violently surely was a pointed one, if not entirely serious. This paper seeks to shed some light on the challenges underlying the industry that Buffett blames as a value destroyer, and explain the difficulties most airlines have to tackle on a daily basis. The idea of aviation management as event management is the basis of this exploration of the airline industry, emphasizing the daunting task of offering an intangible product , created long before demand is certain, at a price that is lowest when the product itself is most difficult and costly and complex to produce. This underlying conundrum is one of the central challenges airlines need to confront when trying - hard at most times - not to actively destroy shareholder value.
M10|The distinct features of hidden champions in Germany: A dynamic capabilities view|Hidden Champions (HCs) are firms unknown to the wider public, but global leaders in the niche markets they serve. This paper looks at distinctive features of these firms, focusing on their dynamic capabilities. Employing a unique data base on German firms, we identify a representative sample of German HCs. Based on a matching technique, we examine differences to other firms in terms of the firms' processes, position, and path. We find that HCs' competitive strategy rests on technology leadership and customisation. HCs are more open in their knowledge management, but without compromising control over the new product development process. HCs do not invest more into innovation, but achieve higher innovation success. The higher efficiency can be linked to their superior technological capabilities and to higher investment in human capital and HR management practices that mobilise the creative potential of their employees.
M10|Instrumente der erfolgreichen Unternehmensgründung - Wie »Business Model Canvas« & Co den altbewährten »Businessplan« ins Wanken bringen|Der Businessplan hat sich in den letzten Jahrzehnten zu einem zentralen Instrument der Unternehmensgründung entwickelt. Es geht der Mythos einher, dass es schier unmöglich ist, ohne Businessplan ein erfolgreicher Gründer zu werden. Sein Ansehen hat er der heutigen Businessplanindustrie zu verdanken. Gerade bei der Beantragung dieser öffentlichen Programme ist das Vorhandensein eines Businessplans Voraussetzung. Sodass seit Jahren ein wahrer Hype um ihn entstanden ist. In den letzten Jahren bzw. Jahrzehnten haben sich neue Perspektiven für die erfolgreiche Unternehmensgründung entwickelt. Der Schwerpunkt liegt dabei in erster Linie auf der Entwicklung tragfähiger Geschäftsmodelle. Dies hat sich auch in den Methoden zur Dokumentation von Geschäftsideen niedergeschlagen. Mit diesem Beitrag sollen das Canvas Business Model, das Konzept-kreative Gründung und die Methodik Effectuation zur Dokumentation von Geschäftsideen vorgestellt und ein Vergleich zur altbewährten Kausallogik des Businessplan gezogen werden.
M10|Agil, Plattform, Startup – jenseits des Hypes|Die Diskussion „Arbeit der Zukunft“ dreht sich oft um die unmittelbaren Auswirkungen der Digitalisierung. Ergänzend dazu geht es im vorliegenden Beitrag um einen betriebswirtschaftlichen Zugang. Es zeigt sich, dass ein moderner, inte- grierter Ansatz besonders fruchtbar ist. Gewinn und Verantwortung, Planung und Agilität, Märkte und Ressourcen, global und lokal: auf „Beidhändigkeit“ (engl. ambidexterity) kommt es an in Managementlehre und Unternehmenspraxis.
M10|Digitalisierungskompetenzen in der Führungsebene im Mittelstand|Die vorliegende Studie befasst sich mit Führungskompetenzen für eine erfolgreiche Digitali-sierung. Auf der Basis von Interviews mit der Führungsebene von Unternehmen unterschied-licher Eigentümerstruktur, Branche, Größe und Digitalisierung konnten drei verschiedene Kompetenztypen identifiziert werden. Diese verdeutlichen, dass der Unternehmenskontext und personenbezogene Merkmale der Führungskraft über die Zusammensetzung des Kom-petenzportfolios entscheiden. So haben Führungspersonen in größeren managementgeführ-ten Unternehmen mit einem hohen Digitalisierungsgrad eine breite Kompetenzabdeckung. Unternehmer, die kleinen und mittelgroßen Unternehmen aus dem Verarbeitenden Gewerbe und dem Dienstleistungsbereich vorstehen, erachten fachübergreifende kooperative Kompe-tenzen als bedeutsam, während die Unternehmensführung aus dem Handwerk Selbst- und Fachkompetenzen als entscheidend erachtet. Die Wirtschaftspolitik sollte diese Aspekte für eine zielgruppenorientierte Unterstützung des Mittelstandes berücksichtigen.
M10|Projektmanagement-Normen und -Standards|Dieses Arbeitspapier gibt einen Überblick über aktuelle Normen und Standards, die für das Projektmanagement (PM) von Bedeutung sind. Als relevante Normungsorganisationen werden die International Organization for Standardization (ISO), das Deutsche Institut für Normung (DIN) und das US-amerikanische American National Standards Institute (ANSI) bzw. das Project Management Institute (PMI®) berücksichtigt. Bei den Standards werden solche Organisationen als relevant erachtet, die in der Lage sind, den von ihnen publizierten Standard einem breiten, im Projektmanagement tätigen Adressatenkreis publik zu machen, Dienstleistungen, wie z. B. Schulungen anzubieten, und eine Weiterentwicklung des Standards sicherzustellen. Insgesamt werden 27 PM-Normen und 13 PM-Standards beschrieben. Die Darstellung umfasst beispielsweise die Normenreihen DIN 6990x und ISO 215xx, aber auch ANSI/PMI®-Normen, wie den in der Praxis weit verbreiteten PMBOK® Guide. Als Projektmanagement-Standards werden u. a. die IPMA Individual Competence Baseline (IPMA ICB), PRINCE2® oder OpenPM2 behandelt. Auch Standards für die Prüfung von Projekten finden Berücksichtigung, z. B. der Prüfungsstandard Nr. 4 des Deutschen Instituts für Interne Revision e. V. (DIIR) zur Prüfung von Projekten. Zudem werden drei Werke zu agilen Vorgehensweisen im Projektmanagement vorgestellt. Jede Beschreibung enthält eine prägnante Inhaltsangabe, den formellen Status der Norm bzw. des Standards und Links für die eigene Recherche. Insofern soll dieses Arbeitspapier nicht nur eine aktuelle, systematische Zusammenstellung bieten, sondern es stellt auch eine Hilfestellung für ein schnelles Orientieren und Nachschlagen dar.
M10|20 Jahre Workshop Hochschulmanagement: Eine deskriptive Übersicht|Den Workshop Hochschulmanagement der wissenschaftlichen Kommission Hochschulmanagement im Verband der Hochschullehrer für Betriebswirtschaft (VHB) gibt es seit 20 Jahren. Es werden die Orte der 20 Workshops dargestellt, die Zahl der Vorträge, ihre Themen und Autoren sowie daraus resultierende Veröffentlichungen in wissenschaftlichen Zeitschriften.
M10|Trust-based work time and the productivity effects of mobile information technologies in the workplace|We investigate whether the returns to mobile information and communication technology (ICT) in the workplace are contingent on granting employees autonomy over the structure of their workday through trust-based work time arrangements (TBW). Our regression analysis is based on a production function framework and exploits fine-grained firm survey data on ICT use and organisational practices for 1,045 service firms in Germany. We find empirical support for the argument that the returns to mobile ICT are higher when TBW allows for discretion over when, where and how to perform work-related tasks. The finding holds when we account for more limited forms of workplace flexibility, suggesting that the high degree of formal employee autonomy under TBW drives the complementarity between mobile ICT and organisational practices.
M10|A value-based approach to business model innovation: Defining the elements of the concept|Business model innovation (BMI) has increasingly attracted attention by proposing the business model (BM) as a new unit of analysis in the study of innovation. However, the definition and dimensioning of the concept is still unclear. This paper thereby aims to identify a consistent set of interdependent BMI elements, aligning with a configurational approach. Taking a value-based perspective, we review the existing contributions to date and arrive at five elements of BMI, each focused on one facet of the company’s BM: (1) value creation innovation; (2) value proposition innovation; (3) value delivery innovation; (4) value capture innovation; and (5) value network innovation. This study contributes to the growing BMI literature by proposing a unique classification underpinned by a value-grounded theory of the firm. Furthermore, we describe how these five dimensions interact and explore its implications. Throughout, we illustrate our ideas with the examples of existing companies.
M10|A value-based approach to business model innovation: Defining the elements of the concept|Business model innovation (BMI) has increasingly attracted attention by proposing the business model (BM) as a new unit of analysis in the study of innovation. However, the definition and dimensioning of the concept is still unclear. This paper thereby aims to identify a consistent set of interdependent BMI elements, aligning with a configurational approach. Taking a value-based perspective, we review the existing contributions to date and arrive at five elements of BMI, each focused on one facet of the company’s BM: (1) value creation innovation; (2) value proposition innovation; (3) value delivery innovation; (4) value capture innovation; and (5) value network innovation. This study contributes to the growing BMI literature by proposing a unique classification underpinned by a value-grounded theory of the firm. Furthermore, we describe how these five dimensions interact and explore its implications. Throughout, we illustrate our ideas with the examples of existing companies.
M10|Defining Political Risk in International Affairs|În cautarea de noi oportunitați de afaceri, societațile transnaționale (STN) se confrunta cu o varietate de riscuri care le afecteaza activitatea pe piața internaționala. Unul dintre aceste riscuri este riscul politic. Spre deosebire de alte tipuri de riscuri cum ar fi riscul valutar, riscul de credit sau riscul operațional, riscul politic nu a beneficiat de aceeași atenție nici din partea cercetatorilor și nici din partea STN-urilor. Lucrarea îsi propune sa ofere o delimitare mai clara a conceptului de risc politic. O definitie a riscului politic trebuie sa tina seama de multiplele interdependente si variabile care trebuie analizate, cum ar fi delimitarea conceptului de risc de tara si cel de risc politic, analiza relatiei dintre riscul politic si incertitudine, dintre riscul politic si instabilitatea politica, dintre riscul real si riscul perceput, finalitatea riscului politic, dimensiunea macro sau micro și definirea riscului politic prin prisma asigurarilor.
M10|Family Firms in the Ownership Network: Clustering, Bridging, and Embeddedness|In this paper, we investigate family firms’ position in the intercorporate ownership network. Rooting our predictions in the Behavioral Agency Model and a Network analytical framework, we predict and find that family involvement decreases the likelihood of business group affiliation and of cross-group ties leading to a lower embeddedness within the overall network. We predict and find the opposite effect for community involvement. We use the complete longitudinal dataset of publicly listed firms’ corporate ownership ties in India (2001, 2005, and 2009). Theoretical and substantive contributions are to research on family businesses and to research on interorganizational networks.
M10|Categorizing Institutional Logics, Institutionalizing Categories: A Review of Two Literatures|This review assembles two highly referenced streams of research in organization and management studies over the past decade: institutional logics and categories. We present the gist of each literature focusing on the interaction within and between organizations vis-à-vis the institutional logics and category systems that condition behavior. Then, we suggest that both streams have compatible assumptions that warrant further integration and suggest opportunities for future research stemming from (1) complementarities related to inter-and-intra-audience variance, formation and recombination of logics and categories, and actors’ identity and (2) differences related to theory level of analysis, incorporation of conflict, and methods of analysis. Integration can lead to better specified mechanisms, processes, and contexts important to improving accuracy and development of these research streams.
M10|Risk management and process management in universities. Application in the University Laica Eloy Alfaro Manabí|The current environment demands the application of modern approaches to address the implementation of internal control a priority, to contribute to the continuous improvement of the organizations. It is a necessity in the institutions of higher education the improvement of risk management, as an essential component of internal control and the implementation of process management. In this context at the Universidad Laica Eloy Alfaro Manabi, although they have applied innovative tools of control, there is evidence that the risk assessment is not carried out on a regular basis and it is not structured by processes; therefore, the research aims to: develop tools for process management and risk management in the Universidad Laica Eloy Alfaro of Manabi. To comply with the proposed objective, it starts with the diagnosis of the current situation, through the implementation and analysis of a list of checks that assesses the ability of the organization's strategic prevention, which was adapted to the context of the universities. As the main diagnostic results, an analysis of the gaps and opportunities for improvement in the different variables that make up the dimensions of the design of the strategic orientation and preparation of the university for the management of risks, risk management in an integrated manner, and implementation and control; and then propose tools for process management and risk management. The study used empirical methods and statistical methods, such as the descriptive statistics and Cronbach's Alpha coefficient to measure the reliability of the instrument applied.
M10|Judging Ethical Behavior in the Workplace: The Role of Attractiveness and Gender|"One of the most challenging areas for employees and managers is dealing with shades of gray related to ethical behaviors. The ability to evaluate unethical behavior can differ from person to person and is vulnerable to the influences of unrelated attributions. In the current study, we investigated the role of physical attractiveness and gender in judging severity of unethical workplace behavior. Scenarios with unethical behavioral dilemmas were displayed to 4,602 subjects in different versions accompanied with images. Our findings show that ""gray area"" behavior was evaluated with more severity if conducted by a plain-looking employee than an attractive one. When comparing genders, the same action was perceived as more ethical if performed by male employees. We explore a number of explanations for this discrimination based on the psychological literature."
M10|Entrepreneurial Opportunity Recognition: A Review of Literature|Economic theory is the major theoretical perspective in entrepreneurship. Since entrepreneurial opportunity recognition is rooted in the entrepreneurship literature, it is necessary to understand the nature of entrepreneurial opportunity recognition from the economic theoretical perspective. Among the economic theory, entrepreneurship literature falls into two school of thoughts, neoclassical equilibrium theory and Austrian theory. The neoclassical equilibrium theory assumes that everyone can recognize all entrepreneurial opportunities, and it is individual?s risk-propensity that determines who become the entrepreneurs (Khilstrom & Laffont, 1979). However, the traditional neoclassical equilibrium theory fails to explain the framework of entrepreneurship and the existence of entrepreneurial opportunities (Eckhardt & Shane, 2003).Austrian theory assumes that people cannot recognize all opportunities. Austrian theory emphasizes that it is the imperfect market with information asymmetry that generates the information gap. In other words, opportunities do not appear in a well-packaged informational form (Venkataraman, 1997). Kirzner (1997) has indicated that the distribution of information in society influences the discovery of entrepreneurial opportunities, and only a small subset of individuals are able to identify and recognize particular opportunity in the market. In addition, the process of discovering opportunities depends on people?s ability and willingness to discover them. For example, people might not be able or may be unwilling to pay attention to external environment changes, which may lead to loss of the opportunity (Stevenson & Gumpert, 1985). Only those who recognize the existence of opportunities and value them can then earn profits from these new opportunities (Ardichvili, Cardozo, & Ray, 2003; Shane, 2000; Shane & Venkataraman, 2000). That is, under the asymmetry of information circumstances, individuals with special insights and knowledge to discover and recognize entrepreneurial opportunities tend to be successful while others not able to recognize the opportunities or only see the risk for failure (Ulhøi, 2005). Since economic theory cannot fully explain the entrepreneurial opportunity recognition, scholars have shifted the focus to two different social science disciplines, psychology and sociology, to create theoretical frameworks to explain the process of opportunity recognition. In other words, the entrepreneurial opportunity recognition process can be investigated from personal cognitive framework and social context. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to review the literature and investigate the antecedents of entrepreneurial opportunity recognition.
M10|Research Trend Analysis for Supply Chain Management Using Topic Modeling|The aim of this study is to analyze the research trend for supply chain management(SCM). The supply chain management is a cross-disciplinary research field and challenges to research SCM are increasing due to the rapid development of information system.Topic modeling analyzes the words of the original texts to discover the topics and latent Dirichlet allocation(LDA) groups research papers in several relevant topics and finds the hidden topics in the literature. We collected research papers on the SCM from following scientific database: ACM Digital Library, EBSCO, IEEE Xplore, ScienceDirect, Scopus, Springer Link, and Web of Science. Among them we analyze the abstract of the papers and identify the topic trends in the field of SCM. The major findings will be discussed in the Conference in details.
M10|Investigating Perceptions of U.S. Millennial Buyers Versus Non-Buyers of Green Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) across Product Categories|Millennials or Generation Y (born between the early 1980s and the early 2000s) play a considerable role in driving the growth of consumer-packaged-goods (CPG) consumption. In the U.S. alone, millennials account for a quarter of the U.S. population with about $10 trillion in lifetime buying power and are estimated to spend $65 billion on CPGs over the next decade. Even though millennials often claim to support green products and movements that do not harm environment, the truth is quite different in their actions. To gain insights into this group, our study aims to examine the differences between millennial buyers (defined as those who have purchased green CPGs in the past 3 months) and non-buyers (those who have not purchased green CPGs in the past 3 months) of green CPG products on their perceptions of the role of different marking efforts which would increase the likelihood of purchase across four major green household CPG categories (food, health care/cosmetics, cleaning products, and other household products).Our online study surveyed 1,403 millennials from a small private Midwestern US college, which represent the defined demographic profile and are less likely to be biased comparing to those from either US coast which are more likely to be environmentally conscious. The results obtained from a final valid sample of 380 revealed the statistically significant differences between the buyer and the non-buyer groups in most factors. The results also demonstrated that the buyer groups were likely to agree with the statements that firms? marketing efforts have positive roles in their purchases. Additionally, the results shed lights on the areas that may aid marketers to convert non-buyers to become buyers. For examples, the results disclosed that both groups believe that green products are somewhat (food) to well (health care/cosmetic products) promoted and are available at supermarkets (cosmetic products.) The results also showed that both groups are likely to purchase if the green CPGs are produced by a trusted brand (cleaning products and other household products), are known for its health and wellness benefits (cleaning and other household products) and are healthier options (other household products).This study not only adds new insights into the growing body of literature to understand the difference between millennial buyers and non-buyers of green CPGs, it also provides additional angles in helping marketers to highlight important elements or adapt their practices to meet the demand of both buyers and non-buyers of green CPGs.
M10|The Business Intelligence Model Validation|Due the lack of relevant frameworks into Business Intelligence (BI) research there is need for building new theoretical frameworks for intelligence activities to enable more effective information management and decision making. This presentation shall illustrate the part of survey results related for multi-scale Ph.D. Research study to define and measure the constructs to validate a model for the Connection of the Business Intelligence to Corporate Strategy and Corporate Value. The maximization strategy generally involves making sound financial investment decisions by taking into consideration any risk factors that would compromise or out-weight the anticipated benefits. The survey covers non-financial indicators influence for corporate wealth maximization. The purpose is to analyze the model that investigates Business Intelligence Systems by covering factors of system quality and information quality to attain success in Business Intelligence implementation and Corporate Value. The presented part of survey was implemented in Germany (2018) and scientific analyzes (PLS) covers empirically test of the critical value factors. Presentation summarizes the results of the authors' research on Business Intelligence System Quality and Information Quality and their use in context of Corporate?s strategy and Value.
M10|Interpretive Structural Modeling Of Lean Principles To Retailing Businesses|Lean principles and its tools have been successfully applied to manufacturing and operations environments. The associated research literature and case studies have been published extensively. However, the same cannot be said for Lean principles to the retailing business. As such, the aim of this paper is to determine the indicators of the Lean principles toward retailing business in which the Lean principles should be focused. Interpretive structural modelling (ISM) and Matriced? Impacts Croise?s Multiplication Appliquée a UN Classement (MIMAC) are used to develop the hierarchical structure of the relationships among Lean principles, and to analyses characteristics power of each Lean principles in applying to retailing businesses. The relationships and characteristics power of each Lean principles are used to determine indicators that are effective in improving retailing businesses. Results indicate that continuous improvement for customer value is an importance practices in enhancement of retailing businesses. This presents the understanding the Lean principles implementing in the retailing businesses. Further research is required to acquire more inputs from expert panel across range of the retail businesses.
M10|Competences required for environmentally responsible managers - a European perspective|The main purpose of this paper is to identify the competences required for environmentally responsible managers in sustainable supply chain management. The proposed paper will analyze skills needed for green management. Along with theoretical study it will present the research results of the international TrainERGY project (http://www.trainergy-project.eu/) aimed at promoting green thinking among enterprises and academics across four European countries: Poland, United Kingdom, Italy and Greece. The findings of the research cover the differences between countries in terms of managers? environmental skills presence index which is a measure representing presence of particular skills in the surveyed companies. It also highlights the essential directions of a design and a content of the current and future environmental education and practice.
M10|Lean Practices in some Divisions of the Hungarian SME Sector|A strong economy does not exist without an internationally competitive SME sector. But the resources of the SME sector and its management skills are often also limited. By developing this skills, the limited resources available can be utilized more efficiently, so the competitiveness of the companies could be improved.The lean approach as an attitude, common sense, does not require excessive resources, so they can be useful in the SME sector.This study analyses, how deeply the lean thinking are present in some division of the Hungarian SME sector, and make some comparisons between the divisions. A structured questionnaire was used for data collection. SMEs? representatives, mostly CEOs and managers from some divisions of the Hungarian manufacturing industry participated in the survey.Out of the results it shows that the level of the lean usage is low among the Hungarian SMEs, so there are development reserves in the usage of lean practices. Strengthening thinking in processes beyond the factory, employee involvement and related leadership development can lead to efficiency gains, but it is important to note that without external experts a wider improvement is not expected. This requires a change of leadership, and state incentives are needed to accelerate thisThe background of the research method was created to fit the available literature so that to be able to be used in other countries. With that, the available information basis can be expanded with a regional dimension, in case further studies are made.
M10|Management of organization and managing people ? examples of best practice in the Czech Republic|Based on the authors? scientific cooperation and research results the goal of the paper is to analyse approaches of organizational management and compare some examples of best practice in managing people in the Czech Republic. Modern approaches to managing people and developing organizations defines the concept of management, characterizes the role, functions, competencies and motivation of managers and presents the current generation of managers and are based on management competency, motivation and flexible adaptability. Paper summarizes the results of the authors' research on management and organization in terms of managing and leading people in organizations and managing and developing of organizations. The paper provides results of authors´ surveys on the problematic of management organization and managing people in SME Czech organizations in profit and non-profit sector. The paper aims to answer the following question: What are the similarities and differences in managing people processes in profit and non-profit organization? The results show some interesting tendencies mainly in approaches to the management, competence, development and training and evaluation processes.
M10|Deconstruction of Absorptive Capacity and Its Applications|Absorptive Capacity (ACAP) is a central construct in several areas of organization studies, e.g., strategic management, new product development, and organizational learning. The most prominent objective dimensions of ACAP are the exploratory learning?acquisition and assimilation of knowledge, transformative learning?maintaining the acquired knowledge over time, and exploitative learning?applying such knowledge to achieve superior performance (Garud & Nayyar, 1994; Lichtenthaler, 2009; Zahra & George, 2002). Recently, much has been investigated on the effect of these well-established dimensions of ACAP on firms? innovation and performance. Yet, despite a few attempts (e.g., Matusik & Heely, 2005; Vasudeva & Anand, 2011), existing literature stops short of offering other dimensions of ACAP, especially the dimensions that could represent managerial perceptions of the construct?s attributes. Quite likely, organizations? failure to understand the managerial perceptions of ACAP or effectively anticipate it in their routines may account in part for loss of their organizational and individual learning, thereby diminishing their future economic performance. In addition, there is limited research on a marketing context of ACAP though market knowledge is also a critical component of a firm?s ACAP. In seeking to address these shortcomings, this study intends to explore, clarify, and explicate other plausible dimensions of ACAP while extending the scope of ACAP beyond technology-related context. The study offers an exploratory study, using in-depth interview and online survey, to both qualitatively and quantitatively investigate the richness and multidimensionality of the concept including its implications on firms? knowledge creation outcomes from managerial viewpoints.
M10|Dertimining The Relationship Between Transformational Leadership And Risk Management In The Retail Bank|Risk Management is one of the most challenges facing the banking industry, after 2008 financial crisis the banking industry has become one of the heavily regulated industries. This study is intending to determine the association between transformational leadership and risk management. This was a cross-sectional study conducted among 42 employees who were working at the retail bank. Census sampling method was used to select the samples. Data were collected using self-administered questionnaire. The present study found that most of participants perceive themselves as transformational leaders, however strongly believe in transactional leadership style. Results revealed that there was a significant relationship between transformational leadership and risk management. It is recommended that managers adopt the transformational leadership style to improve followers? performance. The study can assist bank managerial employees to apply the relevant style when dealing with their followers to mitigate risk in the bank. Efficient risk management depends on the effectiveness of the leader.
M10|The Microfinance Industry|In this presentation the current stage of the microfinance industry will be described. The microfinance industry has increased drastically over the last few decades. It began as a handful of institutions in the late 1970´s but is now a growing market with thousands of institutions. Most of the microfinance institutions are in the developing countries, particularly in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. Recently, however, microfinance institutions are being established in the developed world. In addition in the presentation, a history of past failure of subsidized loans is explained. Different but important contributions from Stiglitz and Yunnus are accounted for. Finally, the microfinance industry´s current state and potential future growth will be described.
M10|Women - The Microfinance Industry in the past, present and towards the future|In this presentation the stage of the microfinance industry in Iceland will be accounted for. Short introduction of the industry in Iceland will be made. Many microfinance institutions have been set up in the developing world causing great success in decreasing poverty in the area. The popularity in these institutions have ben noticed in the developed world and now, many microfinance institutions have been established in the developed west, including in Iceland. While the situation is not the same in Iceland as in the developed world, I will try to answer the following question ,,have the microfinance institutions in Iceland brought prosperity to their borrowers or are they worse off after taking microfinance loans??.
M10|The relationships among different types of market knowledge, ambidextrous learning, and different types of innovations|In the knowledge economy era, both academia and industry alike have been focused on the impact of market knowledge on innovation performance. However, research addressing the inconsistencies in empirical findings about its impact (such as a negative or insignificant affect) is scarce. Moreover, ambidexterity (exploratory learning/exploitative learning) is one of the central topics in knowledge management. This article marks the first endeavor to adopt the knowledge-based theory and the ambidextrous learning perspective, attempt to create a theoretical framework of knowledge-learning-innovation, and thoroughly examine related causal relationships between different dimensions of the constructs. The empirical results demonstrated the following: market knowledge depth directly and positively impacts process innovation and product innovation; market knowledge breadth indirectly and positively impacts process innovation and product innovation; and there is no significant difference in the effects of the two types of knowledge on the two types of innovation performance. Ambidextrous learning directly and positively affects process innovation and product innovation; ambidextrous organizational learning mediates the effect of market knowledge breadth on process innovation and product innovation, and this mediating effect is more pronounced with exploitative learning; ambidextrous organizational learning does not mediate the effect of market knowledge depth on both types of innovation performance.
M10|Demographic And Personality Differences In Digital Consumer Behavior: A Study Of Indian Consumer|Digital buying behavior is now the most used method by Indian consumer for shopping. Indian consumer who was reluctant and skeptical of online purchases until half a decade ago has taken a major leap towards digital buying. India, being second most populous country in the world is definitely a huge market even if ninety percent of us may not buy products online. This ten percent digital consumers are enough to give big business to companies selling their products online and the selling platforms. Since this explosive digital buying behavior is very recent for India as a digital market, there is urgent need to understand the digital consumer behavior of Indian customer. In this context the present study was conducted to see how consumer with different types of personality and demographic differences differ on their frequency of online purchase, types of products purchased, type of websites preferred to purchase online, preferred mode of payment, attraction of online offers, and reasons to prefer online purchase over traditional go market behavior. The study was conducted on a sample of 160 respondents from various regions of India. The results of this research reveals that digital consumer behavior in India is affected by demographic factors like Gender, Age, Marital Status and Personality factors like Agreeableness, Conscientiousness and Open to Change. The paper discuss the implications of these differences with respect to Indian digital market.
M10|Cultural convergence or divergence?|The paper explores implications of implementation of contemporary market economy and company management in countries with significantly different national cultures comparing to those in which they emerged. In such countries a dilemma occurs: should national culture be adjusted to economic system and management or should just the opposite be done? The consequence in the first option is the process of convergence, while the consequence in the second option is the process of divergence of national cultures. The paper suggests that Serbia should choose and implement the strategy of crossvergence, that is, to simultaneously adjust the system of market economy and management on the one hand, and national culture on the other. The paper also analyses the roles that the Government, company managers and, especially, academic researchers and teachers should play in the process of crossvergence.
M10|New trends in control(-ling): qualitative analysis of results|Internal controlling represents all control activities, which are performed within a certain system. In addition to this approach, there is also an approach relates to the motivation of the individual and the popular practical financial approach, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives. Since three meanings of one term may be counterproductive, we will recommend a slight change. Controlling might be influenced by accounting, social control and cybernetics, yet it is still the least researched function of management. During the expansion of the economy, this function of management can hide, but it is very well prepared to intervene if the economic cycle turns into a recession or any kind of crisis appears on the horizon. In Europe, control was associated with investigation, accusation and subsequent punishment and therefore it has negative associations. This paper does not use the term controlling in the German meaning that understands it as a subsystem of management and considers the participation of a controller as a key factor.Based on a questionnaire survey from the turn of 2016 and 2017 we are determining new trends in internal controlling. In addition to quantitative responses, we have analyzed in previous papers, we conclude this research with the analysis of qualitative responses. As these data offer a deeper insight into the issues of individual questions, the aim of this paper is to evaluate them. Additionally, in various parts of the paper, we indicate new knowledge about the management function of controlling.
M10|Two controlling terms: half a century of quiet coexistence|The word control originates from Latin and is currently a popular expression in all European languages. During its development, it gained different meanings. In some cases, the key aspect was comparison, in other corrective action. The German term ?controlling? was put into use in early seventies in business economy, which marks the date of birth of the parallel use of the two terms of controlling. Due to certain conditions, this problem has been hidden. Currently the translation of the German term into English can cause problems. The aim of this conceptual paper is to highlight the issue of using the term controlling in Europe by analyzing the available literature and to propose a possible solution of the problem.
M10|Being There: The Role of Mindfulness in the Entrepreneurial Process|The construct of mindfulness has attracted the attention of multiple scientific disciplines. However, research on mindfulness in the field of entrepreneurship remains limited. Research findings suggest that mindfulness through its temporal orientation and wide attentional breadth influences different aspects of cognitions and emotions and is beneficial and cost-effective in a dynamic rather than static environment. Extending these findings to entrepreneurship, I suggest that mindfulness has implications in entrepreneurship because of the environment in which entrepreneurs work and the tasks they usually perform. I propose a theoretical framework for understanding the role of mindfulness in the entrepreneurial process.
M10|The Review of Language Studies in International Business: Suggestions and Future Directions for Japan|We conduct a systematic and narrative review of the literature in the area of language studies in international business (IB). Our contributions seek to outline the research of language in IB both in Western countries and in Japan. Moreover, we aim to open up the debate of language studies in IB in Japan as the most important contribution; we offer suggestions for future research in Japan based on prior studies and discuss managerial implications for Japanese corporations. The pertinent literature we use in this paper is based on chronological and categorical turns, by dividing language studies in IB into three stages: infancy, toddler and preschool stages.
M10|Language diversity impact on the self-efficacy of members in multicultural teams|This study aims to analyze language diversity in teams, especially in what concerns its impact on each member’s self-efficacy. Even though self-efficacy is a traditional concept in organizational behavior literature and there is a growing interest in the impact of language in the organizational context, research about the connections between both sides is lacking. This research deals with this gap, covering as well language fluency, cultural intelligence and extraversion. The answer to the research questions is based on an on-line survey to 240 university students, having participated in multicultural teams. The statistical analysis conclude that language diversity has no clear impact in self-efficacy, however fluency in the vehicular languages of teams has. Fluency has a bolder impact in self-efficacy of team members, when language diversity is higher, and when each member’s cultural intelligence and extraversion levels are higher as well. These conclusions driven by such connections may provide managers with sound enlightenments about the importance of language diversity in their multicultural teams and mainly on fluency in the vehicular languages of these teams.
M10|Ability, Openness, and Managerial Decision Making|Impact of the ability and the degree of openness of a manager on decision making is studied. Whether a more able manager increases or decreases the effort of a subordinate depends on the relative quality of information. Greater openness is a two-edged sword: it increases the likelihood that more information will be employed, but it reduces the manager’s incentive to expend effort on obtaining better information. A more open manager is more desirable when the position is relatively more important or the prior information is not very accurate. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2009
M10|Some Notes on the Concept of Social Capital: A Review of Perspectives, Definitions and Measurement|This paper delves into various perspectives – philosophical, sociological, economic and financial / business or oganisational - in literature on the concept of social capital. It presents a review of the definitions in broad literature categorised under various perspectives. While doing so, the focus ultimately narrowed down to definitions of social capital in business or organisational studies.
M10|Inequality, Inc|To engage with inequality, I explore how corporate governance theory is based on inherently contingent ideas of the legal and organizational structuring of the modern public corporation in a corporate ‘architecture’, and how these contingent ideas affect the distribution of privileges, protections and proceeds to different types of actors. I argue that the currently dominant corporate governance theory ignores a specific corporate architecture that provided internal and external legitimacy to the modern public corporation by embedding a set of trade-offs between constituent groups and cementing those trade- offs into a broader institutional setting. Ignoring this architecture leads to the redirection of the privileges and protections embodied in the modern corporation to the exclusive benefit of an implicit coalition of market value-oriented shareholders and managers, while the risks to all other actors, interests and timeframes are relegated to the status of ‘externalities’. I explore how a focus on contingent conceptions of the modern corporation and of corporate governance provides an organizational-level explanation for growing inequality with which existing sectoral and state-centric approaches and means for engagement can be complemented.
M10|The effectiveness of Feminine and Masculine Leadership styles in relation to contrasting gender's performances|This paper focuses on the impact and effectiveness of feminine and masculine styles of leadership on contrasting genders in four different economies namely; India, Canada, Pakistan, and United Kingdom's IT Sector. By combining probability and non-probability sampling techniques, the data has been gathered from 248 respondents via semi-structured 5-points scale survey questionnaire. The findings have shown that employees irrespective gender are significant positively affected by feminine leadership style. Additionally, in developing countries; Pakistan and India there is significant use of feminine leadership while developed economies namely; Canada and the UK have higher preference for masculine leadership style. Nevertheless, overall male workers do not have higher preference to work under masculine leadership style while females have higher preference for both masculine and feminine leadership styles. Interestingly, feminine style of leadership is highly demonstrated by males in Pakistan while in other three economies, it is exhibited by female line-managers. Moreover, female line-managers in the UK have shown higher masculine style of leadership in contrast to other economies. There is significant positive relationship between style of leadership and contrasting genders in distinctive economies. Additionally, feminine leadership style is more effective than the masculine leadership style. Feminine leaders demonstrate higher people-orientation and participative style of management whereas masculine leaders rely on task-orientation and autocratic style.
M10|Impact of firms capabilities on outsourcing success : Evidences from Pakistan|This study is going to analyze the impact of Firm’s Capabilities on Outsourcing Success; Evidences from Pakistan. A conceptual framework has been composed determinants of Outsourcing success. A questionnaire survey was conducted to obtain data from selected Organizations of about 180 respondents and their responses were further tested on SPSS software by applying different statistical techniques. Results concluded that IT Capabilities, Collaboration Participation, and Information Sharing have a significant positive impact on Outsourcing Success. Whereas, Vendor Management Capabilities has not significant impacted on Outsourcing Success. It is recommended that supplier visibility as well as control of information sharing would enhance the vendor’s performance
M10|The Funding Gap and the Financing of Small and Medium Businesses: An Integrated Literature Review and an Agenda|Small and medium businesses contribute to the economies of developed and developing countries. However, they face constraints that are very different from large businesses. Chief amongst these constraints is access to finance. This paper provides an integrated review of the literature on the financing of small and medium businesses. Applying a qualitative critical context text analysis, the authors explore extant studies and identify the major themes and the different literature streams on small and medium business financing. The paper concludes by providing suggestions for future research from the gaps identified in the literature.
M10|Control(-ling): Known/Unknown|Controlling – a very powerful word. When someone hears it, he/she feels influence and power. Controlling is an English word; unfortunately it isn‘t used just in the English language. When you hear this word, you might have the feeling that everything is clear to you. In fact, it is not all that clear. You have to ask yourself what language you are speaking currently and where in the world you are. You may have learned that controlling is not control. And also that control is something bad. In reality, however, the world of control is not so simple and this fact is closely related, among other things, to the history of the word control. Control itself in the management has different approaches, including in particular the Western and Eastern one, but also internal control can take on different meanings. The purpose of this paper is to point to various myths in the management function of control and to clarify some terms that are often misused. It is based on our long-term research of the management function of control.
M10|How Social Capital, Supply Chain Integration, and Customer Loyalty Affect Performance|This study identifies a common variable from supplier to consumer within the firms and supply chains of the Northeastern United States. Social capital appears to be significant from supply chain all the way to the consumer. Retail firms and consumers within the Northeast were chosen as the diversity of cultures and population density were ideal to provide the 405 participant population in this study. The study argues that social capital mediates the relationship between supply chain integration and firm performance within the supply chain. Findings were similar to that of previous works in the manufacturing and service industries; however, the results of this study were unique as they directed the focus of the research instruments on the retail industry.
M10|"Устойчиво производство и потребление – ролята на стандартизацията, ИК “Ран-Р”, София, 2018 (Sustainable production and consumption - the role of standardization, Ed. ""Ran-R"", Sofia, 2018)<BR>[Sustainable production and consumption - the role of standardization, Ed. ""Ran-R"", Sofia, 2018]"|"In 2015, the UN New Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 was adopted and seventeen global goals were developed integrating the economic, environmental and social dimensions of sustainable development. Goal 12 is defined as ""Ensuring Sustainable Consumption and Production Patterns"" (UN Global Goals 2030). It has a central role to play in tackling global consumption of resources and the environmental impacts associated with it, as well as numerous social and economic problems. The promotion of sustainable patterns of consumption and production and sustainable lifestyle is linked to the creation of policies involving a large number of stakeholders which in turn will offer innovative policy solutions to sustainable development problems. Against the backdrop of a variety of policy initiatives at international, European and national level, there is a need in Bulgaria for policies encouraging sustainable production and consumption. Standards have the potential to play a significant role in these processes, amid a wide range of regulations and existing social norms relating to sustainable consumption and production. A number of authors emphasize that the current development of standardization builds on its conventional focus on technical facilities or systems with the inclusion of social and environmental themes (Bistro and Klintman, 2011, Brunsson and Jacobson, 2000, Busch, 2000, Tamm Hallstrom, 2008). They support the idea that standardization emerges as a common new form of regulation in today's globalized world alongside traditional legislation and social norms (Bostrom and Klintman, 2011; Brunsson and Jacobson, 2000). In their entirety, standards build a ""new institutional infrastructure"" for organizational sustainability and social responsibility (Rasche 2015; Waddock, 2008). The monograph aims to identify the mechanisms by which standards support the implementation of sustainable patterns of consumption and production. In order to achieve the stated objective, the study examines the problems posed both theoretically and by providing a solid empirical material oriented to the Bulgarian organizations in their national context. The monographic work addresses current issues of sustainable consumption and production patterns through voluntary standardization mechanisms as ""soft"" regulatory instruments - an area still under-researched on a national and regional scale. The presented studies are among the few similar analyses in this field. They concern issues related to the management models of Bulgarian organizations placed under regulatory pressure in the field of environmental protection and social responsibility and the uncertain choice of the voluntary approaches proposed by international and European standards. At the same time, these studies also look at Bulgarian consumers who have the right to ""be heard"" in the development and implementation of government policies, laws and standards for sustainable consumption and production. The publication is a result of the author's constant interest in the scientific study of the problems of sustainable development in the country in the last ten years. The research work, both individual and joint in a team of fellow researchers – the University of National and World Economy - Sofia is manifested in the implementation of numerous projects, establishing cooperation and membership in the thematic networks in the field of sustainable consumption and production. The monograph could help all those interested in sustainable consumption and production problems - from Bulgarian consumers searching for their sustainable behaviour patterns, non-governmental organizations and consumer associations, through business organizations, certification and training organizations and reaches the state institutions setting out the policies and tools for implementation of these models."
M10|Pengaruh Disiplin Kerja, Komitmen Organisasi Dan Pelatihan Terhadap Kinerja Yang Berdampak Kepada Prestasi Kerja<BR>[The Effect Of Work Discipline, Organizational And Training Commitments To Performance That Impact To Work Achievement]|This research is based on several variables that can affect the performance and achievement of teachers in SMA Negeri 1 Kelapa. After conducting a field survey, the authors finally determined some variables that could affect the performance as well as job performance in SMA Negeri 1 Kelapa, ie work discipline, organizational commitment and training This study aims to examine the discipline of work, organizational commitment and training on performance that impact teacher work performance in SMA Negeri 1 Kelapa. Methods in this study using survey methods and questionnaires to all respondents who numbered 42 people. This research uses quantitative analysis to primary data on field survey results. The result of this research is known that, firstly, the influence of simultaneously variable of work discipline, organizational commitment and training on teacher performance. Second, the partial influence of work discipline variables on performance. Third, the partial influence of organizational commitment variable on performance. Fourth, the partial influence of training variable on performance. Fifth, the partial influence of the performance variable on work performance.
M10|Pengaruh Kualitas Pelayanan, Citra Rumah Sakit Dankepercayaan Terhadap Kepuasan Pasien Dan Implikasinya Pada Loyalitas Pasien<BR>[Effect Of Service Quality, Hospital And Trust Image On Patient Satisfaction And Its Implications In Patient Loyalty]|This study aims to examine service quality, hospital image and trust in patient satisfaction and its implications for patient loyalty. By using a sample of 136 patients in the dental polyclinic of PT Bakti Timah Hospital in Pangkalpinang, this study used a structural equation model to test the causality between latent variables in accordance with those hypothesized. The results showed that the variables of service quality, hospital image, the trust had a significant effect on patient satisfaction. The variables of hospital and trust image have the greatest influence on satisfaction. The results of the study are expected to add variables beyond service quality, hospital image, and organizational trust. Subsequent research can broaden the scope of the study to either the variable or the scope of the study so that a full portrait of the patient's perception in Pangkalpinang Bakti Timah Hospital will be seen as a whole
M10|Divulgações de informações e o efeito no retorno de ações da maior empresa de educação listada na B3 (Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão)<BR>[Information disclosures and the effect on the return of stocks of the largest education company listed on B3 (Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão)]|O mercado é eficiente se novas informações relevantes causarem variação no retorno das ações. As ações podem ser afetadas por eventos e isso pode causar oscilações. A pesquisa analisa a reação do mercado à divulgação de informações sobre a maior instituição de educação listada na B3. Foi utilizado o estudo de eventos para confrontar o comportamento do retorno das ações no período de 30 de setembro 2015 a 30 de setembro de 2017. A pesquisa parte da teoria de mercado eficiente. As informações selecionadas foram distribuídas em grupos, sendo: A - Divulgação dos resultados trimestrais; B - Operações de compra e venda de participações; C - Mudanças relacionadas ao Financiamento Estudantil. Os resultados evidenciaram que a reação que caracterizou o fator mercado eficiente foi identificada no Grupo C, em parte corroborada pelo comportamento do preço da ação.
M10|The Influence of Islamic Governance on Minimizing Non-Compliance with Sharia|Objective - One of the operational objectives of sharia banks is to comply with sharia principles. Therefore, the non-compliance of sharia banks to sharia law may be prevented by implementing Islamic Good Corporate Governance (GCG), which is controlled by the Sharia Supervisory Board (SSB), the board of directors, and the board of management. Methodology/Technique - In this study, sharia non-compliance is defined as all cases of disobedience found in the report of sharia banks, covering things such as non-halal income, criminal law violations, civil law violations, and fraud. The unit of analysis of this research is sharia banks in Indonesia. Seven sharia banks were used as the study sample for the period between 2012 and 2015. The source of data for this study comprised of GCG annual reports. The data analysis method and hypothesis testing was conducted using a factor analysis and multiple regression analysis. Findings - The findings show that higher levels of supervision from the SSB tend to minimize the instanc of sharia non-compliance as a whole, criminal and civil law violations, and fraud, although not to a level that is statistically significant. The influence of the board of management on non-halal income was negative, although statistically insignificant. The influence of the supervision from both the board of directors and the board of management on overall sharia non-compliance is also not statistically significant. Novelty - The influence of the board of management on non-halal income was negative, although statistically insignificant. The influence of the supervision from both the board of directors and the board of management on overall sharia non- compliance is also not statistically significant.
M10|Accrual Basis Landscape: The Absence of Political Will in Preventing Dysfunctional Behaviour in Indonesia|Objective - This research aims to reveal the failure of accrual accounting to create good governance and clean government in local governments in Indonesia. Additionally, the research seeks to examine the increase in accrual based rapid growth in Indonesia and the instance of corruption among government officials. Methodology/Technique - In connection with this objective, the study explains the practical perspective of political intervention during the adoption of accrual accounting and examines the role of the community in the implementation of accrual accounting using a critical phenomenology method. Findings - The findings of this study show that accrual-based accounting encourages deviant behaviour within the public sector and hence, good governance and clean government cannot be achieved. Accrual basis in this regard becomes a means for actors to conceal fraud by exploiting the weaknesses of accrual-based accounting to allow for creative accounting. Novelty - This study uses a qualitative method to describe the implementation of accrual-based accounting in local governments in Indonesia, which is a new approach to this phenomenon.
M10|Restoration of Budget Control: How It Should Be? A Case Study of the Local Government of Indonesia|"Objective - This research aim is to examine the phenomenon of budget control and deviant behavior in order to answer the question: ""how should budget control in the government sector be in order to effectively prevent deviant behavior such as budgetary slack?"" The study focuses on local governments in Indonesia, where such controls have not been able to combat budgetary slack, which has led to widespread corruption. Methodology/Technique - This study uses the Habermas method to criticize budgetary control practices that continue in the present day. Findings - By creating a public space over localized wisdom-based control, known as an informal control system, the weakness of formal control systems in overcoming budgetary slack with be reduced. Novelty - This study takes a critical approach, while most previous studies have adopted a positivistic approach or an interpretative study."
M10|Capital Policy on Firm's Profitability: A Case of the Thai Agro and Food Industry|Objective - The objectives of this research include: (1) to identify working capital investment policy and working capital financing policy, (2) to study the effect of working capital investment policy on profitability, and (3) to study the effect of working capital financing policy on profitability. Methodology/Technique - 41 firms in the agro-food industry listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand are examined in this study. Secondary data was collected and analyzed within a 5-year period between 2013-2017. Findings - The results show that the most frequently employed working capital investment policy is the aggressive approach (46.30%), and the most frequently employed financial policy is the moderate approach (82.90%). According to the inferential statistics, it is concluded that: (1) profitability is significantly affected by the choice of working capital investment policy and a moderate investment policy results in the greatest profitability, and (2) profitability is not affected by the choice of working capital financing policy. Novelty - As a result, firms should focus on the selection of a moderate working capital investment policy when seeking to maximize profits. On the other hand, any type of working capital financing policy (aggressive, conservative, or moderate approach) is appropriate.
M10|Telecommunication Sector Reform in Southeast Asia: A New Rationality|Objective - The telecommunications industry in Southeast Asia continues to grow, as evidenced by the market penetration that continues to increase from 3.8% in 2000 to 71.1% in 2017. However, although the number of subscribers and revenue from telecommunication operators continued to grow between 2008 to 2017, the data shows that the EBITDA margin and ARPU value decrease with the growth rate (CAGR) -1.12% and -4.42%. Methodology/Technique - This study measures and analyzes the efficiency of 14 operators in Southeast Asia between 2008 to 2017 by using the Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) method. Findings - The results show that of the 14 telecom operators examined, Telkomsel (Indonesia) was the most efficient operator with an efficiency value of 0.97 and contributed from subscriber and revenue output variables which far exceeded the average of other operators. The most efficient telecommunication companies thereafter were StarHub (Singapore) and SingTel (Singapore) with an efficiency rating of 0.96 and 0.95 as represented from ARPU output variables that far exceeded the average of other operators. Novelty - True Move operators became the telecommunication companies with the lowest efficiency because the value of its output variables (subscribers, revenue and ARPU) was far below average and did not show any positive correlation to its efficiency value.
M10|Model of Strengthening the Entrepreneurship Character through Entrepreneurship Commitment|Objective - This study aims to determine the relationship between entrepreneurship character with entrepreneurship commitment. Methodology/Technique - 87 randomly selected undergraduate students studying Business Economics at the As-Syafi'iyah Islamic University Jakarta are surveyed and the data is analyzed using descriptive analysis, correlation and regression methods. Findings - The results show that entrepreneurship commitment has a strong positive influence on entrepreneurship character (0.66). Entrepreneurship commitment is therefore an important instrument to strengthen the character of entrepreneurship. Further, strengthening the character of entrepreneurship can be predicted by entrepreneurship commitment using a simple regression model: Y = 0,658 + 0,823 X. Novelty - In addition, the contribution of entrepreneurship commitment towards the formation of character of entrepreneurship is 44%, with factors such as discipline, perseverance, honesty, fighting power etc. contributing the remaining 56%.
M10|Emotional Intelligence and Job Performance of Accounting Students Undertaking Internships|Objective – This paper investigates the influence of emotional intelligence on job performance among accounting students undertaking Student Internships. Methodology/Technique – This study adopts a quantitative research approach, using questionnaires to collect data. The study examines accounting students at Sebelas Maret University. The sample consists of 201 participants who were selected using a purposive method, from the final year students studying Accounting (Undergraduate and Diploma Programs) at Sebelas Maret University. Regression analysis is used to examine the relationship between emotional intelligence and job performance in accounting students. Findings – The results show that emotional intelligence has a positive influence on job performance among students undertaking internships. Further analysis suggests that the ability to motivate oneself and build meaningful relationships are the most important variables in explaining the relationship between emotional intelligence and job performance of students undertaking internships. Novelty – This research contributes to emotional intelligence literature by providing meaningful management implications to the university administrators in the Indonesian higher education system.
M10|The Effect of Compensation on the Performance of Police Hospital Employees in Bandung, Indonesia|Objective – The aim of this research is to test the correlation between the compensation variable to the performance of police hospital employees. The increasing trend of hospital patients in 2012 and 2013 indicates that competition among hospitals, particularly public hospitals, has increased. Therefore, as a hospital belonging to the classification of public hospitals, Bhayangkara Lv.(level) II Sartika Asih Bandung hospital should be able to improve its performance in order to compete with other public hospitals. Methodology/Technique – Overall achievement of performance objectives is still below target among hospitals, and the average performance on Bhayangkara Lv. II Sartika Asih Bandung hospital is no exception. This research uses descriptive research to examine 77 Bayangkara Lv.II Sartika Asih Bandung Police Hospital employees using proportional stratified random sampling. The analysis used in this research is a validity test, reliability test, simple linear regression analysis, coefficient determination, and T-test. Findings – The results of the determination coefficient test showed that compensation has an effect on employee performance (23.1% of Bhayangkara Lv. II Sartika Asih Bandung Hospital employees showed improved performance as a result of compensation). Novelty – The management of Bhayangkara Lv. II Sartika Asih Bandung Hospital should pay greater attention to the types of compensation provided to employees, to increase employee performance.
M10|Strategic Leadership Style and Commitment to Service Quality on Services Innovation in Local Enterprise Water Services|Objective - This study explores and examines the theoretical framework regarding the influence of strategic leadership styles that include transformational leadership style and transactional leadership styles as well as their influence on commitment to service quality and how leadership style influences service innovation in local enterprise water services. Methodology/Technique - The number of respondents in this study were 120 employees who were selected using a purposive sampling method and were represented by each section relating to the task of serving customers. Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) is used to analyze the research data.Findings - The results show that transformational leadership style has an influence on commitment to services quality and service innovation. Novelty - Likewise, the transactional leadership style affects commitment to services quality, but it does not affect service innovation.
M10|Trust in Leadership and Affective Commitment as a Mediator between Servant Leadership Behavior and Extra-Role Behavior of Teachers|Objective - The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between trust in the leader and affective commitment as a mediator between servant leadership behavior and extra-role behavior. In addition, the study examines, whether person-organization fit has a moderating effect. Methodology/Technique - In total, 250 teachers of the border area responded to the research questionnaires, which were then analyzed using structural equation modeling with a partial least squares approach. Findings - The outputs of this study indicate an indirect influence between the principal servant leadership behaviors and extra-role behaviors among teachers, which was mediated by trust in the principal and the teacher's affective commitment to the principal. Furthermore, the results show a significant and direct relationship between servant leadership behaviors towards trust in the principal, affective commitment, and extra-role behaviors. Trust in the principal and teacher's affective commitment also had a significant and direct effect on extra-role behavior. However, the person-organization fit which moderates the effect of servant leadership behaviors on extra-role behaviors did not have a significant or direct effect on extra-role behaviors, in fact, it actually weakened the influence of servant leadership behaviors on extra-role behaviors. Novelty - The findings of this study suggest that trust in the principal and teacher's affective commitment has an important moderating effect which must be managed to strengthen the relationship between servant leadership behaviors and extra-role behaviors.
M10|The Gender Role in Local Governmental Institution (A Study of Malang Local Governmental Institution, East Java)|"Objective - This research aims to examine the issue of gender equality in nations who adopt a patriarchal value system, such as Indonesia, where the opportunity for woman to participate in government is relatively limited. The governance implemented in Indonesia, both central and local level, tend to adhere to the principles of ""Good Governance"". Inherent in these principles is the principle of gender equality, which aims to provide all citizens with the opportunity to improve and maintain their prosperity. Methodology/Technique - This research focuses on 2 main questions, namely: what is the role and position of woman in local government in Kota Malang? and what is the strategy and obstacles faced in improving the role of women? The method used in this research is descriptive research with a qualitative approach. The data was collected through documentation, interviews and observation. The data was analyzed using Miles and Huberman's interactive model, namely: data reduction, data display and conclusion. Findings - The results show that the role of woman in making public policy is limited to participation as a consulting member only, with no ability to influence the material substance of they policy. Further, it seems that illiteracy of women in the area remains high, and only a marginal number of women currently occupy higher positions in the government. Further, the election of a woman to the position of Mayor had no significant effect on the rate of gender equality. Novelty - This research suggests that there is a need for increased representation of woman in politics, either in legislative, judicative or executive branches of government, a need to develop a local rule (PERDA) to include woman in governmental affairs, the need to amend the current governmental system to a more justice-focused system, in order to support the legal system by supporting small groups and balance values and morality by increasing representation of women across all sectors."
M10|The Challenges of Recruitment and Selection Systems in Indonesia|Objective - The present study aims to describe the challenges of recruitment and selection systems encountered in Indonesia, to ultimately identify the factors influencing the rationale for recruitment and selection processes. Methodology/Technique - A case study approach is used with in-depth interview method for explaining the challenges of recruitment and selection systems applied in Indonesia. The procedure of data analysis consists of three actions that take place instantaneously: data reduction, data presentation, and drawing conclusions. Findings - The findings of this study show that an organisation can obtain qualified personnel who meet their requirements through the application of effective principles in the process of recruitment and selection, in addition to adopting the principles of clarity, planning, legal aspects, accuracy, fairness, honesty, and trust from HR. Novelty - The empirical implications of this study provide a deeper understanding of the resource-based theory. Which explains that humans, as assets of an organization, must be recruited and selected with the right procedures and processes to ensure they provide value to the organization and increase its credibility. In addition, the findings of this study can be adopted by organizations within their recruitment systems, to capture competent candidates for recruitment. Hence, the results of this study further the development of the current principle of human capital for organizations.
M10|Influence of Celebrity Credibility on Consumer Product Evaluation and Attitude Formation – A Conceptual Framework|Objective - Celebrity endorsement is considered to be one of the leading advertising strategies used by marketers to promote brands. Celebrities are the most powerful information sources which have the ability to form or change consumer attitudes. The purpose of the present study is to investigate the influence of celebrity credibility on consumer product evaluation, specifically in relation to attitude formation. Methodology/Technique - This paper presents the conceptual framework for understanding how the credibility of celebrities can influence the evaluation of products by consumers and consequently, the formation of consumer attitudes. The model is developed through an extensive review of the literature on celebrity credibility, consumer product evaluation (CPE) and attitude formation. Findings - The traits of celebrity credibility, particularly trustworthiness, expertise and attractiveness, have an important role to play in the evaluation of products by consumers. CPE occurs in a variety of ways and is influenced by, at least in part, celebrity credibility. Novelty - The model presented in this study endeavours to investigate these relationships to add to the existing body of knowledge.
M10|Educational Portals and Employee Performance in the Sultanate of Oman|Objective - This study investigates the impact of the educational portal on employee performance in the Ministry of Education (MOE) in the Sultanate of Oman. It examines employee perceptions of the benefits of the educational portal used by the MOE. The educational portal provided by the MOE is the main gateway for various types of educational related online services to users. This research focuses on the factors of educational portal services, which facilitates work, and improve employee performance. Methodology/Technique - The research adopts a quantitative methodology and collects data by means of questionnaires. Findings - The findings suggest that the educational portal technology has a positive impact on employee performance. The results also reveal that the employee performance has increased since the introduction of educational portal services compared with employee performance based on the previous manual system. Novelty - This calls for a systematic and periodic review of the educational portal services, to update the technology and accommodate for new requirements.
M10|経営者能力と財務的意思決定―投資政策・株主還元政策・現金保有―|本論文の目的は，経営者能力の観点から財務的意思決定が企業の将来業績に及ぼす影響について実証的に検討することにある。とりわけ，本研究では，Demerjian et al.（2012）で提示された経営者能力の指標を援用し，能力の高い経営者が行う財務的意思決定が当該企業の将来業績とどのように結びつくかを分析する。主な検証結果は以下のように要約される。第 1 に，能力の高い経営者が行う投資政策は将来業績と正の関係性を持つことが示され，能力の高い経営者が行う投資政策とりわけ資本的支出は将来業績を向上させるものであることが分かった。第 2 に，能力の高い経営者が行う株主還元政策は将来業績と正の関係性を持つことが示され，当該株主還元政策は将来業績に対する信頼できるシグナルとなることが示された。最後に，追加分析からは経営者の能力が高いほど保有現金が株式市場で相対的に高く評価されることが明らかとなった。以上の発見事項は，能力の高い経営者は効果的に投資を行い， そして，将来業績に関する信頼できるシグナルを資本市場に発信する傾向にあることから， 当該経営者が保有する現金は高く評価されることを示唆している。, We examine whether and how financial policies by high-ability managers relate to future performance. Many finance theories have predicted that financial policies, such as corporate investments and dividends, are function of firm-specific characteristics and that the efficacy of these policies is less relevant to managers’ characteristics. Using a measurement of managerial ability, we extend the literature by providing evidence that the outcome of financial policies differs with managerial ability. We find that (1) investments by high-ability managers are more likely to improve future performance, (2) dividends by high-ability managers are positively related to future performance, and (3) the marginal value of cash is greater for firms with high-ability managers. Our evidence sheds a new light on the effect of managerial ability on organizational outcome and the linkage between financial policies and future performance.
M10|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Administrative Sciences in 2016|The editors of Administrative Sciences would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2016.[...]
M10|Retailers’ Responsibility towards Consumers and Key Drivers of Their Development in Poland|Multinational retailers are now very powerful and their activities could influence whole economies. In this paper, we investigate why they engage in corporate social responsibility (CSR) practices towards consumers, how it fosters sustainable development, and what the role of institutions are in the process of developing CSR strategies. Changes that have taken place in Poland since 1989, when the transition process into a market economy started, constituted an excellent research field due to the fact that the retail market was not saturated at the beginning, consumers were only slightly protected by the law, and there were no institutions promoting the implementation of social responsibility standards by companies. Research involving analysis of secondary data drawn from retailers’ websites, CSR reports, and published data relating to the CSR institutions allowed the following: (1) identification of three stages of development in consumers’ conception of CSR characterized by the immoral, amoral, and moral management; (2) showing that these activities have a business case; and (3) explaining the role of institutions and competition in this process. It is also shown how multinational retailers could contribute to the sustainable development of less mature markets in which they invest.
M10|Strategy Implementation Style and Public Service Effectiveness, Efficiency, and Equity|Strategic decision-making theories suggest that organizations that combine rational and incremental strategy implementation styles are likely to perform better than those that emphasize a single style. To assess whether these arguments apply to the public sector; we explore the strategy implementation style and perceived service effectiveness, efficiency and equity of Turkish municipal government departments. Using fuzzy cluster analysis, we identify four distinctive though inter-related styles of strategy implementation in our sample organizations: logical-incremental; mostly rational; mostly incremental; and no clear approach. A logical-incremental and mostly rational style of implementation are associated with better effectiveness, efficiency and equity; with the absence of an implementation style associated with worse performance. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
M10|The Functions of a Servant Leader|Servant leadership has been researched internationally and various types of favourable individual, team, and organisational outcomes have been linked to the construct. Different servant leadership measures have been validated to date and a clear distinction has been made between the theory of servant leadership and other leadership theories. However, it seems that research on the implementation of servant leadership within an organisation is still in need. The main functions of a servant leader are not yet conceptualised in the literature to help researchers or practitioners to implement servant leadership successfully within organisations. After conducting a systematic literature review, the main functions of a servant leader were identified. These functions were clustered into strategic servant leadership and operational servant leadership and supported by servant leadership characteristics and competencies as defined by current literature. The results of this study might help practitioners to develop servant leaders more effectively and assist organisations to cultivate a servant leadership culture within companies. Limitations and future research needs are discussed.
M10|Can Servant Leaders Fuel the Leadership Fire? The Relationship between Servant Leadership and Followers’ Leadership Avoidance|This study tested the effect of servant leadership on followers’ inclinations to strive for and, in contrast, to avoid leadership responsibility. Results from a study in the health care context, including two waves of data from 222 employees, revealed that servant leadership had a small but positive effect on followers’ leadership avoidance. This effect was influenced by followers’ implicit conception of an ideal leader. Specifically, servant leadership was found to reduce leadership avoidance when the congruence with the followers’ ideal leader prototype was high. Furthermore, followers’ core self-evaluations and affective motivation to lead mediated the relationship between servant leadership and reduced leadership avoidance. Implications of these patterns for theory and practice and avenues for future research are discussed.
M10|The Impact of Heavy Perceived Nurse Workloads on Patient and Nurse Outcomes|This study investigated the relationships between seven workload factors and patient and nurse outcomes. (1) Background: Health systems researchers are beginning to address nurses’ workload demands at different unit, job and task levels; and the types of administrative interventions needed for specific workload demands. (2) Methods: This was a cross-sectional correlational study of 472 acute care nurses from British Columbia, Canada. The workload factors included nurse reports of unit-level RN staffing levels and patient acuity and patient dependency; job-level nurse perceptions of heavy workloads, nursing tasks left undone and compromised standards; and task-level interruptions to work flow. Patient outcomes were nurse-reported frequencies of medication errors, patient falls and urinary tract infections; and nurse outcomes were emotional exhaustion and job satisfaction. (3) Results: Job-level perceptions of heavy workloads and task-level interruptions had significant direct effects on patient and nurse outcomes. Tasks left undone mediated the relationships between heavy workloads and nurse and patient outcomes; and between interruptions and nurse and patient outcomes. Compromised professional nursing standards mediated the relationships between heavy workloads and nurse outcomes; and between interruptions and nurse outcomes. (4) Conclusion: Administrators should work collaboratively with nurses to identify work environment strategies that ameliorate workload demands at different levels.
M10|E-Government as an Anti-Corruption Tool: Experience from Indonesia|Objective – Transparency is promoted as one of the most important measures against corruption. E-government provides greater access to information that can subsequently increase transparency, accountability, and be used as an effective anti-corruption tool. The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between e-government and corruption. Methodology/Technique – To gain more insight, we also investigate the effect of e-procurement as one of the egovernment initiatives for tackling corruption. We use observations from local government (districts and cities) in Indonesia during the period 2012–2015. Findings – The results show that e-government implementation is associated with lower corruption. E-government reduces corruption by removing discretion, thereby curbing the opportunities for arbitrary action that often result in corruption. Novelty – Moreover, the results also show that adopting e-procurement increases transparency and accountability through increased competition among bidders and enables real-time access to information, which ultimately reduces corruption in public procurement.
M10|Religious Influences on Store Loyalty Among Grocery Shoppers In Mauritius: The Mediating Role of Trust|Objective – This paper explores the relationship between consumer religion and store loyalty, to empirically test whether this relationship can be mediated by consumer trust. This study draws its theoretical foundations from literature focused on customers interpersonal relationships with salespeople and customer trust, in particular the study by Sheth (1983) on Shopping Preference Theory. Methodology/Technique – A randomly selected sample of Mauritian grocery shoppers is used in this study. The data was collected through a telephone interview of 409 grocery shoppers. The final sample consisted of 49.4% Hindus, 17.4% Muslims and 33.2% Catholics, reflecting the religious portion of the Mauritian population. Findings – The use of regression analysis shows that religious commitment has a significant relationship with store loyalty. When trust is introduced into the model, this significant relationship becomes insignificant, demonstrating how religious commitment strongly influences trust. Research Limitations/Implications – The findings are limited to grocery shoppers in Mauritius. Generalisation of the results is achieved by broadening the context of shopping activities examined, for example, to include online shopping for durable and non-durable products. Examining a broader group of religions may also be considered. Novelty – The mediation model proposed in this study demonstrates the significance of the mediating role of trust in the relationship between consumer religious preferences and their loyalty to shops. To date, this topic has been given little attention at the retail level. These findings address the gap in the religious domain by focusing more significantly on ways to improve store loyalty through the use of trust in the retail setting, in areas where the market is highly religious.
M10|Modern Hypermarket Receiving Yard Utilization: The Implementation of a Simulation Model|"""Objective – This research is a direct observation of initial queuing, using data that is categorised into two clusters: the number of people queuing at busy hours, and processing times in the same circumstances. Methodology/Technique – The raw data was converted for use in the Poisson distribution test, as well as the Kolmogorov-Smirnov exponential distribution options. An arena simulation model was also applied to identify the vendor's waiting time and to analyse receiving yard utilization. The average waiting time according to the Poisson distribution, the average serving time per vendor by an exponential distribution, and the number of receiving yards, are all essential factors effecting the utilization of receiving yards. Findings – The study compares the length of queues, serving times, arrival rate, and time in the system using dual and single receiving yard systems. However, the utilization rate on a two receiving yards system is less than the rate on single receiving yard system. As the aim of this study is to identify the utilization rate of the receiving yard, a single receiving yard operation is more representative of modern hypermarkets, and more efficient in terms of resource efficiency. Novelty – This study depends fully on the homogeneous operating hours of the retailers' receiving yards, the type of vehicle used by vendors to unload merchandises, procedures on moving the products to the inspections phase, a generalization of the products delivered by the vendors and the size of the modern hypermarkets business itself. """
M10|The Influence of the Dimensions of Service Quality on Customer Satisfaction at Hotels in Batu City, Indonesia|"""Objective – The number of hotels in both urban or in tourism areas has increased quite rapidly. The success and sustainability of hotel businesses is largely determined by their marketing strategy and the quality of services they provide to their customers. In choosing a hotel, customers consider both the physical appearance of the hotel as well as the quality of service provided. The rapid increase in hotels in Indonesia necessarily increases competition in the hotel industry and the rules surrounding market competition become quite strict. The aim of this research is to determine the influence of the dimensions of service quality (tangibility, reliability, responsiveness, assurance, and empathy) on customer satisfaction and to identify the most dominant dimension in terms of customer satisfaction. Methodology/Technique – The research studied 110 respondents who have stayed in several hotels located in Batu, Indonesia. The data was collected using purposive sampling techniques using questionnaires. The data analysis technique used in this research was multiple linear regression analysis. Findings – Based on the results of this research, it is concluded that the dimensions of service quality (tangibility, reliability, responsiveness, assurance, empathy) have a significant influence on customer satisfaction. In addition, the service quality dimension that has the most dominant influence on customer satisfaction is assurance. Novelty – The research supported by original data and contribute to the literature in the context of Indonesia."""
M10|The Relationship between Perceived Stress, Athletic Burnout and Leisure Participation amongst Badminton Players|"Objective – This study examines the relationship between perceived stress, athletic burnout and leisure amongst badminton players. Methodology/Technique – The research subjects were all first national ranking tournament badminton players in 2012. The study uses convenience sampling to conduct a questionnaire survey. 350 questionnaires were distributed, with 288 valid questionnaires being returned (male 195, female 93). The rate of effectiveness was 82%. All of the data collected was analyzed using descriptive statistic and hierarchical regression analysis. Findings – The results show those badminton players between the ages of 19 and 21 experience higher cognitive stress. Further, badminton players who are involved in competitions at a higher level and whom have been training for a longer period of time, experience a higher athletic burnout. This means that badminton players who have higher perceived pressure will experience higher levels of burnout. Novelty – The study highlights that badminton players who participate in leisure-based activities are able to effectively adjust their perception of pressure to a ""reduced sense of accomplishment"" which has an effect on athletic burnout. Additionally, the study results give rise to variety of proposed solutions or suggestions for dealing with burnout or stress."
M10|Transformational Leadership vs Change Self-Efficacy and Its Impact on Affective Commitment to Change|Objective – It is essential for organizations in 21st century to evolve with time. In this regard, both the management and employees of an organization play an essential role in the implementation of change. One way of determining the success of organizational change is by identifying the employees' commitment to change. This research aims to identify the effect of transformational leadership (organizational factors) and employees' change self-efficacy (individual factors) on effective commitment to change, to identify which of those two factors has a more significant effect on affective commitment to change. Methodology/Technique – The respondents of this study are employees in the finance sector. The data was collected using commitment to change, change self-efficacy and transformational leadership inventories. The data was analyzed using multiple hierarchical regressions. Findings – The result show that both transformational leadership and change self-efficacy have a positive and significant effect on affective commitment to change. Furthermore, change self-efficacy proved to have a more significant effect on affective commitment to change compared to transformational leadership. Based on these results, organisations may wish to further focus on the development of change self-efficacy of individuals. Novelty – This study can be used by HR practitioners when dealing with organizational change, as a guide to improving the success of such change.
M10|Does One Size Fit All? Investigating Different Empowerment Orientations in the Heterogeneous Workforce of the Swedish Retail Sector|Empowerment research and practice is guided by the idea that empowered employees perform better due to a greater sense of self-efficacy and capability. Underlying this idea, there often seem to be two tacit, unexamined assumptions: first, that employees generally would prefer an empowered workplace to a less empowered one; and second, that all employees can be empowered by means of the same measures and changes as defined by empowerment research. The main research question asked in this study is whether those aspects typically associated with structural and psychological empowerment efforts at the workplace are indeed perceived as desirable and positive by all types of employees. Employees’ attitudes toward the success of empowerment efforts, and the relevance of such attitudes, are investigated by analyzing survey data from 268 employees in the Swedish retail sector. Results indicate that age and work intensity (part-time vs. full-time) as well as cohabitation have significant impacts on how empowerment efforts are viewed by employees in the sample.
M10|It Takes Two to Empower: The Communicative Context of Empowerment Change in the Workplace|Empowerment efforts at the workplace are typically divided into two analytical categories: social-structural and psychological empowerment. These have been extensively researched in terms of their application and handling as well as their outcome and general usefulness in human resource management. However, less research has dealt with communicative aspects of empowerment and the communicative interactions between change agents (managers) and recipients (employees) that frame empowerment efforts. To contribute to a more nuanced empowerment discourse, this paper uses a micro-/individual-oriented perspective on empowerment communication and theorizes why empowerment change efforts sometimes end up being counterproductive – leading to disempowerment rather than empowerment. As starting point for theorizing empowerment communication, a “basic communicative structure” is identified and analyzed as comprising a contractual and a communicative context, referring to conditions as outlined in written employment contracts on the one hand, and implicitly shared and understood definitions of the social employment situation on the other. Building on sociological and social-psychological theories of communicative interaction, it is argued that focusing on change agents’ and recipients’ mutual ascriptions of meanings to each other’s communicative messages might improve empowerment outcomes: A communicative analysis of common empowerment efforts suggests that recipients’ sensemaking of their roles and situations as defined by written employment and/or psychological contracts is not necessarily in line with the communicative meanings they ascribe to the change agents’ actions, and vice versa.
M10|Product Architecture and Intra-Firm Coordination: Theory and Evidence|Product architecture plays a critical role in the product development process. How does the nature of product architecture affect the quality of the product? To address this question, we make a distinction between system-level and part-level quality, and then posit the existence of a key trade-off in which greater integrality of a product’s architecture enhances its system-level quality, but produces the undesirable side-effect of increasing the degree of interdependence in component design. We hypothesize that when engineers’ coordination capability is relatively high, the former (positive) effect outweighs the latter (negative) effect so that greater integrality increases the product’s overall quality; conversely, lower coordination capability results in reduced overall quality. We find empirical support for this hypothesis by analysing a set of unique data collected through a firm-level survey administered in Japan. We also present the implications of our findings for managers making decisions about product design.
M10|Dynamic semi-parametric factor model for functional expectiles|Abstract High-frequency data can provide us with a quantity of information for forecasting and help to calculate and prevent the future risk based on extremes. This tail behaviour is very often driven by exogenous components and may be modelled conditionally on other variables. However, many of these phenomena are observed over time, exhibiting non-trivial dynamics and dependencies. We propose a functional dynamic factor model to study the dynamics of expectile curves. The complexity of the model and the number of dependent variables are reduced by lasso penalization. The functional factors serve as a low-dimensional representation of the conditional tail event, while the time-variation is captured by factor loadings. We illustrate the model with an application to climatology, where daily data over years on temperature, rainfalls or strength of wind are available.
M10|Knowledge Systematization Of The Case Study Method To Research The Family Business|The objective of this research was to identify, analyze and systematize theoretical contributions of the case study as a research method. This is done with the purpose of filling a gap in the literature about family businesses that uses such method but have not described it. To examine the issue, we created an interdisciplinary documentary research. We include aspects including concept, design typology, reliability, generalization and steps to follow in research through this method. The results provide a systematized description about the nature of the method to research family business. Finally, among other things, we conclude that such a method is useful to know in depth the intermingled reality of the family business and enrich the research and knowledge of the same.
M10|Real Estate As A Business Niche In Ensenada Baja California, Mexico, Las Empresas De Bienes Raices Como Nicho De Negocio En Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico|Real estate activity is one of the major components in the economies of countries. This was the case with the United States in its 2008 economic crisis, which was considered a principal cause of mortgage credit problems. Most commonly, the largest investment a person makes is the purchase of a house. With this constituting the family legacy, a study of the residential sector is of great importance. In Baja California, especially the city of Ensenada, the sector of real estate agencies and market consulting regarding housing developments is considered a business niche. This is based on national and state economic data, as well as on different plans and policies for economic development for the state of Baja California and the city of Ensenada. Therefore, the establishment of real estate businesses is proposed as an attractive and promising business for possible investors
M10|Causes Of Organizational Environment In A Software Development Company, Impacto Del Clima Organizacional En La Rotacion Del Personal: Evidencia En Sector Desarrollo De Software|This research conducts an analysis of the causes of organizational environment in a software development enterprise. The firm experienced a high rate of staff turnover in 2014. The primary departures were in operations staff, who work directly with customers. This turnover could effects service quality. This proposal seeks to increase productivity and customer service provided by colleagues of a software development company. It is also defined a very close relationship between the organizational environment and the staff turnover. We analyze the premise that if the organizational environment improves, staff turnover will decrease. The research analyzes staff turnover and organizational environment due to unknown reasons, or reasons beyond the control of the company. These items therefore, cannot be improved. For this reason costs of staff turnover are identified to raise awareness to senior management, so they give appropriate attention to this factor
M10|Regional Financing Of Msmes In The State Of Guanajuato, Mexico, Financiamiento Regional De Las Mipymes En El Estado De Guanajuato|This research analyzes the characteristics of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMES) financial services according to the territorial distribution of regions. We also identify aspects of geographic and economic factors of influence in the development and growth of enterprises in the state of Guanajuato, MÃ©xico. An empirical analysis was carried out through a survey of 396 MSMES randomly distributed in the regions of the State of Guanajuato during 2015. Data acquired demonstrated differences in regions due to the characteristics of financing of MSMEs across regions. Hence, these regional differences may affect the development and growth of MSMES in the State of Guanajuato, Mexico
M10|Critical Processes Of Knowledge Management: An Approach Toward The Creation Of Customer Value|The aim of this article is to contribute to the literature by identifying and analyzing possible combinations between critical knowledge management processes (absorptive capacity, knowledge transfer and knowledge application), which will result in the creation of superior customer value. The main research question this work addresses is: given that customers are demanding each day a greater value, how can organizations create more value to customers from their knowledge management processes and the combination of them? We propose that the combination of the three knowledge management processes builds a dynamic or higher-order capability that results in the creation of superior value for customers. / 0
M10|BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF PUBLICATIONS ON WINE TOURISM IN THE DATABASES Scopus and WoS|The aim of this study was to show the current state of scientific research regarding wine tourism, by comparing the platforms of scientific information WoS and Scopus and applying quantitative methods. For this purpose, a bibliometric study of the publications indexed in WoS and Scopus was conducted, analyzing the correlation between increases, coverage, overlap, dispersion and concentration of documents. During the search process, a set of 238 articles and 122 different journals were obtained. Based on the results of the comparative study, we conclude that WoS and Scopus databases differ in scope, data volume and coverage policies with a high degree of unique sources and articles, resulting both of them complementary and not mutually exclusive. Scopus covers the area of wine tourism better, by including a greater number of journals, papers and signatures. / 0
M10|Quality Management in Project Management Consulting. A Case Study in an International Consulting Company|The present paper addresses quality management from the specific perspective of project management consulting service providers, in the framework of large infrastructure projects. Because of their supposed superiority in knowledge and experience, project management consultants have an ultimate responsibility for the proper implementing of the project. Therefore, quality management in consulting organizations should focus on critical success factors. As there is no consensus yet regarding the most important aspects of the consulting activity on which depend the achievement of the project aims, there is scope for further investigating this subject. Here, the case of a project management consulting organization involved in large infrastructure projects in Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine and Serbia is analyzed. Data collected through a questionnaire-based survey among international consultants and support personnel suggest that factors related to leadership style and communication skills are more closely tied to the success of the project than more technical aspects. The results constitute an empirical evidence of main success factors for specialized consulting services in project management and can be useful in improving business and project performance and achieving business excellence.
M10|Timing of Proactive Organizational Consulting: Difference between Organizational Perception and Behaviour|The aim of this paper is to show organizational perceptions and behaviours regarding proactive search for consultancy services. Management consulting is operating primarily through the analysis of perceived and existing organizational problems, but on the other hand it could be considered as a creation of value for organizations through the application of knowledge, techniques and, assets to improve organizational performance which is in the unknown and hidden potential part of organizational Johari window. Perceptions of organization are shown through managers and consultants perceptions survey in southeast Europe region. From the other side as an empirical base of real managerial behaviours there is a database of companies which had been proactively asking for consultancy services in southeast Europe region. This research is based on Adizes Institute database, which is the reason we have introduced the Adizes Corporate Lifecycle model theory. We will show the difference of perceptions at what stage in lifecycle organizations should engage consultant help and reality, when companies actually do that. We will use data analysis results to discuss whether timing when organizations decide to proactively engage consultants is the right time for such engagement.
M10|Correlations within the EFQM Business Excellence Model by Applying a Factor Analysis|Specialists in the field of business administration have tried over time to identify those elements or combination of elements which lead to a higher performance and excellence of companies. One of these models was created and it is applied by the European Foundation of Quality Management. This model defines nine elements, divided into enablers and results. Although this model is widely used in the evaluation of businesses, empirically there are still concerns regarding the characterization and correlations between the elements of the model and the connection with the performance of a company. This article aims to determine the correlations between the elements of the EFQM model based on the results of a research conducted in a clothing company in Romania. For this, the factor analysis was applied in order to determine both the correlations between the elements of the model and in order to group them in several strategic directions. Based on the results, there were determined three strategic directions. Out of these directions, one was oriented towards the external environment of the company, one was oriented towards the internal environment and the third one towards the brain of the company, who has the vision and the strategic thinking.
M10|Integrated reporting and board features|In the last two decades the concept of sustainability reporting gained more importance in the companies’ annual reports, a trend which is embedded also in integrated reporting. Issuing an integrated report became a necessity, because the report explains to the investors how the organization creates value over time. The governance structure, more exactly the board of directors, decides whether or not the company will issue an integrated report. Thus, are there certain features of the board that might influence the issue of an integrated report? Do the companies which issue an integrated report have certain features of the governance structure? Looking for an answer to these questions, we seek for any possible correlations between a disclosure index and the corporate governance structure characteristics, on a sample from the companies participating at the International Integrated Reporting Council Examples Database. The results highlight that only the size of the board influences the extent to which the issued integrated report is in accordance with the International Framework.
M10|Organizational Performance Measurement and Evaluation Systems in Smes: The Case of the Transforming Industry in Portugal|The competitiveness of organizations depends, among other things, of their performance levels. For such, it is vitally important that they have a measurement and evaluation system that, from a set of indicators, provides them reliable information to reflect their goals and evaluate their performances. The aims of this study are: (i) to identify the most discussed approaches in the literature to evaluate the organizational performance, and (ii) to carry out a diagnosis of how small and medium enterprises with economic activity in Portugal measure and operationalize the evaluation of their performance. To meet the objectives of the study, we proceeded to the analysis of published studies in scientific journals and conducted twelve interviews in SMEs. The results indicate that, in addition to the majority of the studied organizations not having a formal process of their strategy, they also do not measure their results in an integrated system that would allow them to make an evaluation according to their strategic goals.
M10|Los conglomerados empresariales en el Ecuador: un análisis histórico, económico y político|Posiblemente una de las formas organizacionales de mayor predominio son los conglomerados empresariales, por lo que su presencia en Ecuador no es la excepción. En este artículo se identificaron las diferentes aproximaciones teóricas que existen del constructo, posteriormente se dividió al período de estudio en etapas que explican cómo históricamente, agroexportadores, comerciantes, industriales y banqueros, se incorporaban por medio de pactos y presiones en el acontecer diario de la economía y política ecuatoriana, demostrándose que tanto los gobiernos civiles y militares, tomaron decisiones que los protegían y consolidaban. Se concluye que la concentración de capital en Ecuador tiene bases oligopólicas, por lo que las modalidades de acumulación se conformaban sin etapas previas de libre competencia.
M10|Intellectual Structure and Emancipation of Word of Mouth Research: A Bibliometric Analysis of a Multidisciplinary Research Field|Word of mouth (WOM) information have become an integral part of consumer decision-making and have revitalized investigations of a social phenomenon to serve marketing objectives. This study addresses the fast-growing yet diverse WOM literature with its heterogeneous background. An objectified and methodologically enriched analysis is carried out to synthesize the literature and realign the richness of online WOM publications with their intellectual foundations. Drawing on meaningful publications, the present analysis systematically processes relevant knowledge to address statistically distinguishable research streams in the field of WOM, their coherence, as well as temporal developments. Results provide evidence of a shared core of WOM research as well as six (sub)streams of varying importance over time that describe two higher research orien-tations. Practical implications can be derived concerning most influential journals dedicated to specific research on WOM. By discussing the various findings, avenues for future research are revealed.
M10|Kooperationen zwischen etabliertem Mittelstand und Start-ups|Die vorliegende Studie untersucht anhand von Experteninterviews die Motive, Formen sowie Herausforderungen und Erfolgsfaktoren von Kooperationen zwischen etablierten Mittelständlern und Start-ups. Während sich Start-ups durch die Kooperation den Zugang zu einem großen Netzwerk sowie branchenspezifisches Know-how erhoffen, motiviert Mittelständler der Zugang zu neuen Technologien und hochqualifizierten Fachkräften. Die Wahl der konkreten Kooperationsform leitet sich aus den jeweiligen Zielen ab. Dabei unterscheiden sich Kooperationen hinsichtlich ihrer Intensität sowie in ihrer juristischen Ausgestaltung. Damit beide Seiten erfolgreich zusammenkommen, sollte sich das Start-up bereits im Vorfeld mit den Bedürfnissen des potenziellen Kooperationspartners auseinandersetzen. Etablierte Mittelständler sollten hingegen ihr stark ausgeprägtes Sicherheitsdenken ablegen und eine innovationsfreundliche Kultur im Unternehmen etablieren. Insgesamt bietet die Zusammenarbeit für beide Seiten ein großes Potenzial. Dabei profitiert das Start-up von einer effizienten Zusammenarbeit durch kurze Entscheidungswege in den inhabergeführten Unternehmen und der etablierte Mittelstand von einer höheren Wettbewerbsfähigkeit durch die Innovationsimpulse der Start-ups.
M10|Disruptive Innovationen: Chancen und Risiken für den Mittelstand|Gegenstand dieser Studie ist der Umgang mittelständischer Unternehmen mit vermehrt aufkommenden disruptiven Entwicklungen. Die Mehrheit der Unternehmen sieht das eigene Geschäftsmodell gut für die Zukunft gerüstet. Dieses wird jedoch erst dann kritisch hinterfragt, wenn Probleme bereits spürbar sind. Die meisten Unternehmen beobachten neu aufkommende Technologien und Geschäftsmodelle. Allerdings wird deren Bedeutung (vor allem im Produzierenden Gewerbe) als gering eingeschätzt. Potenziale, aber auch Risiken der neuen Technologien und Geschäftsmodelle für das eigene Unternehmen werden selten erkannt. Nur wenige Unternehmen haben konkrete Maßnahmen ergriffen oder eine Strategie im Umgang mit disruptiven Entwicklungen im Zuge der zunehmenden Digitalisierung entwickelt.
M10|Kennzahlenmanagement und -controlling: Prozessorientiertes Performance Management in internationalen Unternehmen|Wenn prozessorientiertes Performance Management in nationalen Unternehmen und in internationalen Unternehmen gleich ausgeprägt ist, können viele Synergieeffekte erreicht werden. Dazu wurde eine explorative Studie auf Basis von 26 Industriepartnern mit Hilfe einer anonymisierten Online-Fragebogenaktion an der Hochschule Pforzheim im 4. Quartal 2014 durchgeführt. Die Ergebnisse der Fragebogenaktion lassen erkennen, dass sich die Kennzahlen der in der Studie untersuchten deutschen Muttergesellschaften häufig nicht von den Performance Measures der internationalen Tochtergesellschaften unterscheiden. Welche Ursachen sich dahinter verbergen, zeigt dieser Forschungsbeitrag. Dieses Ergebnis könnte zukünftig differenzierter ausfallen, wenn auch durch weitere Forschung die internationalen Muttergesellschaften in die Untersuchung miteinbezogen werden würden.
M10|Management, Supervision, and Health Care: A Field Experiment|If health service delivery is poorly managed, then increases in inputs or ability may not translate into gains in quality. However, little is known about how to increase managerial capital to generate persistent improvements in quality. We present results from a randomized field experiment in 80 primary health care centers (PHCs) in Nigeria to evaluate the effects of a health care management consulting intervention. One set of PHCs received a detailed improvement plan and nine months of implementation support (full intervention), another set received only a general training session, an overall assessment and a report with improvement advice (light intervention), and a third set of facilities served as a control group. In the short term, the full intervention had large and significant effects on the adoption of several practices under the direct control of the PHC staff, as well as some intermediate outcomes. Virtually no effects remained one year after the intervention concluded. The light intervention showed no consistent effects at either point. We conclude that sustained supervision is crucial for achieving persistent improvements in contexts where the lack of external competition fails to create incentives for the adoption of effective managerial practices.
M10|Relative Importance of the Factors under the ISO-10015 Quality Management Guidelines that Influence the Service Quality of Certification Bodies|This study presents a suitable methodology for evaluating the relative importance of factors under the ISO-10015 standard that influence the service quality of certification bodies. Specifically, this study applied the fuzzy analytic hierarchy process (FAHP) method to select the most appropriate factors influencing the service quality of certification bodies. The key research approaches involved the FAHP method and corresponding questionnaires distributed to experts on the Taiwan Training Quality System. In the evaluation process, a consistency index (C.I) and consistency ratio (C.R) are used to evaluate the consistency of the assessment process. The C.I and C.R values for both objects and criteria were lower than 0.1, indicating satisfactory consistency. According to the overall weights assigned to the objects and criteria, the following three factors most strongly indicated improvement directions for the service quality of certification bodies: customer relationship management processes (weight: 33.18%), human resource quality (weight: 17.00%), and financial performance (weight: 14.88%). According to the results, the FAHP method facilitates evaluating, determining, and ranking factors influencing the service quality of certification bodies according to their weights. This study provides practical findings regarding the provision of service by certification bodies. Furthermore, the current findings can serve as a reference for future research.
M10|The Influence of Learning Orientation and Human Resource Practices on Firm Innovativeness and Innovations: An Application of the Push and Pull Framework|"Innovation is the key to sustainable competitive advantage and prosperity for firms in ever-changing business environments. The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesized model, which focuses on examining how human resource practices and learning orientation affect innovativeness and innovation performance. This study proposes the ""learning-orientation-pull"" and ""HR-practices-push"" concepts and tests them after analyzing a survey of 305 general managers or senior executives in Taiwan. The results indicate that learning orientation and HR practices significantly impact firms' innovativeness, which subsequently has a significant positive effect on product, process, and administrative innovation. This result also revalidates that the push and pull framework is a workable idea for both explanation and prediction of a firm’s potential or possible innovation capabilities. HR practices and learning orientation are important exogenous constructs that influence a firm’s innovation abilities. Thus, an innovative firm appears to adopt HR practices and learning orientations to push and pull on product, process, and administrative innovation."
M10|Say it again Sam: the information content of corporate conference calls|Abstract This paper examines information-content of corporate conference calls. It studies the determinants, and the consequences, of information production. To facilitate this study, I develop a novel measure of information-content which analyzes every word choice made by management during both sessions of the call. In a sample of S&P 1500 firms from 2001 to 2012, this new measure of information-content explains cumulative abnormal returns. It shows how CEOs produce (suppress) information during the conference call. It shows how analyst participation in the call improves information production. It shows that a differential value is placed on information conditioned on the market segment of the firm. I contrast the effectiveness of this new measure to that of the conventional methodologies of tone and word-counting. I provide evidence that this new information-content measure is better suited to conference calls than are the other two.
M10|Values Based Ideal Types of Corporate Governance Systems|Values and differences in corporate governance across the world are part and partially related and it is obvious that owners know what results they want to have from the corporations in the long run. In this regard, some scientific studies have revealed that owners would be succeed in a dynamic environment only if they formulate ownership strategy based on values. Consequently, to understand corporate governance better, some research has been carried out on corporate governance by relating values towards the area of knowledge but there is a scarcity of research which proposing comprehensive and explains corporate governance systems consisting values. Therefore, authors of this paper identified the following research problem which is: “Lacking of theory behind corporate governance systems including values which gives an opportunity towards the owners under different corporate governance systems to analyse its own behaviour, learning, managing knowledge, and finally clearly expressing ownership will in the form of an ownership strategy.” There were two data set was analysed in this study. One is Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) company law and corporate governance database based on member countries submission and the second set of data is Schwartz’s value survey to characterise multiple countries by their culture. Methodologically, after using multi quantitative tools this study is valuable to analyse all the secondary data to produce new knowledge, adopting different theoretical lens, by analysing and understanding the interrelationships of values and different systems of corporate governance across the world. The result of the study comes with a typology including values based three ideal types (Affective type, Cognitive type and Conative type) of corporate governance systems, with a practical contribution towards enriching the available knowledge for owners to formulate ownership strategy. Considering future direction, the constructed typology is required for assessment of the capability of refutation aside from OECD countries. Classification JEL: C30, G32, G34, M10
M10|Foreign acquisition and internal organization|We study the effect of foreign takeovers on firm organization. Using a comprehensive data set of Portuguese firms and workers spanning two decades, we find that foreign acquisitions lead to: (1) an expansion in the scale of operations; (2) a higher number of hierarchical layers; and (3) higher wage inequality between the top and bottom layers. These results accord with a theory of knowledge-based hierarchies in which foreign takeovers lead to improved productivity, higher demand, or reduced internal communication costs, and thereby induce the acquired firms to reorganize. Evidence from auxiliary survey data reveals that acquired firms are more likely to use information technologies that reduce internal communication costs.
M10|Management and Student Achievement: Evidence from a Randomized Field Experiment|This study examines the impact on student achievement of implementing management training for principals in traditional public schools in Houston, Texas, using a school-level randomized field experiment. Across two years, principals were provided 300 hours of training on lesson planning, data-driven instruction, and teacher observation and coaching. The findings show that offering management training to principals significantly increases student achievement in all subjects in year one and has an insignificant effect in year two. We argue that the results in year two are driven by principal turnover, coupled with the cumulative nature of the training. Schools with principals who are predicted to remain in their positions for both years of the experiment demonstrate large treatment effects in both years – particularly those with principals who are also predicted to implement the training with high fidelity – while those with principals that are predicted to leave have statistically insignificant effects in each year of treatment.
M10|Management, Supervision, and Health Care: A Field Experiment|If health service delivery is poorly managed, then increases in inputs or ability may not translate into gains in quality. However, little is known about how to increase managerial capital to generate persistent improvements in quality. We present results from a randomized field experiment in 80 primary health care centers (PHCs) in Nigeria to evaluate the effects of a health care management consulting intervention. One set of PHCs received a detailed improvement plan and nine months of implementation support (full intervention), another set received only a general training session, an overall assessment and a report with improvement advice (light intervention), and a third set of facilities served as a control group. In the short term, the full intervention had large and significant effects on the adoption of several practices under the direct control of the PHC staff, as well as some intermediate outcomes. Virtually no effects remained one year after the intervention concluded. The light intervention showed no consistent effects at either point. We conclude that sustained supervision is crucial for achieving persistent improvements in contexts where the lack of external competition fails to create incentives for the adoption of effective managerial practices.
M10|Understanding Boards of Directors: A Systems Perspective|In this essay my goal is to explore why, despite the tireless efforts of talented people, research on corporate governance has been slow and uneven, and where that research should turn to next to be most valuable to practitioners. My belief is that the most fruitful work thus far has recognized that corporate boards are dynamic social systems, has identified all the forces that shape those systems, and has acknowledged that boards should seek to represent a wide variety of stakeholders, not just shareholders. The best way for me to establish this argument is to trace the history of research on corporate boards and analyze the trends in that research, including the relative value of the types of data that researchers in this field have used. Ultimately, I identify what I consider to be the best path forward in studying these complex social systems. I have made a deliberate choice to focus primarily on research that reflects firsthand experience with boards rather than on research that utilizes data derived from questionnaires and other secondary sources. Not everyone will agree with my choices, but my hope is that my perspective will nonetheless provide some guidance for people working in this evolving field to understand the true complexity of corporate boards.
M10|Responsibility in Business at the University of National and World Economy|The subject of this article is the method developed for training in the discipline of Social Responsibility in Business for Business Administration students. The article discusses the role and importance of social responsibility in today’s business practice and the need for such training of students. An innovative training approach has been introduced by applying the action learning method. The article discusses the nature of the action learning method as well as its benefits for the participants. The aim of the introduced innovative approach is to create conditions for a more effective learning and training of students to manage and work in today’s business environment. The article presents the experience of the conduct of such type of training in the discipline as well as the results achieved. The resultant conclusions reveal the potential of such type of training and its contribution to university education and its closer linking with practice.
M10|Reverse Supply Chain Management – Theory and Practice|The traditional interest of researchers and practitioners in the field of supply chain management focuses on the movement of material flows from the initial producer to end customer in the chain. However, nowadays more and more products are returned to manufacturers or distributors. Hence, the concept of socalled reverse supply chains arises – these are chains that serve the flows of products and materials moving from the end customer to the initial producer. The article presents the essence and configuration of the reverse supply chains and examines the challenges facing their management. It discusses the role of the European and Bulgarian legislation and provides examples of the best practices in the management of reverse supply chains. The thesis is argued that the effective and efficient management of reverse supply chains provides a number of advantages and benefits for companies and stakeholders.
M10|Profitability of Semiconductor Firms: Dependence of Revenue, a Number of Product Lineup, and Business Model -Analysis of Panel Data of Worldwide 58 Semiconductor Firms In 2001-2013-|This study investigates the determinants of the operating income of the semiconductor industry using the panel data of 58 world semiconductor firms in 2001-2013. The semiconductor industry still continue to expand and is a great influence on the society, improving in economical efficiency and performance of transistors at the same time, and semiconductor products go further in the direction of increasing complexity and diversity. However, market volume of semiconductor has high volatility, operating income concentrated in top firms of revenue. This study aims to become fundamental in the semiconductor industry to deal with Economics and Management Sciences Research, and indicates the determinant of operating income of semiconductor firms, using information about financial data and statistical analysis. Generally speaking, it is indicates that raising revenue makes an operating income increase. However, raising revenue by broaden product lineup causes reducing operating income conversely. In recent years Fabless-Foundry business model is praised in the semiconductor industry. A remarkable progress of Fabless firms occurs in a few product groups. After statistical analysis, a significant difference which Fabless-Foundry model is superior to IDM model cannot recognized in most other product groups.
M10|Functional and Linguistic Bridging in Multinational Corporations: Moderating Effect of Cultural Identity Integration|In this study, we explore the role of functional and linguistic bridging in multinational corporations (MNCs) using a sample of 200 Japanese employees working in Japanese overseas subsidiaries. We draw on the social network theory and Job Demands- Resources (JD-R) model to advocate the idea that bridging roles (functional and linguistic bridging) influence team-member exchange (TMX) and emotional exhaustion positively via the mediating role of occupational social capital and role conflict. We found that employees who possess low cultural identity integration were more versatile in moderating between a bridging role, team member relationships, and emotional outcomes. Our findings make a theoretical contribution in exploring bridging roles from both the positive and negative sides of international business. We suggest that although bridge individuals can lead to positive team member relationships, they can also signal emotional burnout stemming from role conflict. We also offer suggestions on how to recognize cultural identity integration as a resource in elaborating on bridging roles and mitigating negative emotional outcomes.
M10|Organisation transformation in agile approach, a comparative analysis of IT and other sectors|Research background: Last decades may undoubtedly be deemed as the period of exceptional transformation which has global dimension. One of its elements is the reorganisation of traditional ways of business management. Therefore, agile approach is more and more often one of the key aspects of building comparative advantage of a company. In this paper agile approach is understood as the capability of responding promptly to market’s needs. Purpose of the article: The paper aims at presenting selected research findings concerning the description of agile approach usage in organisations. The main authors’ objective is to present the way the transformation of organization is done or may be done with reference to agile approach. Methodology/methods: The paper comprises three parts. The first includes the results of analysis of literature concerning agile approach, where the authors make an attempt to answer the question: what are scientific studies in that regard? The literature analysis in that regard was conducted during academic internship at Shippensburg University, USA in 2016 and was based on the resources of its library. The second presents the findings of research done between 2005 and 2016 where case studies analyses of almost 50 companies in Poland and not only were conducted. In the last part of the paper, on the basis of the findings in the second part, the authors present a referencing process, which could in some cases increase the agility of organizational activities. Findings: The empirical studies show the differences in using selected agile activities for organizations from IT and other sectors. On this basis the last part of paper includes the referencing process, which in some cases could increase the agility of organizational activities. The authors are aware of the fact that the before mentioned referencing process is subject to quantitative verification which in turn will identify determinant of its usage; however, this is to be conducted in the next phase of research. In this phase the research of comparative-explorative nature as well as qualitative is presented.
M10|Measuring Organizational Commitment and Occupational Stress of Pakistani Doctors: Comparing Lahore and Karachi Public Hospitals in Gender Perspective|The purpose of the study is to investigate the disparity in cause and consequences of stress among male and female genders in private hospitals. The self-constructed stress model is used to evaluate the pertinent effect of stressors on organizational commitment. 219 respondents took part in the study from which 114 participants were from Lahore and 105 from Karachi through convince sampling technique. Semi-constructed survey based online matrix is used to achieve quantitative aspect. According to results evaluated causes of stress among male and female varies. In addition, females are under less stress than males at operational level. Moreover, due to social support programmes, employees working in Lahore hospitals are under less stress in comparison to Karachi hospitals. As indicated in the results interpreted, causes of stress varies among 2 contrasting gender. Females are under more stress due to personal factor whereas in male organizational and environmental factor is a chief cause for stress. Organizational commitment for females is affected by family problems and personality clashes while in males it is Job demand, leadership, and economic uncertainty that is affecting organizational commitment. In male and female workforce, consequence of stress doesn’t vary. Nevertheless, to overcome stress, females utilize personal resources in a very effective fashion and display behavioral symptoms while men displays cognitive behavior. Normative commitment is more prevalent among males as compare to opposing gender whereas in females affective commitment and continuance commitment is high. In addition, Lahore workforces are under low stress than the Karachi workforce.
M10|Performance and Size: Empirical Evidence From Batu Kawan Berhad|The purpose of this study sought to examine the overall performance of Batu Kawan Berhad with specific risk factors and macroeconomic factor on profitability performance. The data obtained from annual report of Batu Kawan Berhad. starting from 2011-2015. The measurement of liquidity ratio and operating ratio used to see the overall performance of Batu Kawan Berhad. in 5 years which allegedly beyond benchmark. The additional measurement is the asset size, this variable has a negative and no significant relationship with liquidity risk. To see the relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing liquidity (current ratio), GDP and operating ratio. Data was analyzed by utilizing regression and bivariate correlation. The regression analysis and bivariate correlation shows only one factor of profitability is significant to operating ratio which is ROA with the highest impact to the profitability. However, the liquidity and GDP is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability.
M10|A Correlation between Workplace Stress and Organizational Commitment: Doctors response from Public and Private Hospitals in Karachi, Pakistan|The study inspects the correlation between occupational stress and organizational commitment among doctors working in public and private sectors of Karachi. The self-constructive survey questionnaire is circulated through convenience sampling techniques and gathered 1039 responses (public hospital=549 and private hospitals=490). A five-point likert scale measured response ranges from strongly agree (1) to strongly disagree (5) while 10-item scale was used to evaluate occupational stress. Additionally, dimensions of organizational commitment; affective, normative and continuance commitment were evaluated on a scale containing 6-items. The data was analyzed through SPSS 23. As interpreted from results, there is a weak positive linear relationship between AC and personal factor and organizational factor. Likewise, NC shares a weak positive linear relationship with personal resources and organizational factor. Similarly, CC has a weak positive linear relationship with personal factor and personal resources. However, AC has a strong negative relationship with personal resources while NC also has a strong negative relationship with personal factor. In a similar manner, CC has a weak negative linear relationship with organizational factor. Moreover, level of stress and commitment among doctors working in public hospitals is relatively low in contrast to private hospitals. In addition, males are under more stress. However, AC and NC are relatively high in females while CC is more in males.
M10|Qual a importância da Auditoria Operacional nas PME Portuguesas?<BR>[The importance of the operational audit of Portuguese SMEs]|Atualmente, as organizações enfrentam vários desafios, por exemplo, as suas transações organizacionais crescem em volume e complexidade e estão a viver em ambientes de negócios altamente regulamentados. Portanto, os mecanismos de controlo e monitorização são necessários para avaliar e validar todas as transações, de forma abrangente, para atender aos controlos e regulamentos. Contudo, o processo de auditoria tradicional ocorre principalmente após a conclusão das transações, uma vez que não é viável auditá-las a tempo. Assim, torna possível inibir o risco associado à sua execução. Para muitas organizações existe um conjunto de riscos significativos de erros e fraudes e estes não são detetados atempadamente, resultando num impacto bastante nefasto para as organizações. A atual crise financeira global e os sucessivos e conhecidos escândalos de algumas organizações, como Lehman Brothers, A-Tec, Madoff, Kaupthing Bank, WorldCom, Enron, Parmalat, e muitos outros, levaram a que exista uma forma de prever esses erros e fraudes. Assim, qualquer organização deve estar suficientemente preparada para sobreviver, independentemente do número de riscos a que está sujeito, mediante a implementação de um sistema adequado de Garantia Contínua, com o quadro legislativo e regulamentar aplicável. Esta garantia contínua poderá ser efetuada através da auditoria operacional. O presente artigo tem como objetivo a análise da importância da auditoria operacional das PME’s portuguesas. Através da aplicação de um questionário semiestruturado, e da análise de um caso prático, identificam-se o tipo de erros que podem ocorrer afetando de forma significativa as Demostrações Financeiras.
M10|The Mechanism behind Product Differentiation An Economic Model|The strategy of product differentiation has been viewed as very important in the field of business administration but it has not necessarily been viewed as an important source of large differences in firms profits in the field of economics In this paper this apparent contradiction is examined based on the concepts of ranking preference and value In the proposed model if a product s implicit rank is higher households will purchase the product far more often than competing products even if their qualities are almost identical and the tastes of households are uniformly distributed Even a slight difference in quality can result in a clear difference in implicit ranks and consequently large differences in firms profits Therefore the effects of differentiation are amplified by ranking preference and product differentiation efforts are truly very important for firms
M10|Changes in management function of control|Controlling is a constantly ongoing managerial process of designing standards, measuring performance, comparing the performance with standards, and implementing corrective actions to ensure effective and efficient running of the organization's activities. Controlling represents one of the basic functions in management in Anglo-American understanding. The original term has been changed from control to controlling, as control is (like a plan in planning) only a small part of long-term activity. The term controlling, however, is also used in German literature, where it represents what Anglo-American literature refers as management (or managerial) accounting. As the Central and Eastern European literature is heavily influenced by German literature, in English-written papers published in Europe confusions often happen. Based on results of our questionnaire survey in 331 companies operating in Slovakia, which collected data at the turn of 2016 and 2017, we analyze the changes in management function of controlling and compare them with the findings in literature. We analyze the research results according to the different characteristics of the research sample, such as the size of the company by number of employees, the economic result, the respondent's position in the organizational structure of the company, or the respondent's attitude if he/she is an object or subject of control. Taking into account the quantitative and qualitative results obtained, we also present specific changes in the control of our businesses.
M10|Changing intensity of control|Every manager must – besides other activities – exercise control over his or her subordinates, no matter if it happens through a direct supervision or through indirect control based on reports or statistics. Performing this managerial function is called controlling in Anglo-American literature. This paper does not understand the concept of managing accounting under the term controlling (German meaning). Controlling is a constantly ongoing managerial process of designing standards, measuring performance, comparing the performance with standards, and implementing corrective actions to ensure effective and efficient running of the organization's activities. However, a manager often becomes also an object of control by himself or herself. Based on results of our questionnaire survey in 331 companies operating in Slovakia, which collected data at the turn of 2016 and 2017, we analyze to what extent managers had to increase their control efforts and to what extent they were exposed to more control from another subject of control in the past year. We analyze the research results according to the different characteristics of our research sample, such as the size of the company by number of employees, the economic result, the respondent's position in the organizational structure of the company, or the respondent's attitude if he/she is an object or subject of control. Due to the quantitative and qualitative results, we also provide reasons for the increase in intensity.
M10|The importance of control in managerial work|Control represents a process through which managers ensure that resources are procured and used efficiently and effectively to meet the goals of the organization. It is a dynamic function interrelated with the other management functions, and it plays a role of critical determinant in achieving organizational success. The individual management functions provide a useful framework for organizing managerial knowledge. Control involves tracking, measuring, and correcting activities to ensure a compliance of actual development with the planned one. Effective controlling requires the existence of plans, since planning provides the necessary performance standards or objectives. Controlling also requires a clear understanding of where responsibility for deviations from standards lies. The paper contains the results of questionnaire survey realized in 331 companies aimed to determine the importance of control process in carrying out daily managerial tasks in different types of organizations active in various sectors. We analyze the attitudes of managers when they are controlling and when they are being controlled with emphasis on main reasons. The paper confirms the importance of control in management work, while one of the most obvious benefits of controlling function is that it provides the accurate information which is wanted for effective decision making process as well as maintaining effective functioning state of a business.
M10|Delegate satisfaction from conference service quality and its impact on future behavioural intentions|This study presents the development of a conceptual model that demonstrates the dynamic nature of the relationship between service quality and delegate satisfaction in the conference sector, based on theories derived from social psychology and previous research in the marketing, management, and services literature. The model was tested using sample data from delegates of four different academic conferences and was modified as a result of empirical results. The final model improves understanding of the relationship between service quality and delegate satisfaction because these constructs were examined from the process perspective of a conference experience; it portrays service quality and satisfaction in the context of a complete system.
M10|Understanding Organizational Renewal from a Multi-level Perspective – Challenges and Advancements|The authors of this special issue 'Approaching Dynamic Capabilities from a Multi-Level Perspective – Macrofoundations and Microfoundations' found their specific way of coping with the challenges outlined in the field of forces, expectations and tensions that characterize multi-level research. There is a considerable advancement as the authors contribute to construct specifications on a theoretical basis and either prepare the next steps for multi-level empirical analyses concisely or even present empirical data. It is interesting to note that three out of five papers contribute to macrofoundations of DCs. It seems to be an issue of current research that has the potential to gain equally high interest in the future as microfoundations have nowadays.
M10|Managing Dynamic Capabilities of Cities? From a Firm-based towards an Issue-based View of Dynamic Capabilities|The dynamic capability view (DCV) primarily addresses the question of how single firms are dealing with changing environments. In this study we explore if and how a multi-actor constellation can develop dynamic capabilities and how they come about against the backdrop of managing cities. Based on an explorative, qualitative research design, we investigate implications of the DCV for managing cities. Our single case study is set in the southwestern German city of Kaiserslautern and our results suggest that to comprehend how cities are managed in light of the DCV, existing conceptions should be refined from a firm-centered towards an issue-centered understanding, understood for our purposes as occasions where multiple actors collaborate on a temporary basis regarding a relevant and resource intensive phenomenon.
M10|Microfoundations of Organizational Competence for Servitization|Despite the various benefits of servitization, the yielded returns are often inadequate to generate sustainable competitiveness. The prevalence of this so-called service paradox is closely related to the insufficient theoretical explanation of how firms achieve competitiveness through servitization. We address this research gap by conceptually developing a framework and research propositions for competitiveness based on the Competence-based Theory of the Firm. We achieve the following contributions: (1) presenting a structured overview of the previously unconnected microfoundations of organizational competence for servitization, and (2) developing conceptually grounded research propositions for further empirical work on competitiveness through servitization.
M10|Organizational Search, Capability Reconfiguration andCapability Reorientation: A Framework of Organizational Responses to Perceived Capability Gaps|Organizational decision-makers perceive capability gaps when they expect that organizational aspirations can no longer be achieved with an existing capability configuration. In this study I develop a framework for explaining the factors that influence the perception of and the reactions to such capability gaps. In particular, I argue that perception of capability gaps initiates organizational search processes that can trigger four different responses: capability renewal, capability replacement, capability redeployment, and capability replication. Capability replacement and renewal involve capability reconfiguration; capability redeployment and replication serve the purpose of capability reorientation. This study contributes to research on strategic change from a competence-based perspective by shifting attention from separate capabilities toward those particular mechanisms that enable firms to cope with technological change. In addition, this study integrates behavioral concepts with the dynamic capabilities perspective by putting forward the notion of aspirations as baseline to which decision-makers assess the usefulness of capability configurations and by analyzing the role of attention and slack as moderators of those search processes that follow the perception of capability gaps.
M10|Contemporary Developments in Behavioral Finance|Investors need not be rational for markets to be efficient. The axiom of efficient market hypothesis that it is not possible to earn excess profits because the available information gets factored in instantaneously fell flat due to influence of human behavior on the investment process. Exuberance of investors escalates asset values unduly on the back of financial irrationality. The intersection of human behavior and the investment decisions has since evolved as “behavioral finance.” Research demonstrates that investment decision-making process is more human than analytical, owing to behavioral biases. Recent studies in prospect theory and heuristic decision-making process focused more on investor behavior causing market anomalies. At a time when irrational behavior is demonstrated not only in security markets but also in other markets such as property, bullion and commodities, this paper explores the contemporary research in behavioral finance.
M10|A comparison of alternative cash flow and discount rate news proxies|This paper evaluates various methods of estimating firm-level Cash Flow and Discount Rate news. The standard VAR approach of Campbell (1991) and Voulteenaho (2002) is compared to two alternatives that use analysts' forecasts as proxies for market expectations: the ICC method of Chen et al. (2013) and the Revisions in Analysts' Forecasts (RAF) method. Methods are evaluated based on (i) the forecast accuracy of cash flow expectations, (ii) association with the other proxies of CF news, and (iii) Monte-Carlo simulations. The results suggest that analysts' forecasts behave as more accurate proxies of market expectations than the VAR system predictions. The ICC method is sensitive to the cash flow forecast errors because it amplifies forecast errors during implied cost of capital estimation. Overall, the RAF method appears to have a greater construct validity than the VAR and ICC methods as it incorporates forward looking information of direct cash flow forecasts and avoids amplification of forecast errors.
M10|Business strategy, overvalued equities, and stock price crash risk|This paper examines empirically the effect of firm-level business strategies on future stock price crash risk, and the extent to which equity overvaluation moderates this relation. By exploring the extent to which firms following particular business strategies are more or less likely to experience crash risk, we provide evidence that increases our understanding of the underlying determinants of crash risk. Using a composite strategy score developed by Bentley, Omer and Sharp (2013) and applying two variants of crash risk, we document that firms following innovative business strategies (prospectors) are more prone to future crash risk than defenders. We also find that prospectors are more prone to equity overvaluation which, in turn, increases future crash risk.
M10|IKIGAI: Reflection on Life Goals Optimizes Performance and Happiness|In her inaugural address, Michaéla discusses the role of self-regulatory behaviors that people can employ in order to live a full-filling life. These behaviors include reflection and personal goal setting, in order to formulate a direction or purpose in life (Ikigai). In the inaugural address, an evidence-based goal-setting intervention is discussed. This relatively brief intervention has shown to have lasting results: not only does it increase well-being of students, the intervention also boosted academic performance of students by over 20%. Moreover, the intervention significantly decreased the gender and ethnic minority performance gap. The goal setting is shown in a broader perspective with examples in education, business and operations management. The perspective presented in this address emphasizes taking control of one’s life in order to optimize performance and happiness.
M10|Methodology of Building up the Accounting and Analytical Management Support for Organizations in Russia|This article deals with the issues, concerning methods of providing accounting and analytical support for the management of organizations with various patterns of ownership in Russia, related to national mentality and caused by the lack of uniform terminology, the need for a systematic approach to the formation and interaction of accounting, analytical and control subsystems, the influence of international practices in the context of harmonization of world economy. The ways of solving the problems have been identified. The original classification of the principles of the accounting and analytical support buildup for the organization man-agement has been compiled. We have analyzed the existing approaches and individual points of view to determine the content of this concept, and put forward our individual interpreta-tion. The authors explain the purpose of the effective functioning of the accounting and ana-lytical support of management and offer a system of fundamental principles of its organiza-tion. The main advantage of the authors' interpretation of accounting and analytical support is in the improvement of general methodology as well as creating the ground for developing techniques of record keeping, analysis and control on the basis of international experience, which ensures the continuity of the process of tactical and strategic decision making, well-timed adjustments of the development strategy of the organization in the long term, contrib-uting to the efficiency of administrative decisions taken by the management.
M10|The Impact Of School Corporate Cultures On Teachers Entrepreneurial Orientation. The Mediating Role Of Readiness For Change|The competition between schools in this era of globalization, especially among private schools, requisites entrepreneurial orientation development to private schools context. Many previous studies showed that entrepreneurial orientation can be influenced by corporate cultures. However, those previous studies have been mostly done on employees or managers at profit-oriented institutions. On the contrary, school teachers as employees in non-profit institution are often assumed to be conservative, prefer to have a relatively safe work, and tend to avoid changes, so they are not necessarily interested in doing entrepreneurial-oriented activities. Thus, the teacher's readiness for change also needs to be a mediator variable between corporate cultures and teacher’s entrepreneurial orientation. The purpose of this study is to examine the role of corporate cultures in schools toward teacher’s entrepreneurial orientation with teacher’s readiness for change as a mediator. The subject of this survey study are 316 teachers from 14 private schools in Indonesia that support teacher entrepreneurial orientation. The Structural Equation Model path analysis results showed that learning orientation culture could have a positive effect on teacher entrepreneurial orientation, either directly or through the mediation of readiness for change. However, market orientation culture could not give a direct positive effect on entrepreneurial orientation and requires teacher’s readiness for change as a mediator for indirect effect. The synchronization between corporate culture values with individual member’s values becomes a reason that will be discussed to explain the result of this study.
M10|Improving the effectiveness of market-oriented organisation: Empirical evidence from an emerging economy|In the context of an emerging market economy, this study examines the mediating role of marketing capabilities on the market orientation (MO)â€“performance relationship. Specifically, the authors investigate the roles of product innovativeness, customer relationship management (CRM) capability, research and development (R&D) integration and brand management capabilities in the institutionalisation of a MO culture and the implementation of MO behaviours. With data collected from 150 organisations, the authors find that MO behaviour fully mediates the effects of MO culture on product innovativeness and CRM capability, which in turn enhance firm performance. In addition, leadership quality facilitates the effect of MO culture on MO behaviour, and the effects of product innovativeness and CRM capability on firm performance are greater in the presence of R&Dâ€“marketing integration and brand management capabilities, respectively.
M10|Characteristics of Management of Agricultural Cooperatives in Georgia|Work provides overview of the situation and trends in agricultural sector of Georgia. It mentions that Georgia is a country with small land area, where, as a result of improper land reform the lads were excessively fractured, with 75% of population holding up to 1 ha arable land. Working of such small parcels is unreasonable and economically ineffective. Taking this issue into consideration, for the purpose of stimulation of creation of the small farmers? associations, the legislative incentive was prepared on creation of the agricultural cooperatives. As a result of joint work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Committee of the Parliament, on 12 July 2013, the Parliament of Georgia adopted the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives. On the basis of this law the LEPL Agricultural Cooperatives Development Agency was established to provide state support to the agricultural cooperatives. The main goal of the Agency is promotion of rehabilitation of the rural areas and agriculture through development of agricultural cooperatives.Of key legislative acts dealing with the activities of agricultural cooperatives, Georgian Law on Agricultural Cooperatives prevails over Georgian Law on Entrepreneurs. Therefore, the legal relations of the agricultural cooperatives are regulated by Georgian Law on Agricultural Cooperatives. According to the mentioned Law, the cooperatives provide regulation of the internal production relations by means of the economic participation, obligatory participation contributions, associated members of the cooperatives and other elements. The labor relations are decisive factors.Work provides analysis of the key operation principles of the agricultural cooperative; characteristics of cooperatives management provided for by the Law on Entrepreneurs and Law on Agricultural Cooperatives; rights and obligations of the cooperative shareholders; conflicts arisen in the course of performing of contracts made between the agricultural cooperative and its shareholder; agricultural cooperative monitoring functions. On the basis of analysis of legal regulations of leading European countries dealing with the cooperatives the recommendations are provided for improvement of cooperatives management in Georgia, for development of the entire cycle of production and sale of agricultural goods allowing generation of the increased incomes from sale of the end products by primary goods producers without any middlemen.The conclusion is made that formation of the cooperation systems of European type would be much more beneficial for the farmers, as well as for the country and its final results will be seen in its socioeconomic effects.
M10|Factors Affecting the Intention to Use the Intelligent Personal Assistant|An intelligent personal assistant (IPA) is a software agent that assists people to perform basic tasks or services for an individual, usually providing information via natural language. In spite of the versatile capabilities of the IPA to answer a user's simple information-based queries such as the weather and driving directions, the limited actual usage rates for the IPA services are reported so far. In this research, to evaluate the factors affecting the intention to use the IPA we develop the empirical model based on the technology acceptance model (TAM), innovation diffusion theory, and IS success model. Then, we collect the questionnaires from the actual users of the IPAs. Finally, the structural equation model validates the causal relationship between the constructs of the model. The major findings and suggestion for further research will be discussed in the conference in details.
M10|Exploring the Roles of Market-Driven Capability and Functional Diversification in Market Knowledge Transfer within MNCs|Drawing upon theory from transnational management and market-driven organization literatures, this study uses both survey and case study data of 162 respondents who works in three multinational corporations (MNCs) to examine the influence of functional diversification, market-driven capability, and cultural distance on a transfer of market knowledge from foreign affiliates to headquarter. The empirical results indicate a strong positive influence of both functional diversification and market-driven capability on a transfer of market knowledge, i.e., customer and competitor intelligence. The qualitative data collected through in-depth interviews with top executives were then leveraged to provide further explanation and support empirical results. Implications for academics and practitioners are also addressed.
M10|Workplace Ostracism And Work Engagement: The Moderating Role Of Neuroticism|This study investigates the relationship between workplace ostracism and work engagement of the employees in the local governments and whether neuroticism, one of the personality traits, has a role on this relationship. Convenience sampling was used and data were obtained from a sample of 369 employees from two municipalities. The results show that there is a negative relationship between workplace ostracism and work engagement. Moreover, neuroticism moderates the negative relationship between workplace ostracism and work engagement. Overall, the results show that work engagement decreases as workplace ostracism increases, and highly neurotic employees are more negatively affected by workplace ostracism. Local governments may utilize the results in their efforts to create an environment fostering work engagement. Leaders may apply the study outcomes about the role of employee personality and workplace ostracism to improve their service performance.
M10|Effects of management control mechanisms: towards a more comprehensive analysis|Abstract Even though it is widely accepted that management control systems consist of formal (results and/or action controls) and informal mechanisms (personnel and/or cultural controls), empirical research analyzing the effects of these management control mechanisms in a more comprehensive way is still scarce. Based on a cross-sectional survey among 295 senior management accountants, we examine how different management control mechanisms are related to control system effectiveness and organizational commitment and how these two outcomes subsequently affect overall organizational performance. Our results suggest that particularly more informal control mechanisms are strongly associated with beneficial outcomes. Our study contributes to extant literature by identifying distinct relative effects of alternative management control mechanisms on organizational-level outcomes. Overall, our results support the growing relevance of more informal control mechanisms compared to prevailing formal control instruments in contemporary organizations.
M10|“Whom do I want to be the next CEO?” Desirable successor attributes in family firms|Abstract The aim of our study is to understand whether different incumbent attitudes towards desirable successor attributes have an impact on their intention to nominate a family member or a non-family member as CEO and the extent to which this intention is moderated by the number of family members working in the firm as a proxy of socioemotional wealth preservation. Our main findings suggest that an incumbent’s intention to nominate a family member as the next CEO increases when they believe family standing attributes to be important and decreases when they consider managerial competence attributes to be important. However, the latter relationship weakens as the number of family members working in the firm increases.
M10|Terminological distinctions of ‘control’: a review of the implications for management control research in the context of innovation|Abstract The article reviews the terminological distinctions (e.g. action and result control, interactive and diagnostic control) used for control in twenty-five empirical studies on management control in the context of innovation. The terminological distinctions are classed in three categorizations. These are (a) the types of managerial control, (b) the design and use mode of managerial control instruments and (c) the enabling and constraining character of managerial control instruments. By analyzing the categorizations, it becomes evident that there are two, almost independent ontological streams shaping the empirical field: the determinist perspective and the voluntarist perspective of management control with different understandings of contingency. The ‘ideal fit’ approach to contingency of the determinist perspective adds little cumulative knowledge to the field of management control in the context of innovation. Therefore, the article suggests to strengthen the voluntarist perspective and to develop a ‘quasi fit’ interpretation of contingency. The agenda for prospective research in management control in the context of innovation includes to investigate deviant and repair behavior related to management control systems (MCS) in innovating activities, to understand MCS as dependent as well as independent variable and to explore the role of MCS in economizing innovative activities.
M10|Beyond a One-Size-Fits-All Explanation for Reacquisitions – A Cluster-based Analysis of Reacquisition Motives and Their Influence on the Involved Firms|Abstract A reacquisition is an interesting case in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) research, because it may constitute the second of two contradictory events, the first being the initial divestiture. The current understanding of reacquisitions is limited, even though research has shown them to be relevant. This study examines 14 cases of reacquisitions to determine their motivations and their influence on the firms involved. We identify four different clusters of reacquisitions, each with different motivations and implications for the participating firms, indicating the importance of fine-grained analyses when evaluating these events. This study contributes to research on reacquisitions, the interrelation between transactions, and corporate venturing.
M10|The Corporate Image Perception of Airline Employees|The corporate image is one of the important factors that the institutionsÂ have to exist in the world in which there is a great competition. The corporateÂ image indicates the total perception that shareholders have of the institution. TheÂ most significant factor providing that the institutions operating in the aviationÂ industry have an image perceived positively is that employees reflect theirÂ attitudes and behaviors on the external shareholders positively as a result of theÂ positive image of their own institutions they perceive. In this regard, the mainÂ purpose of the study is to identify the corporate image perception perceived byÂ airline employees. Moreover, whether the variables in question vary by someÂ demographic characteristics was investigated. As a result of the study conducted,Â it was identified that the corporate image perception of airline employees is highÂ in all aspects.JEL classification numbers: M10, M14, L93Keywords: Corporate Image, Corporate Personality, Airline Employees.
M10|Risk Management and Viability of Public Organizations. Development of a Risk Measurement Tool: The Case of Greece|Purpose: This paper provides an important contribution towards the development of a valid, reliable and cost-effective instrument that reduces operational and economic risk levels in public sector organizations. Design/methodology/approach: A quantitative methodology based on the collection of primary data via a questionnaire has been adopted in this research. Findings: The research results showed that the measurement tool selected, applied, presented and proposed is comprised of three (3) scales. The reliability analysis proved that all three scales are reliable; therefore, they are suitable for use as a risk measurement instrument. Research limitations/implications: The study's academic contribution is the application and testing of the aforementioned measurement instruments, which can now be utilised by researchers in the field of risk management, to further advance the study of risk management in public organizations in Greece. On the empirical level, the implementation of these three measurement instruments can assist public organizations in Greece via an easy and fast assessment of economic and operational risks. Originality/value: This tool can help public organizations gain insight into the level of risk they face at any given point in time in order plan their actions accordingly. At the same time, central state administration will have the necessary tools to monitor and support the organizations it evaluates.
M10|Piecewise Solutions to Big Data|Outliers in the financial market data often carry important information, which requires attention and investigation. Many outlier detection techniques, including both parametric and nonparametric, have been developed over the years which are specific to certain application domains. Nonetheless, outlier detection is not an easy task, because sometimes the occurrence of them is pretty easy and evident, but in some other times, it may be extremely cumbersome. Financial series, which are not only pretty sensitive in reflecting the world market conditions due to the interactions of a very large number of participants in its operation, but also influenced by other stock markets that operate in other parts of the world, produce a non-synchronous process. In this research, we detect the presence of outliers in financial time series over the S&P 500 during the year 2016. We detect the beginning of some shocks (outliers) such as the Brexit referendum and the United States Presidential election held in the year 2016. Generally, the impacts of these events were not drastic. Histogram time series was implemented over a daily closing price on intervals of five minutes for the S&P 500 index during 2015 and 2016. In this case, the linear dependency between days of atypical returns were analyzed on quantiles [0 ?? 40]% and [60 ?? 100]%, while Wassertein distance and an approximation of entropy were used to quantify the presence of instant shocks in the index.
M10|Financing and performance of female-owned firms in Middle Eastern and African Economies|Empirical evidence suggests that lack of access to financing is a major constraint to performance by female-owned firms in most countries. Firm performance, financing structure, and constraints have been well explored for firms in developed economies but this is not the case for firms in developing economies, especially in Africa and the Middle-East. Largely due to lack of data availability, existing literature on African firms has presented some survey-based evidence on firm performance and financing structures while detailed financial evidence is lacking. This paper aims at filling this research gap. We identify female-owned firms and examine the impact of ownership structure on financing and firm performance. We use cross-sectional financial data covering 25,500 companies in the Middle East and Africa for the years 2006 to 2014. Our results reveal a clear, but perhaps surprising, gender-specific pattern.
M10|A long way home: How an intra-organizational innovation network overcomes its political boundaries|This article focuses on the still understudied link among political boundaries and innovation practices and its inherent boundary-crossing mechanisms in intra-organizational innovation networks. Our single case study at the sports company adidas derives two particular combinations of boundaries and boundary-crossing mechanisms to overcome political boundaries in intra-organizational innovation networks. These are the ‘open-closed (minded) boundaries’ and ‘everybody-is-an-innovator boundaries’. They have been addressed with distinct innovation practices that comprise the boundary-crossing mechanisms ‘reframe interests’ and ‘negotiate interests’. We find that these boundary-crossing mechanisms to be crucial in the process of managing the intra-organizational innovation network. Our findings have implications for the organizational anchoring of innovation practices given its importance as enabler or barrier to overcome political boundaries in intra-organizational innovation networks.
M10|Examination on the Evolution and Differences of the Business Perception of the X and Y Generation Managers|Developments in society have been succeeded by the generation structures and their reflections to the real life. When evaluated, these advancements have been practiced mainly by X and Y generations. When the organizations as the core of the economy are taken into account, the X and Y generation managers are important to determine the differences in perceptions and values of the business environment. In fact, this assessment will be guiding to determine the success of the organization in micro-economic aspect and to assess the fiscal prosperity providers of our country with a macro-economic perspective. In this study, perceptions of the business environment, influence and progress, autonomy and capability, financial conditions / working conditions and labor relations of the X and Y generations managers has been studied . 95 managers from different sectors have participated in the study. The research has proven that business value perception of Y Generation managers have been higher than the X Generation managers.
M10|Analysis of Service Recovery Failure: From Minority Perspective|We investigate the service failures towards diverse customer groups for the purpose to bring insightful proposals to the managers to recover from these failures. Previous literature provided insights regarding the perception of service failures by minorities and the challenge of recovery due to racial implications driven from the failure, however lacked to propose suggestions for the managers so that they can take either corrective steps toward service failure recovery or prevent service failure through an effective training program. In this conceptual paper, we propose that, when the service provider and the customer are from different races, and the customer experiences a service failure, without the understanding of the process, service recovery is very hard to achieve. Race is an important factor in intention to bring the customer back for repurchase. The main contribution of this research is adding the race factor and the understanding of the service process into the model.
M10|The Effects of Interactions between Management Control Systems and Strategy on Firm Performance: An Empirical Study|In recent years, there has been growing interest in examining the relationships among management control systems, business strategy and firm performance. In this study, the interactions of management control systems and strategy with their impact on firm performance are examined with an empirical analysis, based on the data from 94 manufacturing firms from the top 500 in Turkey in 2014. The results support the postulate that high interaction between interactive control system (ICS) and differentiation strategy (DS) is associated with high firm performance and that high interaction between diagnostic control system (DCS) and cost leadership strategy (CS) is associated with high firm performance.
M10|About The Of Disciplinary Content Of Doxastic Management|"The article stated, in substance, that by accepting the hypothesis of continuing transformation of content and configuration ""small worlds"", along with developments in technology and behavioral sciences, necessarily supported the finding that mutations endoexogenous influences organizational entity as a whole his notable consequences on management. Doxastic management is a new epistemological covered by copyright scientifically in 2013. It appears that is not yet discerned neighborhood structure between the model, physical reality and metaphysical reality. It also considers that the segment infinite / finite (physical reality model) possible site management, doxastic operating, new emphases on the horizon iterative expected idealization /aspirate. Etymological explanatory are described aspects of doxastic and believe that management is global doxastic depositary of conceptual management. Describe the elements that define managerial complexity in terms of using new information technologies, shaping the early conceptual management and doxastic formulas disciplinary explanatory content doxastic management reflected in the conceptual doxometric premises management."
M10|Consequences Of Meta-Linguistics Participation On The Operationalization Of Dynamic Management Doxastic Logic|The paper starts from the thesis that proves non-invasive behavioral explaining differences, but the existence of operational priorities of the company / entity / enterprise lead to invasiveness. There are no known ways / methods / programming doxastic methods as long as management intervention can be treated as a hub that dominates hypertext / productive economic common rules the world. The phenomenon of identity management is far from meeting the full harmonization attitudinal decision-making process. Doxastic management is a new epistemological covered by copyright scientifically in 2013. The paper described aspects of doxastic procedural behavior, situations tangible managerial decision in doxastic field. They are played and the comparison between deterministic doxastic systems analysis and managerial phenomena is considered to operationalize participation of doxastic metalinguistic logic of dynamic management. Doxastic management simplicity and demarcation or limitation of positive action by doxastic management round alignments research.
M10|The Impact Of Management Communication On The Decisions To Increase The Performance Of An Organization|"Many Romanian companies going through a difficult period, which makes the care of managers to materialize more on obtaining immediate profit and rarely on some less obvious aspects such as communication influence on labour productivity. Often managers do not consider communication as a factor of real importance that may affect the staff performance. The way we communicate with those around us in the professional activity, but not only, place their mark on the results. Quality of management communication influences the way how the human resource is used and the organizational performance, in particular. Each individual has a certain style of communication formed by education, skills, beliefs and personal goals. It does not always ensure the effective and efficient communication. It can be appreciated the necessity for managers to watch the subordinates, but also to themselves, the change of attitude towards ""science communication"" by realizing the positive and negative effects of their own style of communication and by raising awareness of the necessity to acquire some communication skills"
M10|Evaluating prediction markets for internal control applications|This study estimates the suitability of prediction markets (as instruments of internal control) by analyzing their event and progress sensitivity based on comprehensive experimental data. The underlying experiment was designed using expected average grades and closely observing students’ (rank and file) and teachers’ (leadership) behaviors. First, a kick-off study asked both parties about the factors that may influence the outcome of the teaching process. The resulting data served as the basis for a detailed tracking survey of four topic-specific indicators. Each week of the experiment, both students and teachers were asked to report on these indicators for 12 courses, thus producing two sets of 48 time-series data. Concurrently, 12 prediction markets were set up, in which the participants could buy and sell their forecasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The market utilized just one type of variable (i.e., the final average grade of each course) and the best traders could earn special commendations. The students were also encouraged to keep a trading journal that included the motives for their purchases and sales. For some courses, fake information was fed to the students in order to understand how it would influence the survey indicators, the prediction market prices, and their sensitivity to misinformation. Finally, this study reveals the results of these two extremely different control mechanisms (i.e., periodic detailed surveys vs. voluntary single-number prediction markets) and reports on how they performed and how fast their indications were adapted.
M10|Research in sustainable business process management|This article demonstrates that process management has a great impact on sustainability of business processes. Thereby the outcome of the research shows that in order to be successful a company should apply standardization and optimization of processes within the scope of process management. It is indisputable, that process management and its sustainability cohere to business success. Insights into scientific evidence concerning business processes and its management based on a valid thorough literature survey are given and shown in accordance to a selected real-case process. Value: The research results of this paper can be used by companies in the process of decision making for adopting a sustainable process management approach in order to better standardize or optimize its business processes which might lead to a more sustainable company success.
M10|Success Factor Research and Strategy Paths The case of VW and Porsche as an example for new approaches Part I: Theoretical Framework and the Porsche Case|Objective: The aim of this paper is to test new instruments for the development of analytical case studies. Approach: Two descriptive models are applied: corporate life cycle analysis and strategy path analysis. These two models are combined with financial analysis. Results: The example of corporate development at Porsche and Volkswagen can be shown as ideal types that these tools allow an analytical description of the company's development, which differs from the often eclectics application of the case study method. Conclusions: Porsche and Volkswagen show, as an application example of the method presented here, which two main strategic paths are to be distinguished and how they vary across the business key figures. Contribution: The development of a systematic method for case studies Article Classification: Conceptual paper
M10|Do decision-makers in SMEs have higher risk aversion than in large enterprises?|In scientific discussion, it is widely assumed that decision-makersin SMEs have a higher risk aversion than those in large enterprises. This hypothesis will be evaluated with statistics to obtain a clear answer. Based on the keyfigureequity ratio, the risk aversion of decision-makersin SMEs and large companies can be statistically evaluated. The time series analysis revealed significant differences in risk aversion for different company sizes. Also the specific the company size-related environmental and market conditions influence the individual risk aversion of the decision makers. Therefore, the risk aversion of a decision-makerin an SME can be distinguished from the risk aversion in large companies.
M10|Valuation of Pension obligations in a continuing low interest environment in the Euro-Zone-impact and measures|Since the global financial crisis interest rates in the Euro-Zone areturning down and areat ahistoric low level companies have to disclose pension obligations in their financial statements. Valuation principles for pension obligations demand under IFRS and German GAAP that the liabilities have tobediscoun­ ted. Melting interest rates result in continuously increasing pension obligations. Thus, KPis and credit rating of companies are impacted. The article describes the impact of decreasing yields on pension obligations under different accounting regulations. First taken measures of the German legislation enforced inJanuary 2016 to reduce the burden of the growing pension obligation by changing the valuation principles are analysed. Tue article also details the impact of a low interest environment on KPis and creditrating.
M10|Key performance indicators for process of project prioritisation management|Strategie company plans are more frequently realised in the form of strategie projects. Especially regarding the evaluation of strategic projects - project portfolio management is a new territory for a lot of companies. Asmain focusof the paper an ideal type of evaluation and prioritisation process of projects isdrafted.
M10|Research on Change Management into Small Family Businesses|In this paper we analyse the impact of family involvement over change into Romanian small family businesses. Accordingly, we have contributed to entrepreneurship generally and family SMEs studies particularly by testing the relationship between family involvements and change. In addition we develop family business theory and entrepreneurship by testing variables as sources of change among family business. Our findings present a broader perspective of Romanian entrepreneurial landscape from family business concepts.
M10|Research On Change Management Into Small Family Businesses|In this paper we analyse the impact of family involvement over change into Romanian small family businesses. Accordingly, we have contributed to entrepreneurship generally and family SMEs studies particularly by testing the relationship between family involvements and change. In addition we develop family business theory and entrepreneurship by testing variables as sources of change among family business. Our findings present a broader perspective of Romanian entrepreneurial landscape from family business concepts.
M10|The Importance of Digital Adoption for Small and Medium Enterprises: Comparative Study of Romanian Service and IT&C SMEs|Service enterprises constitute significant drivers of growth for developed countries as well as countries in development. The global economy in combination with the fast paced development of technology in the digital era create opportunities for companies that realize the importance of the service-technology convergence phenomenon, also known as the service economy 3.0.In the case of the Romanian economy, SMEs and the service sector contribute significantly to the country’s economic growth and our study aims to uncover opportunities for Romanian service SMEs to further their chances of succeeding on the global service market through adoption of digital technologies. We find that it is of utmost importance for Romanian service SMEs to bridge the digital divide through furthering their knowledge of network effects and digital ecosystems that can ultimately result in developing core competencies that help them remain relevant on the global services market.
M10|Research on the Current Telecommuting Trends in United States and European Union Markets|In the context of globalization and due to the accelerated progress made in information and communication technology, more and more companies offer their employees the option of telecommuting. For the past twenty years, telecommuting has been on an asceding trend, an incresing number of people embracing the ability to work from home, using a computer and internet connection to communicate for their jobs. The goal of the paper is to explain the overall notion of telecommuting and to analyze the current trends in the United States and European Union markets. Another objective is to assess the advantages and disadvantages of telecommuting and the important role played by this concept within the striving purpose of corporations to achieve their strategic targets. The study is based upon specialized literature reviews regarding the emergence of telecommuting and the role it plays in organizations. A comparative analysis was conducted by the authors on two regional markets, United States and the European Union, in order to assess the trend in telecommuting and the factors that influence it. The outcome of the research shows that although the benefits of telecommuting are numerous, it does not come without challenges, both being applicable for both the employer, as well as for the employee. The research results of this study can be used by organizations when considering to offer their employees flexible work opportunities which can positively influence the long term business performance.
M10|Research of Corporate Tax Impact on Financial Performance. Case of Companies Listed on Bucharest Stock Exchange|Financial performance is the objective of any economic entity, regardless the domain it activates in. From the decision-making process perspective, the corporate tax is included in the equation of financial performance, considering that it has multiple informational facets at the company’s level. Considering the computation formula for the due tax as a premise, one can say that along with the economic development of the company, there is a positive correlation degree between it and the fiscal liability, determined by the multiplication of the number of transactions generating tax. Therefore, the corporate tax becomes relevant information for decision making in terms of organization form, reinvestment and others. In this context, our research plans to identify a relation between corporate tax and the financial performance of an entity. In this respect, two econometric models were built showing that the effective tax rate passes the tests of significance and influences the performance indicators in a negative way.
M10|Executive Remuneration and the Financial Performance of Quoted Firms: The Nigerian Experience|This study examined executive remuneration and firms’ performance in Nigeria. Specifically, the study seeks to ascertain the nexus between executive remuneration, firm size and board size variables and the performance of quoted companies. The population of the study consists of all the quoted firms as at 31st December, 2014. A sample of sixty (60) companies excluding non- financial firms was selected for the period 2013 and 2014. Summary statistics such as descriptive, correlation and granger causality tests were used. Inferential statistics, using panel Generalized Least Square (EGLS) with fixed effect was used for the purpose of empirical validations. This was after the application of diagnostic test to enhance the study. The study ascertained that executive remuneration has a relationship with firm performance, but negatively impacted on it; though was not statistically significant. Firm size was ascertained not to have significant positive relationship with firms’ performance; though it has a causality relationship with the performance of the firms. Board size was found to negatively affect the performance of firms and is statistically not significant. Premised on this, the study suggests that executive remuneration of quote firms should be pegged constantly in a flexible manner. This will enable shareholders known the causality relationship between what is paid to the executive and how that influence performance.
M10|Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) in Project Management|As modern management techniques, specifically the WBS application may determine the success of a project, regardless of its objectt, as such achieving predetermined performance indicators. Contained within this framework, we propose in article to present the approach particularity, specific reasonings, additional to considerations regarding the necessity and usefulness of this particular technique. Given the complexity and dynamic internal process specifically of the framework Project Management Unit (PMU), additional to the necessity of resolving with professionalism the problems which are subject to this type of entities, WBS may constitute by itself a particularly effective method regarding resource management, the risk management and the achievement objectives in conditions of technical and economic high performance. From the perspective of exercising the least three attributes towards management (planning, organizing and controlling) the WBS application may confer a competitive advantage specifically obvious by the fact that makes it possible that the prioritization activities/operations/and service tasks in close correlation with the own objectives or the UMP pyramid. Consequently, large-scale application of the WBS chart in which fully supports the management team to realize with a higher accuracy the key elements concerning the resource requirements and their judicious allocation, costestimation, schedule deadlines, etc., all in their interconnection, are apt to provide a more qualified substantiation of managerial decisions.
M10|Generation Y – The Management Conversion Paradigm|The Romanian private banking system organizational structure faces major mutations. The boss-subordinate management paradigm is gradually becoming obsolete. The boss- subordinate relationship between managers and their employees is being gradually replaced by a collegiality type of relationship. Even if the transactional leader type continues to dominate, the inspirational leader type is spreading already. The purpose of our paper is to emphasize the advanced position of the managerial paradigmatic conversion in Romanian private commercial banks. The mutual adaptation of employees from a hierarchical perspective is one of the ways to ensure the development of a long term banking institution. We have identified the employee’s perception from the Romanian private banking system regarding the leadership style of their superior using the questionnaire LBDQ XII. Despite of having identified that statistically there are no major perceived differences from one banking institution to another, from ” expectations” point of view, we have found that generational differences are statistically significant. We consider that the organizational culture of Romanian private banking, as the main support pillar of perception uniformity, will significantly change once the number of employees from the Millennial generation increases in the total number of employees in this activity field.
M10|Diagnostics vs. SWOT Analysis|Diagnostics and SWOT analysis approach as management methods is a delicate endeavor, as both specialists and beneficiaries of their results have different opinions about their role in management. A considerable part of them consider SWOT the best way of investigation and analysis, as they have on hand, together, strengths, weaknesses or failures, opportunities and vulnerabilities or threats. From this perspective, we believe that it is confusion between SWOT analysis and SWOT matrix, the latter being the result of analysis, with high reflectivity capacity of reference elements of internal potential (strengths and weaknesses) and regional, national and international organization ambient (opportunities and threats). For others, the diagnosis is the most profound way of investigation and analysis, able to capture not only the strengths and weaknesses, but also what causes them, along with the managerial, viability, economic, technical, technological etc. potential, depending on which there are provided strategic-tactical recommendations oriented towards internal potential gain, to the extent that it is below the desired level. The comparison of the twomanagement tools can only be achieved through a detailed methodological applied approach, encompassed by our material.
M10|Knowledge Management Tools in Romanian Companies|KM tools are available for all knowledge activities: assimilation, comprehension, and learning of the information by individuals who will then transform data and information into knowledge. Knowledge is strictly linked and connected to the individual (or group) who creates it, which may cast doubts on the availability of information systems tools to effectively support KM. Thus the visible part of knowledge, what the literature calls explicit as opposed to the tacit dimension of knowledge, is only information regardless of the amount of the other individual knowledge embedded into it. This paper presents results of an exploratory study on Romanian companies aimed to provide an overview on knowledge tools in terms of reasons to implement them, problems and advantages encountered during their use or knowledge activities they are most suitable for.
M10|ISO 9001 Performance: A Holistic and Mixed-Method Analysis|The aim of this paper is to analyse the impact of the ISO 9001 Standard on organizational performance from a holistic theoretical perspective, using a mixedmethod analysis. More specifically, the qualitative study considers the impact of the adoption of ISO 9001 on the general performance of certified companies. The quantitative study analysed the effect of ISO 9001 on productivity, business value and increase on sales. A holistic and integrative theoretical approach was adopted, bringing together aspects of the Contingency Theory, the Institutional Theory and the Resources-Based View (RBV). This theoretical perspective was used in a broad empirical study, using a mixed-method analysis combining the use of qualitative and quantitative methods. The study focused on Portuguese companies from different sectors of activity. The qualitative study confirmed that ISO 9001 was a demand from the market thus conferring a competitive advantage to organizations and it was also clear that without ISO 9001 these would not enter the market. From the quantitative perspective, data obtained indicate a correlation between ISO 9001 and the size of the organizations. Nevertheless, the analysis also showed that some relationships between ISO 9001 and improved performance were not significant and mostly it seems they depend on the sector of activity considered.
M10|The Evolution of Romanian SMEs Performance – Multi-year Analysis between 2011 and 2015|Evaluating an indicator has always been the first step needed in order to assure the improvement of that certain indicator. Having this principle in mind, the current paper aims to analyse the evolution of performance within Romanian small and medium-sized enterprises, between 2011 and 2015. In order to assure a relevant and correct evaluation, the analysis was carried taking into account multiple key performance indicators: number of employees, volume of receivables, volume of provider liabilities, volume of sales and amount of profit. The most significant result of the analysis refers to a general improvement of the performance of Romanian SMEs in the five years of analysis, with a peak of performance in 2015. The synergy of positive results registered in the multiple areas that were analysed resulted in a positive evolution of the most important KPI of an economic organization: its profit.
M10|A Separation between Supply Chain Management and Supply Chain Governance|Governance and management are commonly debated at firm’s level as two inter-related concepts. As supply chains and networks of firms tend to become the most important players of the economic world, one question addressed within this article is whether at supply chain level these two concepts have specific and different meanings. A theoretical review is performed. The main conclusion is that a real differentiation has not been yet performed, as long as the interest for supply chain governance between supply chain practitioners and researchers is very low.
M10|The Use of Telematics Solutions in Achieving Excellency in Anti Criminal Activity in Romania|Looking at the quality through the results of an activity, in this case an economic activity, our paper aims to identify some causal links between the preventing criminality preventing and control mechanism, based on telematics security systems, and the criminality against property status at country level. The analyzed statistical data series are focused on the evolution of criminality in Romania in the last years, and also on the monitoring marketing based on private dispatches. The big picture reveals that in over 43% of the European countries there is an ascending level of burglaries. In this paper we try to identify if the development of the telematics security market based on private monitoring dispatches a decrease of the criminality against property in Romania. Based on this study we will be able to see if the private companies which provide security services can reach an Excellency level (considered Excellency in business), identified through country level results, based on the use of security telematics solutions.
M10|A Comparative Approach of Cultural Intelligence Profile of Management and Non-Management Romanian Students|This paper discusses the results of a comparative research related to cultural intelligence (CQ) carried out for a sample of Romanian students of the same university from various fields of study. Cultural intelligence (CQ) is defined as the as individuals’ ability to act efficiently in different cultural contexts. Due to a significant growth of Internet-based communication, enabling virtual work teams, geographically and culturally dispersed (Stanko & Gibson , 2009), and to increased globalization over the past 20 years, the number of people who currently get in touch with other cultures has grown significantly (Eisenberg et al., 2013). In this context, it could be consider that developing cross - cultural competencies is useful, even necessary, for professionals in all fields, not only for current or future managers. Consequently, in order to better understanding students' CQ, we classified them into two distinct groups, management and non-management students, using Earley & Ang’s (2003) multidimensional concept as an analysis framework. Because CQ is a multidimensional concept, this paper will discuss the answers for each of the four CQ dimensions, in order to identify which of the four capabilities is more or less developed among students and which are the significant similarities and differences between the two groups of students. Taking into account that literature highlights the influence of crosscultural management academic courses on CQ (Eisenberg et al. 2013, Putranto et al., 2015; Ramsey & Lorentz, 2016), our main purpose is to understand differences/similarities between the two groups and consequently, adapting the university curricula to students' real needs related to developing their CQ.
M10|Promotional Mix and Integration of Communication into Management Policy - Case Study|In this paper are presented promotion strategies used by luxury brands in the new socio-economic context. Top 10 luxury goods companies are presented, with related indicators for the years 2012-2014. Within this paper we endeavour to carry out an analysis of the new trends regarding promotion strategies of luxury brands. Also, luxury consumer areas are presented and the main factors (such as currency fluctuations and holiday shopping) influencing consumption of luxury goods and the particularities of each area are identified.
M10|Entrepreneurship, Management and Leadership. An Organizational Perspective|Entrepreneurship, management and leadership are key vectors for the competitiveness of organizations in an ever more complex and dynamic business environment. Given that between entrepreneurship, management and leadership there are multiple connections both in theoretical and methodological terms and in terms of practical use, the paper addresses the issues related to this triad in a correlative vision. Significant aspects on entrepreneurship are briefly presented, with special reference to the main activities to be completed within an entrepreneurial approach. Also, the paper highlights the content of managerial processes and relationships developed within organizations and the fundamental dimensions on which professional management should be structured in order to achieve sustainable competitive advantages. The final part of this work reflects leadership secrets and the most important principles governing the training programs for leaders in the modern organizations of contemporary economy.
M10|The Role of Decision-making Methods in Business Performance|Decision-making is a central problem, widespread, difficult and an intellectual engagement with responsibility to protect from risk. This paper does not cover all the problems of decision-making in business but it is focused on the impact of decision-making methods in business performance that is characterized by some performance indicators. A few theoritical problems of decision-making are presented in the framework of the paper. After the theoretical part, the actual situation of decision-making is analyzed, and the impact of the methods in business performance. The objective of the paper is to measure the impact of decision-making methods in business performance.
M10|Evaluating the Greek Version of Religious Commitment Inventory 10 on a Sample of Pomak Households|The aim of this study is to investigate the properties of the Religious Commitment Inventory-10 (RCI-10) in a Greek sample (600 participants). The items were translated into Greek from the original English version. The Greek version of the RCI 10 has acceptable reliability (Cronbach a = .869). It was found that various socio- demographic factors affecting religiosity score on Pomak households. Additionally, the two factor structure of the original scale is confirmed, although it is suggested that the composition of each factor is not the same with the original version. The results showed that the Greek RCI-10 is a promising scale that should be used preferably for exploratory purposes.
