M12|The Impact of CEOs in the Public Sector: Evidence from the English NHS|We investigate whether top managers affect the performance of large and complex public sector organizations, using as a case study CEOs of English public hospitals (large, complex organizations with multi-million turnover). We study the extent to which CEOs are differentiated in terms of their pay, as well as a wide range of hospital production measures including inputs, intermediate operational outcomes and clinical outcomes. Pay differentials suggest that the market perceives CEOs to be differentiated. However, we find little evidence of CEOs’ impact on hospital production. These results question the effectiveness of leadership changes to improve performance in the public sector.
M12|The ties that bind: implicit contracts and management practices in family-run firms|This paper investigates the impact of family CEOs on firm organizational choices and the causes and consequences of these decisions. We focus on second-generation (dynastic) family firms, collect new data on CEO successions for over 900 firms in Latin America and Europe and merge it with unique data on organizational choices, specifically, structured management practices. We use variation in the gender composition of the outgoing CEOs' children for identification. There is clear preference for male heirs: conditional on number of children, having at least one son is correlated with a 30pp higher likelihood of dynastic family succession. As the gender composition of the outgoing CEO's children is unlikely to affect decisions on mid-level managerial practices, we use it as an instrumental variable for family succession. Dynastic CEO successions lead to almost one standard deviation lower adoption of structured management practices, with an implied productivity decrease of about 10%. We rationalize this finding with a new conceptual framework that accounts for the importance of implicit employment commitments to employees of dynastic firms in determining the adoption of monitoring technologies. We find empirical evidence that, controlling for lower levels of knowledge and skills of family CEOs, concerns for reputation and ''family name'' can play a role in constraining investment in structured management practices. Overall, our empirical results shed new light on dynastic firms' persistent performance deficit and apparent lag in the adoption of structured management practices.
M12|Motivating employees through career paths|Firms have discretion over task allocations, which may dampen employees' career prospects, and, hence, motivation. Task assignments and worker motivation interact through the extent of labor market competition; that is, the possibility of moving to another firm. More competition enhances motivation but decreases firms' incentives to assign workers to informative tasks. One consequence is that competitive firms sometimes choose strategies that lead to intermediate competition. When the employee pool is heterogeneous, firms might choose different human resources practices that attract different kinds of workers, and differentiate themselves through the career opportunities within and beyond the firms that they offer.
M12|Peer Group Choice and Chief Executive Officer Compensation|We examine the selection of peer groups that boards of directors use when setting the level of CEO compensation. This choice is controversial because it is difficult to ascertain whether peer groups are selected to (i) attract and retain top executive talent or (ii) enable rent extraction by inappropriately increasing CEO compensation. In contrast to prior research, our analysis utilizes the degree to which the observed compensation level of peers in the portfolio is unusual relative to all potential portfolios of peers the board of directors could have reasonably selected. Using a sample of 10,235 firm-year observations from 2008 to 2014, we estimate roughly 33% of board of directorsâ€™ choices appear to be associated with rent extraction, whereas the remaining 67% are associated with attracting and retaining high-quality CEO talent. Relative to firms that appear to select peers for aspirational labor market reasons, we find rent extraction firms have more structural governance concerns and realized negative governance outcomes. Over our sample period, we estimate the aggregate excess pay for rent extraction firms is approximately $5.4 billion, or 38% of their total pay.
M12|Managerial Quality and Productivity Dynamics|Which managerial skills, traits, and practices matter most for productivity? How does the observability of these features affect how appropriately they are priced into wages? Combining two years of daily, line-level production data from a large Indian garment firm with rich survey data on line managers, we find that several key dimensions of managerial quality, like attention, autonomy, and control, are important for learning-by-doing as well as for overall productivity, but are not commensurately rewarded in pay. Counterfactual simulations of our structural model show large gains from screening potential hires via psychometric measurement and training to improve managerial practices.
M12|The Impact of CEOs in the Public Sector: Evidence from the English NHS|We investigate whether top managers affect the performance of large and complex public sector organizations, using as a case study CEOs of English public hospitals (large, complex organizations with multi-million turnover). We study the extent to which CEOs are differentiated in terms of their pay, as well as a wide range of hospital production measures including inputs, intermediate operational outcomes and clinical outcomes. Pay differentials suggest that the market perceives CEOs to be differentiated. However, we find little evidence of CEOs' impact on hospital production. These results question the effectiveness of leadership changes to improve performance in the public sector.
M12|CEO-Board Dynamics|We examine CEO-board dynamics using a new panel dataset that spans 1920 to 2011. The long sample allows us to perform within-firm and within-CEO tests over a long horizon, many for the first time in the governance literature. Consistent with theories of bargaining or dynamic contracting, we find board independence increases at CEO turnover and falls with CEO tenure, with the decline stronger following superior performance. CEOs are also more likely to be appointed board chair as tenure increases, and we find evidence consistent with a substitution between board independence and chair duality. Other results suggest that these classes of models fail to capture important elements of board dynamics. First, the magnitude of the CEO tenure effect is economically small, much smaller for example than the strong persistence in board structure that we document. Second, when external CEOs are hired, board independence falls and subsequently increases. Third, event studies document a positive market reaction when powerful CEOs die in office, consistent with powerful CEOs becoming entrenched.
M12|The Impacts of Managerial Autonomy on Firm Outcomes|The allocation of decision rights within organizations influences resource allocation, expansion decisions, and ultimately outcomes. Using a newly constructed dataset, I estimate the effects of an earned autonomy program for State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in India. The program gave managers (the board of directors) of profitable SOEs more autonomy over strategic decisions such as capital expansion and the formation of joint ventures. I find that autonomy allows SOEs to increase their capital stock and form more strategic partnerships which leads to greater sales and profits. I also find that the likelihood that a manager subsequently joins a board of a private firm is greater for managers of those SOEs which were granted autonomy, indicating that career concerns is a consistent explanation for these managerial decisions. Taken together, these results indicate that large gains in SOE performance are possible without privatization (by policies like earned autonomy) and may occur partly through managers' career concerns.
M12|"A study on the discriminability, effect and factors of ""Soshiki wo seou ishiki h, new type of organizational commitment"|"Traditionally, organizational commitment has been viewed as an important theme in management, and employees with high organizational commitment has less intension to leave or change jobs and are willing to behave according to the organization's values and standards. Although high organizational commitment is taken positively, the high level of organizational commitment may also be treated as negative for avoiding or inhibiting change when organizational change and innovation are considered important. In this study, we assumed that there might be another concept of organizational commitment that captures consciousness to carry or manage the organization and apart from affective commitment and continuous commitment. It is the new relationship between the organization and employees that leads to transformational behavior, positive voice to the organization, and a role commitment to take on important responsibilities as a core member. A survey was conducted with 132 employees of company X (general chemical indutry). As a result, a new type of organizational commitment named as gSoshiki wo seou ishiki h, was not be distinguished from affective commitment, but it was different from continuous commitment. It was also confirmed that a broader affective commitment including ""consciousness to bear the organization"" promotes positive voice and is promoted by career hope and career support mainly by their superiors."
M12|Why Is Executive Compensation So High? A Model of Executive Compensation|In this paper, I examine the mechanism of extremely high executive compensation based on the concept of ranking value and preference, and show that the origin of such extremely high compensation is economic rents. Ranking value and preference provide monopoly powers, profits, and rents to producers and generate “superstars” who are not only absolutely but, more importantly, are relatively superior to other executives. Furthermore, ranking value and preference enable a firm’s product to be differentiated and provide the firm monopoly rents (profits). Executives who contribute to differentiating the product can obtain economic rents and be compensated similar to superstars on professional sports teams. The monopoly rents owing to ranking values can be socially justified, but they may not be socially justifiable if they are solely distributed to executives.
M12|Keep Calm and Carry on: Gender Differences in Endurance|We investigate endurance, the capacity to maintain levels of performance through internal rather than external motivation in non-rewarding tasks and over sequences of tasks, through a lab experiment. The significant driver of performance is payment scheme order for women and payment schemes for men. Both women and men respond to social cues, through increased intrinsic motivation (ambition) for women and through extrinsic motivation (competition) for men. We suggest implications for reward schemes in the workplace and for selection into executive positions.
M12|Der Einfluss von organisatorischer Gerechtigkeit auf das berufliche Engagement in den jordanischen Ministerien<BR>[The Influence of Organizational Justice on Job Commitment in the Jordanian Ministries]|The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of organizational justice on job commitment in Jordanian ministries. Data were collected through a questionnaire distributed to 450 employees in three Jordanian ministries, namely, the Ministry of Education; Ministry of Health; and Ministry of Awqaf Islamic Affairs and Holy Places. Data were analyzed via descriptive, simple linear regression analysis, and stepwise multiple linear regression analysis. The hypotheses of the research were tested and the probabilities of their acceptance were rejection. Findings revealed a statistically significant impact between organizational justice and job commitimnt. Results also indicated that informational justice has the highest influential effect on employee job commitmint, while procedural justice had the lowest impact on it. Furthermore, this study reports differences between the dimensions of the (OJ) in their impacts on the dimensions of job commitment. Moreover, the study found that the three dimensions of organizational justice (information justice, personal justice, and distributive justice) combined had a higher predictive capacity of job commitment than that of any independent dimension or two dimensions of organizational justice. In view of the results, the researcher gives some recommendations to the decision makers in Jordanian ministries that may guide them to promote the concept and practice of organizational justice in their ministries such as the need for increasing the levels of organizational justice, especially the distributive justice, and focusing on compatibility of income of the employee with their academic level and practical experience, in addition to necessity of improving the system of rewards in the Jordanian ministries because the rewards have a significant impact on the employees' perception of justice and on her/his interest in supporting her/his colleagues when doing additional work in the ministry. In other respects, this study has practical implications for future research such as attracting attention to the need to study job satisfaction and job engagement as mediatingvariables of association of employee’s job commitment with organizational justice. This is in addition to conducting studies similar to the present one in different environments inside and outside Jordan.
M12|Regulatory Spillovers in Common Audit Markets|We find that Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) had two significant effects on the audit market for nonpublic entities. The first short-run effect stems from inelastic labor supply coupled with an audit demand shock from public companies. As a result, private companies reduced their use of attested financial reports in bank financing by 12%, and audit fee increases for nonprofit organizations (NPOs) more than doubled. The second long-run effect was a transformation in the audit supply structure. After SOX, NPOs were less likely to match with auditors most exposed to public companies, while auditors increasingly specialized their offices based on client type. Audit market concentration for NPOs dropped by more than half within five years of SOX and remained at this level through the end of our sample in 2013, while the number of suppliers increased by 26%. Our results demonstrate how regulation directed at public companies generates economically im-portant spillovers for nonpublic entities.
M12|Pengaruh Motivasi Dan Kompensasi Terhadap Disiplin Karyawan Dan Dosen Di Sekolah Tinggi Ilmu Kesehatan (Stikes) Abdi Nusa Pangkalpinang<BR>[The Effect Of Motivation And Compensation On Employee Discipline And Dosage In High School Of Health Science (Stikes) Abdi Nusa Pangkalpinang]|Higher education has an important role in producing quality human resources. In order to be able to carry out its role well, universities are required to be able to implement good human resource management, especially in improving the performance of employees and lecturers. This study was intended to analyze the effect of motivation and compensation on the discipline of employees and lecturers at the Abdi Nusa Pangkalpinang School of Health Sciences. The population and sample are all employees and lecturers totaling 52 people. Measurement of research variables with instruments in questionnaires quantified with a Likert scale. The method of analysis uses multiple regression analysis. Hypothesis testing uses the t-test. The results of this study result that the motivation and compensation respectively partially have a positive and significant effect on the discipline of employees and lecturers at the Abdi Nusa Pangkalpinang School of Health Sciences. The recommendation of this research is that the institution is expected to provide support and awards to improve the performance of employees and lecturers.
M12|Implementasi Manajemen Pendidikan Islam Dalam Konsep Manajemen Hubungan Masyarakat Dengan Sekolah<BR>[Islamic Education Management Implementation In The Concept Of Community Relationship Management With School]|"The most important thing in the management of Islamic education is the management components. One of them is public relations management (public relations) because the school is in the midst of the community and always relates to establishing pedagogical and sociological cooperation that benefits both parties. Management is very important for the success of an organization. PR is a series of organized activities such as a series of integrated campaigns or programs, and all of them are ongoing and regular. The community as a third educational institution after family and school has a considerable role in the ongoing activities concerning education problems. Given the importance of the role of public relations in educational institutions and the gap between theory and reality in the field (problems), this paper will discuss ""Implementation of Islamic Education Management in the Concept of Public Relations with School Management. Conclusion This paper is; First, the Implementation of Islamic Education Management in the Concept of Management of Public Relations with Schools will run optimally, if it is planning, organizing, implementing and monitoring properly. Second, Supporting Factors in the Implementation of Islamic Education Management in the Concept of Management of Public Relations with Schools is a harmonious relationship between school members and the surrounding community in particular and the wider community in general which is applied through student activities especially extracurricular activities. The inhibiting factors that exist in the implementation of public relations are located in the weak quality of human resources students and teachers, lack of infrastructure and funds"
M12|La pratique de la contractualisation interne hospitalière: vers une nouvelle gestion publique<BR>[The practice of hospital internal contracting: towards a new public management]|The interest of the internal contracting resides certainly in its use like instrument of administrative and financial regulation of the health, social and medico-social establishments, because it constitutes an element of technical and financial viability of a health mutual, but more still as a management and modernization tool. Internal contracting is thus the mode that allows the matching between costs and quality in the hospital field; remaining the indispensable tool for the introduction and adaptation of new public management in public bodies.
M12|Work-Life Balance and Glass Ceiling of Women Employees – A Literature Review|Literature Review is an outline of all the information accessible on a particular subject till date. When you choose a research topic, the initial step is towards exploration and become familiar with the past research done on the subject. Literature review can be considered as the backbone on which the research concept stands as it provides the necessary context, reliability and the necessary background to the research idea. Thus Literature review is one of the most critical parts of any research. In today’s scenario Work life balance and glass ceiling is a major concern for the women who have opted to come out of their domestic chores and have chosen to work outside. Competition and challenges in the organization demands the time of women which they actually wanted to devote to their families. This imbalance can also create Glass ceiling preventing women from climbing hierarchical ladder. Review of literature on work-life balance and glass ceiling of women employees has been carried out keeping in mind the objectives of the study. The researcher has reviewed the previous literature on various aspects related to work-life balance (WLB). Review on the Glass Ceiling is also focused in this paper. The main purpose of this paper is to find out the gap and the need to conduct this research. The source of the study includes various Journals, reports, Books, Doctoral thesis, Internet sites and Magazines.
M12|Rulebooks in Relational Contracts|Firms can accrue large benefits by fostering worker initiative, but standardized work rules are still widely used. We present a model of relational incentives where the use of rules fluctuates over time as the firm faces shocks to its credibility. Worker initiative in adapting to local information can ensure production efficiency but also requires strong incentives. As shocks weaken relational incentives, the firm may adopt rules that yield satisfactory (though suboptimal) performance. Rules help the relationship survive the shocks, but the relationship becomes less efficient in the future. While the relationship may recover, its ability to weather future shocks deteriorates.
M12|High Performance Work Systems and Employee Outcomes: A Meta-analysis for Future Research|This paper consists of a literature review of the impact of High Performance Work Systems (HPWS) on employee outcomes such as job satisfaction and organizational affective commitment, based on employees’ perceptions. After reviewing the strategic importance of Human Resources Management, we draw on theories like AMO and Social Exchange to understand the impact of HPWS on employee outcomes, suggesting possible relations that can shed some light into the “blackbox” of HPWS-performance linkage.
M12|The Moderating Effect of Transfer Climate on the Joint Relationship between Trainees' Personality and Transfer Training|Objective – The aim of this study is to examine the joint relationship between the Big Five personality and transfer climate on transfer of training. Drawing on trait activation theory, this study examines how the relationship between Big Five personality and transfer of training is moderated by supervisor support and opportunity to perform. Methodology/Technique – The sample of this study consists of 183 police officers who have attended driver training in one of the police training centres in Malaysia. Three sets of questionnaires comprising of the Big Five inventory, driving knowledge test, driving competency, and transfer climate were distributed to the respondents pre-training, posttraining, and after two months of training. The data was analysed using statistic package for social science (SPSS) Version 19.0 and SmartPLS 3.0. Findings – A high level of agreeableness, conscientiousness and openness to experience were found to encourage increased transfer of training. Opportunity to perform moderated the relationship between agreeableness, conscientiousness, and openness to experience and transfer of training which is congruent with the trait activation theory. Novelty – The findings of this research emphasise the importance of the joint relationship between personality and situational factors on transfer of training. These findings allow the researcher to understand how opportunity to perform enables trainees to express their personality and enhance their performance.
M12|Work Engagement: The Impact of Psychological Capital and Organizational Justice and Its Influence on Turnover Intention|Objective - To remain competitive, organizations must be able to adapt to change and increase their performance. In order to increase performance, organizations must focus on how they manage their employees, including how to retain them. Previous studies have shown that work engagement (WE) has a positive effect on employee retention (Schaufeli & Bakker, 2004). The JD-R Model suggests that WE is influenced by enhancing personal and job resources (Schaufeli, 2017). This research aims to investigate the impact of both of those resources on WE. The personal resource measured in this study is psychological capital while the job resource measured is organizational justice. Furthermore, this research also aims to determine the extent to which WE can be used to predict employee turnover. Methodology/Technique - A quantitative method is implemented in this study by distributing a Utrecth Work Engagement Scale, Psychological Capital Questionnaire, Organizational Justice Questionnaire, and Turnover Intention Scale to 243 employees working in a manufacturing company in Jakarta, Indonesia. Findings - The results of this research conclude that psychological capital and organizational justice have a significant effect on WE (F= 15.231; p
M12|Psychosocial Safety Climate and Burnout: The Mediating Role of Challenge and Hindrance Demands|Objective – In recent years, the prevalence of job burnout among Malaysian research universities (RU) academics has accelerated due to the demands of teaching, in addition to administrative work, consultation, research, and publications. Methodology/Technique – This study reviews literature relating to burnout, and the use of Psychosocial Safety Climate (PSC) to create a better working environment by managing demands and providing a high level of resources to deal with demands or tasks at work. This study presents a better job design by PSC through challenge and hindrance demands which may decrease the level of burnout among RU academicians. Therefore, this paper suggests that challenges and hindrance demands are a potential mediator of the relationship between PSC and burnout. Findings – This study concludes that PSC can be used to minimize burnout among academics by providing references for an excellent job design, enhancing job demands whilst diminishing hinderance demands. Novelty – RU management or policy-makers may apply PSC in their design of the role of academics within their institution, so that the related work policies, practices, and procedures are enhanced. This method is crucial to ensure that the challenge and hindrance demands of academicians are properly managed to reduce their risk of burnout.
M12|The Relationship between Leadership Style and Employee Outcomes: The Mediating Role of Organizational Commitment|Objective - The objective of this study is to examine the relationship between transformational leadership styles and job performance and the mediating role of organizational commitment in the relationship between transformational leadership style and job performance in State-Owned Banks in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Methodology/Technique - The data used to evaluate the model was gathered from the State-Owned Banks in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. 200 permanent employees of those State-Owned Banks participated in the survey. The Structural Equation Modelling (SEM), using LISREL software was employed to examine the relationship among the constructs in this study, which are transformational leadership style, organizational commitment, and job performance. Finding - The findings of this study conclude that transformational leadership style significantly affects job performance and organizational commitment, whereas organizational commitment significantly influences job performance. Briefly, organizational commitment mediates the relationship between transformational leadership styles and job performance in State-Owned Banks in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. Novelty - Most of the previous studies were carried out in western countries, raising doubts about generalizations in research results in developing countries such as Indonesia. Therefore, the novelty of this research is carried out in the context of developing countries, especially in State-Owned Banks in West Kalimantan, Indonesia.
M12|How Commitment, Satisfaction, and Cost Fluctuations Influence Customer Loyalty|Objective - The purpose of this study is to investigate which factors have a stronger influence on final purchase decisions from the perspective of the chemical market. The factors under consideration are customer satisfaction, commitment and cost fluctuations. Methodology/Technique - By understanding the factors that influence purchase decisions, a chemical company or other industrial company can place greater focus on the factors that will improve or enhance customer loyalty. The research design is a conclusive-descriptive and quantitative method. Findings & Novelty - The results of the analysis confirm that customer commitment and satisfaction have a stronger influence on customer loyalty, compared to fluctuating costs. Satisfaction does not have a direct influence on loyalty, except where commitment is used as a mediator.
M12|Increasing Employee's Job Satisfaction Through the Implementation of Transformational Leadership and Work Stress Level Management|Objective - The objective of this paper is to examine the relationship between transformational leadership, work stress and job satisfaction. Based on previous studies, we proposed that work stress will mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and employees' job satisfaction. Methodology/Technique - Data was collected from 248 employees working in three organizations in Java Island, Indonesia. To test the hypotheses, we used regression analysis and a boostrapping approach with a Macro Process. Finding - The results of this study show that transformational leadership has a positive relationship with employee job satisfaction. However, transformational leadership does not have significant relationship with work stress. This therefore means that there is no mediation of work stress either. Novelty – This empirical study provides a first glance at the correlation between the variables. Future studies should consider using more participants from across Indonesia to properly reflect the cultural difference among other provinces. Type of Paper - Empirical.
M12|Ambidextrous Leadership in Manufacture Industry in Indonesia|Objective - Leadership has evolved (Cogliser & Brigham 2004) and has become more dynamic than ever before (McClean et. al. 2019). Prior research has shown that ambidexterity generates persistent and conflicting demands within an organization (Koryak et. al. 2018), while others have been successful (Diaz- Fernandez, Pasamar-Reyes & Valle-Cabrera, 2017). This paper highlights the strengths and challenges of two popular leadership styles in Indonesia, namely: transactional leadership and transformational leadership using two concepts of ambidextirity, exploitation and exploration. Ambidextirity is believed to be the answer to recent market shifts and can also help organisations to solve future problems. However, there is not a clear theory to determine when, where, and how to use ambidexterity. Methodology/Technique - This study uses a systematic literature review (Okoli et. al., 2014, Okoli & John, 2015), 5 in-depth interviews, a case study and reports from Ministry of Commerce to provide a solid theory of ambidexterity. The writer concludes that having ambidextrous skills in leadership is mandatory for the manufacturing industry and will guarantee future success (Tushman & O'Reilly, 2012). Finding - There are some barriers in implementing ambidextrous capabilities in leadership, namely cognitive conflicts, inertia, and confusion pressure on when and how to balance both transactional leadership and transformational leadership. The writer suggests that high transactional leadership and high transformational leadership will increase firm performance. Novelty – This paper has several limitations such as the unavailability of data on ambidextrous leadership in Indonesia, the limited scope as this research is conducted in manufacturing industries which might have different results in other industries, and the relatively short period of data collection. Future studies should address these limitations. Type of Paper - Review.
M12|Product Innovation and Educational Diversity in Top and Middle Management Teams|The effects of diversity in management teams on firm innovation have become an important topic in strategic management. With a few exceptions, however, the literature has focused on diversity in Top Management Teams (TMTs), while the role of lower management levels, particularly in Middle Management Teams (MMTs), has usually been neglected. In this paper, we intend to fill this gap by explicitly differentiating between the effects of diversity in TMTs and MMTs. By matching various firm-level and individual-level datasets, we compiled a linked employer-employee panel dataset for Sweden for the period 2004–2012. Focusing on measures of educational diversity, we find that the effects differ considerably between MMTs and TMTs. TMTs diversity determines whether firms engage in innovation activities at all (strategic decision), while MMTs diversity affects the actual outcome of innovation processes (successful product innovations and their degree of market novelty).
M12|Performance management and audit & feedback to support learning and innovation – Theoretical review and implications for Swedish primary care|Health care professionals frequently describe performance management and monitoring of efficiency and quality measures for external accountability as an administrative burden with limited benefits. Professionals argue that they are subject to too tight control that signals distrust, limits professional autonomy and ultimately decreases their motivation to perform. At worst, poorly incentivized indicators influence the behavior of providers in directions that undermine patient benefits. Against this background, policy interest has recently turned towards new governance and managerial approaches in Swedish health care services, allowing for a higher degree of professional autonomy, participatory processes and use of non-financial incentives. This change will undoubtedly have implications for performance management. Inspired by current changes in Swedish primary care, this article explores the design of audit & feedback elements through a review of the empirical evidence and theories about motivation and incentives. Audit & feedback interventions have so far taken a “diffusion of innovation” perspective focusing on implementation of evidence and targets into practice. More complex changes in the delivery of services is likely to require experience-based DUI (Doing, Using, Interacting) modes of innovation, which in turn calls for a more formative and enabling approach to performance management and audit & feedback. A key question is how an appeal to social determinants of professional identity and reputation mechanisms can motivate professionals to change their behavior. Practical implications and research opportunities that follow from the theoretical propositions are discussed using Swedish primary care as an illustrative case.
M12|Socialist Legacies and Human Resource Management in European Transition Economies : An Analytical Survey|This paper takes up the human resource management studies targeting European transition economies (ETEs) in the context of transition economies and empirically examines the relationship between the existing studies, which discuss the institutional and cultural legacies of their socialist period, and the attributes of the literature. This analytical survey clarifies that the major studies in human resource management in ETEs still keep focus on the old socialist legacies, particularly in traditional industries, and that the socialist institutional legacies are actively and continuously discussed in ETEs to understand the diversity of European HRM, though there is a possibility that the divergence theory based on cultural legacies may become inapplicable in accordance with their deepening integration with the EU economy.
M12|The Japanese corporate board network|We analyze the dynamics of the Japanese board network from 2004 until 2013. We find that the network exhibits some clustering with visible firm conglomerates. Ties between firms are rather persistent, despite noticeable churning among directors. Ownership relations explain only a small fraction of board links. Besides densely connected conglomerates, some tendency of within-sector linkages and linkages to financial institutions can be confirmed. We further investigate the increase in the number of outside directors and find that sectoral differences as well as shareholder characteristics explain to large extend the variation in board composition. The connectivity of firms in the ownership and board network is sometimes related to firm profitability. Firms that are linked to peers with above average profitability are likely also more profitable than firms in other ownership relationships.
M12|Zur Empfehlung von Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder|In diesem Beitrag wird untersucht, ob Vorstandsabfindungen von börsennotierten Unternehmen durch die Empfehlung 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Satz 1 des Deutschen Corporate Governance Kodex in ihrer Höhe begrenzt werden. Die Analyse umfangreicher empirischer Daten zu Entsprechenserklärungen aller CDAX-Unternehmen und tatsächlichen Abfindungshöhen vorzeitig ausgeschiedener Vorstandsmitglieder von DAX-Unternehmen in den Jahren 2010 bis 2014 zeigt, dass die empfohlenen Obergrenzen trotz anderslautender Entsprechenserklärungen mehrheitlich überschritten wurden. Mithilfe institutionenökonomischer, rechtswissenschaftlicher und soziologischer Ansätze wird theoretisch erklärt, warum das Comply-or-Explain-Prinzip des § 161 AktG, das der Konzeption der Empfehlungen des DCGK zugrunde liegt, bei der untersuchten Empfehlung versagt. Auf dieser Basis wird eine Gestaltungsempfehlung für die Praxis abgeleitet, welche der Empfehlung zu einer stärkeren Wirkung verhelfen kann.
M12|Corporate governance reporting: Compliance with upper limits for severance payments to members of executive boards in Germany|This paper examines how corporate governance reporting corresponds to actual conduct regarding severance payment caps for prematurely departing members of companies' executive boards in Germany. For this purpose, we first evaluate the declarations of conformity for all companies listed in the CDAX between 2010 and 2014, which we use to determine conformity and deviation rates, and analyse reasons for deviation. In a further full survey, we assess the compensation amounts of all severance payments made and published by DAX companies to their executive board members who were prematurely terminated, which allows us to compare the respective severance ratio with the cap recommended by the German Corporate Governance Codex (GCGC). We find that more than 20% of companies listed in the CDAX declared deviation in the declaration of conformity, and one-third of all deviations were justified by a rejection of the normative decision of the recommendation. Moreover, in 57% of actual severance cases where DAX companies had previously declared their compliance, the cap was exceeded; yet, none of the companies that had exceeded the cap in a severance case disclosed this in the following declaration of conformity. In the years under review, for the majority of severance cases in companies listed in the DAX, the GCGC's cap did not have any factual binding effect. Finally, in most cases the corporate reports deviated from reality and therefore could not serve as a suitable basis for decisions by the capital market.
M12|Management by Humor: A Path to a Performative Field?|At the crossroads of cultures and languages, the meaningfulness of humor is often construed subjectively such as at workplace (Merritt, 2013). Because how humor is understood often varies across organizational cultures, so does its meaning as well as its intensity (Avolio et al., 1999; Davies, 2009). It gives rise to a question of whether it could be used as an effective management tool. Weather does this difference in understanding humor have any effect on employees? performance? And, how does leader-subordinate working relationship evolve under humor use? The proposed paper examines the connection between humor use and performative influence, drawing on the theoretical construct given in ?Towards a progressive understanding of performativity in critical management studies? by Christopher Wickert and Stephan Schaefer (20014). They define Performative Effects as ?the stimulants for language in order to induce incremental, rather than radical, changes in managerial behavior?. Therefore, humor is not always so favorably viewed at workplace by all employees who could misunderstand a joke of their seniors without any fault of their own; who thus could start suspecting ulterior, sinister motives of their seniors; and who could then resultantly get oversensitive and cautious, especially when seeing how their colleagues are targeted and made a butt of joke by their seniors (see Shamir, 1995).
M12|Gender and Leadership ? Do female leaders perform a different, better or even a healthier Leadership Style?|Organizations are facing new challenges due to the constantly changing world of work. In addition to technical developments and innovations in work and organizational processes, the human factor is increasingly becoming part of competitiveness. Businesses benefit greatly from their employees, their knowledge and skills during this fast-moving time. Healthy employees are a prerequisite for innovation, progress and growth, which must be protected as part of a sustainable corporate strategy. Thus, in scientific discussions, both, workplace health promotion and healthy leadership are considered to be successful components in dealing with volatile, dynamic and complex conditions. Conduct of executives has a significant influence on the well-being of the employees and thus a direct effect on the company's success. Managers can influence social relationships as well as prevailing work situations ? and finally the health status of employees. In occupational science studies as well as in leadership research, the differences in leadership between men and women are analyzed. There are very few studies on healthy leadership that examine gender differences more closely. This paper deals with the question of how gender differences affect leadership behavior, leadership styles, and ultimately leading employees in a health oriented way.
M12|Emotional intelligence of female and male managers in private and state enterprises|The following article presented issues related to how differently female and male managers are perceived. The Author emphasised the role of emotional intelligence which, to a large extent, determines one?s ability to effectively manage a company. She presented differences between management styles and characteristic traits of both sexes, as stipulated by Polish and foreign researchers.The research methodics as to perceiving male and female managers through the prism of competence in the field of emotional intelligence were presented. The article presented findings of surveys carried out over 2013-2016 and covering 228 respondents within the scope of 33 competencies out of 11 competence groups related to emotional intelligence. The author stipulated those competencies that were shared by male and female managers, as well as those areas where particular groups were perceived in a more favourable way, with a consideration given to the legal form of the researched enterprises.
M12|Management of organization and managing people ? examples of best practice in the Czech Republic|Based on the authors? scientific cooperation and research results the goal of the paper is to analyse approaches of organizational management and compare some examples of best practice in managing people in the Czech Republic. Modern approaches to managing people and developing organizations defines the concept of management, characterizes the role, functions, competencies and motivation of managers and presents the current generation of managers and are based on management competency, motivation and flexible adaptability. Paper summarizes the results of the authors' research on management and organization in terms of managing and leading people in organizations and managing and developing of organizations. The paper provides results of authors´ surveys on the problematic of management organization and managing people in SME Czech organizations in profit and non-profit sector. The paper aims to answer the following question: What are the similarities and differences in managing people processes in profit and non-profit organization? The results show some interesting tendencies mainly in approaches to the management, competence, development and training and evaluation processes.
M12|Generational Differences in Career Expectations: An Empirical Study among Turkish workers|A new generation of employees with different needs and new expectations of management is entering the workplace. They are known by many names, but most will recognize them as the Nexters or Generation Y. It is essential to be understood about generational differences in organizations. Career expectations play a major role in determining career outcomes. It is important to understand what generations expect in their career path. This study aims to investigate career expectations of Generation X and Y in Turkish society. The sample of this study consisted of 1200 workers in differnet sectors in Turkey. The results represent the Turkish generational differences in career expectations.
M12|The Valuation Of Human Capital The Case Study Of Company Listed On The Warsaw Stock Exchange|Nowadays, the valuation of human capital in listed companies is not only a choice within the framework https://www.ikea.com/gb/en/products/wardrobes/fitted-wardrobes/ of Human Resource strategies, but a business necessity. The aim of this paper is to analyse some aspects of valuation of human capital in energy company listed on GPW (The Warsaw Stock Exchange). Firstly the evaluation of the literature related to the valuation of human capital will be presented and this will be followed by empirical analysis of energy companies listed on GPW. The paper it trying to identify what are the needs in the area of valuation of human capital in management processes and what method of valuation of human capital companies use.
M12|Measuring leadership and management and their linkages with literacy in rural and township primary schools in South Africa|This paper describes a rigorous process to develop and trial new metrics for measuring and codifying school leadership and management practices and processes that are considered theoretically related to literacy outcomes. The predictive validity of these measures is assessed in challenging contexts including 60 township and rural primary schools in South Africa. We observe a randomness to how better leadership and management practices are distributed across better and worse performing schools. Regression analyses confirm weak and inconsistent linkages between measured leadership and management dimensions and literacy outcomes across the sample. However, we find evidence of stronger linkages with intermediate outcomes, including evidence of curriculum coverage. This research contributes to a burgeoning, yet underdeveloped literature on educational management and leadership in Africa and the challenges of measurement in this context.
M12|Articulation Des Temps Sociaux Des Femmes Cadres Au Maroc : Quel Role Pour La Grh ?|L'objectif de cet article est de mettre la lumière sur les difficultés rencontrées par les cadres marocaines pour articuler leurs temps sociaux et les stratégies qu'elles adoptent en vue de trouver un équilibre entre les deux sphères. Nous avons mené une recherche qualitative exploratoire auprès d'un échantillon de femmes cadres marocaines. Les résultats de cette étude montrent que malgré leur présence dans la sphère professionnelle, les cadres marocaines continuent de s'acquitter de leur principale mission dans la société : l'enfantement et le tra-vail domestique. Pour parvenir à concilier les deux sphères, ces femmes adoptent différentes stratégies. Nous avons par ailleurs évoqué quelques pratiques GRH à même de permettre aux organisations de prendre part dans cette articulation famille-travail de leurs salariées.
M12|Kritische Anmerkungen zum Umgang mit Langzeitarbeitslosigkeit: Vorbeugen ist besser als Heilen!|"Programme zur Bekämpfung von Langzeitarbeitslosigkeit wie das ""Teilhabechancengesetz"" setzen systematisch zu spät an. Sie sind primär kurativ ausgerichtet und vernachlässigen komplett eine prophylaktische Komponente. Dies begünstigt die Entstehung zusätzlicher Vermittlungshemmnisse während der Arbeitslosigkeit und senkt die Qualität des verfügbaren Arbeitskräftepotenzials. Erforderlich sind daher schon zu Beginn der Arbeitslosigkeit präventive Aktivitäten der Unternehmen und der Arbeitsagenturen. Diese müssen die Erkenntnisse der Psychologischen Arbeitslosenforschung nutzen und sollen typische Belastungswirkungen der Arbeitslosigkeit im Vorfeld eindämmen: Zerfall von Zeitstrukturen, Erosion von Selbstwert und Sozialkompetenz, Verschlechterung der physischen und psychischen Gesundheit. Ein wichtiger instrumenteller Ansatz besteht im flächendeckenden Einsatz von Outplacementmaßnahmen bei jedem Arbeitsplatzverlust."
M12|Der Umgang kleiner und mittlerer Unternehmen mit den demografischen Herausforderungen: Eine Trendstudie|Das IfM Bonn untersucht anhand einer repräsentativen Trendstudie für den Zeitraum 2007 bis 2017, wie KMU dem demografischen Wandel begegnen. Demnach sind die KMU aktuell besser als 2007 über den demografischen Wandel informiert. Die Mehrheit der KMU hat ihre Absatzstrategie an die bereits alternde Bevölkerung angepasst und mehr Maßnahmen zum Erhalt der Arbeitsfähigkeit und zur Bindung von Arbeitskräften als 2007 ergriffen. Auf die erwartete Knappheit von Arbeitskräften reagieren sie mit einer Rekrutierung von Jüngeren sowie Frauen, Älteren und Zuwanderern. Unternehmen in strukturell schwachen Gebieten sind stärker vom demografischen Wandel betroffen. Die Wirtschaftspolitik sollte daher auch regionale Besonderheiten bei der Entwicklung von Unterstützungsangeboten beachten.
M12|Professional networks and their coevolution with executive careers: Evidence from North America and Europe|This paper examines how networks of professional contacts contribute to the development of the careers of executives of North American and European companies. We build a dynamic model of career progression in which career moves may both depend upon existing networks and contribute to the development of future networks. We test the theory on an original dataset of nearly 73 000 executives in over 10 000 firms. In principle professional networks could be relevant both because they are rewarded by the employer and because they facilitate job mobility. Our econometric analysis suggests that, although there is a substantial positive correlation between network size and executive compensation, with an elasticity of around 20%, almost all of this is due to unobserved individual characteristics. The true causal impact of networks on compensation is closer to an elasticity of 1 or 2% on average, all of this due to enhanced probability of moving to a higher-paid job. And there appear to be strongly diminishing returns to network size.
M12|Identifying leadership skills required in the digital age|Is leadership changing in an increasingly digitalised work environment? This question arises in corporate practice, societal debates, and in business management research. The evolution of digital technologies changes working environments considerably and creates new challenges for executives. So far, however, only little research has been conducted on how these challenges and technology-driven changes are associated with altered requirements for the skill set needed by executives. In this paper we bridge that gap by applying a three-stage research design. First, we develop a novel conceptual framework in which we categorise leadership skills and associate them with tasks, management level, and leadership experience. Building on this, we conduct semi-structured interviews with executives and systematically investigate job advertisements at the management level. Our interview results show that communication skills, subject-specific knowledge, self-organisation skills, and self-reflection skills are considered particularly relevant in times of rapid technology-driven change. Furthermore, many interview participants identify empathy and an open-mindedness towards the new as crucial personal traits. Our job advertisement analysis further reveals that executives need to be able to speak English, have IT skills, and be flexible, motivated, and stress tolerant.
M12|“The benefits of PSM: an oasis or a mirage?”|Scholarly interest in Public Service Motivation has yielded a vast amount of research explicating its benefits for public sector organizations; including increased employee job satisfaction, boosted individual performance, higher intention to stay with the organization, enhanced organizational commitment and organizational citizenship behaviour. However, a closer inspection of the literature reveals mixed empirical evidence for each of these impacts of PSM. We perform a meta-analysis on each of these five impacts of PSM in order to explicate the divergence in the results of the extant literature. We find evidence of the existence of a true effect for PSM over negative outcomes, organisational commitment and organisational citizenship. In addition, we also find that contextual variables, legal origin and corruption of the country, along with the measurement related variables, affect each of the five relationships in a unique manner.
M12|The Impact of Management Practices on SME Performance|We examine the impact of management practices on firm performance among SMEs in Britain over the period 2011-2014, using a unique dataset which links survey data on management practices with firm performance data from the UK’s official business register. We find that SMEs are less likely to use formal management practices than larger firms, but that such practices have demonstrable benefits for those who use them, helping firms to grow and increasing their productivity. The returns are most apparent for those SMEs that invest in human resource management practices, such as training and performance-related pay, and those that set formal performance targets.
M12|Further Training and Affective Commitment|We investigate the relation of further training and employees' affective commitment. In doing so, we distinguish between a support effect and a participation effect: On the one hand we analyze how a firm's general support for further training is associated with the affective commitment of their employees and on the other hand how individual participation in further training relates to affective commitment. Using the Linked Personnel Panel (LPP), which is a longitudinally linked employer-employee data set, we are able to control for several human resource management instruments additionally to the usual demographics and job characteristics. Moreover, the two-level structure of the data allows us to analyze the support effect from a firm's perspective and an individually perceived perspective. Results show that employees' participation in further training is positively related to affective commitment, but that a general perceived firm's support for personnel development mediates the positive relation of participation in further training and individual affective commitment. Furthermore, we find that the relation of perceived firm's interest in personnel development and affective commitment is increasing with years of schooling and decreasing with age.
M12|Teamwork, Leadership And Gender|We ran a field experiment to investigate whether individual performance in teams depends on the gender of the leader. About 430 students from an Italian University took an intermediate exam that was partly evaluated on the basis of teamwork. Students were randomly matched in teams of three and in each team we randomly chose a leader with the task of coordinating the work of the team. We find a positive and significant effect of female leadership on team performance. This effect is driven by the higher performance of team members in female led teams rather than due to an improvement in the leader’s performance. We also find that, in spite of the higher performance of female led teams, male members tend to evaluate female leaders as less effective, whereas female members are more sympathetic towards them.
M12|Employee Absence: An Organizational Perspective|We study employee absence in Danish organizations. In contrast to Steers and Rhodes (1978), who stress the importance of individual and organizational characteristics in shaping employees' motivation to attend work, we show that absence is predominantly an individualized phenomenon. Because the within-group variation in absence clearly dominates the between-group variation in absence, we argue that companies need to invoke individualized policies to reduce employee absence and demonstrate that HR Analytics is a useful tool in the process; policies targeting particular employee groups such as women or senior workers are inefficient. An additional intriguing finding is that incentives (through promotions and dismissals) are linked to individual absence.
M12|Endogenous interlocking directorates|The present paper analyzes the choice to place an executive in the board of the rival company, within a duopoly where firms with hidden marginal costs of production compete in the product market. Interlocking directorates may emerge as an equilibrium outcome whenever firms gain by exchanging information about their private costs. We show that a unilateral interlocking arises when firms have different degrees of efficiency and the direction of this interlock is affected by the degree of substitutability in the product market. Bilateral interlocking occurs only between similar firms, that is when equally inefficient firms sell substitute products or when equally efficient firms sell complement products. The equilibrium outcome is always welfare increasing for consumers.
M12|Selecting Directors Using Machine Learning|Can an algorithm assist firms in their hiring decisions of corporate directors? This paper proposes a method of selecting boards of directors that relies on machine learning. We develop algorithms with the goal of selecting directors that would be preferred by the shareholders of a particular firm. Using shareholder support for individual directors in subsequent elections and firm profitability as performance measures, we construct algorithms to make out-of-sample predictions of these measures of director performance. We then run tests of the quality of these predictions and show that, when compared with a realistic pool of potential candidates, directors predicted to do poorly by our algorithms indeed rank much lower in performance than directors who were predicted to do well. Deviations from the benchmark provided by the algorithms suggest that firm-selected directors are more likely to be male, have previously held more directorships, have fewer qualifications and larger networks. Machine learning holds promise for understanding the process by which existing governance structures are chosen, and has potential to help real world firms improve their governance.
M12|Centers of Gravity: The Effect of Stable Shared Leadership in Top Management Teams on Firm Growth and Industry Evolution|We study the processes of firm growth in the evolution of the Japanese cotton spinning industry during 1883-1914 by integrating strategy and historical approaches and utilizing rich quantitative firm-level data and detailed business histories. The resultant conceptual model highlights growth outcomes of path dependencies as firms evolve across periods of single vs. shared leadership, establish stability in shared leadership, or experience repeated discord-induced TMT leader departures. While most firms do not experience smooth transitions to stable shared TMT leadership, a focus on value creation, in conjunction with talent recruitment and promotion, enabled some firms to achieve stable shared leadership in spite of discord-induced departures, engage in long term expansion, and emerge as “centers of gravity” for output and talent in the industry.
M12|When Does Advice Impact Startup Performance?|Why do some entrepreneurs thrive while others fail? We explore whether the advice entrepreneurs receive about people management influences their firm's performance. We conducted a randomized field experiment in India with 100 high-growth technology firms whose founders received in-person advice from other entrepreneurs who varied in their managerial style. We find that entrepreneurs who received advice from peers with an active approach to managing people–instituting regular meetings, setting goals consistently, and providing frequent feedback to employees–grew 28% larger and were 10 percentage points less likely to fail than those who got advice from peers with a passive people-management approach two years after our intervention. Entrepreneurs with MBAs or accelerator experience did not respond to this intervention, suggesting that formal training can limit the spread of peer advice.
M12|How Much Does Your Boss Make? The Effects of Salary Comparisons|We study how employees learn about the salaries of their peers and managers and how their beliefs about those salaries affect their own behavior. We conducted a field experiment with a sample of 2,060 employees from a multi-billion dollar corporation. We combine rich data from surveys and administrative records with data from the experiment, which provided some employees with accurate information about the salaries of others. First, we document large misperceptions about salaries and identify some of their sources. Second, we find that perceived peer and manager salaries have a significant causal effect on employee behavior. These effects are different for horizontal and vertical comparisons. While higher perceived peer salary decreases effort, output, and retention, higher perceived manager salary has a positive effect on those same outcomes. We provide suggestive evidence for the underlying mechanisms. We conclude by discussing implications for pay inequality and pay transparency.
M12|Are Energy Executives Rewarded For Luck?|In an influential paper, Bertrand and Mullainathan (2001) show that energy executives are rewarded for high oil prices, which they term pay-for-luck. Almost twenty years later, performance-based pay as a portion of executive compensation has nearly doubled; total executive compensation has also nearly doubled; and new disclosure laws and tax rules have changed the regulatory landscape. In this paper, we examine whether their results and their interpretation continue to hold in this changing environment. We find that executive compensation at U.S. oil and gas companies is still closely tied to oil prices, indicating that executives continue to be rewarded for luck despite the increased availability of more sophisticated compensation mechanisms. This finding is robust to including time-varying controls for the firms' scale of operations, and it holds not only for total executive compensation but also for several of the separate individuals components of compensation, including bonuses. Moreover, we show there is less pay-for-luck in better-governed companies, and that pay-for-luck is asymmetric – rising with increasing oil prices more than it falls with decreasing oil prices. These patterns are more consistent with rent extraction by executives than with maximizing shareholder value.
M12|The impact of management practices on SME performance|We examine the impact of management practices on firm performance among SMEs in Britain over the period 2011-2014, using a unique dataset which links survey data on management practices with firm performance data from the UK's official business register. We find that SMEs are less likely to use formal management practices than larger firms, but that such practices have demonstrable benefits for those who use them, helping firms to grow and increasing their productivity. The returns are most apparent for those SMEs that invest in human resource management practices, such as training and performance-related pay, and those that set formal performance targets.
M12|Fostering Organizational Capabilities Through Soft Skills: A Strategic Imperative For A Vuca World|During the last decade, the need and importance of soft skills are significantly increasing because of three main reasons. Firstly, the firm fs performance is highly associated to the firm f interaction with its external environment that involves customers and local stakeholders. Secondly, the workplace productivity is highly depending on the quality of relationship and communication among the employees. Thirdly, today fs environment is considered as a VUCA (Volatile, Uncertain, Complex and Ambiguous) situation and represents serious challenge. Thus, firms should create people oriented skills such as problem solving and communication. In addition, decisions makers should develop an accurate response when they meet the unexpected. They could be the employees from upper to mid-level position employees. Drawing on these critical conclusions, this study aims at providing empirical evidence on the positive impact of employees f soft skills on firm fs capabilities in terms of innovation performance, firm fs knowledge, explorative and exploitative behavior and strategic flexibility. The survey was conducted with 67 firms based in Tunisia, which is one of the leading emerging countries in the MENA region that has recently faced social and economic changes. Our results concur with the employer survey and explain the reason why employers are increasingly looking for these skills in their employees.
M12|Managers as Knowledge Carriers - Explaining Firms' Internationalization Success with Manager Mobility|How does “what managers know” affect firm performance on international markets? This question is of considerable importance in the international economic literature. Answering it will be key for comprehending the way firms’ varying performance on international markets is shaped by the human factor. This paper proposes managerial mobility as an integral part of such an answer. Catering products to an international customer base entails a learning process, which, to a large degree, stems from the experience of doing it. Therefore, different employers immensely contend for managers’ highly valuable export experience. As managers can accept better and better positions from several offers, they may become highly mobile, thus having a notable impact on possibly multiple firms’ internationalization. Exploiting a rich panel data set, the paper thoroughly tests this idea by discriminating between knowledge ascribable to managers’ former job experience and that attributable to their personal background. The paper uses a novel identification strategy grounded in on-the-job search theory to correct estimates for the presence of self-selected mobility flows. A core finding of the paper is that the maximum return to expertise acquisition is realized for those managers with previous experience in commercializing differentiated products in specific markets.
M12|Gender Differences in Sabotage: The Role of Uncertainty and Beliefs|We study gender differences in relation to performance and sabotage in competitions. While we find no systematic gender differences in performance in the real effort task, we observe a strong gender gap in sabotage choices in our experiment. This gap is rooted in the uncertainty about the opponent's sabotage: in the absence of information about the opponent's sabotage choice, males expect to suffer from sabotage to a higher degree than females and choose higher sabotage levels themselves. If beliefs are exogenously aligned by implementing sabotage via strategy method, the gender gap in sabotage choices disappears. Moreover, providing a noisy signal about the sabotage level from which subjects might suffer leads to an endogenous alignment of beliefs and eliminates the gender gap in sabotage.
M12|Teamwork, Leadership and Gender|We ran a field experiment to investigate whether individual performance in teams depends on the gender of the leader. About 430 students from an Italian University took an intermediate exam that was partly evaluated on the basis of teamwork. Students were randomly matched in teams of three and in each team we randomly chose a leader with the task of coordinating the work of the team. We find a positive and significant effect of female leadership on team performance. This effect is driven by the higher performance of team members in female led teams rather than due to an improvement in the leader’s performance. We also find that, in spite of the higher performance of female led teams, male members tend to evaluate female leaders as less effective, whereas female members are more sympathetic towards them.
M12|Employee Involvement and Job Satisfaction: A Tale of the Millennial Generation|The purpose of this paper is to empirically study the effect of employee involvement in the workplace on job satisfaction for millennial workers in Colombia. Data were obtained from a sample of 2103 millennial employees working in 11 companies of different sectors located in the five main cities of Colombia. Ordered probit models were estimated to study the effect of employee involvement on job satisfaction, in general, and how different forms of participative decision-making in the workplace produce different impacts on individual satisfaction with objective and intrinsic aspects of the job, in particular. The empirical results show that, for millennial workers, there is a positive link between employee involvement and job satisfaction. Moreover, there is a higher positive impact on job satisfaction when millennial workers participate in decisions on general aspects of the company than when they participate in specific decisions such as those concerning teamwork or main tasks at work. Another interesting result is that millennial workers attach high importance to intrinsic aspects of their jobs (such as the possibility to use their knowledge in the work), which may improve their satisfaction in a higher participative environment.
M12|The Effect of Minority Veto Rights on Controller Tunneling|"A central challenge in the regulation of controlled firms is curbing controller tunneling. As independent directors and fiduciary duties are widely seen as not up to the task, a number of jurisdictions have given minority shareholders veto rights over these transactions. To assess these rights' efficacy, we exploit a 2011 regulatory reform in Israel that gave the minority the ability to veto pay packages of controllers and their relatives (""controller executives""). We find that the reform curbed the pay of controller executives and led some controller executives to quit their jobs, or work for free, in circumstances suggesting their pay would not have received approval. These findings suggest that minority veto rights can help curb controller tunneling."
M12|Middle managers, personnel turnover and performance: A long-term field experiment in a retail chain|"In a field experiment, a large retail chain's CEO asked managers of treated stores ""to do what they can"" to reduce personnel turnover. Turnover decreases by a quarter for nine months; a reminder treatment triggers a similar decrease for a shorter period. Treated managers report shifting their time toward HR; their employees report more managerial attention and support. Store sales are unaffected, indicating that the possible performance increases related to managers spending more time on HR are neutralized by the effects of managers spending less time on customers and goods. The discernible efficiency gains occur at the firm, rather than at the store level."
M12|A new taxonomy of rewards in public administration for management implications|A fundamental question in the field of management is how rewards support the motivation and performance of individuals and the efficiency of organizations. Literature of public administration categorizes rewards with some dimensions, such as formality, tangibility, measurability, etc. However, these interpretative models seem to be incomplete because they don’t classify all the elements of rewards system within the domain of public administration. The purpose of this paper is to systematize the categories of rewards in a new taxonomy that also considers the dimension of legality in order to detect good and bad practices in public sector. This theoretical framework here may be a comprehensive model to analyze many elements of rewards system in public administration to support fruitful management implications. Moreover, this study begins the process of clarifying and generalizing, as far as possible, the comprehensive elements of rewards system in public organizations to lay a foundation for the development of more sophisticated taxonomies and theories.
M12|Mehr oder weniger arbeiten? Es kommt darauf an, wie man fragt: Methodische Aspekte der Präferenzmessung gewünschter Arbeitszeiten|Working time preferences of employees have been discussed in scientific and public debates more frequently. Yet, representative studies show controversial results regarding over- and underemployment for Germany. But these differences can only partially be explained by varying definitions of populations or sample selection. By means of data from the Socioeconomic Panel (SOEP) this article highlights the importance of wording and positioning of questions regarding working time preferences. The empirical findings suggest that further methodological research is essential.
M12|Selecting Directors Using Machine Learning|Can algorithms assist firms in their decisions on nominating corporate directors? We construct algorithms to make out-of-sample predictions of director performance. Tests of the quality of these predictions show that directors predicted to do poorly indeed do poorly compared to a realistic pool of candidates. Predictably poor performing directors are more likely to be male, have more past and current directorships, fewer qualifications, and larger networks than the directors the algorithm would recommend in their place. Machine learning holds promise for understanding the process by which governance structures are chosen, and has potential to help real-world firms improve their governance.
M12|Religion, Corporate Governance, and Executive Compensation|We investigate how regional variation in religiosity and the prevalent religious denomination in a U.S. state where a company is headquartered are associated with the level and structure of executive compensation. We document a substantial compensation premium in executives working at firms headquartered in U.S. states with a high proportion of Catholics and conversely a discount in states with a high proportion of Protestants. We provide evidence suggesting that these findings are not caused by heterogeneous demand for executives’ effort, managerial ability, or social skills. Our results are consistent with the “Catholic premium” and the “Protestant discount” being associated with the adherence to different social values that have implications for corporate governance quality and for managerial entrenchment. Our results highlight the importance of social values for economic activity and for contracting between economic agents.
M12|Emotional Intelligence and Job Performance of Accounting Students Undertaking Internships|Objective – This paper investigates the influence of emotional intelligence on job performance among accounting students undertaking Student Internships. Methodology/Technique – This study adopts a quantitative research approach, using questionnaires to collect data. The study examines accounting students at Sebelas Maret University. The sample consists of 201 participants who were selected using a purposive method, from the final year students studying Accounting (Undergraduate and Diploma Programs) at Sebelas Maret University. Regression analysis is used to examine the relationship between emotional intelligence and job performance in accounting students. Findings – The results show that emotional intelligence has a positive influence on job performance among students undertaking internships. Further analysis suggests that the ability to motivate oneself and build meaningful relationships are the most important variables in explaining the relationship between emotional intelligence and job performance of students undertaking internships. Novelty – This research contributes to emotional intelligence literature by providing meaningful management implications to the university administrators in the Indonesian higher education system.
M12|The Challenges of Recruitment and Selection Systems in Indonesia|Objective - The present study aims to describe the challenges of recruitment and selection systems encountered in Indonesia, to ultimately identify the factors influencing the rationale for recruitment and selection processes. Methodology/Technique - A case study approach is used with in-depth interview method for explaining the challenges of recruitment and selection systems applied in Indonesia. The procedure of data analysis consists of three actions that take place instantaneously: data reduction, data presentation, and drawing conclusions. Findings - The findings of this study show that an organisation can obtain qualified personnel who meet their requirements through the application of effective principles in the process of recruitment and selection, in addition to adopting the principles of clarity, planning, legal aspects, accuracy, fairness, honesty, and trust from HR. Novelty - The empirical implications of this study provide a deeper understanding of the resource-based theory. Which explains that humans, as assets of an organization, must be recruited and selected with the right procedures and processes to ensure they provide value to the organization and increase its credibility. In addition, the findings of this study can be adopted by organizations within their recruitment systems, to capture competent candidates for recruitment. Hence, the results of this study further the development of the current principle of human capital for organizations.
M12|Influence of Celebrity Credibility on Consumer Product Evaluation and Attitude Formation – A Conceptual Framework|Objective - Celebrity endorsement is considered to be one of the leading advertising strategies used by marketers to promote brands. Celebrities are the most powerful information sources which have the ability to form or change consumer attitudes. The purpose of the present study is to investigate the influence of celebrity credibility on consumer product evaluation, specifically in relation to attitude formation. Methodology/Technique - This paper presents the conceptual framework for understanding how the credibility of celebrities can influence the evaluation of products by consumers and consequently, the formation of consumer attitudes. The model is developed through an extensive review of the literature on celebrity credibility, consumer product evaluation (CPE) and attitude formation. Findings - The traits of celebrity credibility, particularly trustworthiness, expertise and attractiveness, have an important role to play in the evaluation of products by consumers. CPE occurs in a variety of ways and is influenced by, at least in part, celebrity credibility. Novelty - The model presented in this study endeavours to investigate these relationships to add to the existing body of knowledge.
M12|Educational Portals and Employee Performance in the Sultanate of Oman|Objective - This study investigates the impact of the educational portal on employee performance in the Ministry of Education (MOE) in the Sultanate of Oman. It examines employee perceptions of the benefits of the educational portal used by the MOE. The educational portal provided by the MOE is the main gateway for various types of educational related online services to users. This research focuses on the factors of educational portal services, which facilitates work, and improve employee performance. Methodology/Technique - The research adopts a quantitative methodology and collects data by means of questionnaires. Findings - The findings suggest that the educational portal technology has a positive impact on employee performance. The results also reveal that the employee performance has increased since the introduction of educational portal services compared with employee performance based on the previous manual system. Novelty - This calls for a systematic and periodic review of the educational portal services, to update the technology and accommodate for new requirements.
M12|Articulation des temps sociaux des femmes cadres au Maroc : quel rôle pour la GRH ?|L’objectif de cet article est de mettre la lumière sur les difficultés rencontrées par les cadres marocaines pour articuler leurs temps sociaux et les stratégies qu’elles adoptent en vue de trouver un équilibre entre les deux sphères. Nous avons mené une recherche qualitative exploratoire auprès d’un échantillon de femmes cadres marocaines. Les résultats de cette étude montrent que malgré leur présence dans la sphère professionnelle, les cadres marocaines continuent de s’acquitter de leur principale mission dans la société : l’enfantement et le travail domestique. Pour parvenir à concilier les deux sphères, ces femmes adoptent différentes stratégies. Nous avons par ailleurs évoqué quelques pratiques GRH à même de permettre aux organisations de prendre part dans cette articulation famille-travail de leurs salariées.
M12|Flexible dependence modeling using convex combinations of different types of connectivity structures|There is a great deal of literature regarding use of non-geographically based connectivity matrices or combinations of geographic and non-geographic structures in spatial econometrics models. We explore alternative approaches for constructing convex combinations of different types of dependence between observations. Pace and LeSage (2002) as well as Hazır et al. (2016) use convex combinations of different connectivity matrices to form a single weight matrix that can be used in conventional spatial regression estimation and inference. An example for the case of two weight matrices, W1,W2 reflecting different types of dependence between a cross-section of regions, firms, individuals etc., located in space would be: Wc=γ1W1+(1−γ1)W2,0≤γ1≤1. The matrix Wc reflects a convex combination of the two weight matrices, with the scalar parameter γ1 indicating the relative importance assigned to each type of dependence. We explore issues that arise in producing estimates and inferences from these more general cross-sectional regression relationships in a Bayesian framework. We propose two procedures to estimate such models and assess their finite sample properties through Monte Carlo experiments. We illustrate our methodology in an application to CEO salaries for a sample of nursing homes located in Texas. Two types of weights are considered, one reflecting spatial proximity of nursing homes and the other peer group proximity, which arise from the salary benchmarking literature.
M12|L’évolution des rémunérations des dirigeants dans les sociétés cotées françaises|The highest levels of CEO pay trigger public outrage on a regular basis. A panel of large French listed companies show that these most outrageous levels of pay do not exhibit an upward trend during the 2001-2016 period. On the contrary, the equity-based part of these pays tends to recede since their fair values have been publicly disclosed. On the opposite side, CEO pay rose tremendously in less exposed firms. While public opinion focuses on the highest levels of pay, below-average CEOs catch up with their peers and in the end, they significantly contribute to rising income inequalities. Overall, cash pay rose significantly during the observed period. Market forces, such as pay competitiveness on the market for CEOs and shareholder pressure to increase performance-based components, partly explain rising managerial pays. Classification JEL : G32, G34, M12, M14.
M12|Incentive Contracts and Downside Risk Sharing|This paper seeks to characterize incentive compensation in a principal-agent moral hazard setting in which the principal is prudent, or downside risk averse, as many situations (such as that of a patient in hospital or a regulator dealing with food safety) suggest she should be. We show that optimal incentive pay should then be 'approximately concave' in performance, the approximation being closer the more downside risk averse the principal is compared to the agent. Limiting the agent's liability would improve the approximation, but taxing the principal would make it coarser. The notion of an approximately concave function we introduce here to describe the pay-performance relationship is relatively recent in mathematics; it is intuitive and translates into concrete empirical implications, notably for the composition of incentive pay. We also clarify which measure of prudence - among the various ones proposed in the literature - is relevant to investigate the tradeoff between downside risk sharing and incentives.
M12|The effectiveness of Feminine and Masculine Leadership styles in relation to contrasting gender's performances|This paper focuses on the impact and effectiveness of feminine and masculine styles of leadership on contrasting genders in four different economies namely; India, Canada, Pakistan, and United Kingdom's IT Sector. By combining probability and non-probability sampling techniques, the data has been gathered from 248 respondents via semi-structured 5-points scale survey questionnaire. The findings have shown that employees irrespective gender are significant positively affected by feminine leadership style. Additionally, in developing countries; Pakistan and India there is significant use of feminine leadership while developed economies namely; Canada and the UK have higher preference for masculine leadership style. Nevertheless, overall male workers do not have higher preference to work under masculine leadership style while females have higher preference for both masculine and feminine leadership styles. Interestingly, feminine style of leadership is highly demonstrated by males in Pakistan while in other three economies, it is exhibited by female line-managers. Moreover, female line-managers in the UK have shown higher masculine style of leadership in contrast to other economies. There is significant positive relationship between style of leadership and contrasting genders in distinctive economies. Additionally, feminine leadership style is more effective than the masculine leadership style. Feminine leaders demonstrate higher people-orientation and participative style of management whereas masculine leaders rely on task-orientation and autocratic style.
M12|Треба Ли Компанијама Управљати У Интересу Акционара?<BR>[Whether Companies Need to Be Managed in the Interests of the Shareholders?]|Serbian. Једна од основних и широко заступаних поставки корпоративног управљања јесте управљање предузећима у интересу акционара, односно власника предузећа. Овај концепт заснован је на аргументима да власници имају најјачи интерес у предузећу и да од тог интереса директно зависи ефикасност пословања, док су истовремено интереси акционара најмање заштићени међу интересима свих конституената. У неким земљама тај концепт уздигнут је до апсолута (у САД као једини интерес који треба штитити истиче се интерес акционара), али и тамо где то није случај, односно где се респектују и интереси других конституената, интерес акционара је неприкосновен и истиче се у први план. У раду се разматрају основи и модалитети којима се у различитим земљама и различитим условима мотивише такав облик корпоративног управљања, као и консеквенце које такви захтеви и њихово испуњавање производе. Посебно се указује на крах концепције максимизације тржишних вредности акција, која је била изузетно популарна у последњим деценијама 20. и почетком овог века. One of the basic and widely represented corporate governance settings is corporate governance in the interests of shareholders, or company owners. This concept is based on the arguments that the owners have the strongest interest in the company and that the efficiency of the business depends directly on this interest, while at the same time the interests of shareholders are at least protected among the interests of all constituents. In some countries, this concept has been elevated to the absolute (in the United States as the only interest to be protected, the interest of shareholders is emphasized), but where this is not the case, or where the interests of other constituents are respected, the interest of the shareholders is inviolable and stands out in the first plan. The paper discusses the basis and modalities that motivate different forms of corporate governance in different countries and different conditions, as well as the consequences that such requirements and their fulfillment produce. In particular, the crash of the concept of maximizing the market value of shares, which was extremely popular in the last decades of the 20th and the beginning of this century, is particularly indicative.
M12|Time Management in Diagnostic Medicine|The supply chain management, by allowing the reduction of costs in logistics operations constitutes a strategic organizational asset. This paper focuses on time management in a Diagnostic Medicine facility. It aims to determine the level of time compression for 5 diagnostic examinations. Bearing this in mind, we collect the length time of each task concerning each examination and elaborate the descriptive statistics in STATA 13.0; while the process of optimization is implemented using the DMAIC approach. Our results show that total waiting time for all 5 examinations per week is 4 hours and 16 minutes and that, implementing some recommendations, the facility could perform 35 more examinations per week. This is of importance, not only in the context of cost reduction, but also to increase efficiency and improve the quality of service. Ultimately, the implementation of our recommendations will increase patients’ satisfaction.
M12|Quantitative and Qualitative Approaches in Managing Human Resource Development in Enterprises|The paper proposes comparing the existing and the required level of competence of the employee as a tool for determining the qualitative and quantitative parameters of personnel training. To implement this comparison, in accordance with official requirements, the human capital required for the performance of official duties as an employee's quality, which acquires value in the process of attracting to industrial relations, is calculated. Qualitative and quantitative parameters of personnel training are determined on the basis of calculation of the difference between necessary and existing competence taking into account financial possibilities of the enterprise. According to the results of calculating the available human capital, which a certain employee owns, and comparing it with the necessary one, the content (according to the type of insufficient capital) and the amount (by difference between the existing and the required level) of training, which should bring the available human capital of the employee in accordance with the required one. Formation of the content of the training is based on the definition of individual assets of human capital, which depend on the requirements for the competence of the employee and can be changed through training.
M12|Pengaruh Komunikasi Dan Kualitas Pelayanan Terhadap Kinerja Perawat Di Rumah Sakit Bhayangkara Palembang<BR>[The Effect of Communication and Service Quality on Nurse's Performance at Bhayangkara Hospital Palembang]|This study aims to determine and analyze the influence of communication and service quality on the performance of nurses at Bhayangkara Hospital Palembang. Sample of research is nurse of Bhayangkara Palembang Hospital counted 110 respondents by using purposive sampling method. The analysis of this research using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM), which is operated through Lisrel Program. The results showed that Communication Variables and Service Quality have a positive and significant impact on the Performance of Nurse Hospital Bhayangkara Palembang. Communication Variables more dominant influence on the Performance of Nurse Hospital Bhayangkara Palembang in comparison of service quality variable.
M12|The Effect of Social Media on Employees’ Job Performance: The mediating Role of Organizational Structure|Social media is creating a drastic change at workplaces, and organizations are increasingly interested in adaption of it for their business processes. The aim of social media usage at workplace may differ but ultimate objective is to build social networks and sharing. This empirical research examined the effect of use of social media on employees’ job performance and the mediating effect of an organizational structure. Survey data gathered from 205 valid responses and analyzed by structural equation modelling technique. Results revealed that “use of social media” is positively correlated with “employees’ job performance”, while organizational structure has positive mediating effect.
M12|The Past and the Future of Employee Voice: Shenzhen's High Technology Industry|Can a nation's technology future be linked to its past? This article discusses employee voice, as defined in terms of discretionary and constructive behaviour that challenge the status quo, within the innovative, fast growing high technology industry in China. It provides insight into factors shaping employee voice in this under-researched knowledge-intensive sector of China that has emerged rapidly since the economic reform. It suggests the notion of employee voice among the highly skilled knowledge workforce can only be understood in terms of technological convergence and cultural divergence.
M12|The Impact of Gender Composition of Boards on Firms Financial Performance in Poland|The so far conducted studies have not been able to answer the question of whether there is a relationship between gender composition of the board and the firms financial performance. Because of the tendency to legally regulate the gender balance of boards of directors as it was, among others, planned in the draft of the EU Directive on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors of companies listed on stock exchanges, which admittedly has been rejected, however, indicates the existence of certain trends among decion-makers, the issue of determining the relationship between gender composition of the boards and firms performance becomes an extremely important issue. The paper aims to answer the question on the number of women in the highest organizational bodies in Polish enterprises and whether there is a relationship between the compositions of boards due to gender of their members and financial results achieved by the companies. For the analysis companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange were analyzed. Following indicators: debt ratio (DR), debt to equity ratio (D/R) and the long-term debt to total assets ratio were chosen. Using statistical analysis the financial indicators were juxtaposed with the number of women on boards. The paper provides insight into the composition of boards in Polish companies listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange due to gender. It shows that boards of these companies are highly masculine. Nevertheless the paper tries to show if there are any dependencies between the amount of women on boards and the financial performance of the companies.
M12|Theoretical and Practical Aspect of Employees and Their Activity Evaluation Model (In Example of Statutory Institution)|The evaluation of employees and their activity requires precise and responsible preparation, it is a process, having a large impact to successful implementation of strategic goals of institution. The evaluation of official work of civil servants in Lithuania does not have deep traditions. Thus, the main analyzed problem is the following: if the criteria of statutory institution employees and their activity evaluation (possibilities and results) are significant to the evaluation results of statutory institution employees and their activity. To make the analysis of theoretical aspects of employees and their activity evaluation and to provide an evaluation improvement model of statutory institution employees and their activity. While analyzing the theoretical peculiarities of employees and their activity evaluation, the analysis, systematization and generalization of scientific literature, scientific articles as well as legislation of the Republic of Lithuania acts have been performed. A quantitative research method was used for the performance of the empiric research; and the qualitative content analysis, descriptive statistical data analysis as well as comparative analysis were used for the analysis of the gathered data. The used in this part researches methodology and results combine the identification of interconnection of statutory institution employees and their activity evaluation possibilities (leadership, people and processes) as well as measuring of their importance. Seeking for useful and effective employees and their activity evaluation process in a statutory institution, a theoretical model of employees and their activity evaluation in a statutory institution improvement was developed on the basis of general evaluation model, which has been successfully adapted in a statutory institution. Having identified the problematic fields of employees and their activity evaluation and determined the reasons of their occurrence and possible improvement opportunities, on the basis of the obtained results, a model of statutory institution employees and their activity evaluation improvement with the indicated in a research problematic fields, improvement possibilities and expected positive results is provided.
M12|Direct Participation of a Higher Education Institution Employees in the Organisational Change Process – a Study Report|Changes in the organisation require its adjustment through the process of organisational change. For changes to bring expected, positive results, all employees should be involved. Employee direct participation is one of the most effective methods of winning them for change and leading them to positive reaction in form of cooperation, engagement and reduction of resistance. The objective of this study is to analyse the process of change of the organisational structure (number of departments) at a faculty of a Pomeranian university, in terms of direct participation of the research and teaching and the teaching staff in the process. The study involved direct polling. The study sample (the faculty and its employees) has been intentionally selected. The study revealed that the employees participate in the change cycle in a limited way, indifference and resistance being their main attitudes. The results suggest that causes of this state are the autocratic style of the change initiators, little time devoted to involve employees in the process, and the negative atmosphere caused by staff rotation (dominant internal factor).
M12|Application of the Principle of Fairness in the Distribution of Rewards: Evidence from Serbia and Bosnia & Herzegovina|In the search for additional data, which would enable the conclusion on the implementation of the principle of fairness in the distribution of rewards as one of the key ethical concepts in relations between employers and employees, a survey was conducted, which entailed the corresponding proportional number of respondents from Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to enable comparison of results. On the basis of secondary data, this research started from the assumption that the principle of Procedural justice in the distribution of income in Serbia and B&H has been insufficiently applied in practice in organizations in these two countries. It has been assumed that the ownership structure of the company (organization) affects the degree of implementation of the principles of fairness. The aim of this paper is to identify elements of the system of rewards which determine the perception of fairness among employees and to what extent they are implemented in organizations in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this paper the authors are looking for the identification of elements that form the basis of fairness in the distribution of rewards and their importance for the perception of fairness. Methodologically, the paper is based on the analysis of the existing literature, secondary sources and statistically processed results of the survey conducted in 328 organizations in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The results of this analysis indicate that the elements of fairness in distribution of rewards were neglected in the organizations analyzed in this research. According to the presented data of the research conducted on the sample of 325 respondents in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina hypotheses are confirmed that the principles of procedural justice are not sufficiently applied in organizations in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Their application depends on the form of ownership. Low perception of procedural practice in distribution of rewards may have negative impact on business results, which can be the subject of some future research.
M12|Employee epowerment – terminological and practical perspective|The 1980s saw popularisation of the management paradigm requiring that employee intellectual potential should be noticed and used. The subjective approach to employees is fully reflected in the empowerment process. The definition scope of the analysed notion has not been unambiguously delineated to date. In narrow terms, empowerment means delegating power in the decision-making process and is considered a management method. In broad terms, in turn, the idea is at times called even a management concept. The aim of this paper is to provide answers to the following research questions: Can empowerment be called a separate management concept? What is the awareness of the essence of empowerment among contemporary employees? What are the barriers to implementing empowerment assumptions in enterprises? The research process was based on literature studies and empirical research that was conducted in Poland under two separate research projects. One, carried out in the period 2006-2015, was oriented towards assessing the level of interest in employee participation and identifying the approach to implementing such participation in enterprises. The research covered over 300 respondents. It used structured interview complemented with free interview and analysis of the provided documents of the respondents’ enterprises. The results of the research encouraged a closer look at the category of empowerment. Pilot empirical research on the category of empowerment was conducted in 2016 with questionnaire surveys. The research sample was 63 employees. It was found that empowerment should be perceived as certain expansion of employee participation rather than a separate management concept. It consisted in sharing not only information but also power with employees. The results of the empirical research permitted the ascertainment that interest in lower participation forms prevailed among the respondents. Barriers related to applying empowerment were sought in this context. The pilot research allowed a conclusion that the barriers should be sought primarily in the failure to prepare (also mentally) employees and employers for using empowerment. Although the presented results of the research are not representative, they encourage further in-depth research within the discussed area.
M12|The role of intellectual capital in building a competitive advantage by enterprises from the transport, shipping and logistics industry (TSL)|The modern economy is characterized by use changes. They appear very quickly and unexpectedly. This is a situation which impedes the functioning of companies and it is a challenge for the people managing them. They have to meet new challenges and adapt to changing competitive conditions, which are associated with the processes of globalization and knowledge-based economy. Therefore, the aim of this article is to define the role of intellectual capital in companies with TSL branch in building competitive advantage. In addition, the author attempts to assess the facts of intellectual capital management in the surveyed enterprises and it will identify the barriers that accompany this process. Founded research objectives will be realized an analysis of available sources of theoretical and conducted by the author, in 2016 (100 companies with TSL from Baltic Sea Region). The study was prepared as a general survey, which describes the company and individual interviews conducted with representatives of the boards of companies and their managers (for a total of 400 people). After analyzing all the material you see the role of intellectual capital in building a competitive advantage in the surveyed entities. Especially in activities related to the improvement of the quality of services / products and the efficiency of employees. It also turned out that business owners know how important it is for them the capital and they also know the barrier implementation of this concept - the main are: the capital is not their property.
M12|Ksztaltowanie kariery pracownika utalentowanego w osiaganiu przewagi konkurencyjnej przez wspolczesne przedsiebiorstwa|W gospodarce opartej na wiedzy o konkurencyjnosci przedsiebiorstw w coraz wiekszym stopniu decyduje umiejetnosc korzystania z posiadanych zasobow. Szczegolna rola przypisywana jest zasobom o charakterze niematerialnym. Zasobem strategicznie waznym we wspolczesnym przedsiebiorstwie jest talent – pracownik utalentowany. Zasoby jednak nie sa cenne same w sobie, lecz maja znaczenie w aspekcie dzialan ukierunkowanych na osiagniecie przewagi konkurencyjnej. Pozyskanie i zatrzymanie pracownikow utalentowanych, ze wzgledu na ich wybitnosc, staje sie jednym z najwiekszych wyzwan w wielu przedsiebiorstwach. Uwzgledniajac specyficzne ich cechy, potrzeby i oczekiwania, zagadnieniem o charakterze kluczowym staje sie stworzenie mozliwosci realizacji kariery. Celem opracowania jest wykazanie znaczenia kariery jednostek utalentowanych dla przewagi konkurencyjnej wspolczesnego przedsiebiorstwa. Jego realizacja dokonana zostanie w wyniku przedstawienia talentu jako zrodla przewagi konkurencyjnej. Ukazane zostanie znaczenie wspolczesnych modeli kariery dla jednostek utalentowanych, jak rowniez z perspektywy przedsiebiorstwa. Artykul ma charakter teoretyczny. Przedmiotowe rozwazania przeprowadzone zostaly na podstawie analizy literatury przede wszystkim z zakresu nauk o zarzadzaniu: zarzadzania strategicznego oraz zarzadzania zasobami ludzkimi. Wazne uzupelnienie przeprowadzonych rozwazan stanowily spostrzezenia sformulowane w literaturze z zakresu psychologii. Zastosowano metode rozumowania dedukcyjnego. Skonfrontowano nowe trendy w zarzadzaniu kariera pracownikow we wspolczesnych organizacjach z zalozeniami przyjmowanymi w zarzadzaniu talentami, uwzgledniajac kontekst strategiczny funkcjonowania przedsiebiorstwa. Kariera stanowi nadal srodek do realizacji zamierzen strategicznych organizacji, zwlaszcza w okresie trwajacej „wojny o talenty”. Tymczasowosc relacji zatrudnienia oraz duza mobilnosc pracownikow utalentowanych sprawiaja, ze w przypadku tej grupy pracownikow organizacje powinny dazyc do budowania relacji dlugoterminowych w wyniku zarzadzania ich kariera wewnatrz organizacji. Takie ksztaltowanie karier przyczyni sie do realizacji zamierzen strategicznych przedsiebiorstwa.
M12|Measuring Organizational Commitment and Occupational Stress of Pakistani Doctors: Comparing Lahore and Karachi Public Hospitals in Gender Perspective|The purpose of the study is to investigate the disparity in cause and consequences of stress among male and female genders in private hospitals. The self-constructed stress model is used to evaluate the pertinent effect of stressors on organizational commitment. 219 respondents took part in the study from which 114 participants were from Lahore and 105 from Karachi through convince sampling technique. Semi-constructed survey based online matrix is used to achieve quantitative aspect. According to results evaluated causes of stress among male and female varies. In addition, females are under less stress than males at operational level. Moreover, due to social support programmes, employees working in Lahore hospitals are under less stress in comparison to Karachi hospitals. As indicated in the results interpreted, causes of stress varies among 2 contrasting gender. Females are under more stress due to personal factor whereas in male organizational and environmental factor is a chief cause for stress. Organizational commitment for females is affected by family problems and personality clashes while in males it is Job demand, leadership, and economic uncertainty that is affecting organizational commitment. In male and female workforce, consequence of stress doesn’t vary. Nevertheless, to overcome stress, females utilize personal resources in a very effective fashion and display behavioral symptoms while men displays cognitive behavior. Normative commitment is more prevalent among males as compare to opposing gender whereas in females affective commitment and continuance commitment is high. In addition, Lahore workforces are under low stress than the Karachi workforce.
M12|Effectiveness and Challenges of Recruitment process outsourcing (RPO) in the Indian Hotel Sector|The present study tries of evaluate the effectiveness and challenges faced by adopting RPO practice in the India Hotel sector. The research objectives are driven from the purpose of the research which deals with distinct issues related to RPO and various perspectives of utilizing RPO. These objectives guided in identifying factors influencing the rationale for outsourcing the recruitment processes. The need for RPO has gained significance with the impact of organizational structure, stringent project deadlines, insufficient time for internal HR department for recruiting personnel, inefficiencies in integrating all stages of recruitment and expansion of geographies. The study is developed on building a theoretical framework which is prepared through analysing previous literature about outsourcing, and their utilization and efficiency in organizations. Mixed method approach has been followed to analyse with better validity and exploration of the context related to the effectiveness of RPO in the Indian hotel sector. The key findings indicated that the culture was positive influence on the usage of RPO in the organizations, in terms of adopting RPO during expansion of geographies and globalization. Also, the organizational structure was the major challenge in adopting these practices along with monitoring the outsourcing activities, lack of communication and inefficient HR practices.
M12|Gender Diversity In The Hermes Paris Boardroom And Risk Management|The reason for this review tried to look at the general execution of Hermès Paris with particular hazard elements and macroeconomic variable on gainfulness execution. The information acquired from yearly report of Hermès Paris beginning from 2011-2015. The estimation of liquidity proportion and working proportion used to see the generally speaking execution of Hermès Paris in 5 years which purportedly past benchmark. The extra estimation is the benefit measure, this variable has a negative and no huge association with liquidity hazard. To see the relationship of dangers elements to the benefit, this paper is using liquidity (current proportion), GDP and working proportion. Information was broke down by using relapse and bivariate relationship. The relapse examination and bivariate connection indicates just a single element of productivity is huge to working proportion which is ROA with the most astounding effect to the gainfulness. Be that as it may, the liquidity and GDP is not noteworthy to productivity with low effect to the gainfulness.
M12|“Factors of Workplace Environment that Affects Employee Performance in an Organization”: A study on Greenwich University of Karachi|Nowadays, organizations are aware of the fact that employee performance is one of the key factors behind any business’s success, which is why the management is usually finding ways to increase the level of employee performance through various methods. It is the mission of organization to get people together to accomplish tasks and objectives by utilizing the resources effectively and efficiently. The basic objective of this study is to measure the impact of working environment factors on performance of employees working in Greenwich University (GU), through identifying the variables which includes leadership, organizational culture, training and development, rewards and incentives and stress. This study is quantitative in nature and is aimed to find out the relationship between the above mentioned variables and employee’s performance of Greenwich University (GU) and the sample size is of 50 current employees. The hypothesis will be proven will by using Multiple Regression Analysis which is in SPSS software the reason for using MLR is that the research contains 5 independent variables and their affects have to be seen on employee’s performance which is single dependent variable. The purpose of the study is to see the existing literature and theories in order to have a constructed framework of factors affecting employee performance. It was observed through the validity of the results that these environmental factors do have an impact on employee performance.
M12|Interconnecting Theory A and ABC Model of Organizational Performance|The higher education and research institutions have an objective of creating new knowledge continuously using their people as resources and success of the organizations depend on how much new knowledge they have created during a given period of time. A simple measurement system for calculating annual research index of organizations namely ABC model has been developed by Aithal P. S. and Suresh Kumar during 2016. As per this model, the annual research performance can be determined by knowing the research index of the institution/ individuals and is calculated by considering the total number of research publications during that period. Application of the theory of organizational performance namely ‘Theory A’ can improve research productivity of educational institutions. This is a management strategy which believes in delivering target as responsibility, feeling of creativity and contribution for motivation, identifying with the organization as commitment and accountability as a hallmark of efficiency. In this paper, we have interconnected Theory A of organization performance with ABC model of research productivity in order to enhance research productivity of the organizations.
M12|A Correlation between Workplace Stress and Organizational Commitment: Doctors response from Public and Private Hospitals in Karachi, Pakistan|The study inspects the correlation between occupational stress and organizational commitment among doctors working in public and private sectors of Karachi. The self-constructive survey questionnaire is circulated through convenience sampling techniques and gathered 1039 responses (public hospital=549 and private hospitals=490). A five-point likert scale measured response ranges from strongly agree (1) to strongly disagree (5) while 10-item scale was used to evaluate occupational stress. Additionally, dimensions of organizational commitment; affective, normative and continuance commitment were evaluated on a scale containing 6-items. The data was analyzed through SPSS 23. As interpreted from results, there is a weak positive linear relationship between AC and personal factor and organizational factor. Likewise, NC shares a weak positive linear relationship with personal resources and organizational factor. Similarly, CC has a weak positive linear relationship with personal factor and personal resources. However, AC has a strong negative relationship with personal resources while NC also has a strong negative relationship with personal factor. In a similar manner, CC has a weak negative linear relationship with organizational factor. Moreover, level of stress and commitment among doctors working in public hospitals is relatively low in contrast to private hospitals. In addition, males are under more stress. However, AC and NC are relatively high in females while CC is more in males.
M12|Impact of Organizational Culture on the Pakistani Hotels Workforce's Job Satisfaction: Qualitative Report|The influence of organizational culture on the level of job satisfaction depends on the ability to cope up with the stress and working environment. This investigation tackle the purpose of Denison’s prototypical for searching the organizational culture and Spector JGS assessment to inspect workforce job gratification in the course of 5 points Likert Scale. The investigation studied 220 hotel employees from middle range 3 star hotels in Pakistan. For interpretation, researchers chiefly used MS Excel for classifying, coding, and fractionizing raw facts into processed meaningful themes. Current investigation demonstrates that employee’s job satisfaction chiefly dependent on organizational culture. The study undertakes in the direction of achieving organizational goals by initiating fortify strategies towards building the strength to obtain the objective. Moreover if organizations built a strong environment of learning as a part of their culture than it boosts the commitment level of employees. Further, it also helps employees to unfolding their career achievements. On the other hand, it is observed that females are occupied with higher level of job satisfaction while males have lower. Although, high level of job satisfaction exists but its more evident by this research that premiums, bonuses, and other types of incentives aid employees to lead from low level of job satisfaction to reach on their higher apex level of job satisfaction.
M12|The Mediating Role of Job Satisfaction between Transformational Leadership and Organizational Commitment within the SMEs of Karachi|The mediating role of job satisfaction between transformational leadership style and the organizational commitment within the SMEs in Karachi is the aim of this study. The correlation between variables is explored through quantitative methods. Total 190 respondents participated from 49 SMEs in Karachi. The results showed that job satisfaction has significant mediating role between variables of interest. This study confirmed that there is a positive strong correlation between transformational leadership and organizational commitment. Employees having high job satisfaction showed higher organizational commitment. Females scored more in comparison to males in terms of overall organizational commitment. However, males have high affective and normative while females have high continuance commitment.
M12|Job satisfaction and organizational commitment under Traditional and Modern T&D program: Evidence from Public Banking Sector of Pakistan|This article investigates the impact of traditional and modern training programs on the overall performance and commitment to employees in public banking sector of Pakistan. Additionally, the study examines the relationship between antecedents of organizational commitment and job satisfaction. Bank of Khyber, First Women Bank, National Bank of Pakistan, Sindh Bank, and The Bank of Punjab are currently operating public banks in Pakistan. Thus, all five considered in this study using strata sampling technique. Total 26 Branch Managers participated in interviews whereas 292 completed survey questionnaire. Results showed modern T&D methods preferred by contractual employees whereas permanent employees prefer traditional methods of training and development. Moreover, T&D significantly affect the continuance commitment (CC) of female employees whereas salary increment enhances males' normative commitment (NC) and affective commitment (AC). Additionally, both modern and traditional T&D methods improve job satisfaction. AC and NC are relatively higher in public bank employees in comparison to CC, resulting from training and development program.
M12|The Mediating Role of Job Satisfaction between Training and Development Practices and Organizational Commitment: Responses from Private Banking Sectors of Karachi, Pakistan|This paper examines the impact of modern and traditional training and development programs on the employees of banking sectors' organizational commitment and overall performance within Karachi, Pakistan. Furthermore, the paper explores the causal-effect relationship between organizational commitment's distinctive attributes and T&D program through mediating role of job satisfaction, by particularly looking at the contractual and permanent employees. By combining the strata, convenience, and purposive sampling, we gathered data from the 307 employees working in the Karachi's banking sector. Since, the study falls largely into positivist paradigm thus quantitative analysis are conducted in this study. Interestingly, the findings revealed that modern methods of training and development are highly preferred by the contractual workers. In addition to that, the working efficiency of the employees aging between 30-40 years is significant positively affected by modern T&D methods. On the other hand, working efficiency does not improve for the permanent employees under both; traditional and modern methods to notable extent. In addition to that, irrespective of the type of employment status, the affective and normative commitment of male employees is significant positively affected by the salary increment while the continuance commitment of female workers is significant positively affected by the training and development programs. Nevertheless, job satisfaction has significant mediating role in improving the organizational commitment of employees under both; traditional and modern methods of training and development. Interestingly, the continuance commitment is less visible in contrast to affective commitment and normative commitment among both permanent and contractual employees working within the banking sector.
M12|Leadership for the recent time|Individuals have many innate abilities and learned skills, which support them towards the journey of success. Leadership belongs to those skills, which make a person prosperous in various walks of life. Leadership is defined as the ability to lead others, and considered as an art to motivate others to do something, which a person wants to be done. With the growing competition in global economy and technological advancements in 21st century, critical decisions are being made by the organizations. The business and organizations are also required competitive and ambitious employees to move towards high standards. This argumentative essay explains the role and importance of leaders in current era.
M12|Pengaruh Transformational Leadership Dan Quality Of Work Life Terhadap Interpersonal Communication Implikasinya Pada Performance Karyawan<BR>[The Effect Of Transformational Leadership And Quality Of Work Life On Interpersonal Communication Of Implications In Performance Of Employees]|The influence of transformational leadership and quality of work life on interpersonal communication implication on employee performance. Aims to know and analyze the influence of direct and indirect variable of Transformational Leadership (TL) and Quality of Work Life (QWL) to Interpersonal Communication (IC) implication on Performance of permanent employee of PT. PLN (Persero) WS2JB Palembang Branch. Analysis of this research using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM). The results of the research show the direct effect of Variable Transformational Leadership (TL) to the performance of 0.39, Quality of Work Life (QWL) to the performance of 0.07 and the interpersonal communication (IC) to the performance of 0.81. The indirect influence of transformational leadership variable (TL) on the interpersonal communication (IC) implication on the Performance of 0.356. And the influence of indirect influence of quality of work life (QWL) towards interpersonal communication (IC) implication on Performance of permanent employee of PT. PLN (Persero) WS2JB Palembang Branch at 0.186.
M12|Leadership Styles and Job Satisfaction|Low compensation in the retail sector is adversely affecting employee satisfaction and turnover. Leadership style is important for motivating employees and increasing their satisfaction level. This study has examined the effect of transformational and transactional leadership styles on job satisfaction in selected retail outlets of Slough, United Kingdom. The adapted questionnaire was administered to the employees of the retail outlets. The sample size was 270 and the response rate was 85%. The study found that transformational leadership style has a positive effect on job satisfaction, whereas transactional leadership style has an insignificant effect on job satisfaction. Therefore, it can be argued that the transformational leadership style is more effective in the retail sector of Slough, United Kingdom.
M12|"The importance of training programs in the improvement of the performance of employees in the petroleum companies""- Case of Sonatrach company - The Regional Directorate of BERKAOUI (Ouargla- Algeria)"|The training of the workers in the enterprises allows the development in the skills and knowledge of the employees. As the other Enterprises, the training programs in the petroleum companies got a great importance, which became more cleared through this study. Through the case study on Sonatrach subsidiary employees, and based on self-questionnaire our paper aims to analyze the training programs contribution in the improvement of the unit productivity level, and on the upgrading of the profitability and efficiency of the workers. Nevertheless, the importance of the training contribution appears undoubtedly in minimizing the lost days caused by the work accidents, which is a huge costs organization must cover Although the luck in decreasing in the rates of this accidents.
M12|Determinant Factors of Employee Satisfaction in the Performance Appraisal Based on Management by Objectives|In response to the phenomenon of low employee satisfaction level on performance appraisal, organization nowadays need to identify the determinants of employee satisfaction in the performance appraisal. The purpose of this article is to develop a conceptual framework about the determinants of employee satisfaction in performance appraisal using the effectiveness of performance appraisal approach. The review of this article using three approaches. First, this article discusses the relevance of employee satisfaction with performance appraisal. Second, review the literature about performance appraisal effectiveness as determinants of employee satisfaction in the performance appraisal. Third, integrating the types of performance appraisal systems in organizations with a determinants model of employee satisfaction in the performance appraisal in order to develop a comprehensive framework for the organization. A determinants practical model of employee satisfaction in the performance appraisal based on management by objectives has been obtained. This model adopts the performance appraisal model with the changes caused by adjustments to the appraisal basis management by objectives. This shows that employee satisfaction in performance appraisal can be obtained from the effectiveness performance appraisal system.
M12|First-Place Loving and Last-Place Loathing: How Rank in the Distribution of Performance Affects Effort Provision|Rank-order relative-performance evaluation, in which pay, promotion and symbolic awards depend on the rank of workers in the distribution of performance, is ubiquitous. Whenever firms use rank-order relative-performance evaluation, workers receive feedback about their rank. Using a real-effort experiment, we aim to discover whether workers respond to the specific rank that they achieve. In particular, we leverage random variation in the allocation of rank among subjects who exerted the same effort to obtain a causal estimate of the rank response function that describes how effort provision responds to the content of rank-order feedback. We find that the rank response function is U-shaped. Subjects exhibit 'first-place loving' and 'last-place loathing', that is subjects increase their effort the most after being ranked first or last. We discuss implications of our findings for the optimal design of firms' performance feedback policies, workplace organizational structures and incentives schemes.
M12|Mutual Gains? Is There a Role for Employee Engagement in the Modern Workplace?|I examine the history of employee engagement and how it has been characterised by thinkers in sociology, psychology, management and economics. I suggest that, while employers may choose to invest in employee engagement, there are alternative management strategies that may be profit-maximising. I identify four elements of employee engagement – job ‘flow’, autonomous working, involvement in decision-making at workplace or firm level, and financial participation – and present empirical evidence on their incidence and employee perceptions of engagement, drawing primarily from evidence in Britain. I consider the evidence regarding the existence of mutual gains and present new evidence on the issue. I find a non-linear relationship between human resource management (HRM) intensity and various employee job attitudes. I also find the intensity of HRM use and employee engagement are independently associated with improvements in workplace performance. I consider the implications of the findings for policy and employment practice in the future.
M12|Berufs- und Spartengewerkschaften. Neue Akteure und Perspektiven der Tarifpolitik|Seit den fruehen 2000er Jahren beobachten wir einen zunehmenden Einfluss von Berufs- und Spartengewerkschaften. Diese Verbaende sind prominente Beispiele fuer die neue Unuebersichtlichkeit der Arbeitsbeziehungen. Der Band behandelt in sozialwissenschaftlicher Perspektive die in Wissenschaft und oeffentlichkeit kontrovers diskutierten Fragen der wesentlichen Folgen: Veraendert der Wandel von Berufsverbaenden zu Berufsgewerkschaften und ihre damit verbundene Zielverschiebung nachhaltig die etablierten Strukturen der Interessenvertretung? Fuehrt ihre Tarifpolitik zu einem hoeheren Streikniveau in der traditionell arbeitskampfarmen Bundesrepublik? Nimmt ihr Einfluss auf die Funktions-, insbesondere die Stabilitaetsbedingungen der Arbeitsbeziehungen, vor allem die Tarifpolitik, nicht nur kurz-, sondern auch langfristig zu? Werden weitere Berufsgewerkschaften entstehen? Welche Konsequenzen hat die nunmehr gegebene Gewerkschaftskonkurrenz fuer die etablierten Gewerkschaften?
M12|Taxing Atlas: Executive Compensation, Firm Size and Their Impact on Optimal Top Income Tax Rates|We study the optimal taxation of top labor incomes. Top income earners are modeled as managers who operate a span of control technology as in Rosen (1982). Managers are heterogeneous across talent, which is both effort-augmenting and total-factor-productivity improving. The latter gives rise to a positive scale-of-operations effect. A tax formula for optimal taxes is derived linking optimal marginal tax rates to preferences and technology parameters. We show how to quantify the model using readily available firm-level data. Our benchmark calibration focuses on the US. Our results suggest that optimal top taxes are roughly in line with the current statutory rates and, thus, are significantly lower than what previous optimal taxation studies that ignore the scale-of-operations effect have shown. Similar quantitative findings hold when we extend the analysis to a panel of developed countries. (Copyright: Elsevier)
M12|Peer Effects in the Workplace|Existing evidence on peer effects in the productivity of coworkers stems from either laboratory experiments or real-world studies referring to a specific firm or occupation. In this paper, we aim at providing more generalizable results by investigating a large local labor market, with a focus on peer effects in wages rather than productivity. Our estimation strategy--which links the average permanent productivity of workers' peers to their wages--circumvents the reflection problem and accounts for endogenous sorting of workers into peer groups and firms. On average over all occupations, and in the type of high-skilled occupations investigated in studies on knowledge spillover, we find only small peer effects in wages. In the type of low-skilled occupations analyzed in extant studies on social pressure, in contrast, we find larger peer effects, about one-half the size of those identified in similar studies on productivity.
M12|Gender Differences in Accepting and Receiving Requests for Tasks with Low Promotability|Gender differences in task allocations may sustain vertical gender segregation in labor markets. We examine the allocation of a task that everyone prefers be completed by someone else (writing a report, serving on a committee, etc.) and find evidence that women, more than men, volunteer, are asked to volunteer, and accept requests to volunteer for such tasks. Beliefs that women, more than men, say yes to tasks with low promotability appear as an important driver of these differences. If women hold tasks that are less promotable than those held by men, then women will progress more slowly in organizations.
M12|Executive Compensation: A Survey of Theory and Evidence|This paper reviews the theoretical and empirical literature on executive compensation. We start by presenting data on the level of CEO and other top executive pay over time and across firms, the changing composition of pay; and the strength of executive incentives. We compare pay in U.S. public firms to private and non-U.S. firms. We then critically analyze three non-exclusive explanations for what drives executive pay -- shareholder value maximization by boards, rent extraction by executives, and institutional factors such as regulation, taxation, and accounting policy. We confront each hypothesis with the evidence. While shareholder value maximization is consistent with many practices that initially seem inefficient, no single explanation can account for all facts and historical trends; we highlight major gaps for future research. We discuss evidence on the effects of executive pay, highlighting recent identification strategies, and suggest policy implications grounded in theoretical and empirical research. Our survey has two main goals. First, we aim to tightly link the theoretical literature to the empirical evidence, and combine the insights contributed by all three views on the drivers of pay. Second, we aim to provide a user-friendly guide to executive compensation, presenting shareholder value theories using a simple unifying model, and discussing the challenges and methodological issues with empirical research.
M12|Globalization and Executive Compensation|This paper finds that globalization is contributing to the rapid increase in executive compensation over the last few decades. Employing comprehensive data on top executives at major U.S. companies, we show that their compensation is increasing with exports and foreign direct investment, as well as firm size and technology. Exogenous export shocks unrelated to managerial decisions also increase executive compensation, and there is little evidence that this is due to increasing market returns to talent. We do find that export shocks primarily affect discretionary forms of compensation of more powerful executives at firms with poor corporate governance, as one would expect if globalization has enhanced rent-capture opportunities. Overall, these results indicate that globalization has played a more central role in the rapid growth of executive compensation and U.S. inequality than previously thought.
M12|Rente ab 63 betrifft Mehrzahl der Unternehmen|Das ifo Institut befragt im Auftrag und in Kooperation von Randstad vierteljährlich Personalleiter in mehr als 1 000 Unternehmen nach der Bedeutung von verschiedenen Flexibilisierungsinstrumenten. Zudem werden in jedem Quartal Sonderfragen zu aktuellen personalpolitischen Themen gestellt. Im vierten Quartal 2016 wurde untersucht, in wie vielen Unternehmen bereits Mitarbeiter über die Rente ab 63 vorzeitig in den Ruhestand gegangen sind. 52% der befragten Unternehmen gaben an, dass bei ihnen bereits Mitarbeiter diese Regelung nutzen.
M12|Working hours and productivity|This paper studies the link between working hours and productivity using daily information on working hours and performance of a sample of call centre agents. We exploit variation in the number of hours worked by the same employee across days and weeks due to central scheduling, enabling us to estimate the effect of working hours on productivity. We find that as the number of hours worked increases, the average handling time for a call increases, meaning that agents become less productive. This result suggests that fatigue can play an important role, even in jobs with mostly part-time workers.
M12|Institutions and Managerial Task Allocation: Evidence from Chinese Entrepreneurs|This study presents theoretical and empirical analyses of the time allocation of entrepreneurs as a response to weak property rights protection. Using a nationwide random-sample survey of more than 3,000 entrepreneurs in over 100 cities in China, we find that entrepreneurs, responding to the violation of property rights, spend large proportions of their working time on lobbying activities to protect their businesses at a cost to management time. Moreover, the sensitivity of lobbying time to property rights protection is reduced if the entrepreneur is politically connected or if the firm is larger or older.
M12|CEO Behavior and Firm Performance|We measure the behavior of 1,114 CEOs in six countries parsing granular CEO diary data through an unsupervised machine learning algorithm. The algorithm uncovers two distinct behavioral types: “leaders” and “managers”. Leaders focus on multi-function, high-level meetings, while managers focus on one-to-one meetings with core functions. Firms with leader CEOs are on average more productive, and this difference arises only after the CEO is hired. The data is consistent with horizontal differentiation of CEO behavioral types, and firm-CEO matching frictions. We estimate that 17% of sample CEOs are mismatched, and that mismatches are associated with significant productivity losses.
M12|Performance-Induced CEO Turnover|This paper re-examines the relationship between firm performance and CEO turnover. We do away with the distinction between forced and voluntary turnovers and introduce the concept of performance-induced turnover, defined as turnover that would not have occurred had performance been better. We show that more than 40% of all CEO turnovers are performance induced, and more than 50% of turnovers in the first eight tenure years. This far exceeds the frequency of forced turnovers identified in prior studies. We also find that the effects of performance on turnover are as high in the first five tenure years as in the next five, and that the effects decline only after tenure year 10. Further, CEO departures in all tenure years respond strongly to recent performance but are almost insensitive to performance in the more distant past. These results reject the standard model of CEO turnover in which boards learn from firm performance about constant CEO ability.
M12|The Long-Term Consequences of Short-Term Incentives|This paper shows that short-term stock price concerns induce CEOs to take value-reducing actions. Vesting equity, our measure of short-term concerns, is positively associated with the probability of a firm repurchasing shares, the amount of shares repurchased, and the probability of the firm announcing a merger and acquisition (M&A). When vesting equity increases, stock returns are more positive in the two quarters surrounding both repurchases and M&A, but more negative in the two years following repurchases and four years following M&A. These results are inconsistent with CEOs buying underpriced stocks or companies to maximize long-run shareholder value, but consistent with these actions being used to boost the short-term stock price and improve the conditions for equity sales. Overall, by identifying actions that carry clear value implications, this paper documents the long-term negative consequences of short-term incentives.
M12|Deadlock on the Board|We develop a dynamic model of board decision making. We show that directors may knowingly retain the policy they all think is the worst just because they fear they may disagree about what policy is best in the future-the fear of deadlock begets deadlock. Board diversity can exacerbate deadlock. Hence, shareholders may optimally appoint a biased director to avoid deadlock. On the other hand, the CEO may appoint unbiased directors, or even directors biased against him, to create deadlock and thereby entrench himself. Still, shareholders may optimally give the CEO some power to appoint directors. Our theory thus gives a new explanation for CEO entrenchment. It also gives a new perspective on director tenure, staggered boards, and short-termism.
M12|Changes in Executive Remuneration after Technology Bubble|The study examines top executive Remuneration in UK high-technology firms in an attempt to identify and understand any changes in the structure of the pay mechanism evident after the global technology market crisis at the end of the twentieth century. The results show that the relation between executive pay and market performance has weakened and that the fixed components in the pay package in those companies have increased post-crisis. These changes have likely served to compensate executives for the increased risk associated with equity-based compensation rather than to redress any perceived problems with executive incentives pre-crisis. Moreover, we also confirm a significant and negative association between executive pay and block shareholdings after the market adjustment. These findings suggest that shareholders strengthened their role of monitoring executive pay in the wake of this exogenous economic shock.
M12|Workplace Ostracism And Work Engagement: The Moderating Role Of Neuroticism|This study investigates the relationship between workplace ostracism and work engagement of the employees in the local governments and whether neuroticism, one of the personality traits, has a role on this relationship. Convenience sampling was used and data were obtained from a sample of 369 employees from two municipalities. The results show that there is a negative relationship between workplace ostracism and work engagement. Moreover, neuroticism moderates the negative relationship between workplace ostracism and work engagement. Overall, the results show that work engagement decreases as workplace ostracism increases, and highly neurotic employees are more negatively affected by workplace ostracism. Local governments may utilize the results in their efforts to create an environment fostering work engagement. Leaders may apply the study outcomes about the role of employee personality and workplace ostracism to improve their service performance.
M12|Short Notice, Big Difference? The Effect of Temporary Employment on Firm Competitiveness across Sectors|This article is one of the first to examine how the use of fixed-term employment contracts (FTCs) affects firm competitiveness (i.e. productivity, wages and profits) while controlling for key econometric issues such as time-invariant unobserved workplace characteristics, endogeneity and state dependence. We apply dynamic panel data estimation techniques to detailed Belgian linked employer–employee data covering all years from 1999 to 2010. Results show that the effects of FTCs on firm competitiveness vary across sectors: while temporary employment is found (at the 10 per cent significance level) to enhance productivity and profits in (labour-intensive) services, this is not the case in manufacturing and construction.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M12|Do Good Job Conditions Matter for Wages and Productivity? Theory and Evidence from Latin America|Abstract Based on Akerlof and Kranton (2005) In Journal of Economic Perspectives, 19(1), 9–32, who argue that group identity and social norms influence individual preferences towards work effort, a model is developed to understand why firms create good job conditions, taking into account the cost of implementing them and their impact on wages and productivity. Then, using individual-level data from the Gallup World Poll for 18 Latin American countries, the main predictions of the model are tested using propensity score matching. We find a positive link between good job conditions and wages when there are several simultaneous signals of a good work environment. We conclude that there is a positive payoff of investing in good job conditions for both workers and firms.
M12|Military experience and corporate tax avoidance|Abstract We find that managers with military experience pursue less tax avoidance than other managers and pay an estimated $1–$2 million more in corporate taxes per firm-year. These managers also undertake less aggressive tax planning strategies with smaller tax reserves and fewer tax havens. Although they leave tax money on the table, boards hiring these managers benefit from reductions in other gray areas in corporate reporting. The broad implications are as follows: for employee selection, boards can consider employees’ personal characteristics as a control mechanism when outputs are difficult to contract ex ante or measure ex post.
M12|Do Social Relationship Affects Motivation?|As well as cognitive competence, social competence is an important factor inÂ improving student's academic motivation. Social relationships can encourageÂ greater psychological place attachment capable of creating motivated strategies forÂ learning interests and learning effort. This study aims to test models of theÂ relationship between social relationships and motivated strategies for learningÂ interests and learning effort with psychological place attachment as a mediatingÂ variable. This study also examines the role of gender as a moderating variable inÂ the relationship model four variables studied. The study was conducted inÂ Indonesia with 369 schools of business students as the sample. Methods of testingÂ construct validity is conducted by factor analysis, whereas the internal consistencyÂ reliability testing using Cronbachâ€™s Alpha. Method of data analysis is conductedÂ by the structural equation model using AMOS. The results of this study indicatedÂ that the relation between social relationships and motivated strategies for learningÂ interest and learning effort is mediated by psychological place attachment. InÂ addition, gender differences did not moderate the relationship model. In addition,Â there is no difference between male and female in social relationships,Â psychological place attachment, and motivated strategies for learning interest andÂ learning effort. This study contributes to the understanding of the socialÂ relationships as an important variable to motivate college students in earlyÂ adolescent period in collectivistic cultures such as Indonesia. Detailed discussionÂ presented in this study.JEL classification numbers: I23, I26, M12, M14Keywords: social relationships, psychological place attachment, motivatedÂ strategies for learning interest, motivated strategies for learning effort, gender,Â collectivistic culture.
M12|Local Support Mechanisms for Entrepreneurship: The Approach of Local Development and Innovation Institutions|Purpose: The growth potential of SMEs entrepreneurship is examined at regional and local level, initially on a Global scale and then for the case of Greece. Additionally, the possibility of an economic development policy beyond the macroeconomic approach is examined, focusing on business growth and competitiveness in the light of meso and micro-economic policy approach. Design/methodology/approach: This research leads to the proposal of building knowledge mechanisms and direct and efficient systematic development and innovation at the local level, particularity during a time of economic crisis. The establishment of Institutes of Local Development and Innovation (ITAK) is primarily geared towards promoting innovative entrepreneurship and extroversion of locally installed businesses. As part of the proposal for the establishment of ITAK, a questionnaire was developed - a tool to initially measure companies' opinions on the need for outside help in the macro, meso and micro environment, in order to demonstrate that ITAK local-level structures could be developed. Findings: The survey results were accrued via the analysis of questionnaires distributed to companies. The results of the questionnaires in the micro-environment in relation to those in the macro-environment shows a lower tendency to change business, which may be because managers perceive economics several times more in macroeconomic terms rather than in meso and micro economic (terms). Research limitations/implications: The restrictions of this particular research are the small sample of study of businesses in one country (Greece); this is because the approach of study, which is quantitative-qualitative, limits analysis to small data sets in the current phase. Originality/value: The results in the micro-environment, in relation to those at macro-environmental, shows a lower tendency to change business, something which may be because managers perceive economics several times more in macroeconomic terms, rather than in meso and micro economic (terms).
M12|Motivating Public Sector Employees: Evidence from Greece|Purpose: The object of this research is to investigate work motivating factors in the public sector in Greece, as well as to study demographic attributes, placing emphasis on age and gender as determinants of employee motives. Design/methodology/approach: To answer our research questions, a questionnaire was distributed at the beginning of 2015 to a public - sector organization in central Greece. A total of 318 anonymous survey responses were collected and analysed with SPSS. Findings: In the public organization under survey, the leading employee motives are an increase in salaries, opportunities for hierarchical advancement in the organization, as well as the development of personal skills. Moreover, motivational differences are noted among Baby Boomers, Generation X and Generation Y. Research limitations/implications: As the present study has been conducted on a single public organization, awareness should be raised as far as the generalizability of the results providing useful insights for further exploration. Originality/value: Limited research has been conducted in the Greek public sector comparing motives among generations.
M12|Team Incentives, Task Assignment, and Performance: A Field Experiment|The performance of a work team commonly depends on the effort exerted by the team members as well as on the division of tasks among them. However, when leaders assign tasks to team members, performance is usually not the only consideration. Favouritism, employees' seniority, employees' preferences over tasks, and fairness considerations often play a role as well. Team incentives have the potential to curtail the role of these factors in favor of performance – in particular when the incentive plan includes both the leader and the team members. This paper presents the results of a field experiment designed to study the effects of such team incentives on task assignment and performance. We introduce team incentives in a random subsets of 108 stores of a Dutch retail chain. We find no effect of the incentive, neither on task assignment nor on performance.
M12|It's not all fun and games: Feedback, task motivation, and effort|"Performance feedback is a pervasive element of education, management, marketing, and the entire gaming industry. Prior research on feedback focuses on what information individuals receive, and how frequently. The gaming industry, though, is built upon the premise that how feedback is delivered matters and, in particular, that ""context"" â€“ narrative and story â€“ are key. However, even as organizations increasingly adopt gaming elements into their feedback systems, prior research offers little guidance about whether standard performance feedback, combined with gaming elements, yields greater effort. We report the results of experiments that identify the impact of feedback through gamification, through a novel experimental design that introduces narratives into the task. Compared to standard performance feedback, gamification significantly increases effort in a ""real effort"" task. However, consistent with past research showing that intrinsic and extrinsic incentives interact, gamification has a positive impact on effort when extrinsic incentives are low, but no impact when they are high. The introduction of narrative â€“ storyline development â€“ induces the greatest effort, even compared to Leaderboards, a gaming element that often features in performance feedback systems."
M12|Wealth and the principal-agent matching|I study the role the agent's wealth plays in the principal-agent matching with moral hazard and limited liability. I consider wealth and talent as the agent's type, and size as the firm's (principal's) type. Because utility is not perfectly transferable in this setup, I use generalized increasing differences and find that wealthier agents match with bigger firms, when talent is homogeneous among them, whereas for equally wealthy agents, more talented agents will match with bigger firms. I describe economic conditions over types such that pairs of higher types will write contracts in which the agent obtains more than the information rents, through a higher bonus, increasing the expected surplus. Finally, I provide an example in which wealth is distributed among agents in such a way that it reverses the standard result of positive assortative matching between talent and firm size. JEL codes: D86, D82, C78, J33, M12
M12|Working Hours and Productivity|This paper studies the link between working hours and productivity using daily information on working hours and performance of a sample of call centre agents. We exploit variation in the number of hours worked by the same employee across days and weeks due to central scheduling, enabling us to estimate the effect of working hours on productivity. We find that as the number of hours worked increases, the average handling time for a call increases, meaning that agents become less productive. This result suggests that fatigue can play an important role, even in jobs with mostly part-time workers.
M12|Einsatz von Wiki-Systemen im Wissensmanagement|[Einleitung] Wiki-Systeme sind seit vielen Jahren in verschiedenen Bereichen im Einsatz, darunter auch im Wissensmanagement von Unternehmen, vgl. zum Beispiel (Voigt, et al., 2016). Die Möglichkeit, dass in einem Wiki nicht nur einzelne Autoren sondern potenziell alle Mitarbeiter einer Organisation Beiträge verfassen oder bearbeiten können, kann zu einem schnellen Wachstum der Inhalte sowie eine hohe Qualität und Aktualität der Beiträge führen (Ebersbach u. a. 2008, 14). Die bekannte Online-Enzyklopädie Wikipedia (www.wikipedia.org) belegte im Juli 2016 den sechsten Platz der weltweit am häufigsten besuchten Internetseiten (Alexa 2016). Alleine in der deutschsprachigen Wikipedia sind mittlerweile knapp zwei Millionen Artikel veröffentlicht (Wikipedia 2016). Dieser Erfolg des 2001 gestarteten Wikis förderte die Verbreitung von Wikis in Organisationen. Auffällig ist jedoch, dass sich bei Recherchen die Werke mit Veröffentlichungsdatum zwischen 2000 und 2010 häufen. Aktuellere Literatur ist deutlich weniger vorhanden. Dies lässt vermuten, dass Wikis entweder aus der Mode gekommen sind oder das Wiki-Prinzip im betrieblichen Umfeld gescheitert ist. Bereits 2008 veröffentlichte die Zeitschrift computerwoche im Internet einen Artikel über Wikis, in dem von „Legionen von gescheiterten Unternehmens- Wikis“ (Heilwagen 2008) die Rede ist, allerdings ohne konkrete Beispiele zu nennen. In einem weiteren Artikel, der 2009 auf der Webseite von pcworld veröffentlicht wurde, sollen „Myths of the Enterprise Wiki“(PCWorld 2009) aufgedeckt werden. In dem Blog kleinstteile von Markus Klein, einem IT-Berater aus Wien, erfährt man Anfang 2015, dass „manche Organisationen eine beeindruckende Liste an gescheiterten Versuchen“ (Klein 2015) aufweisen. Im Jahr 2014 schreibt Herbert Braun in der Zeitschrift c’t - Magazin für Computertechnik, dass der „große Hype“ um Wikis lange vorbei sei und weiter: „Sind Wikis womöglich gescheitert? Nein, aber sie stehen im Schatten - mehr, als sie es verdient haben.“ (Braun 2014). Auf der anderen Seite finden sich auch zahlreiche positive und aktuelle Beispiele zur Nutzung von Wikis in Unternehmen, wie bei der HAVI Logistics GmbH (Mangeng und Schönberg 2013), der Rhenus Gruppe (Schäfers und Maas 2015) oder der Bundeswehr (Leinhos und Daalmann 2014). Es gibt somit signifikante Unterschiede, wie erfolgreich Wikis in Unternehmen eingesetzt werden. Ziel der Arbeit ist es, diese Unterschiede herauszuarbeiten. Es wird dargestellt, unter welchen Voraussetzungen ein Wiki ein wertvolles Werkzeug sein kann, um die Ressource Wissen in Unternehmen zu nutzen. Die Arbeit behandelt die Umstände, unter denen ein Wiki innerhalb von Unternehmen eingesetzt wird. Eine technische Analyse und Bewertung erfolgt nicht. Auch liefert die Arbeit keinen Leitfaden für die informationstechnische Integration eines Wikis in die IT-Infrastruktur eines Unternehmens. Für die Einordnung eines Wiki-Systems werden im Kapitel 2 einige Grundlagen des Wissensmanagements angeführt. Kapitel 3 widmet sich den Wiki-Systemen in Organisationen im Allgemeinen und danach werden im Kapitel 4 konkret vier Fallbeispiele vorgestellt. Die Erfahrungen aus den Kapiteln 2 und 3 fließen dann in die Entwicklung eines Wiki-Systems für ein konkretes Unternehmen ein, Kapitel 5. Kapitel 6 fasst die Ergebnisse zusammen, benennt die Erfolgsfaktoren und gibt einen Ausblick.
M12|Strategien kleiner und mittlerer Betriebe in angespannten Arbeitsmarktlagen: Eine Untersuchung am Beispiel der niedersächsischen Ernährungswirtschaft|"Im vorliegenden Bericht werden die Ergebnisse des Teilprojektes ""Lokale Strategien für die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung"" des europäischen Forschungsprojekts TRUSTEE (""Towards RUral Synergies and Trade-offs between Economic development and Ecosystem services') beschrieben. Vor dem Hintergrund der erwarteten Fachkräfteknappheit wurde am Beispiel der niedersächsischen Ernährungswirtschaft zwischen 2014 und 2016 untersucht, (1) wie sich lokale Arbeitsmärkte auf Strategien und Entwicklung der überwiegend kleinen und mittleren Betriebe des Sektors auswirken, (2) in wie fern die Betriebe Unabhängigkeit vom lokalen Arbeitsmarkt erlangen können und (3) wie die Unternehmen ihrerseits die lokalen Arbeitsmärkte beeinflussen. Die Untersuchung fand in drei Schritten statt. Im Sommer 2015 wurde eine standardisierte Befragung der Ernährungswirtschaft in Niedersachsen mit 200 antwortenden Betrieben durchgeführt, die den Hauptteil der Studie bildet. Zweitens wurden im Herbst 2015 bzw. Winter 2015/16 Workshops zum Thema Fachkräftebedarf ('Fachkräfteworkshops') in einer ländlichen und in einer eher urbanen Region Niedersachsens organisiert, dokumentiert und im Nachgang ausgewertet. Um einen tieferen Einblick in das Zusammenspiel verschiedener regionaler Organisationen zu erhalten, wurden drittens im Frühsommer 2016 Interviews mit Beteiligten regionaler Weiterbildungslandschaften in ausgewählten niedersächsischen Regionen geführt. [...]"
M12|Physical constitution matters for athletic performance and salary of NBA players|Basketball is one of the most practised sports in the world, especially in America. America has the most famous professional basketball league, the National Basketball Association (NBA). This study examines whether there is a relationship between the physical constitution of professional basketball players and their athletic performance in the 2015/16 NBA season. Regression results show that the relative wingspan influences the athletic performance in a significantly positive way whereas the vertical jumping ability influences it in a significantly negative way. Furthermore, age follows an inverted U-shape with a maximum at 28 years. Moreover, this study analyses the impact of on-court performance measurements and personal characteristics on salary for NBA players. Taller players have a higher salary in the 2015/16 NBA season.
M12|Verzerrungen bei Personalbeurteilungen durch Führungskräfte<BR>[Biases in performance appraisals by managers]|Personalbeurteilungen sind ein wichtiges Führungsinstrument in Unternehmen. Da die Personalbeurteilungen von Personen durchgeführt werden, unterliegen die Beurteilungen auch subjektiven Einschätzungen. Bei der Durchführung von Personalbeurteilungen treten Verzerrungen auf, die teils vermieden werden können. Führungskräfte sollten diese Fehler daher kennen.
M12|Theoretische Erklärungsansätze für die Entsprechenserklärungen zu Abfindungen für Vorstandsmitglieder<BR>[Theoretical explanation approaches for the declarations of conformity regarding severance payments for members of the management board]|In diesem Beitrag werden theoretische Erklärungen gesucht für die dauerhaft hohe Abweichungsquote der Entsprechenserklärungen hinsichtlich Vorstandsabfindungen von über 20 % von Empfehlung Ziffer 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Deutscher Corporate Governance Kodex und für die Unabhängigkeit der Abweichungsquote von der Zugehörigkeit des Unternehmens zum Prime Standard und von der Zugehörigkeit des Unternehmens zu einem der Auswahlindices DAX, MDAX, TecDAX oder SDAX. Auch die mehrheitliche Überschreitung der Obergrenze trotz Entsprechenserklärungen und das Unterlassen der Erwähnung der Überschreitung im vergangenheitsorientierten Teil der folgenden Erklärung sollen erklärt werden. Aus verschiedenen theoretischen Modellen werden jeweils Veränderungsempfehlungen für die Regelung der Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder abgeleitet.
M12|Sind gewählte Teamleiter besser als ihr Team? Analyse am Beispiel von BWL-Professoren und ihren Zitationen<BR>[Are elected team leaders better than their teams? Analysis at the example of management professors and their citations]|Am Beispiel deutschsprachiger BWL-Professoren wird untersucht, ob Führungspersonen, konkret Dekane, Prodekane und Vorsitzende von wissenschaftlichen Kommissionen des VHB, in der operativen Arbeit, hier der Forschung gemessen über Veröffentlichungen und Zitationen bei Google Scholar, erfolgreicher sind als andere Teammitglieder, in diesem Fall Professoren ohne entsprechende Positionen. Empirisch ist dies der Fall, was gegen andere Erklärungsansätze spricht, die keinen oder sogar einen negativen Zusammenhang zwischen erfolgreicher Teamleitung und normaler Arbeit annehmen.
M12|The organizational design of high-tech startups and product innovation|"""We investigate whether appointing a middle management level affects startups' innovation performance. Additional hierarchical levels are often suspected to restrict innovative activities. However, founders' capacities for information processing and resource allocation are usually strongly limited while, at the same time, R&D decisions are among the most consequential choices of startups. We argue that middle management is positively related to introducing product innovations because it improves the success rates from recombining existing knowledge as well as managing R&D personnel. In addition, we suggest that the effectiveness of these mechanisms depends on the riskiness of a startup's business opportunity. Based on a sample of German high-tech startups, we find support for our conjectures."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
M12|Socially Responsible Human Resource Policies And Practices: Academicand Professional Validation|This article addresses the measurement and validation of socially responsible human resource policiesfrom academic and professional points of view. Corporate Social responsibility (CSR) has made greatprogress in recent years in the theoretical realm, showing its importance through different perspectivessuch as the institutional theory, the stakeholder approach, the theory of legitimacy, and the process ofshared value. However, from an empirical standpoint, more research is needed to provide new indicatorsand evidence of testing socially responsible policies on business performance. This paper aims to devise aset of socially responsible human resource policies, demonstrate the validation of their content throughseveral practices, and review the analysis of their relative weights thanks to the contribution of a panelof academic experts and a professional pretest, conducted in large Spanish companies. / 0
M12|Kepemimpinan Transformasional Melalui Neuroscience Terapan: Mekanisme Transmisi Proses Berpikir|Dunia saat ini memasuki lingkungan yang diliputi oleh volatilitas, ketidakpastian, kompleksitas, dan kerancuan yang tinggi. Kondisi tersebut membuat organisasi harus mampu menerjemahkan tantangan yang dihadapi menjadi suatu visi dan aksi yang jelas. Hal ini menuntut karakter kepemimpinan yang tidak statis, namun agile untuk menyesuaikan diri dengan magnitude dan sifat dari permasalahan. Transformational leadership merupakan suatu kepemimpinan partisipatif yang tidak hanya mampu memotivasi dan menggerakkan organisasi baik secara vertikal maupun horizontal, namun juga senantiasa agile di setiap keadaan, sehingga mendorong kapasitas organisasi dalam pencapaian visi dan misi bersama. Neuroscience terapan memberikan pemahaman mengenai aktivitas dan cara kerja otak manusia, serta meningkatkan kompetensi yang harus dimiliki oleh seorang leader, sehingga membantu leader memimpin transformasi organsisasi. Hasil kajian menunjukkan bahwa neuroscience terapan dapat membantu kepemimpinan transformasional untuk mencapai keadaan yang â€˜physically, emotionally, and mentally safeâ€™ serta mendorong organisasi bertransformasi secara efektif. Penelitian ini selain menggali perspektif baru dalam isu kepemimpinan, juga memberikan kontribusi yang sangat penting dalam pengaplikasian ilmu terapan dalam konteks kepemimpinan, khususnya mengenai pemetaan mekanisme kerja transmisi, dalam hal ini cara kerja otak dalam memengaruhi reaksi tubuh, baik secara internal (emosi).
M12|Run For Your Life? The Effect of Close Elections on the Life Expectancy of Politicians|We use a regression discontinuity design to estimate the causal effect of election to political office on natural lifespan. In contrast to previous findings of shortened lifespan among US presidents and other heads of state, we find that US governors and other political office holders live over one year longer than losers of close elections. The positive effects of election appear in the mid-1800s, and grow notably larger when we restrict the sample to later years. We also analyze heterogeneity in exposure to stress, the proposed mechanism in the previous literature. We find no evidence of a role for stress in explaining differences in life expectancy. Those who win by large margins have shorter life expectancy than either close winners or losers, a fact which may explain previous findings.
M12|Team Incentives, Task Assignment, and Performance: A Field Experiment|The performance of a work team commonly depends on the effort exerted by the team members as well as on the division of tasks among them. However, when leaders assign tasks to team members, performance is usually not the only consideration. Favouritism, employees' seniority, employees' preferences over tasks, and fairness considerations often play a role as well. Team incentives have the potential to curtail the role of these factors in favor of performance -- in particular when the incentive plan includes both the leader and the team members. This paper presents the results of a field experiment designed to study the effects of such team incentives on task assignment and performance. We introduce team incentives in a random subsets of 108 stores of a Dutch retail chain. We find no effect of the incentive, neither on task assignment nor on performance.
M12|The Short and Long Run Impacts of Centralized Clearinghouses: Evidence from Matching Teach For America Teachers to Schools|Many labor markets have adopted centralized clearinghouses using variants of the deferred acceptance algorithm (DAA) in hopes of improving market outcomes. Despite the prevalence of these clearinghouses, evidence of their impacts is limited. This paper presents the first evidence from a field experiment of the impacts of adopting the DAA on short- and long-run match outcomes from a new application of market design. I worked with Teach for America (TFA) to match high school teachers to schools in Chicago using the DAA at a series of âinterview days,â while keeping its original âFirst Offer Mechanismâ (FOM) unchanged for elementary school teachers. I show that the FOM gives almost no autonomy to teachers and promotes strategic early hiring in theory and in practice. In contrast, the variant of the DAA I implemented allows teachers to pick their most preferred offer and I show that it is non-manipulable via preferences by either teachers or schools. I use a difference-in-difference strategy - comparing changes in outcomes over time for TFA high school teachers to the change among TFA elementary school teachers in Chicago - to measure the impact of adopting the DAA on short-run outcomes, like matches, hiring, sorting across schools, and preferences over matches, and on three long-run outcomes: teachersâ retention, satisfaction, and performance. I find that adopting the DAA reduces attrition through teachersâ two-year commitment to TFA by 9.9 percentage points (pp). This effect is driven by a 7.2 pp reduction in attrition prior to TFAâs initial summer training. While teachers were happier, they were not more productive. Using TFAâs preferred performance metric, I estimate that teachers who could have been matched with the DAA were 0.3 standard deviations less effective in their first year, but were nearly equally effective in their second year. However, up to two thirds of the decline in first-year performance can be attributed to the DAA shifting teachers to schools with lower average performance. The decline is not explained by higher retention among lower performing teachers. Revealed preference suggests the DAA was better for TFA Chicago: it was used at all of its interview days in 2015 and 2016.
M12|Strategic feedback in teams: Theory and experimental evidence|We theoretically and experimentally analyze public and private feedback in teams that are characterized by different performance technologies. We consider a setting where the principal has some performance relevant private information and can either report this information truthfully or strategically withhold feedback. We find that if team performance is determined by the best performer (the “best-shot technology”), then both public and private feedback are better than no feedback unless the team is composed of all low performers, in which case no feedback is best. If, on the other hand, team performance is determined by the worst performer (the weakest-link technology), then no feedback is the best regime unless the team is composed of all high performers, in which case public or private feedback is better. Our results have implications for feedback policies in teams, organizations, and the workplace.
M12|Subjective alienation in current labour organization. A participant observation in a food retail company|El artículo presenta los hallazgos de la primera etapa de un estudio de caso, sobre el placer y el sufrimiento en el trabajo, cuyo trabajo de terreno fue una observación participante en una sucursal de una cadena canadiense de distribución al detal. El propósito es poner a disposición de los estudiosos del análisis organizacional, del management y de la administración de personal algunas definiciones logradas a partir de ciertos recursos bibliográficos (teóricos y metodológicos) de la sociología clínica, la psicodinámica del trabajo y la sociología de las emociones. Se trata de las dimensiones social y técnica de la organización del trabajo y de una forma de alienación subjetiva actual. La principal premisa que puede presentarse, como conclusión, es que la organización actual del trabajo tiende a ser percibida por el trabajador como fuente potencial de amenazas y, sin saberlo, elige protegerse a partir de la alienación subjetiva.
M12|How do Quasi-Random Option Grants Affect CEO Risk-Taking?|We examine how an increase in stock option grants affects CEO risk-taking. The overall net effect of option grants is theoretically ambiguous for risk-averse CEOs. To overcome the endogeneity of option grants, we exploit institutional features of multi-year compensation plans, which generate two distinct types of variation in the timing of when large increases in new at-the-money options are granted. We find that, given average grant levels during our sample period, a 10 percent increase in new options granted leads to a 2.8–4.2 percent increase in equity volatility. This increase in risk is driven largely by increased leverage.
M12|Assessing Managerial Ability: Implications for Corporate Governance|A manager's current and potential future employers are continually assessing her or his ability. Such assessment is a crucial component of corporate governance and this chapter provides an overview of the research on that aspect of governance. In particular, we review how assessment generates incentives (both good and bad), generates risks that must be faced by both managers and firms, and affects the contractual relationships between those parties in important ways. Assessment (or learning) proves a key perspective from which to study, evaluate, and possibly even regulate corporate governance. Moreover, because learning is a behavior notoriously subject to systematic biases, this perspective is a natural avenue through which to introduce behavioral and psychological insights into the study of corporate governance.
M12|CEO Behavior and Firm Performance|We measure the behavior of 1,114 CEOs in Brazil, France, Germany, India, UK and US using a new methodology that combines (i) data on every activity the CEOs undertake during one workweek and (ii) a machine learning algorithm that projects these data onto scalar CEO behavior indices. Low values of the index are associated with plant visits, and one-on-one meetings with production or suppliers, while high values correlate with meetings with high-level C-suite executives, and several functions together, both from inside and outside the firm. We use these data to study the correlation between CEO behavior and firm performance within the framework of a firm-CEO assignment model. We show results consistent with significant firm-CEO assignment frictions, which appear to be more severe in lower-income regions. The productivity loss generated by inefficient assignment is equal to 13% of the productivity gap between high- and low-income countries in our sample.
M12|Executive Compensation: A Survey of Theory and Evidence|This paper reviews the theoretical and empirical literature on executive compensation. We start by presenting data on the level of CEO and other top executive pay over time and across firms, the changing composition of pay; and the strength of executive incentives. We compare pay in U.S. public firms to private and non-U.S. firms. We then critically analyze three non-exclusive explanations for what drives executive pay -- shareholder value maximization by boards, rent extraction by executives, and institutional factors such as regulation, taxation, and accounting policy. We confront each hypothesis with the evidence. While shareholder value maximization is consistent with many practices that initially seem inefficient, no single explanation can account for all facts and historical trends; we highlight major gaps for future research. We discuss evidence on the effects of executive pay, highlighting recent identification strategies, and suggest policy implications grounded in theoretical and empirical research. Our survey has two main goals. First, we aim to tightly link the theoretical literature to the empirical evidence, and combine the insights contributed by all three views on the drivers of pay. Second, we aim to provide a user-friendly guide to executive compensation, presenting shareholder value theories using a simple unifying model, and discussing the challenges and methodological issues with empirical research.
M12|Biased Monitors: Corporate Governance When Managerial Ability is Mis-assessed|An important aspect of corporate governance is the assessment of managers. When managers vary in ability, determining who is good and who is not is vital. Moreover, knowing they will be assessed can lead those being assessed to behave in ways that make them appear better. Such signal-jamming behavior can be beneficial (e.g., an executive works harder on behalf of shareholders) or harmful (e.g., the behavior is myopic, boosting short-term performance at the expense of long-term success). In standard models of assessment, it is assumed those doing the assessing behave according to Bayes Theorem. But what if the assessors suffer from one of many well-documented cognitive biases that makes them less-than-perfect Bayesians? This paper begins an exploration of that issue by considering the consequence of one such bias, the base-rate fallacy, for two of the canonical assessment models: career-concerns and optimal monitoring and replacement. Although firms can suffer due to the base-rate fallacy, they can also benefit from this bias.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M12|Are CEOs Different? Characteristics of Top Managers|We use a dataset of over 2,600 executive assessments to study thirty individual characteristics of candidates for top executive positions – CEO, CFO, COO and others. We classify the thirty candidate characteristics with four primary factors: general ability, execution vs. interpersonal, charisma vs. analytic, and strategic vs. managerial. CEO candidates tend to score higher on these factors; CFO candidates score lower. Conditional on being a candidate, executives with greater interpersonal skills are more likely to be hired, suggesting that such skills are important in the selection process. Scores on the four factors also predict future career progression. Non-CEO candidates who score higher on the four factors are subsequently more likely to become CEOs. The patterns are qualitatively similar for public, private equity and venture capital owned companies. We do not find economically large differences in the four factors for men and women. Women, however, are subsequently less likely to become CEOs, holding the four factors constant.
M12|Mutual Gains? Is There a Role for Employee Engagement in the Modern Workplace?|I examine the history of employee engagement and how it has been characterised by thinkers in sociology, psychology, management and economics. I suggest that, while employers may choose to invest in employee engagement, there are alternative management strategies that may be profit-maximising. I identify four elements of employee engagement – job 'flow', autonomous working, involvement in decision-making at workplace or firm level, and financial participation – and present empirical evidence on their incidence and employee perceptions of engagement, drawing primarily from evidence in Britain. I consider the evidence regarding the existence of mutual gains and present new evidence on the issue. I find a non-linear relationship between human resource management (HRM) intensity and various employee job attitudes. I also find the intensity of HRM use and employee engagement are independently associated with improvements in workplace performance. I consider the implications of the findings for policy and employment practice in the future.
M12|Management of Employees from Different Generations - Challenge for Bulgarian Managers and HR Professionals|People from at least three generations, sometimes even four, work in the modern organizations. They have different expectations, ambitions and approach to work and this puts managers and HR professionals in a difficult situation. The article is divided into two main parts. The first part attempts to characterize the different generations of employees on the basis of literature review and survey results arrived at by US and European researchers. In the second part of the article are presented results from a study conducted by the author on basic characteristics, values, preferences and work habits of Bulgarian officers from three generations - Baby Boomers, Generation X and Generation Y. Survey findings cannot be generalized as inherent to all Bulgarian representatives of the three generations, because the study does not claim to be representative. The purpose of the research carried out by the author is to outline the profile and professional preferences of different generations of surveyed employees and to identify the challenges Bulgarian managers and HR professionals face in managing and communicating with people of different generations in the workplace.
M12|Effects of Top Management Team Characteristics on Corporate Charitable Activities: Evidence from the Board for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in China|Employing data from Chinese companies listed on the board for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), the research examines the relationship between top management team (TMT) characteristics and corporate charitable activities in China. My findings confirm: 1) Firms less engaged in charitable activities are likely to have TMTs characterized by more educational specialty in science and engineering, and more functional background in output functions; 2) TMT age heterogeneity has a significant and positive effect on corporate charitable activities, while TMT educational specialty heterogeneity has a negative influence on corporate charitable activities; 3) TMT age, tenure, educational level and these heterogeneities of tenure, educational level and functional background have little or no influence on corporate charitable activities. Based on the upper echelons theory, the study can provide evidence for further research on top management teams and corporate social responsibility in an emerging economy.
M12|An Empirical Study of Social Skill fs Impact on Career Decision Making|The purpose of this study is to investigate the relation between social skill, career decision making abilities, and career decision making self-efficacy (CDMSE) using statistical analysis.Although prior research discussed whether people can or not decide their own career and its factor that promote career decision making, the relation between social skill, career decision making abilities and CDMSE is rarely investigated. A questionnaire survey of 44 undergraduate students of Japanese national university was conducted. We analyzed the relation quantitively based on Bandura fs self-efficacy theory. We found that social skill promotes career decision making abilities and CDMSE directly and career decision making abilities partially mediate between social skill and CDMSE. Finally, we discussed theoretical and practical implications and addressed future research.
M12|IKIGAI: Reflection on Life Goals Optimizes Performance and Happiness|In her inaugural address, Michaéla discusses the role of self-regulatory behaviors that people can employ in order to live a full-filling life. These behaviors include reflection and personal goal setting, in order to formulate a direction or purpose in life (Ikigai). In the inaugural address, an evidence-based goal-setting intervention is discussed. This relatively brief intervention has shown to have lasting results: not only does it increase well-being of students, the intervention also boosted academic performance of students by over 20%. Moreover, the intervention significantly decreased the gender and ethnic minority performance gap. The goal setting is shown in a broader perspective with examples in education, business and operations management. The perspective presented in this address emphasizes taking control of one’s life in order to optimize performance and happiness.
M12|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Administrative Sciences in 2016|The editors of Administrative Sciences would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2016.[...]
M12|Retailers’ Responsibility towards Consumers and Key Drivers of Their Development in Poland|Multinational retailers are now very powerful and their activities could influence whole economies. In this paper, we investigate why they engage in corporate social responsibility (CSR) practices towards consumers, how it fosters sustainable development, and what the role of institutions are in the process of developing CSR strategies. Changes that have taken place in Poland since 1989, when the transition process into a market economy started, constituted an excellent research field due to the fact that the retail market was not saturated at the beginning, consumers were only slightly protected by the law, and there were no institutions promoting the implementation of social responsibility standards by companies. Research involving analysis of secondary data drawn from retailers’ websites, CSR reports, and published data relating to the CSR institutions allowed the following: (1) identification of three stages of development in consumers’ conception of CSR characterized by the immoral, amoral, and moral management; (2) showing that these activities have a business case; and (3) explaining the role of institutions and competition in this process. It is also shown how multinational retailers could contribute to the sustainable development of less mature markets in which they invest.
M12|Strategy Implementation Style and Public Service Effectiveness, Efficiency, and Equity|Strategic decision-making theories suggest that organizations that combine rational and incremental strategy implementation styles are likely to perform better than those that emphasize a single style. To assess whether these arguments apply to the public sector; we explore the strategy implementation style and perceived service effectiveness, efficiency and equity of Turkish municipal government departments. Using fuzzy cluster analysis, we identify four distinctive though inter-related styles of strategy implementation in our sample organizations: logical-incremental; mostly rational; mostly incremental; and no clear approach. A logical-incremental and mostly rational style of implementation are associated with better effectiveness, efficiency and equity; with the absence of an implementation style associated with worse performance. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
M12|The Functions of a Servant Leader|Servant leadership has been researched internationally and various types of favourable individual, team, and organisational outcomes have been linked to the construct. Different servant leadership measures have been validated to date and a clear distinction has been made between the theory of servant leadership and other leadership theories. However, it seems that research on the implementation of servant leadership within an organisation is still in need. The main functions of a servant leader are not yet conceptualised in the literature to help researchers or practitioners to implement servant leadership successfully within organisations. After conducting a systematic literature review, the main functions of a servant leader were identified. These functions were clustered into strategic servant leadership and operational servant leadership and supported by servant leadership characteristics and competencies as defined by current literature. The results of this study might help practitioners to develop servant leaders more effectively and assist organisations to cultivate a servant leadership culture within companies. Limitations and future research needs are discussed.
M12|Can Servant Leaders Fuel the Leadership Fire? The Relationship between Servant Leadership and Followers’ Leadership Avoidance|This study tested the effect of servant leadership on followers’ inclinations to strive for and, in contrast, to avoid leadership responsibility. Results from a study in the health care context, including two waves of data from 222 employees, revealed that servant leadership had a small but positive effect on followers’ leadership avoidance. This effect was influenced by followers’ implicit conception of an ideal leader. Specifically, servant leadership was found to reduce leadership avoidance when the congruence with the followers’ ideal leader prototype was high. Furthermore, followers’ core self-evaluations and affective motivation to lead mediated the relationship between servant leadership and reduced leadership avoidance. Implications of these patterns for theory and practice and avenues for future research are discussed.
M12|The Impact of Heavy Perceived Nurse Workloads on Patient and Nurse Outcomes|This study investigated the relationships between seven workload factors and patient and nurse outcomes. (1) Background: Health systems researchers are beginning to address nurses’ workload demands at different unit, job and task levels; and the types of administrative interventions needed for specific workload demands. (2) Methods: This was a cross-sectional correlational study of 472 acute care nurses from British Columbia, Canada. The workload factors included nurse reports of unit-level RN staffing levels and patient acuity and patient dependency; job-level nurse perceptions of heavy workloads, nursing tasks left undone and compromised standards; and task-level interruptions to work flow. Patient outcomes were nurse-reported frequencies of medication errors, patient falls and urinary tract infections; and nurse outcomes were emotional exhaustion and job satisfaction. (3) Results: Job-level perceptions of heavy workloads and task-level interruptions had significant direct effects on patient and nurse outcomes. Tasks left undone mediated the relationships between heavy workloads and nurse and patient outcomes; and between interruptions and nurse and patient outcomes. Compromised professional nursing standards mediated the relationships between heavy workloads and nurse outcomes; and between interruptions and nurse outcomes. (4) Conclusion: Administrators should work collaboratively with nurses to identify work environment strategies that ameliorate workload demands at different levels.
M12|Factors Affecting Earnings Management in the Indonesian Stock Exchange|"""Objective – The purpose of this research is to analyze the effect of growth, leverage, fixed asset turnover, profitability, firm size, firm age, industry, audit quality, and auditor independence toward earnings management. Methodology/Technique – The population of this research consist of various sectors of non-financial companies that were listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) between 2013 and 2015. The research uses three recent years of data and tests variables that have not been used by prior research. The sample was chosen by using a purposive sampling method. The hypothesis is tested using multiple regression with an SPSS program to investigate the influence of each independent variable to earnings management. Findings – The research results show that return on assets influences earnings management and growth, leverage, fixed asset turnover, profitability, firm size, firm age, industry, audit quality, and auditor independence do not influence earnings management. Novelty – The study supports that the manager in a company will engage in earnings management to receive a bonus from investors because they have received a higher profit."""
M12|Gender Quotas in the Board Room and Firm Performance: Evidence from a Credible Threat in Sweden|Board room quotas have recently received an increasing amount of attention. This paper provides novel evidence on firm performance from an exogenous change in female board participation in Sweden. We use the credible threat, aimed at listed firms, of a quota law enacted by the Swedish deputy prime minister as an exogenous variation. The threat caused a substantial and rapid increase in the share of female board members in firms listed on the Stockholm stock exchange. This increase was accompanied by an increase in different measures of firm performance in the same years, which were related to higher sales and lower labor costs.
M12|The Influence of Institutionally Embedded Ownership on Anglo-American Corporate Governance Migration into Emerging Economy IPO Firms|We argue that the corporate governance of emerging economy IPO firms is influenced by firm-specific institutionally embedded block ownership groups. Applying an extended institutional logic perspective and using a mixed-effects ordered probit model, our findings from 190 IPO-firms from 22 African countries 2000–2016, support the notion that five major block owner categories (corporate, private equity, non-executive, business group, state) exerts very different influence on African firms’ degree of adoption of Anglo-American corporate governance measures. We find that the influence from the various block owner groups is significantly moderated by institutional quality and tribalism, but to different degrees and directions across block owner groups. Our contextually embedded firm-specific results support the criticism of a one-hat-fits-all global and uniform corporate governance model.
M12|Employee Work Behavior in Russian Business Organizations: Priorities, Professional Features and Work Practices|The paper investigates the questions about social organization of work behavior in the Russian companies. Focus in research was made on desirable and obligatory behavior, work standards and determinants of different types of organizational behavior. Survey of 1423 employees presents all key industries of the Russian business, performing within the main federal districts. The results show that the domination of the mercantile and consumer attitude to work as means of achievement of material welfare is not the socio-cultural phenomenon only, but also the result of social and economic conditions in the work sphere. The examined distinction of interests, demands and standards of behavior for representatives of various professions represents one of the deepest contradictions of the development processes of working sphere in Russian society. The research found out deep deformations in the sphere of working activity of employees in the Russian companies.
M12|Assessment Model For Professional Development With International Perspective, Modelo De Evaluacion Para La Educacion Empresarial Con Vision Internacional|This research focuses on the analysis of education and professional development. It generates an evaluation and self-assessment model, with an international perspective. It is based on three fundamental dimensions: Knowledge, management capability and ethics. Each dimension contains elements (areas of expertise) and these in turn contain variables that are intended to be considered in the profession for students, educators and professionals in different specialties, be it at a local or global level. The model is adaptable at every level in different countries. The study was formalized to discover the most significant variables of each element (areas of expertise). The variables obtained are the result of analysis of a selected sample of data of graduate students in the city of Tijuana in the northern state of Baja California, Mexico; an industrial and core center of ample development bordering the United States. In addition, the study considers variables resulting from triangulating data of three field experts plus the author. This model or method helps to identify key performance variables in order to correct, obtain improvements and to create further development
M12|Training In Agricultural Enterprises In The Valle De San Quintin, Baja California, La Capacitacion En Las Empresas Agricolas En El Valle De San Quintin, Baja California|Agricultural enterprises of San Quintín Valley are of great importance because they generate most of the jobs in this agricultural area. This large number of jobs contributes to the economy of this Valley as well as its corresponding municipality. It is essential to analyze the importance of training in agricultural enterprises and how this benefits the development of the companies. This paper examines the issue. One of the main findings is that trained workers met the expectations of the company’s performance. These companies are concerned about motivating their workers in order to improve their performance in their work areas. This helps companies to adopt new technology, to use improved seeds, to apply and use computerized irrigation systems, and to optimize the water use for each crop in the region. This performance is achieved through training programs, detection of training needs and planning training programs and participation of agricultural workers
M12|Organizational Climate In The Hacienda La Chonita From Cunduacan, Tabasco, Mexico, Clima Organizacional. El Caso De Estudio: La Hacienda La Chonita En Cunduacan, Tabasco, Mexico|The concept of organizational climate is used to determine internal employment relationships. In this way, people can become involved with organizational objectives. Causes for productivity involve all human elements and therefore their behavior, which leads to study its qualities, condition and effect. It is important to heed these elements, offering a comfortable atmosphere to ensure the lasting success in the business environment. This research analyzes the organizational structure of the Hacienda la Chonita, from Cunduacán, Tabasco, Mexico. The hypothesis is that the organizational climate of Hacienda la Chonita is irrelevant, given the relations in the workplace, dealing precisely among the staff with the company and vice versa. However, if it creates a positive organizational climate, there will be greater organizational commitment
M12|Profitability And Quality Of Working Life, Rentabilidad Y Calidad De Vida Laboral|Using a descriptive and correlational research methodology, we analyze workerâ€™s quality of life and its relationship and influence to organizational performance. We follow a scenario based model to project yield (organizational results) based on different variables related to quality of life. The study analyzed 33 registered companies in the tourist industry of the Municipio of Campeche. We provide empirical evidence that support the notion that improved worker quality of life translates into higher financial performance for stockholders or owners. The results and proposed model provides the tourism sector and State of Campeche specific variables related to workerâ€™s quality of life and their close relationship with profitability. This information will be beneficial for future policy making and Human Resource strategies
M12|Zum Zusammenhang zwischen Employer Awards und Arbeitgeberattraktivität<BR>[On the Relationship Between Employer Awards and Employer Attractiveness]|In der vorliegenden Studie wurde der Forschungsfrage nachgegangen, ob Unternehmen in Employer Awards investieren sollten, um als attraktiver Arbeitgeber wahrgenommen zu werden. Methodisch basiert die Untersuchung auf einem experimentellen einfaktoriellen Zufallsgruppenversuchsplan mit Mehrgruppen-Design. Der zentrale Befund lautet, dass Unternehmen Investitionen in Employer Awards kritisch prüfen sollten, da von ihnen kein positiver Effekt auf die wahrgenommene Arbeitgeberattraktivität auszugehen scheint.
M12|Assessing Managerial Ability: Implications for Corporate Governance|A manager’s current and potential future employers are continually assessing her or his ability. Such assessment is a crucial component of corporate governance and this chapter provides an overview of the research on that aspect of governance. In particular, we review how assessment generates incentives (both good and bad), generates risks that must be faced by both managers and firms, and affects the contractual relationships between those parties in important ways. Assessment (or learning) proves a key perspective from which to study, evaluate, and possibly even regulate corporate governance. Moreover, because learning is a behavior notoriously subject to systematic biases, this perspective is a natural avenue through which to introduce behavioral and psychological insights into the study of corporate governance.
M12|Debt Contractsin the Presence of Performance Manipulation|Empirical and survey evidence suggest that firms often manipulate reported numbers to avoid debt covenant violations. The theoretical literature, by and large, has ignored the consequences of this phenomenon on debt contracting. Departing from a standard debt financing setting with continuation decisions based on reported contractible signals, we study how firms ability to manipulate reports affect the design of debt contracts. The model generates an array of novel (and perhaps surprising) empirical predictions regarding the optimal covenant, the interest rate, the efficiency of the continuation/liquidation decisions, and the likelihood of covenant violations.
M12|Employee Voice and Job Satisfaction: An Application of Herzberg's Two-factor Theory|The purpose of this empirical paper is to provide an understanding of the role of practicing employee voice in improving job satisfaction levels through the application of Herzberg two-factor theory. A cross-sectional design using a questionnaire was collected from 300 non-managerial employees at one of the largest private organizations in Jordan. Confirmatory factor analysis was executed to confirm the fitness of data to the proposed hypothesized model. Discriminant and convergent validity along with composite reliability were estimated to ensure the validity and the reliability of the instrument. Finally, structural equation modeling (SEM) byAmos was used to test the proposed hypothesis of the study. The findings reported a positive relationship between employee voice and job satisfaction. It indicates that the acknowledgment of employee voice creates a motivational environment which improves job satisfaction levels. Therefore, organizations need to reinforce and support employees’ expression of ideas which may contribute to the growth of organizational effectiveness.
M12|Level of Focus of Organizations Operating in Slovakia on Flexible Organizational Structure|Flexible organisational structure is characterised by the creation of temporary units (teams) within a basic departmental structure to solve a particular difficult task, important for the organisation and limited by time. It can be stated on its grounds that team work is the basis of innovative organisation operation. However, fact that organisations most often use individuals and not the creation of a team specialised in the given issue in solving of new, important and demanding projects and tasks sounds negative. If organisations want to create so called innovative environment, it is necessary to focus on organisational structure, while it is necessary to realise that different organisational structures are appropriate for different types of organisations. Presumption which was the basis of our analysis of organisational structure flexibility was the fact that organisational flexibility results from its ability to respond to changing conditions and new situations. Therefore, we monitored the frequency of characteristics like adaptation of organisational structure to changing conditions and delegation of operational decisions to line managers. However, the research implied that only a smaller part of organisational structures of the analysed organisations fulfills these characteristics.
M12|Optimization by Integration: A Corporate Governance and Human Resource Management Dimension|Contemporary business entities that are keen to achieve measurable growth can no longer rely on inflexible corporate management frameworks for running their affairs. This viewpoint is adduced in the light of the emergence and re-emergence of unpredictable and likewise complex operating contexts. Notwithstanding the connected legal, financial, economic and social issues; business concerns must devise innovative ways to sustain holistic performance levels. Moreover, corporate and regulatory interests must collaborate to effectively mitigate corporate failures attributable to various business concerns. In furtherance of the debate on the nexus between corporate governance and human resource management, this paper presented a conceptual model that aggregates specific aspects of business processes that synergizes both concepts. Practical perspectives on the interrelatedness between corporate governance and human resource management provide a veritable basis to explore the theme of this paper. The paper opined that an appropriate balance must be achieved with regards to identifiable and fundamental aspects of the corporate structure and process. It was recommended that a diverse model of corporate integration enhances the functionalities of the corporate entity; facilitates optimization processes, thereby contributing to long term sustainability and growth.The central role of human actors in the governance of business entities is also duly emphasized, as this viewpoint underlies the essence of integrating the two concepts in general and specific terms.
M12|The Effect of Human Resource Management Practices on Employees’ Work Engagement and the Mediating and Moderating Role of Positive Psychological Capital|This study proposes and investigates a model of psychological capital as a mediator and moderator in human resource (HR) practices-employee work engagement relationship. Although there have been a lot of researches on the relationship between HR practices and individual and organizational outcomes, how occur this relationship is still unclear. In order to advance our knowledge about this relationship, there is need to investigate possible mediating and moderating variables that effective on it. To test developed model, we collected data from 590 white-collor employees who are working in private companies from different sectors in Turkey. As a result of this study the effects of motivation and skill enhancing HR practices on work engagement are significantly partial mediated by psychological capital but not moderated. On the other hand the effects of opportunity enhancing HR practices and working conditions on work engagement are significantly partial mediated and moderated by psychological capital at the same time.
M12|Age and Gender Motivating Differences of Slovak Workers|Work motivation depends not only on the sector of employment but also on factors such as age and gender. Today women play an important role in employment and their participation in economic life is constantly increasing. Performance incentives such as financial income, freedom, career advancement, challenges, opportunities of self-realization, and so on are more significant for men. Research of motivational differences by gender is based on the concept of fundamental differences between men and women, so on the existence of gender stereotypes which can be seen in a historical context. This is similar with age too. Younger adults are more motivated by a desire to increase profits and older adults are more motivated to retain what they already have. Based on their experience, older employees wish that their opinions are more respected while younger employees wish to be listened to. In this article, the impact of gender and age on employee motivation in Slovak companies is discussed. It has been concluded that there are significant differences based on gender at Slovak employees. This is reflected in 18 motivational factors. Furthermore, it has been pointed out to the fact that, considering age categories, there are also significant differences particularly at motivational factors such as basic salary, job security and fair employee evaluation.
M12|Job sector and public service motivation: evidence from Colombia|In this article I examine the determinants of job sector choice with a particular interest in the relationship with the so-called concept of public service motivation (PSM), in the context of a developing country. I use multinomial logit (MNL) to understand individuals’ decisions to take jobs in one of four sectors: government, nonprofit, for-profit, or academic jobs in Colombia. My analysis is based on data about a sample of participants on the Colombian scholarship program, Colfuturo, drawn from between 2002 and 2007. My results indicate that there are important differences in terms of the determinants of job sector choices across the four different sectors and that PSM appears to have a role on such decisions.
M12|How Management Risk Affects Corporate Debt|We evaluate whether management risk, which arises from investors’ uncertainty about management’s added value, affects firms’ default risks and debt pricing. We find that, regardless of the reason for the turnover, CDS, loan, and bond yield spreads increase at the time of management turnover, when management risk is highest, and decline over the first three years of the new CEO’s tenure. The effects increase with prior investor uncertainty about the new management. These results are consistent with the view that management risk affects firms’ default risk. An understanding of management risk yields a number of implications for corporate finance. Received May 15, 2016; editorial decision February 27, 2017 by Editor David Denis.
M12|Social Network Analysis as an Organizational Diagnostic Tool: The Case of Small Business in Russia|The science of social networks is at the intersection of computer science, communication studies, mathematics and sociology.The first area is already “invested” by communications networks, hardware and software, and has attracted many users. Communication science studies the network not only as a computer network, but also as a network of discourse. Contributions of mathematics are the theory of graphs and various related calculations. “Weak” in this triad is a sociological interpretation of quantitative ratios network. The purpose of this work is defining the concept of social network analysis (SNA) as an organizational diagnostic “tool” and its implementation is using a quantitative analysis method. The article considers the following questions: The definition of the diagnostic process in relation to social networking organization; the possibility of social networking quantitative analysis; the illustration of how to use the theory of social capital as a sociological basis for the social networks diagnostics in the small business and the calculations of illustrative indicators and real networks in the case of a small business organization in Russia. Data processing was carried out with the use of UciNet. As a result, the classes (diagnosis) of organizational social networks are offered, and opportunities, along with their limits of the application of quantitative indicators making up the method of SNA to diagnose the network of organizations with a variety of responses, are presented.
M12|A Literature Review on Personality, Creativity and Innovative Behavior|Personality has been conceptualized from a host of theoretical perspectives. The present conceptual paper is an endeavor to enhance and grab the etymology of personality, innovative behavior and creativity. Moreover relationship of personality with creativity and innovative behavior is explored in depth. After reviewing an extensive literature, the researcher came up with the general accepted taxonomy of personality measure i.e., widely accepted framework named as big five inventory. While, innovative behavior was gauged by the yardstick of three phases namely idea generation, gathering support and idea implementation. It was suggested for the future researchers to explore the more innovative measures for this overlooked relationship in study of personality and innovative behavior.
M12|The Impact of the Psychological Capital on Job Performance: A Case Study on Faculty Members at Philadelphia University|The present study aims to identify the perception of faculty members at Philadelphia University about the concept of psychological capital (PsyCap), measure the level of job performance, and determine the impact of the PsyCap on job performance. Using structured questionnaire, data was collected from (110) faculty members (assistant professor, associate professor, professor) from 8 faculties in Philadelphia University, Jordan. Multiple Regression analysis has been used to fi nd the impact of PsyCap on job performance. Results show that the level of faculty members’ awareness to the concept of PsyCap is high. In addition the Job performance was high in all dimensions. Moreover, it was found that hope dimension has a statistical eff ect on all dimensions of job performance. In addition, self-effi cacy dimension aff ect statistically on behavioral performance dimension. Finally, the resilience dimension aff ect statistically on job performance dimension. However, the optimism dimension does not signifi cantly aff ect any Job performance’s dimensions
M12|Impact of Spiritual Intelligence on Organizational Performance|This study reveals that spiritual intelligence plays a positive and signifi cant role on the quality of work. In this study the work was done in fi nding that variables such as organizational culture and demographic facts (gender, age and education) act as moderators between the relationship of spiritual intelligence and organizational performance. Population of this study was employees of banks. Sample size was 300. Primary and secondary data were used in this research. Data was analyzed by using statistical software SPSS (16) versions. The study evaluated that there is signifi cant positive relationship between spiritual intelligence and organizational fi nancial performance in terms of ROA and Tobin’s Q value. From the results of this study one can interpret that the spiritual intelligence increases the organizational performance while age, gender, education and organizational culture act as a moderator on their relationship. This research will motivate the managers to enhance spiritual intelligence of employees to increase effi ciency and effectiveness.
M12|Impact of Ethical Leadership on Employees’ Performance: Moderating Role of Organizational Values|This study inspects the impact of ethical leadership on employees’ performance. While several studies have gazed at the efficacy of the leader as supposed by employees, this research is concerned with the effect of an ethical leadership style on the performance of employees. Employees are very significant for the organization in terms of smoothing the progress in organizational achievement. Employees are considered to be the most vital resource for achieving competitive advantage. An ethical leadership style is typified as participative where the leader shares its authority with employees. It is thus believable that an ethical leader augments the inspiration of its employees which in turn will improve employees’ performance. In addition the direct relationship between ethical leadership and employees’ performance, this research will also look into the moderating role of organizational values.
M12|Save Talent of Banking Sector of Pakistan: Mediating Job Satisfaction between Job Stress and Employee Turnover Intention|Job stress is a noteworthy issue in the banking sector of Pakistan and it is issue for both employer and employees. Main purpose of the study mediating job satisfaction between job stress and employee turnover intention. Convenience sampling used for data collection from banking employees and received the 254 questionnaires for data analysis and using the SmartPLS 0.2. Findings of the study job stress and turnover intention has positive relationship further job satisfaction mediating between the job stress and turnover intention. Implication and limitation discussed.
M12|Level of Stress and Job Satisfaction among Call Operators: A Case of Malaysian Telecommunication Sector|The study aims to identify the level of stress and job satisfaction among call operators (COs) in Malaysia. It also explores COs views on the factors affecting their stress level and job satisfaction. This research is based on a case study of a telecommunication contact centre. A mixed-methods design was employed whereby a survey questionnaire was completed by 113 COs, and two in-depth interviews were conducted. The results indicate the reasons and potential outcomes of high level stress and low job satisfaction among COs. Stressful working environment, poor supervisory support, and heavy workload are found to be key factors affecting COs high level of stress and low job satisfaction. As such the study provides valuable insights to researchers and practitioners.
M12|Improvement of Work with Personnel as a Factor of Increasing Business Efficiency|The article is devoted to issues on improving the system of managing personnel of the gas and oil company on the basis of the fuller use of scientific approaches and methods. In the article the basic emphasis is made on the need to implement principles of the system approach when improving work with the research most fully reveals the issues related to improving the corporate training subsystem that must be progressive and cover the practice of not only the best national gas and oil companies but also companies of the world level. Basic principles of forming approaches to corporate training are systemized. The system model offered anticipates focus on the program and target technologies for prospective strategic projects and advance trainings with the use of foresight technologies are stipulated. In order to study and implement international experience, the reasonability of implementing programs on cooperating with foreign core businesses on separate aspects of training is defined. Suggestions given in the article can help managers of various levels of managing the gas and oil company, and functional managers to take timely, stipulated and well-reasoned decisions in the area of managing personnel to achieve strategic goals of business.
M12|The Moderating Role of Knowledge Management on the Relationship between Employees’ Commitment and Total Quality Management: A Study on the Public Healthcare Sector in Saudi Arabia|This current study investigated the relationship between employees’ commitment and total quality management (TQM) in the public healthcare sector of Saudi Arabia. Furthermore moderating effect of knowledge management (KM) on the relationship between employees’ commitment and TQM has been examined. The core of the paper showed the effectiveness of public health sectors employee’s commitment to improve the TQM. Quantitative methodology for data analyses were employed to test the hypothesized model. A total of 259 questionnaires were distributed among the respondents, out of which 165 questionnaires were returned and only 154 were found useful in sense of completeness and usefulness for further analysis. The results of the analyses confirmed that there is significant direct effect of employees’ commitment to improve the TQM and KM moderates the relationship between employees’ commitment and TQM
M12|Daðýtýmcý Liderlik, Karmaþýk Sistemlerde Liderlik ve Öz Liderlik Teorileri Kapsamýnda Makrodan Mikroya Liderlik|Günümüz teknolojisinde gelinen aþama sosyal, ekonomik ve teknik düzeyde farklý aðlarýn kurulmasýna, günlük yaþamda ortaya konulan çalýþmalarýn bu aðlar sayesinde daha çok etkileþim içinde gerçekleþtirilmesine imkân tanýmaktadýr. Çalýþmada; içinde bulunduðumuz bu aðlarda nasýl bir liderlik anlayýþýnýn geçerli olabileceði üzerinde durulmaktadýr. Bu arayýþta hem bütünden parçaya (yukarýdan aþaðý) hem de parçadan bütüne (aþaðýdan yukarý) farklý birimlerin liderlik edebilme potansiyelleri sorgulanmaktadýr. Ele alýnan kapsamda öncelikle, nasýl bir dünyada yaþýyoruz? sorusu “kompleks adaptif sistemler teorisi” ve “að teorisi” ile ortaya konulmakta ve ardýndan bu altyapýda farklý liderlik yaklaþýmlarý incelenmektedir. Çalýþmada, mevcut yapýda en küçük (mikro) birim olarak “bireyin” içinde yer aldýðý (makro) bütüne etki etme gücü, daðýtýmcý liderlik ve karmaþýk sistemlerde liderlik teorileri ile deðerlendirilmektedir. Að içindeki her bir birimin (örneðin bireyin) ait olduðu sosyal yapýyý (örneðin iþletmesini) etkilemesinin ve hatta (yönetici olmadýðý durumlarda da) bu bütüne liderlik etmesinin mümkün olup olmadýðý tartýþýlmaya çalýþýlmaktadýr. Sonuç olarak çalýþmada, bütün içinde en küçük birim olan “bireyin” potansiyelini kullanabilmesi için bir baþlangýç noktasý olarak “öz liderlik teorisi” önerilmekte ve teori genel hatlarý ile incelenmektedir
M12|Kriz Dönemlerinde Uygulanan Ýnsan Kaynaklarý Politikalarýnýn Örgütsel Baðlýlýkla Ýliþkisi|Çalýþmanýn amacý kriz dönemlerinde örgütlerde uygulanan insan kaynaklarý politikalarýnýn çalýþanlarýn örgütsel baðlýlýklarýyla iliþkisini araþtýrmaktýr. Meyer ve Allen’in (1997) Örgütsel Baðlýlýk Ölçeði ile araþtýrmacýnýn uyarladýðý Kriz Dönemlerinde Uygulanan Ýnsan Kaynaklarý Politikalarý Ölçeði kullanýlmýþtýr. Regresyon analizi ile bulgular deðerlendirilmiþtir. ‘Ücret, Prim, Mesai Ücreti ve Yan Haklarda’ Kesinti Politikasý duygusal baðlýlýk üzerinde anlamlý etkiye sahipken (p=0,002 sig.
M12|Üst Kademe Teorisi’ni Yeniden Düþünmek: Üst Yönetim Ekiplerinin Biliþsel Özellikleri & Teorik Açýdan Kapsamý ve Önemi|Bu çalýþmanýn amacý, stratejik yönetim literatüründe önemli bir yeri bulunan Üst Kademe Teorisi’ni demografik ve biliþsel özellikler çerçevesinde yeniden deðerlendirmektir. Üst yönetim ekiplerini inceleme konusu olarak ele alan üst kademe teorisinde yöneticilerin özellikleri önemli rol oynamaktadýr. Yöneticilerin yaþ, eðitim, iþ geçmiþi ve görev süresi demografik özellikleri; yöneticinin deðerleri ve biliþsel yapýlarý da biliþsel özellikleri oluþturmaktadýr. Bu alanda yapýlan çalýþmalarda demografik özelliklerin daha çok dikkate alýndýðý, biliþsel özelliklerin ise detaylý olarak deðerlendirilmediði görülmektedir. Bununla birlikte, üst kademe teorisinin dayandýðý bu iki özellik grubunun birlikte incelenmesi ve aralarýndaki kuramsal iliþkinin kapsamlý olarak düþünülmesi teorinin daha iyi anlaþýlmasý açýsýndan kaçýnýlmaz görünmektedir.
M12|With or without siblings: Sorting into competition in the experimental labor market|We employ a well-controlled laboratory experiment to examine whether only children and those with siblings differ in their willingness to compete. We find that only children are more likely to undervalue the chance of winning and shy away from competition, but they become to embrace competition as their self-assessed winning probability increases. Alternatively, once uncertainty of relative performance is removed, the gap in willingness to compete between the two groups disappears. Utilizing a two-stage model of decision weights under uncertainty, we find that such a gap is predominantly caused by their heterogeneous attitudes toward ambiguity.
M12|The masquerade ball of the CEOs and the mask of excessive risk|Two well-known explanations for excessive risk taking by CEOs are limited liability, which protects them from the downward risks of their project choices, and convex compensation schemes that encourage risk taking. This paper provides a career-concerns-based motive for why a CEO might choose an excessively risky project even in the absence of them. A CEO of unknown managerial ability could be fired if she is found to be below average. To limit this layoff risk, she tries to conceal her true type by choosing excessively risky projects. Excessive risk taking makes the firm unable to determine if a poor outcome resulted from incompetency or negative risk realization.
M12|Pay-performance sensitivity and risk-taking behaviors: Evidence from closed-end funds|The pay-performance sensitivity (PPS) of managers of closed-end funds is explicitly specified in their contracts as the marginal rate of the funds' net asset value. Using a sample of US closed-end funds from 2006 to 2009, this paper investigates the relationship between the PPS and risk-taking behaviors of fund managers. After controlling for endogeneity, we find that fund return volatility and fund PPS positively determine each other. Furthermore, the positive relationship is more pronounced for closed-end funds engaging in alternative investments or in emerging markets.
M12|The effect of CEO departure on target firms’ post-takeover performance: Evidence from not-delisting target firms|Using a sample of target firms that do not delist from the stock market after a majority takeover, we investigate the effect of the target CEO's departure on their firms’ subsequent financial performance. We find that CEO departures have a positive effect on the target firms’ long-run operating performance, measured by firms’ operating return on assets and return on equity. However, we do not find a significant effect of CEO turnover on target stock returns in the post-takeover period. These results are consistent with the predictions of the inefficient management hypothesis, which contrast with those of the valuable management hypothesis.
M12|The role of verifiability and privacy in the strategic provision of performance feedback: Theory and experimental evidence|We theoretically and experimentally analyze the role of verifiability and privacy in strategic performance feedback using a “one principal–two agent” context with real effort. We confirm the theoretical prediction that information transmission occurs only in verifiable feedback mechanisms and private–verifiable feedback is the most informative mechanism. Yet, subjects also exhibit some behavior that cannot be explained by our baseline model, such as telling the truth even when this will definitely hurt them, interpreting “no feedback” more optimistically than they should, and being influenced by feedback given to the other agent. We show that a model with individual-specific lying costs and naive agents can account for some, but not all, of these findings. We conclude that although agents do take into account the principal's strategic behavior to form beliefs in a Bayesian fashion, they are overly optimistic and interpret positive feedback to the other agent more pessimistically than they should.
M12|Experimentation and project selection: Screening and learning|Firms must strike a delicate balance between the exploitation of well-known business models and the exploration of risky, untested approaches. In this paper, we study financial contracting between an investor and a firm with private information about its returns from exploration and exploitation. The investor-optimal mechanism offers contracts with different tolerance for failures to screen returns from exploitation, and with different exposure to the project's revenues to screen returns from exploration. We derive necessary and sufficient conditions for private information about returns from exploration to have zero value to the firm. When these conditions fail, private information about exploration may even decrease the firm's payoff.
M12|Do accountants make better chief financial officers?|We examine whether chief financial officers (CFOs) with accounting backgrounds (accountant CFOs) are associated with more conservative corporate outcomes. We find that, in high-growth industries, firms with accountant CFOs invest less in research and development and capital expenditures and are less likely to engage in external financing. In low-growth industries, we find that firms with accountant CFOs exhibit greater cost efficiency. Our results are consistent with risk aversion on the part of accountant CFOs. We further document that accountant CFOs are negatively associated with firm value in high-growth industries and positively associated with firm value in low-growth industries.
