M21|The impact of anti-money laundering oversight on banks' suspicious transaction reporting: Evidence from Italy|We provide the first thorough investigation of the effect of anti-money laundering inspections on banks' reporting of suspicious transactions. We do so by using highly detailed data from Bank of Italy and UIF (Italian authority for anti-money laundering), which include information on i) on-site inspections by authorities and follow-up actions, and ii) quantity and quality of suspicious transactions reports being filed by banks before and after inspections. Through a difference-in-differences econometric analysis we find that inspections (notably when followed by some type of intervention by the authority) induce, ceteris paribus, an increase in suspicious transaction reports being filed by banks. Crucially, the effect is not limited to low-quality reports, as feared in the literature ('crying wolf' effect) but is spread to high-quality reports. Authorities' oversight is thus shown to increase the quantity of information shared by banks without deteriorating its quality.
M21|"Discrimination, Managers, and Firm Performance: Evidence from ""Aryanizations"" in Nazi Germany"|We study whether antisemitic discrimination in Nazi Germany had economic effects. Specifically, we investigate how the forced removal of Jewish managers affected large German firms. We collect new data from historical sources on the characteristics of senior managers, stock prices, dividends, and returns on assets for firms listed on the Berlin Stock Exchange. After the removal of the Jewish managers, the senior managers at affected firms had fewer university degrees, less experience, and fewer connections to other firms. The loss of Jewish managers significantly and persistently reduced the stock prices of affected firms for at least 10 years after the Nazis came to power. We find particularly strong reductions for firms where the removal of the Jewish managers led to large decreases in managerial connections to other firms and in the number of university-educated managers. Dividend payments and returns on assets also declined. A back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests that the aggregate market valuation of firms listed in Berlin fell by 1.78 percent of German GNP. These findings imply that discrimination can lead to significant economic losses and that individual managers can be key to the success of firms.
M21|Exclusive Data, Price Manipulation and Market Leadership|The unprecedented access of firms to consumer level data not only facilitates more precisely targeted individual pricing but also alters firms’ strategic incentives. We show that exclusive access to a list of consumers can provide incentives for a firm to endogenously assume the price leader’s role, and so to strategically manipulate its rival’s price. Prices and profits are non-monotonic in the length of the consumer list. For an intermediate size, price leadership entails a semi-collusive outcome, characterized by supra-competitive prices and low consumer surplus. In contrast, for short or long lists of consumers, exclusive data availability intensifies market competition.
M21|A multi-dimensional analysis on how different types of innovations impact SMEs business performance|This paper examines the impact of innovation decisions on business performance for small and medium-sized enterprises based on a multi-dimensional analytical approach. With this aim, the impact of the firm’s innovation decisions (in terms of the introduction of product, process, and/or organisational innovation) on four alternative performance indicators (two financial indicators: sales increase and cost reduction; and two operational indicators: increase of productive capacity and improvement in quality) is analysed. Additionally, an array of potential moderating determinants (such as firm and entrepreneur characteristics) are controlled for. Our findings highlight the existence of positive impacts of innovation decisions on both dimensions of business performance (financial and operational), but these impacts significantly differ depending on the type of innovation and the performance indicator considered. Thus, in order to study the multifaceted effects of innovation decisions made by the firm, results point out that the relationship between innovation (product, process, or organisational) and business performance should be analysed from a multi-dimensional approach. These findings imply significant implications for the design and implementation of innovation strategies in SMEs, since these should be tailored according to the business performance sought by the firm.
M21|Do firms manage pay inequality?|We examine the role of the modern firm in generating income inequality. Specifically, we consider the growth in the use of asset-based rewards for senior executives, combined with continued use of salaries and wages for other employees, and the impact this has on measures of inequality within firms. Our paper presents data on intra firm inequality from the UK FTSE 100 for the period 2000-2015. It looks at ratios of CEO to average earnings and attempts to explain both the growth in inequality on this measure and the extent of variance between firms. It distinguishes between a period of “administered inequality” up to the early 1980’s when intra-firm processes defined differential pay and a subsequent one of “outsourced inequality” when capital market measures dominate executive pay. In the latter period, intra firm inequality measures are defined by upward movements in capital market measures and the extent of outsourcing of low paid work.
M21|Doing Bad to Look Good: Negative Consequences of Image Concerns on Pro-social Behavior|"Several studies show that social image concerns stimulate pro-social behavior. We study a setting in which there is uncertainty about which action is pro-social. Then, the quest for a better social image can potentially con flict with genuinely pro-social behavior. This confl ict can induce \bad"" behavior, where people lower both their own and others' material payoffs to preserve a good image. This setting is relevant for various types of credence goods. For example, recommending an inexpensive treatment reduces the expert's profits and may not satisfy the true needs of the client, but is generally good for the expert's image (as it signals the lack of greed). We test experimentally if people start to act bad in order to look good. We find that people care about their social image, but social image concerns alone do not induce them to act bad. That is, without future interactions, social image concerns do not lead to bad behavior. However, with future interactions, where building up a good image has instrumental value (reputational concerns), we do find evidence of bad behavior in the short run to secure higher earnings in the long run."
M21|The Role of Islamic Crowdfunding Mechanisms in Business and Business Development|Objective – This study aims to determine the role of Islamic crowdfunding towards business development of start-up businesses financed in Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. Methodology/Technique – This study uses a qualitative approach with an exploratory case study strategy. The data collection was carried out by conducting in-depth interviews with CEOs and COOs of Kapital Boost and CEO Investee (funded SMEs) informants. Findings – The results show that there is an increase in assets, sales turnover, and the capacity of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and Startup businesses that received funding through campaigns on the Kapital Boost platform. In addition, pioneering business people can get easier access to financing compared to financing through bank-provided credit. Novelty – The findings of this paper can be used to develop crowdfunding platform will be implemented in Muslim countries or countries with a majority Muslim population. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M21|Business Strategy as a Mediation of Management Capabilities and Entrepreneurial Orientation in Business Performance|Objective – This article aims to analyze the influence of mediating Business Strategy variables on Management Capabilities (MC) and Entrepreneurial Orientation (EO) toward Business Performance. Methodology/Technique – This study was conducted on group of students of Economics and Business Department who practiced as entrepreneurs, using Path Analysis (Amos,18.0). Findings – The results of the analysis show that the management capabilities do not support the indirect influence of business strategies on business performance. However, entrepreneurial orientation supports the indirect influence of business strategies on business performance. Meanwhile, management capabilities have a significant direct effect on business performance. Novelty – Without going through a business strategy, entrepreneurial orientation does not have a significant direct effect on business performance, because business strategy supports business performance or direct influence. Type of Paper: Empirical
M21|The Blue Maritime Cluster Crisis: Financial Instability and Supply Chain Management Effects|The present paper investigates the offshore crisis 2015-2017 and its impact on one of the most complete maritime clusters, more precise the Blue Maritime Cluster, located at Møre og Romsdal at the North Western Coast of Norway. As this cluster is heavily involved in offshore petroleum operations, it experienced an almost devastating blow during the crisis. The cluster lost almost one third of its employees as its value added contracted by 39 percent. The crises is basically seen as result of the falling oil prices and, thus, lower activity and squeezed profit margins, particularly in marginal oil and gas fields. The paper does not dispute this. However, it also investigates the crisis in the light of financial instability and chain reactions down the maritime supply chain. By collecting data from the Blue Maritime Cluster and the Norwegian central company register one is able, both to trace the fall in activity due to the crisis and measures of financial strength. The study approaches the data by using structural time series analysis in order to map cycles as deviations from polynomial trends. The conclusions are that financial instability was dominant within the Blue Maritime Cluster during its boom before the crisis. Debt ratios, and thereby gearing or leverage was high. Thus, the companies could not meet their obligations when the crisis hit, due to low solidity and loss of financial stability. The paper also finds that narrow focused supply chain management, made the cluster fall deep in to the abyss when ship owning companies and shipyards were hit. Companies with a more diversified portfolio were able to meet the hard years better than others.
M21|Pricing Financial Derivatives Subject to Multilateral Credit Risk and Collateralization|This article presents a new model for valuing financial contracts subject to credit risk and collateralization. Examples include the valuation of a credit default swap (CDS) contract that is affected by the trilateral credit risk of the buyer, seller and reference entity. We show that default dependency has a significant impact on asset pricing. In fact, correlated default risk is one of the most pervasive threats in financial markets. We also show that a fully collateralized CDS is not equivalent to a risk-free one. In other words, full collateralization cannot eliminate counterparty risk completely in the CDS market.
M21|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
M21|Complex assessment of Ukrainian agroholdings’ economic security|Retrospective diagnostics of main financial results of activity (profit, earnings and yield of shares); business capital, market capitalization, EBITDA, operating margin and net profit margin, P / E, ROA, ROE, ROC as of 2018 and an average of 5 years; Consideration of Montier C-Score and Piotroski F-Score indicators on financial issues of companies; liquidity of the balance of agroholdings on the criterion of the ratio of assets and liabilities; the coefficient analysis of enterprises and the diagnosis of bankruptcy probabilities using models of multiple discriminant analysis (MDA model), logistic regression (Logit-model) and rating methods (Beaver's indicators and definition of the class of the potential beneficiary of the investment prokect) helped to formulate a generalized conclusion on the probability of bankruptcy according to models and a general assessment of the financial condition of agricultural companies. Based on the analysis, it has been determined that, according to all methods of the agroholding, the sample collectively generates a series from the highest to the lowest: MHP / Kernel, IMC, Agroton and Avangard. In view of this, it is necessary to formulate and continuously improve integrated risk management systems (integrated systems of enterprise economic security), rather than separate procedures at the level of different departments of the company.
M21|Комплексне Оцінювання Економічної Безпеки Агрохолдингів України<BR>[Complex assessment of Ukrainian agroholdings’ economic security]|У статті на основі даних фінансової звітності, консолідованої інформації на сайтах фондових бірж тощо здійснено аналіз фінансового стану 5 агрохолдингів України. Проведено оцінювання фінансових показників та діагностику стану системи економічної безпеки холдингового підприємства агробізнесу (за МСФЗ та НПСБО) за 5 параметрами: загальний фінансовий стан, основні індикатори, ліквідність балансу, коефіцієнтний аналіз, ймовірність банкрутства. Проблема. У контексті забезпечення національної безпеки поряд з її політичною та воєнною важливими складовими частинами є економічна та продовольча. Агросектор України, маючи унікальні ресурси, разом з розвитком інноваційних інформаційних технологій в змозі забезпечити якісне економічне зростання країни. В Україні найбільшими та найвпливовішими представниками агросектору є аграрні холдинги. Тому необхідним є оцінювання стану економічної безпеки цих економічних суб’єктів. Утім, у цій предметній області є ряд проблемних моментів: серед дослідників відсутня єдність поглядів на широке коло питань економічної безпеки, існує брак досліджень про систему економічної безпеки підприємств конкретних галузей (зокрема аграрної), не сформовано єдиної методики щодо оцінювання стану економічної безпеки суб’єктів господарювання, агрохолдинги практично не вивчаються в контексті економічної безпеки. У зв’язку з цим, актуалізується вироблення вітчизняних напрацювань, прилаштованих до умов сучасної української економіки. Мета статті – здійснити комплексний аналіз економічної безпеки агрохолдингів України у рамках розробки теоретико-методичного базису й обґрунтування практичних рекомендацій щодо вдосконалення систем економічної безпеки агрохолдингів в Україні та визначення головних напрямів інноваційного розвитку цих систем. Методи дослідження. Економічний та фінансовий аналіз, коефіцієнтний метод, методи комплексної оцінки (для оцінювання економічної безпеки та фінансового стану досліджуваних агрокомпаній); табличний та графічний (діаграми) – для візуалізації результатів дослідження та систематизації статистичних даних. Результати. Коефіцієнти використано для оцінювання фінансового стану і банкрутства як найнадійніші і найважливіші показники – найбільші проблеми агрохолдингів в останні роки були саме з фінансового складника системи економічної безпеки підприємства. Для подальшого аналізу обрано 5 агрокорпорацій: Авангард, Агротон, ІМК, Кернел, МХП. Критеріями вибору компаній були географічна представленість (діяльність в різних областях України) та інформаційна доступність (в т.ч. фінансової звітності, звітів для інвесторів, дані про системи ризик-менеджменту). Три агрохолдинги вибірки за розміром земельного банку входять одночасно і до рейтингу топ-35 найбільших латифундистів світу за підсумками 2017 року: Uklandfarming (Авангард входить до його складу), Кернел, Миронівський хлібопродукт. Крім того, за різними рейтингами якості управління, репутації і т.п. ці компанії зазвичай є лідерами. Фінансові прорахунки відповідно до проведених оцінок присутні в усіх аналізованих агрокомпаніях, під час діагностики ймовірності банкрутства навіть вітчизняні методи (що зазвичай показують найприйнятніші результати) показали необхідність санаційних процедур чи антикризового управління. Наукова новизна. У статті на основі даних фінансової звітності, консолідованої інформації на сайтах фондових бірж тощо здійснено аналіз фінансового стану 5 агрохолдингів України. Проведено оцінювання фінансових показників та діагностику стану системи економічної безпеки холдингового підприємства агробізнесу (за МСФЗ та НПСБО) за 5 параметрами: загальний фінансовий стан, основні індикатори, ліквідність балансу, коефіцієнтний аналіз, ймовірність банкрутства. Висновки. Ретроспективна діагностика основних фінансових результатів діяльності (прибутку, виторгу та дохідності акцій); показників вартості підприємства, ринкової капіталізації, EBITDA, маржі операційного та чистого прибутку, P/E, ROA, ROE, ROC станом на 2018 рік та в середньому за 5 років; розгляд індикаторів Montier C-Score та Piotroski F-Score щодо фінансових проблем компаній; ліквідності балансу агрохолдингів за критерієм співвідношення активів та пасивів; коефіцієнтний аналіз підприємств та діагностика ймовірності банкрутства з використанням моделей множинного дискримінантного аналізу (MDA-моделі), логістичної регресії (Logit-моделі) та рейтингових методик (показники Бівера та визначення класу потенційного бенефіціара інвестиційного проекту) допомогли сформувати узагальнений висновок щодо ймовірності настання банкрутства згідно моделей і загальну оцінку фінансового стану агрокомпаній. На основі проведеного аналізу визначено, що за всіма методиками агрохолдинги вибірки загалом формують ряд від найвищих до найнижчих показників: МХП/Кернел, ІМК, Агротон та Авангард. З огляду на це необхідне формування та постійне вдосконалення систем комплексного управління ризиками (інтегрованих систем економічної безпеки підприємства), а не окремі процедури на рівні різних відділів компанії.
M21|The Effect of Working Capital Management on Dividend Policy: An Empirical Analysis of Listed Firms in Ghana|Relying on more recent data spanning 2007-2016, this paper investigates the impact of working capital management (WCM) on dividend policy of listed non-financial firms in Ghana. Specifically, the study assesses the effect of cash conversion cycle (CCC), days inventory outstanding (DIO), profitability, and firm growth on dividend policy. Employing the ordinary least squares (OLS) analytical technique, the findings reported that working capital management (in terms of cash conversion cycle and days inventory outstanding) and dividend policy are positively related, with DIO having a significant effect on dividend policy. The results also established a positive association between the control variables (profitability and firm growth) and dividend policy albeit insignificantly. Based on the findings, the study concludes that working capital management in terms of days inventory outstanding (DIO) is a critical factor influencing firms’ dividend policy decisions. The study extends the inconclusive empirical evidence on the determinants of dividend policy and fills the lacuna in existing literature by focusing on how working capital management practices influence dividend policy of firms in Ghana. The findings are also useful to the board of directors of non-financial firms in deciding an appropriate dividend policy, and to the shareholders in making investment decisions.
M21|Digital Transformation and Lean Management. Challenges in the Energy Industry of Utilities. A Review|In an era of increasing technological transformation, industries, competitors, and companies are combining platforms to create unique methods for engagement. Survival and growth in a rapidly changing marketplace require companies to embrace internal innovation that adds value for both channel members and customers. The fourth industrial revolution has already begun to take shape, on the road to an end-to-end value chain, by using Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and decentralized intelligence in manufacturing, production and logistics. The world is heading toward a digitized future. Already, an entire generation has grown up immersed in the digital world. This paper focus on the following fields: General Strategy and Procedural Aspects of Digital Transformation, Digital Transformation and Lean, Lean Digital Management, Applying Lean Digital Transformation and Transformation of Enterprise Resource Planning Systems to Smart Engaged Systems. Finally, this research study the challenges of Digital Transformation in Energy Industry of Utilities.
M21|Sequencing R&D decisions with a consumer-friendly firm and spillovers|This study considers a duopoly model in which both a consumer-friendly (CF) firm and a for-profit (FP) firm undertake cost-reducing R&D investments in an endogenous R\&D timing game and then play Cournot output competition. When the CF firm chooses its profit-oriented consumer-friendliness, we show that the consumer-friendliness is non-monotone in spillovers under both simultaneous-move and sequential-move with FP firm’s leadership while it is decreasing under sequential-move with CF firm’s leadership. We also show that a simultaneous-move outcome is a unique equilibrium when the spillovers are low and the CF firm invests higher R&D and obtains higher profits. When the spillovers are not low, two sequential-move outcomes appear and the CF firm might obtain lower profits with higher spillovers under the CF firm leadership.
M21|Determination of Copper Price Expectations in the International Market: Some Important Variables|The purpose of this work is to identify variables that are relevant to the copper price setting in the international market. Thus statistical hypothesis tests and statistical tools that help to identify historical relevance and to measure the intensity of the impact of each variable on the copper price on several time horizons were applied. At the end, a regression model that aims to assess the combined effect of the considered time series was estimated. The global industrial production and the aluminum price showed the greatest evidences of being relevant to the copper price. The results suggest that copper stocks, foreign exchange rates and crude oil price should also be considered.
M21|What Are the Benefits of Data Sharing? Uniting Supply Chain and Platform Economy Perspectives|Abstract Data as a resource and data sharing enable competitive supply chains and present-day digital platform business models. The recipe for these competitive supply chains will no longer be contingent on how different companies contract to share data in their existing business networks but how these companies make these contracts available for the others in multisided markets. Advancing the availability of data sharing contracts has led to novel internal and external operational efficiencies and to new types of strategic opportunities. Data sharing is nothing new. Approximately 49% of the companies already share data with other companies. How has data sharing emerged between companies? What types of benefits have companies reached by sharing data? Those are the two research questions we are answering in this study. Additionally, we map the trajectory of data sharing technologies and their benefits for companies. External strategic opportunities cannot be reached unless the product, service and software architectures are modular; in addition, the boundary resources are not being considered by the companies. Finally, the tools for evaluating the value capture of indirect network effects is missing from widely accepted business case valuation methods. The question remains – what type of data resources can companies treat as proprietary or as shared?
M21|Capabilities and firm growth: the role of formal collaboration agreements|The paper presents an empirical analysis of the effect of formal network agreements on growth of firm in Italy in the years 2011-2013. The theoretical background is given by evolutionary theories that assign a key role in determining the ability of firms to capture business opportunities to internal capabilities and to external knowledge and capabilities. We suggest that firms establishing formal relationships with other firms can extend the â€œset of things that they are able to doâ€ â€“the set of capabilitiesâ€“ so that they are able to capture opportunities and grow. The study is based on a novel database of Italian firms that matches networked firms in year 2012 with firms that did not sign a formal network agreement but possess similar structural characteristics. In order to deal with possible self-selection phenomenon, we use difference-in-differences regression models to assess the effect on growth of belonging to a formal network agreement. Moreover, to study the effect of characteristics of network we employ two stage Hackman regression models. Results show that networked firms have a higher growth rate and that the size of the network plays a role. Results are in line with the evolutionary interpretation and suggest that formal network agreement can function as long-range antennas for firms that are more constrained from the geographical point of view. These agreements allow to acquire capabilities and knowledge of the market that allow firms to expand their economic activity.
M21|FDI Patterns and Global Value Chains in the Digital Economy|The modern process of digitalization of the world economy entails global flows of investment in technology-based industries and knowledge activities located upstream of value chains. This work exploits the wealth of information offered by the fDi Markets database to provide an overview about the geographical patterns of FDIs and of specialization in digital industries and in technological activities.We showremarkable differences across both advanced and emerging economies in this respect. Europe is both a big attractor and a big investor in digital related business, but relies on emerging economies more to offshore production than to set up R&D labs in these countries. By contrast, North American economies are more prone to engage in knowledge intensive FDIs towards the most dynamic emerging countries than is the case of Europe.Emerging economies also play a large variety of rolesinglobal flows of investment in digital industries.However, with the relevant exceptions of China, India and the Four Asian Tigers, inward and outward FDIsof Emerging economies are predominantlyproduction-oriented, with a lower involvement in R&D, Design and ICT activities. Hence, the observed patterns of FDIs appear to consolidate existing hierarchies in digital related global production networks, creating limited upgrading opportunities in the case of most emerging economies.
M21|Enhancing customer retention in case of service elimination? An empirical investigation in telecommunications| Generally, service industries require a rapid innovation of service portfolios to gain and maintain a competitive advantage. In this context, service elimination is a tool of portfolio renewal, where customer retention is a strategic priority for companies. This is especially so because service elimination usually causes higher churn rates than an average churn in telecommunications. Thus, customer retention is seen as a major aspect in enhancing service elimination success. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the factors that increase customer churn in the case of service elimination. We use one of the three Hungarian telecommunication operator’s databases containing usage data three months before and after service elimination in the course of a major service package reform. Contract-related information and demographics of 10 065 customers are used to differentiate between high and low churn factors, taking care of a possible sample selection problem. The results show that in the course of service elimination there is a significant positive relationship between price decrease, tenure, interaction intensity on the one, and customer retention on the other side. Besides these, demographics (age and residence) also play an important role in explaining churn rates during service elimination. Furthermore, we find that a higher monthly fee after elimination increases the customer’s usage intensity. This research aims to contribute both to service elimination, as well as to customer retention literature, by hierarchical modeling of retention and usage during service elimination with practical implications for decision-makers in rapidly innovating telecommunication markets.
M21|Contribution Accounting – a planning and controlling tool to observe costs and profit achievements within management decisions|Management decisions must be based on financial data, drawn up by controlling. Especially when it comes to strategic decisions the target is to achieve a comprehensive overview of financial issues like costs and related profits on which to base management decision. In summarisation accountants have not only to collect financial data, they have to contrast costs and benefits as far as risks and opportunities. A clear and transparent contribution accounting should be the central cost controlling instrument, according to business fields and cost centres. So, it is getting possible to ensure that the resources are efficiently allocated as a result of a proper management decision. The following article introduces contribution accounting as an important tool to support management decisions regarding cost planning and cost cutting in educational institutions.
M21|Non-R&D, interactive learning and economic performance: Revisiting innovation in small and medium enterprises|In the present paper, various groups of innovating German SMEs are empirically identified according to their use (or non-use) of in-house R&D, their reliance on external sources of knowledge, and the degree of internal interactive learning that they employ.In order to account for non-R&D innovation activities, we apply the STI/DUI concept as a theoretical starting point. This distinguishes between (1) the science, technology, innovation (STI) mode with its strong emphasis on formal processes of in-house R&D and (2) the doing, using, interacting (DUI) mode with its focus on experience-based knowledge and interactive learning. On this basis, the empirical results indicate that three groups associated with different modes of learning and innovation exist within the German SME sector: the supplier-dependent DUI group, the customer-oriented DUI group and the STI/DUI group. The corresponding findings confirm that SMEs innovate differently depending on the specificities of their knowledge environments. In order to evaluate this in terms of innovation policy, we examine how these learning modes among innovating SMEs relate to overall company performance. Our main observation is that each learning mode is likely to positively affect performance, at least to some degree. There isno differ-ence in economic performance between the three learning modes as long as non-high-growth SMEs are considered. Hence, in large parts of the SME sector, it is economically rational to choose a non-R&D-oriented mode of learning and innovation. The paper con-cludes with some policy implications of these findings.
M21|IT-Compliance nach COBIT 2019|"Das Ende 2018 von der ISACA publizierte Framework ""COBIT® 2019"" knüpft in seinem Verständnis von IT-Compliance an die Vorgängerversionen 4.1 und 5 an. Trotzdem sind in der neuen COBIT®-Version zahlreiche Änderungen und Ergänzungen enthalten, die in diesem Arbeitspapier diskutiert werden sollen. Im Ergebnis umfasst das Compliance-Verständnis von COBIT® 2019 nach wie vor sowohl die IT-Compliance als auch die IT-gestützte Corporate Compliance. Die grundlegenden Compliance-Ziele bleiben genauso erhalten, wie die Governance- und Managementpraktiken mit ihren Aktivitäten zur Sicherstellung von Compliance. Die Enabler finden sich jetzt als ""Komponenten"" wieder, werden dafür aber systematisch und komplett abgehandelt. Die Änderungen der COBIT® 2019-Produktfamilie beinhalten Erweiterungen wie Streichungen gleichermaßen. Insgesamt fällt die Compliance-Thematik ähnlich umfangreich wie in COBIT® 5 aus. In COBIT® 5 beinhalteten 26 von 37 IT-Prozessen Compliance-Aufgaben, während in COBIT® 2019 15 von 40 IT-Governance- und IT-Managementzielen das Erreichen der compliance-bezogenen IT-Ziele unterstützen. Des Weiteren stellen Compliance-Anforderungen einen eigenständigen Designfaktor dar bzw. sind Teil weiterer Designfaktoren für die IT-Governance. Trotz aller Veränderungen und Anpassungen kann COBIT® 2019 nach wie vor den mit IT-Compliance betrauten Funktionen und Personen als Orientierung und Hilfsmittel für die praktische Arbeit dienen."
M21|Measuring competitive balance in Formula One Racing|The Formula One Championship (F1) is one of the biggest sports businesses in the world. But, however, it seems to astonish that only very few scholarly articles analyze the F1 business. The aim of this study is to contribute to closing two gaps in the existing literature: it contributes (1) to the (sports) economic analysis of the F1 business and (2) to the literature on competitive balance in non-team sports. Like competitive balance in team sport leagues, also for F1 racing three dimensions can be distinguished: (a) race-specific competitive balance, (b) within-season competitive balance, and (c) between-season competitive balance. In addition to classical tools and data, some new and F1 specific indicators, like average lead changes or leading distance, are employed. Also, pitfalls induced especially by the used data source or calculation method are highlighted.
M21|Stars in social media: New light through old windows?|We review the economics of superstars, originally developed for stars in traditional media, and discuss whether they are applicable for the (allegedly) novel phenomenon of stars in social media (influencer, micro-celebrities). Moreover, we analyse potentially new factors for creating social media superstardom that may be special to the nature of social media. Our overall result is that the economics of superstars, like the role of talent, market concentration effects, MacDonald-style and Adler-style effects, remain applicable and relevant for social media stars. In line with this assessment, we find that several (allegedly) new star factors in social media, like user-generated content, prosumption, disappearance of gatekeepers and authenticity, turn out to be only partly applicable or just slightly different to traditional concepts. However, algorithm management and upload strategies represent novel success factors relevant for social media superstardom that are not captured by traditional superstar theories.
M21|The influence of political characteristics on the relationship between family control and firm performance: A meta-analytical approach|This multilevel meta-analytic study, based on 176 studies from 36 countries, examines the impact of political characteristics on the performance of family firms when comparing them to non-family firms (k=311, N=1,598,964). Our findings support the expectation that family firm characteristics are positively related to firm performance. We trace the variance between the studies to differences in certain political characteristics of the firms' countries of origin: government stability, regime stability, regime type and special periods of factionalism. In terms of government and regime stability, we find positive moderating effects on the focal relationship. We further show that periods of factionalism even reverse the superior performance of family firms. While the focal relationship becomes stronger in democracies, the relationship turns negative when looking at anocracies and becomes stronger and positive again considering autocracies. Finally, we reveal that government stability partly mediates the influence of the regime type. Therefore, government stability is a crucial condition for family firms to prosper in any political environment. Our study has several implications for the interplay between family firms and politics: First, the comparative advantage of family firms depends on specific political characteristics. Second, the ability of institutions to provide stability is more important for family firms than the actual institutional setting itself. Third, the impact of a political environment on economic success differs between family firms and nonfamily firms and therefore depends on the structure of the given economy.
M21|Success factors of academic journals in the digital age|Digitalisation has opened up new opportunities for the dissemination of information. That is why many academic journals have started introducing online services since the early 1990s. Previous studies suggest that online availability and free access to articles are positively connected to the number of citations. However, little is known about the relative impact of the introduction of online services at the journal level and what provides a long-term competitive advantage in times of digital change. Based on panel data from SSCI-listed management journals from 1989 to 2016, we examine which journals have pioneered the digital field, to what extent first-mover advantages can be identified, and which journal characteristics are associated with citation-based performance indicators. Our results show that lower-ranked journals were the first to introduce digital services and were beneficiaries of the digital age. Furthermore, we find a significant connection between the international composition of author teams and performance indicators. Our analysis of the relationship between online availability as well as open access and performance contradicts previous studies as we find that significant correlations diminish when adequately controlling for journal-level effects.
M21|The distinct features of hidden champions in Germany: A dynamic capabilities view|Hidden Champions (HCs) are firms unknown to the wider public, but global leaders in the niche markets they serve. This paper looks at distinctive features of these firms, focusing on their dynamic capabilities. Employing a unique data base on German firms, we identify a representative sample of German HCs. Based on a matching technique, we examine differences to other firms in terms of the firms' processes, position, and path. We find that HCs' competitive strategy rests on technology leadership and customisation. HCs are more open in their knowledge management, but without compromising control over the new product development process. HCs do not invest more into innovation, but achieve higher innovation success. The higher efficiency can be linked to their superior technological capabilities and to higher investment in human capital and HR management practices that mobilise the creative potential of their employees.
M21|Entrepreneursâ€™ Attitudes Toward Risk in Micro and Small Enterprises: Evidence from Urban Ethiopia|The attitudes toward risk of women and men entrepreneurs in micro- and small enterprises (MSEs) are analyzed, and the factors that influence attitude toward risk of MSE owners are investigated. The empirical analysis first uses the moment-based approach proposed by Antle (1987) to estimate the risk preferences of men and women entrepreneurs. Second, a regression model is employed to understand the correlates of attitude toward risk and to decompose gender differences in risk aversion using the Oaxaca-Blinder technique. The results clearly indicate that MSE entrepreneurs are risk-averse with a relative risk premium of 1.5%. Women entrepreneurs are slightly more risk-averse than are men entrepreneurs. Regression estimates show that entrepreneursâ€™ attitude toward risk is significantly correlated with age and experience, marital status, education level, financial literacy, wealth, sector, and business type. The gender difference in risk aversion is significantly explained by the predictor variables while the unexplained component is insignificant. This suggests that gender differences in risk preference are the result of disparities in socioeconomic factors rather than of biology.
M21|Impact of Credit and Training on Enterprise Performance: Evidence from Urban Ethiopia|This study evaluates the impact of business-development-support programs (credit, training, and a combination of both) on the performance of micro- and small enterprises (MSEs) in Ethiopia. Using 2015 Ethiopian urban survey data and employing endogenous-switching regressions for multiple treatments, we document a positive and significant effect of credit, training, and a combination of training and credit on MSEs. Our results highlight the heterogeneity in treatment effects between women- and men-owned MSEs: women-owned businesses do not benefit from access to treatments. Our results suggest that improving the performance of MSEs requires fine-tuned interventions that meet the specific needs of men and women who own small businesses rather than one-size-fits-all programs.
M21|The effect of supply chain integration and environmental proactivity on environmental performance. The case of the horticultural spanish sector|No abstract is available for this item.
M21|Not All Price Endings Are Created Equal: Price Points and Asymmetric Price Rigidity|There is evidence that 9-ending prices are more common and more rigid than other prices. We use data from three sources: a laboratory experiment, a field study, and a large US supermarket chain, to study the cognitive underpinning and the ensuing asymmetry in rigidity associated with 9-ending prices. We find that consumers use 9-endings as a signal for low prices, and that this signal interferes with price information processing. Consequently, consumers are less likely to notice a bigger price when it ends with 9, or a price increase when the new price ends with 9, in comparison to a situation where the prices end with some other digit. We also find that retailers respond strategically to this consumer bias by setting 9-ending prices more often after price increases than after price decreases. 9-ending prices, therefore, usually increase only if the new prices are also 9ending. Consequently, there is an asymmetry in the rigidity of 9-ending prices: they are more rigid than non 9-ending prices upward but not downward.
M21|Managerial accountability under yardstick competition|Two well-known mechanisms for enhancing managers' accountability are yardstick competition and internal monitoring. Yardstick competition puts managers in direct competition when firms make decisions for re-appointment (Tirole, 2006). Monitoring is used by firms to detect managers' rent-seeking activities. While common wisdom suggests that the joint use of the two means would reinforce each other in promoting managers’ good practices, we find that their interplay distorts managers' behavior who may end up acting in a less accountable way. Furthermore, differences in monitoring across firms bias that distortion, yielding even more counterintuitive results.
M21|Do private enterprises outperform state enterprises in an emerging market? The importance of institutional context in entrepreneurship|Do private-owned enterprises (POEs) outperform state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in an emerging market? Due to political and social connections, SOEs have several advantages over POEs in emerging markets and transition economies, but we hypothesize that these advantages wane in pro-market institutional environments that prioritize market competition, rule of law, and the rewards to profitable enterprise. In this study, therefore, we explore how institutional quality moderates the relationship between privatization and entrepreneurs’ sales performance. To do this, we blend agency theory and entrepreneurial cognition theory with insights from institutional economics to develop a model of emerging market venture performance. Using data from the World Bank’s Enterprise Survey of entrepreneurs in China, our results suggest that POEs outperform SOEs but only in environments with high-quality market institutions. In environments with low-quality market institutions, SOEs outperform POEs.
M21|Regulatory Spillovers in Common Audit Markets|We find that Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) had two significant effects on the audit market for nonpublic entities. The first short-run effect stems from inelastic labor supply coupled with an audit demand shock from public companies. As a result, private companies reduced their use of attested financial reports in bank financing by 12%, and audit fee increases for nonprofit organizations (NPOs) more than doubled. The second long-run effect was a transformation in the audit supply structure. After SOX, NPOs were less likely to match with auditors most exposed to public companies, while auditors increasingly specialized their offices based on client type. Audit market concentration for NPOs dropped by more than half within five years of SOX and remained at this level through the end of our sample in 2013, while the number of suppliers increased by 26%. Our results demonstrate how regulation directed at public companies generates economically im-portant spillovers for nonpublic entities.
M21|Talking to Influence and the Consulting Paradox|This paper studies expert advice when an inﬂuence-hungry expert derives an intrinsic beneﬁt from inﬂuencing a client’s decision. A consulting paradox arises: the more the client needs advice, the less accurate is expert advice. The reason is that the expert’s beneﬁt from inﬂuence engenders an incentive to misreport information which is positively related to the client’s need of advice. This paradox advances the debate on consulting beyond its focus on commissions and provides a new explanation to experts’ misreporting of information. Finally, the consulting paradox sheds light on the challenges posed by inﬂuence-hungry experts to client protection authorities and the consulting industry.
M21|Russian Business under Economic Sanctions: Is There Regional Heterogeneity?|The sanctions against Russia, beginning in early 2014, provide us with a unique opportunity to study whether, and how sanctions affect a vast territorial global superpower. This study attempts to empirically examine the economic impact of this event, paying particular attention to the existence or inexistence of its regional heterogeneity. For these purposes, this study used a dataset from a survey that asked the executive managers of Russian regional companies to assess the impact on their management activities in late 2015. The key findings are as follows. First, approximately half of those interviewed perceived the economic sanctions as having a negative impact. Second, no regional variations in the impact of the sanctions could be found. It follows that financial, institutional-framework sanctions, aimed at an entire nation, exert a significant and geographically uniform impact. Moreover, even regional businesses near the Asia-Pacific region, holding strong connections with Asian countries, cannot avoid its impact.
M21|Evaluating Factors of Small and Medium Hospitality Enterprises Business Failure: a conceptual approach|The aim of this paper is to present a comparison between macro and micro economic factors as they are suggested by the current literature in corporate failure field. Present study answers two research questions, firstly which the causes of corporate bankruptcies in tourism are, and secondly which metrics could help more on effectively predict a corporate failure. Based on a conceptual approach authors analyze and collect different macro and micro economic factors. Results indicates how strongly the various factors affect the quantity and intensity of bankruptcy applications and suggestions are given on how different models could be developed to predict the risk of bankruptcy in a macro or micro aspect. This is one of the first studies that investigates the effectiveness of different types of Corporate Failure metrics, which has, until now, suffered a dearth of conceptual studies in the field, especially in the context of national economies due to the economic recession.
M21|Absorptive Capacity and Firms’ Generation of Innovation - Revisiting Zahra and George’s Model|The firm’s absorptive capacity triggers its propensity to capture external knowledge, spurred by internal levers and cooperation liaisons, stimulating innovativeness. This paper revisits Zahra and George’s model of absorptive capacity and others, analysing the firm’s internal and liaison factors that affect its absorptive capacity, in order to predict their influence on innovation. Being the firm an open system, managers acknowledging such effects can design a more efficient open innovation business model in order to generate more innovation. We analyse firm-level internal indicators measuring firm’s absorptive capacity and a set of liaison factors, using a Portuguese sample of 571 service firms and 562 manufacturing firms that participated in the European Community Innovation Survey (CIS), 2010. Results reveal that internal R&D, acquisition of external R&D, acquisition of external knowledge (i.e., equipment, software, licenses and employee training) affect firms' generation of innovation, according to the different sub-samples, which provides several implications for science and innovation policy.
M21|Buying the Verdict|We document evidence that firms systematically increase specialized, locally targeted advertising following the firm being taken to trial in that given location - precisely following initiation of the suit. In particular, we use legal actions brought against publicly traded firms over the 20 year sample period that progress to trial from 1995-2014. In terms of magnitude, the increase is sizable: targeted local advertising increases by 23% (t=4.39) following the suit. Moreover, firms concentrate these strategic increases in locations where the return on their advertising dollars are largest: in smaller, more concentrated advertising markets where fewer competitor firms are advertising. They focus their advertisement spikes specifically toward jury trials, and in fact specifically toward the most likely jury pool. Lastly, we document that these advertising spikes are associated with verdicts, increasing the probability of a favorable outcome.
M21|Firm Scope and Spillovers from New Product Innovation: Evidence from Medical Devices|When firms span related product categories, spillovers across categories become central to firm strategy and industrial policy, due to their potential to foreclose competition and affect innovation incentives. We exploit major new product innovations in one medical device category, and detailed sales data across related categories, to develop a causal research design for spillovers at the customer level. We find evidence of spillovers, primarily associated with complementarities in usage. These spillovers imply large benefits to multi- vs. single-category firms, accounting for nearly one quarter of sales in the complimentary category (equivalent to four percent of revenue in the focal category).
M21|Diagram bodu zvratu v podnikové ekonomice| Break-even analysis allows a simple way to determine how the changes in sales volume, sales prices, as well as variable and fixed costs influence the achieved profit result. The paper analyzes the relationships valid in break-even analysis and graphically shows the relationships in the form of the break-even point graph with the multi-component assortment and the break-even point graph after the technical assessment of the production capacity of production facility. The paper explains how to use the theoretical basis of the break-even analysis in the practice of business entities. The aim of the paper is to define relations valid for the complex application of the break-even analysis as a managerial tool in business practice. This paper presents mathematical formulations applicable in company practice, namely the mathematical formula applicable to the multi-component assortment structure and the mathematical formula applying the productive time fund to the break-even point graph. Additionally, the paper provides graphical solutions of the mentioned areas.
M21|Ekonomická gramotnost podnikatele| Today literacy is the springboard for a successful life. In the current world, it cannot be illiterate. And it is not just literacy in the basic sense, i.e. the ability to read, write and alternatively also count, but to have the whole range of other types of literacy that are usually specified by the adjective before the word literacy itself. One of them is also economic literacy. Literacy is understood as a set of competencies, i.e. the abilities of a given individual realized in the context of reality. The type of literacy then determines what competences, i.e. what area is related. Economic literacy should thus be defined as a set of certain competencies in the economic sphere. The aim of the text is therefore to discuss the approach to defining entrepreneurial competences and defining the concept of economic literacy of the entrepreneur.
M21|Effects of interaction between supply chain integration and high-performance human resources practices on performance|This study proposes a model and hypotheses to understand the nature of the relationships of supply chain integration and high-performance human resources practices with operational performance in the horticultural marketing sector. The importance lies in the assumption that supply chain is all about people working across independent firms, and therefore, essential. Using empirical data from the horticultural marketing sector, the moderating effects of high-performance human resources practices on the relationship between three supply chain integration dimensions of integration (internal, supplier and customer) and five operational performance measures (cost, quality, delivery reliability, service, and flexibility) are examined. An ordered probit analysis is used to test the proposed hypotheses. The results confirm the moderating effects in most of the cases as human resources practices have a moderating effect if the relationship is established between internal or customer integration and delivery.
M21|Marketing geográfico: aplicación del juego smartmax para la conceptualización de un destino turístico|En el sector retail y en el turístico la fusión del marketing geográfico resulta fundamental. Este trabajo estudia las dificultades de concepción del destino turístico, proponiendo el conocido juego de nodos y conectores imantados, SmartMax, como un nuevo procedimiento de definición y de gestión. Las atracciones y los servicios turísticos, por una parte, y los flujos conectores, por otra, son las piezas fundamentales para comprender el concepto de destino que cada turista monta según su criterio personal, es el paradigma de la co-creacion experiencial. El modelo es probado empíricamente para definir el caso de Gijón (España), mediante análisis cuantitativos multivariables, demostrando su capacidad para adaptarse a las distintas tipologías de destino.
M21|Bank Loan Loss Provisions, Investor Protection and the Macroeconomy|This study investigates the non-discretionary determinants of bank loan loss provisions in Africa after controlling for macroeconomic fluctuation, financial development and investor protection. We find that non-performing loans, loan-to-asset ratio and loan growth are significant non-discretionary drivers of bank provisions in the African region. We observe that bank provision is a positive function of non-performing loans up to a threshold beyond which bank provisions will no longer increase as non-performing loans increases. Also, bank loan-to-asset ratio is a significant driver of bank provisions when African banks have higher loan-to-asset ratios. Also, larger banks in financially developed African countries have fewer loan loss provisions while increase in bank lending leads to fewer bank provisions in countries with strong investor protection. Finally, higher bank lending is associated with higher bank provisions during economic boom. The findings have implications.
M21|Business Value Created By Management Accounting|Porter stated in his value chain concept that business support activities are contributing to the value creation process of a business organization. In the “classical view” business support activities are considered as indirect productive and not having a clear and direct contribution to the business organization value chain. The information age has enabled and leveraged business support activities to become decisive contributors to the value creation process of any business. Can this value contribution be somehow determined or quantified? Management accounting is a classical business support activity that contributes to the business organization value chain. Through usage of value management and value driven performance indicators, the value contribution can be determined and quantified. The present paper is highlighting one possible alternative to determine the value contribution by using indicators like economic value added and economic profit. The value-based approach is putting indirect productive business activities into a new position, the one of a clear and important business value creator that cannot be ignored in the 21st century, a century driven by data, a nd information and knowledge that can sustain a decisive sustainable competitive advantage.
M21|Entrepreneurship contribution to the three pillars of sustainable development: What does the evidence really say?|Compared to the prior discussion of the emerging research on entrepreneurship and sustainable development, the purpose of this study is to investigate the ability of the entrepreneurial activity to simultaneously enhance economic growth, advance environmental objectives, and improve social conditions in developing countries. We mainly found that entrepreneurship in these countries positively contributes to the economic and social dimensions of sustainable development, while its contribution to the environmental dimension is negative. The results of causality test confirm the interactions among entrepreneurship and these three dimensions in both short and long-run. Limitations and future research directions, some managerial and policy implications for entrepreneurial action in sustainable development are also discussed.
M21|Sales impact of servicescape's rational stimuli: A natural experiment|Environmental psychologists suggest that people feelings and emotions determine what they do and how they do it. We used the Stimulus-Organism-Response model (S-O-R) as an inspiring theoretical basis for our empirical contribution. We conducted a natural field experiment in six stores, settled in six different Italian cities, of a multinational company who sells furniture, furnishing accessories and household articles. We provided empirical evidence about the effects of a rational-functional stimulus, i.e. the availability of a new tool for collecting items that is more comfortable and less cumbersome for consumers. Through both a non-parametric and parametric testing, we found a positive effect of the stimuli in terms of sales.
M21|Sales impact of servicescape’s emotional and rational stimuli: a survey study|Environmental psychologists suggest that people feelings and emotions determine what they do and how they do it. According to the stimulus organism respons model (SOR), the environment creates a behavioral/emotional response in individuals that, in turn, induces approach or avoidance behaviors. We conducted survey in six stores, settled in six different Italian cities, of a Swedish-founded Dutch-based multinational group, that designs and sells ready-to-assemble furniture, kitchen appliances and home accessories. Firstly, we apply the SOR model to evaluate loyalty program participation impact on consumers receipts. Subsequently, we provide empirical evidence about the effects of an emotional-sensorial stimulus (i.e. the presence of the restaurant inside the store). Through both a non-parametric and parametric testing, we found that environmental stimuli have a positive effect in terms of sales.
M21|Default risk and equity value: forgotten factor or cultural revolution?|Default risk is the forgotten factor when it comes to equity valuation. And yet, in this article, we show that default risk has a bigger impact on equity values than it does on bond values. Our work is based on a default intensity model that we extrapolate to equities. This model does not presuppose a particular method for estimating distance to default. As a result, unlike Merton structural models, which only apply to indebted companies, it can be used to assess default risk for any company. Highlighting a default risk premium in the cost of capital calculation makes it possible to reconcile the CAPM with evaluation methods based on forecasts in the event of survival. At the same time, the CAPM and default risk can explain the vast majority of bond spreads. The test consisting of estimating “physical” implied default probabilities and the share of systemic risk included in corporate euro bond spreads at end-2015 led us to detect the likely existence of excessive remuneration of investment grade bonds. This finding corroborates identical conclusions reached earlier by other researchers. This potential market anomaly could indicate a windfall for investors. Performing this test again at various points in the economic and financial cycle would help establish whether the bond market is serving a free lunch to investors not bound by regulatory reserve requirements.
M21|The Concept of Cockroach Theory of Sustainable and Scalable Organizational and Individual Growth|The question of survival and sustenance is very critical for every individual or organization. There are various factors that are essential for growth and sustenance of companies. There have been many research studies undertaken to gauge the success factors or to break down the components and study success in detail. Since Prahalad and Hart propounded the need for multinationals to serve the large base of the pyramid markets, which could be done profitably and need not be left only to government and aided agencies, many multinationals across the world have been made significant steps in reaching out to these markets especially in emerging economies. In these strategies, there have been some successes and many failures. In previous papers we have studied many such strategies and we have proposed a “theory of sustainable and scalable growth for organizations and individuals” also called the “Cockroach theory”.
M21|The corporate governance of profit shifting|Tax-motivated profit shifting is an increasingly important element in the agenda of academics and policy-makers in the effort to understand tax-planning behavior and to promote tax fairness. In this research, we view profit shifting as the outcome of corporate governance characteristics of multinational enterprises (MNEs), ceteris paribus. Using a sample of 860 parent firms from 24 countries, 6,698 subsidiaries in 49 countries, we first measure profit shifting from the responses of subsidiary profits to parent earnings shocks. We draw on several agency theories of the firm and we show that elements of board structure, directors’ experience and networks, and CEO duality have an economically important influence on the aggressiveness of profit shifting. Using our baseline specification, a one-standard deviation change in these board characteristics implies an 11.06% total response in our measure of profit shifting.
M21|The predictive relationship between exchange rate expectations and base metal prices|In this paper we show that survey-based-expectations about the future evolution of the Chilean exchange rate have the ability to predict the returns of the six primary non-ferrous metals: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. Predictability is also found for returns of the London Metal Exchange Index. Previous studies have shown that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict copper returns, a world commodity index and base metal prices. Nevertheless, our results indicate that expectations about the Chilean peso have stronger predictive ability relative to the Chilean currency. This is shown both in-sample and out-of-sample. By focusing on expectations of a commodity currency, and not on the currency itself, our paper provides indirect but new and strong evidence of the ability that commodity currencies have to forecast commodity prices. Our results are also consistent with the present-value-model for exchange rate determination.
M21|Self-Employment and the Economic Cycle in Spain|In periods of economic crisis, self-employment emerges as a potential alternative to unemployment. Literature on the subject identified two distinct basic theories according to which predisposition towards self-employment occurs as an opportunity (pull) or a need (push), closely linked to the business cycle. Here, due to our concern that self-employment might be incentivized in periods of crisis leading to both financial and personal failures, we attempted to verify the validity of both of these theories. To do so, we used a series of personal and job-related variables signifying certain characteristics of persons who want to be self-employed. Our results point towards greater substantiation for the pull theories and refute certain beliefs held by academicians and managers. Furthermore, there are two variables with high, significant coefficients that serve as a synopsis to describe opportunity: workload and money. We link both of these with working hours and net income.
M21|Time Management in Diagnostic Medicine|The supply chain management, by allowing the reduction of costs in logistics operations constitutes a strategic organizational asset. This paper focuses on time management in a Diagnostic Medicine facility. It aims to determine the level of time compression for 5 diagnostic examinations. Bearing this in mind, we collect the length time of each task concerning each examination and elaborate the descriptive statistics in STATA 13.0; while the process of optimization is implemented using the DMAIC approach. Our results show that total waiting time for all 5 examinations per week is 4 hours and 16 minutes and that, implementing some recommendations, the facility could perform 35 more examinations per week. This is of importance, not only in the context of cost reduction, but also to increase efficiency and improve the quality of service. Ultimately, the implementation of our recommendations will increase patients’ satisfaction.
M21|Control(-ling): Known/Unknown|Controlling – a very powerful word. When someone hears it, he/she feels influence and power. Controlling is an English word; unfortunately it isn‘t used just in the English language. When you hear this word, you might have the feeling that everything is clear to you. In fact, it is not all that clear. You have to ask yourself what language you are speaking currently and where in the world you are. You may have learned that controlling is not control. And also that control is something bad. In reality, however, the world of control is not so simple and this fact is closely related, among other things, to the history of the word control. Control itself in the management has different approaches, including in particular the Western and Eastern one, but also internal control can take on different meanings. The purpose of this paper is to point to various myths in the management function of control and to clarify some terms that are often misused. It is based on our long-term research of the management function of control.
M21|Интелектуалният Капитал - Основа На Съвременния Бизнес И Предизвикателство Пред Финансовата Отчетност<BR>[Intellectual Capital - Basis Of Contemporary Business And Challenge For Financial Reporting]|Bulgarian: В настоящата публикация се споделя тезата, че в съвременните икономически условия ролята на капитала като основа за пазарните оценки на предприятието в неговия традиционен смисъл, т.е. под формата на финансов и материален капитал, постепенно намалява и се допълва и замества от нарастващата роля на нематериалните активи. Ето защо се счита, че съвременните корпоративни отчети трябва да осигуряват информация не само по отношение на финансовото състояние на предприятието, разглеждано в традиционния му смисъл, а и по отношение на стратегическите цели, използването на ресурсите, интелектуалния капитал, социално-отговорните практики и т.н., което става посредством прилагането на концепцията за интегрираното отчитане. По този начин ползвателите ще могат да обезпечат значително по-високите си информационни и комуникационни нужди, отколкото са имали преди години и това да им позволи в крайна сметка да си обяснят модела, по който предприятието създава стойност. Ключови думи: интелектуален капитал, счетоводна стойност, пазарна стойност, интегрирано отчитане Abstract This paper shares the view that in the current economic context, the role of capital as a basis for the company's market assessments in its traditional sense, in the form of financial and tangible capital, is gradually decreasing and supplemented and replaced by the growing role of intangible assets. That is why we believe that modern corporate reports should provide information not only about the financial situation of an enterprise in its traditional sense, but also about strategic goals, resource use, intellectual capital, socially responsible practices, and through the implementation of the concept of integrated reporting. In this way, users will be able to deliver significantly higher information and communication needs than they had years before, and ultimately allow them to explain the model in which the business generates value.
M21|Should Bangladesh Export to Countries with Better Institutional or Comparatively Similar Institutional Form?| Using panel data for the years 2006–2015, this study empirically investigates the effect of rule of law as an institution on Bangladesh's exports to 28 European Union countries (EU28) based on gravity model analysis. Two-step econometric results suggest that institutional rule of law is strongly associated with Bangladesh's exports, and institutional quality provides evidence of this significant effect. Furthermore, exports of Bangladesh are driven by economic size, market size, and the real exchange rate as well as rule of law. These results are suggestive of an important joint role for both trade and institutions in the long run.
M21|Government Support and Firm Performance in Vietnam|Using a sample of private manufacturing SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) in the period 2007-15, we analyze the effect of government support on firms’ financial performance in Vietnam. Contrary to many previous studies, we find that government support affects firms’ financial performance after controlling for heterogeneity, unobservable factors and dynamic endogeneity. The finding supports the viewpoint of institutional theory. Also, the study reveals that assistance measures, such as tax exemptions, soft loans and investment incentives to promote financial performance, are vital for the development of Vietnamese private SMEs.
M21|Контент-Аналіз Дисертацій З Економічної Безпеки Підприємства, Захищених В Україні За 2000-2018 Рр<BR>[Content analysis of doctoral dissertations on enterprise economic security, defended in Ukraine in 2000-2018]|Актуальність. Актуальність проблеми забезпечення економічної безпеки підприємства у сучасних умовах господарювання постає особливо гостро через зростаючу кількість збиткових та збанкрутілих суб’єктів, брак ресурсів для ефективної діяльності, ризиками, загрозами та небезпеками внутрішнього та невизначеністю зовнішнього середовища тощо. Практична діяльність компаній із гарантування економічної безпеки потребує науково-методичного забезпечення, яке б розкривало кращі практики, узагальнювало наявні теоретичні напрацювання, методичні положення та прикладні розробки. Хоча первинною ланкою наукової комунікації є стаття, для аналізу обрано дисертаційні роботи з економічної безпеки підприємства як найбільш уніфікована форма представлення результатів наукового дослідження у цій галузі знань. Мета та завдання. Метою статті є проведення контент-аналізу захищених дисертацій з економічної безпеки підприємства задля визначення загального стану дослідницької галузі, ступеню координації наукових зусиль та основних тенденцій оприлюднених досліджень. Результати. Обрано дисертаційні роботи виключно з економічної безпеки підприємства, вибірка за 2000-2018 рр. склала 205 робіт. Подальший аналіз проведено за критеріями методу оброблення масивів даних LATCH - Location (розташування); Alphabet (алфавіт); Time (час); Category (категорія); Hierarchy (ієрархія). Визначено низку наукових спеціальностей, кількість кандидатських та докторських дисертацій, основну категорію в тематиці дисертацій, динаміку захистів, провідні установи, географічні центри та галузі. Виявлено певні закономірності масиву робіт, також що сталої динаміки у дослідженнях економічної безпеки підприємства за різними спеціальностями не спостерігається, є періоди зростання та спаду, є п’ять закладів вищої освіти України, де захищено найбільше робіт; виділяються сім географічних центрів дослідження економічної безпеки підприємства. Висновки. Існує певна повторюваність тем та напрямів досліджень у різних спеціальностях щодо вивчення економічної безпеки підприємства. При підрахунку частотності понять у темах дисертаційних робіт визначається відмінність спеціальностей і відповідно досліджень в їхніх рамках: 21.04.02 орієнтована на комплексне вивчення системотворення, міжнародних стандартів з економічної безпеки, взаємовпливу національної безпеки та економічної безпеки підприємств тощо. Маємо узгодити напрями досліджень в рамках різних наукових спеціальностей з теми економічної безпеки підприємства, гармонізувати термінологію (у т.ч. з іншомовними відповідниками), розробити ефективні теоретико-методичні положення та прикладні рекомендації для практичної діяльності фахівців чи менеджерів сфери економічної безпеки суб’єктів господарської діяльності.
M21|Business Models for Energy Suppliers Aggregating Flexible Distributed Assets and Policy Issues Raised|The ongoing digitalization of the energy sector opens up opportunities for novel business models, which can help to overcome challenges that accompany the transition towards a sustainable energy supply. One necessity in a more decentralized energy system with high shares of renewables is the provision of flexibility. This paper uses the business model generation approach of Osterwalder and Pigneur (2010) to understand the challenges of the transition towards distributed power generation for energy suppliers. The insights gained indicate that the focus of business models in the electricity supply market has to switch to an offer-driven perspective. To this end, the business model of an “Energy Supplier 2.0” as a dedicated aggregator of flexible capacities on the household level is investigated. It is found that the aggregation of flexibilities can provide additional revenue streams, extra customer comfort, support for grid operators, and reduce society’s costs for the sustainable energy transition process. Despite these promising advantages, and even though early movers indicate economic interest, we find that the current regulation and policies bear obstacles for a broad diffusion of this type of business models in the energy sector. We identify several obstacles and suggest solutions how to overcome legislative hurdles where possible.
M21|Determinants of Business Risks With Impact on SMEs in V4 countries|Many enterprises fight with various risks and it can be a reason of lack of success for their business. The first step towards successful risk management is a risk identification. Entrepreneurs use different methods for risk identification and they also detect diverse risks. The aim of the article is to identify determinants of business risks in SMEs in Visegrad Four. The article deals with the partial results of the empirical questionnaire survey, which was completed in 2018 at the Tomas Bata University in Zlín in the Czech Republic. Questionnaires from the owners of micro and SME enterprises in Hungary (388), Poland (498), Slovakia (487) and Czech Republic (408) were collected. Entrepreneurs were asked for the ability to identify risks, importance of risks and methods used for risk management in their companies. 3 research questions were set in this context. In process of solving the formulated research questions the following statistical tools such as tables, descriptive characteristics, and Person coefficient of contingency were used. Finally, the results indicate that there are differences in risk identification among countries. Also the importance of each risk is different. The similarity of results in Czech Republic and Slovakia was proved. The article concludes with a discussion which explains possible couse of differences and similarities of results.
M21|A review of entrepreneurial knowledge and skills among students at a South African Higher Education Institution|Entrepreneurship are regarded as a key element in fostering economic growth and job creation. However, growth of a country?s economy rely on developing future leaders with the right skills and knowledge to be entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurial knowledge and skills are key attributes for students if they consider self-employment. In South Africa entrepreneurship is common in higher education, however young individuals in South Africa urgently need to be trained, educated and equipped with the necessary entrepreneurial knowledge and skills to foster an entrepreneurial activity in their complex environment. The purpose of this paper is to determine students at a South African HEI perception of their level of entrepreneurial knowledge and skills. A descriptive research design approach was followed. A self-administered questionnaire was used to collect the data from a convenience sample of 338 students at a South African public HEI situated in the Gauteng Province. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics, reliability and validity analysis and a one-sample t-test. The findings infer that at this specific HEI, students feel they have the necessary knowledge and skills to be entrepreneurial. This study contributes by implementing initiatives to equip students with the knowledge and skills they may lack in becoming active individuals in economic growth.
M21|Influences of Entrepreneurial Competencies on Product Development Decision: Longan Processing Enterprises in Thailand|This research aims to evaluate the entrepreneurial competencies of longan processing entrepreneurs and analyze the impacts of entrepreneurial competencies on new product development decision. The 165 samples of longan processing entrepreneurs are selected by a purposive sampling method. The results of entrepreneurial competencies show that risk taking orientation and competitiveness orientation are the two lowest score competencies in which the longan processing entrepreneurs should be interested in. Moreover, the age of the entrepreneur and pro-activeness orientation of the entrepreneur have some negative impacts on the decision making probability of the new product development. The entrepreneurial competencies on risk taking, innovativeness and competitiveness have positive influences on new product development decision. The findings lead to a discussion about whether the longan processing entrepreneurs are ready to develop the new product, or not.
M21|The Impact of Formal Networking on the Performance of SMEs|"Using a large sample of Italian small and medium enterprises (SMEs), we investigate the effect of membership in a formal business network (""contratto di rete"") on firms' economic performance. We find that network participation has a positive effect on value added and exports, but not on profitability. The advantages of networking are stronger in the case of: smaller SMEs, firms operating in traditional and in more turbulent markets, firms located in less developed areas and firms not already exploiting the weaker ties offered by industrial districts. Network characteristics, such as size, geographical dispersion and diversity, are also found to influence performance."
M21|The financing of immigrant-owned firms in Canada|Abstract Using recent survey data, this paper examines access to financing by immigrant business owners. We hypothesize that immigrant and Canadian-born owners finance their businesses in significantly different ways and that immigrant-owned small and medium enterprises (SMEs) have more difficulty accessing financial capital. The results suggest that, after adjusting for firm and owner characteristics, financing sources for growth financing tend to be similar for the two groups. Although immigrant owners—notably those in Canada for more than 20 years—were less likely than Canadian-born owners to seek financing from any source, their applications were as likely to be approved. Both immigrant and Canadian-born owners reported that, among seven potential obstacles to firm growth presented in the survey, “access to financing” was the least important. The study finds only weak evidence to support the hypothesis that access to financial capital is a more serious issue among immigrant-owned SMEs than among SMEs with Canadian-born owners.
M21|Market Contestability and Bribe Solicitations: Evidence Across Stages of Firms' Operations|Adding to the literature on factors driving corruption and bribery, this paper examines the effect of contestability in business operations on bribe solicitations. Contestability undermines bureaucratic rent-seeking potential and this paper tries to capture this empirically using cross-country survey data. Results show that the relatively greater contestability of business startup procedures compared to startup regulatory times led to fewer bribe demands; however, property registration regulations with lower relative contestability led to more bribe demands, especially for import licenses. Finally, older and larger firms received lower bribe demands, ceteris paribus.
M21|Crowdsourced innovation: How community managers affect crowd activities|In this study, we investigate whether and to what extent community managers in online collaborative communities can stimulate crowd activities through their engagement. Using a novel data set of 22 large online idea crowdsourcing campaigns, we find that active engagement of community managers positively affects crowd activities in an inverted U-shaped manner. Moreover, we evidence that intellectual stimulation by managers increases community participation, while individual consideration of users has no impact on user activities. Finally, the data reveal that community manager activities that require more effort, such as media file uploads instead of simple written comments, have a larger effect on crowd participation.
M21|What Influences Private Investment? The Case of the Czech Republic|What influences private investment in the Czech Republic? This paper arrives at a conclusion based on a survey of fixed-asset purchases in 30,000 non-financial corporations over the period 2008-2015. BVAR models are estimated on aggregates for 19 industries and the whole non-financial economy. As our results show, foreign demand is the most important factor for Czech business investment, especially in manufacturing and tourism. We also find an increased importance of expectations and uncertainty during the period under review. According to our findings, business investment is fostered by a devalued currency and is crowded out by public investment. The most profound crowding-out was seen in manufacturing and agriculture, whereas services, trade, and construction exhibit crowding-in. Finally, EU funds are found to be successful in providing occasional support to private investment.
M21|Open source hardware as a profit-maximizing strategy of downstream firms|This paper characterizes and explores a corporate strategy in which downstream firms collaborate to develop open substitute designs for proprietary hardware they would otherwise purchase from upstream suppliers. This strategy centrally involves customers themselves distributing design costs over multiple customers â€“ a strategy that is routine to producers selling to multiple customers, but which has been impractical for coalitions of customers until fairly recently. Today customers find it increasingly feasible to co-design products they may all purchase due to two technological trends. First, CAD-CAM and other design technologies are lowering downstream firms' costs to develop designs for purchased hardware inputs. Second, better communication technologies are lowering the costs of doing such projects collaboratively, even among large groups of downstream customer firms. Customer firms collaborating to develop a design for a hardware input they all purchase could in principle choose to protect their design as a club good. However, opening up collaboratively-created designs to free riders can increase the profits of the contributing firms for several reasons that we explore and model. Important among these is that free revealing draws free riders away from purchases of proprietary software or hardware to customer-developed free substitutes. This reduces the markets of upstream suppliers of competing proprietary inputs. Free riders also, in the case of hardware only, contribute to reducing the average manufacturing costs of the open hardware by increasing purchase volumes and so creating increased economies of scale. Resulting reduced unit purchase costs benefit customers contributing to the free design as well as free riders.
M21|Managerial Spillovers in Project Selection|Selecting investment or research projects is a general managerial decision, which ranges from managing the portfolio of R&D or marketing campaigns within a company, to determining the very boundaries of the firm -- which units or divisions to encompass, what acquisitions or alliances to pursue. Projects are typically assessed individually. However, the different divisions of a firm share managerial resources, so managers can transfer successful practices from one unit to another unit within the firm, or to different firms within their portfolio. This introduces managerial spillovers, so the value of a portfolio is higher than the aggregate value of the isolated projects. In this paper, we analyze the problem of selecting projects in the presence of managerial spillovers, and provide a simple algorithm that implements its solution. We find that, while a project yielding negative marginal profit can be safely discarded, it may be profitable to pass on multiple projects at once even if some of them yield positive marginal profit. Thus, ignoring the spillovers across projects and focusing on marginal profit can lead to excessively diversified firms or economies, as opposed to firms or economies with fewer (albeit possibly larger-scale) projects.
M21|Inventory Behavior, Demand, and Productivity in Retail|This paper studies the factors underlying the heterogeneity in inventory behavior and performance across retail stores. We use a dynamic model of multi-product retailers and local competition to estimate store productivity and consumers' perceived quality of the shopping experience, and we analyze their relationship with inventory behavior and product variety. Using novel and detailed data on Swedish stores and their products, we find that stores learn from demand to improve future productivity. Store productivity is the main primitive that increases inventory turnover and product variety, and this increase is larger for stores with already high inventory turnover. Stores in small markets with intense competition from rivals have higher inventory turnover. Consumers in large markets and markets with large investments in technology benefit from a broader product variety. Counterfactual experiments show that the increase in inventory turnover due to innovations in productivity is three times greater when uncertainty in demand is reduced by 30 percent. Our analysis highlights important trade-offs between productivity and demand that allow retailers to reach high levels of inventory turnover and offer a broad product variety to consumers.
M21|The effects of innovation on the decisions of exporting and/or importing in SMEs: empirical evidence in the case of Spain|This paper analyses the involvement of small firms in international trade activities by identifying the comprehensive impact of innovation. Specifically, we study how innovation introduced by these firms determines entrepreneurial decision-making process regarding whether to engage in exporting and/or importing. Moreover, we account for several innovation outputs (product, process, and organisational/managerial innovation) when estimating the potentially interrelated decisions of whether to export and/or import. Results confirm the simultaneity of firms’ exporting and importing decisions and consequently these two decisions should be estimated together when analysing the influence incurred by the introduction of alternative types of innovation on said decisions. Furthermore, findings show complementarity between types of innovation to be relevant in explaining export and import decisions made by SMEs. Specifically, cumulative effects as a result of combining product and process innovation, as well of product, process and organisational innovation, are highly significant in explaining export decisions, while in the case of imports, the combination of product and organisational innovation is shown to be significant. These findings lead to major policy and managerial implications regarding the promotion of SMEs’ participation in international trade flows through alternative innovation strategies.
M21|Slovak electricity market and the merit order effect of photovoltaics|This paper analyses Slovak electricity market with a focus on photovoltaic energy. It evaluates the impact of the solar electricity penetration into electricity mix on spot prices, seeks evidence of the merit order effect in the Slovak electricity market and quantifies it based on hourly data. The multivariate regression analysis covers the period 2011-2016. The rather small merit order effect estimated by an OLS time series model leads to the small decrease of Slovak electricity wholesale prices. This spot price reduction attributable to the photovoltaics does not outweigh the costs of the support scheme borne by end users what implies a consumer loss.
M21|The evolution and adoption of equity crowdfunding: entrepreneur and investor entry into a new market|Equity crowdfunding (ECF) offers entrepreneurs an online social media marketplace where they can access numerous potential investors who, in exchange for an ownership stake, may supply them with finance. In this paper, we describe the evolution of this market in the UK. Using an inductive qualitative longitudinal research design, we analyse the emerging views of entrepreneurs and investors towards ECF. Our interviewees include large and small-scale investors, as well as market participants who have chosen not to invest or raise funds via ECF. We find that the large financial flows to entrepreneurs in the UK via the ECF platforms, nearly half a billion GBP since 2011, have probably been largely incremental to traditional sources of early stage entrepreneurial finance. Moreover, our research indicates that for the most part, investors appear to understand and appropriately evaluate the risks that they are bearing; ECF investments are perceived as a high risk, high return component within individuals’ portfolios. Investors also use their communication with peers and entrepreneurs via the ECF platform as a learning tool. On the entrepreneurs’ side, ECF allows them to test their products, to develop their brand, to build a loyal customer base and to turn customers into investors. We conclude that policymakers, with the support of a locally appropriate regulatory framework, could support equity crowdfunding as one of the market choices available for entrepreneurs looking to start or grow their ventures
M21|Photovoltaics and the Slovak Electricity Market|This paper analyses Slovak electricity market with a focus on photovoltaic energy. It evaluates the impact of the solar energy penetration into energy mix on spot prices, seeks evidence of the merit order effect in the Slovak electricity market and quantifies it based on hourly data. The multivariate regression analysis covers the period 2011-2016. The rather small merit order effect estimated by an OLS time series model leads to the small decrease of Slovak electricity wholesale prices. This spot price reduction attributable to the photovoltaics does not outweigh the costs of the support scheme borne by end users what implies a consumer loss.
M21|Maximizing profit increase in manufacturing based on an Information Theory model|US Patent 10 054 929 B1
M21|Politiques publiques et aides d'Etat aux entreprises : typologie des stratégies des Etats Membres de l'Union Européenne|Cet article présente trois différents modèles d'analyse des politiques publiques en matière d'aides et de soutiens aux entreprises. Chacun de ces modèles fait l'objet de critiques d'économistes. L'article montre aussi que des différences considérables existent entre pays selon l'orientation politique dominante (libérale ou interventionniste), le design institutionnel, (centralisation ou décentralisation) et les choix collectifs privilégiés par la population (cohésion économique et régionale ou environnement). Il relie ces caractéristiques aux travaux développés par l'économie politique comparative et l'économie des conventions. Il s'interroge sur la tendance à l'uniformisation des modèles de gestion publique en la matière.
M21|Managing Non-Governmental Organizations to Create Values in the Disruption Era|Objective - This paper explores the challenges faced by the Indonesia National Council on Social Welfare (INCSW) and its 64 organization members from 31 provinces in Indonesia. INCSW is a social organization that is the coordinating agency for social activities by the Government of Indonesia. The analysis includes strategic management of NGOs in the era of disruption, known as the industrial revolution 4.0. Methodology/Technique - This study uses a qualitative methodology procedure to produce descriptive data obtained from verbal answers and observable behavior. The data collection methods used in this study include interviews, surveys, observations, and use of documents as secondary data. Open interviews were conducted with several administrators and staff of the Indonesia National Council on Social Welfare (INCSW). Short questionnaires were given to 64 representatives of NGOs from 31 provinces. The interview and survey included questions that probed their understanding of the industrial revolution 4.0, disruptive innovation, willingness to change, and the readiness of the organization to create values in the era of disruption. Findings - The results show that technology use is still very lacking. The quality of human resources is of minimum concern in digital knowledge. The discussions include observations about the development of management strategies and a variety of programs offered by the Indonesia National Council on Social Welfare (INCSW). Novelty - This research is one of the few studies that examine non-profit organizations in order to create economic and social values in the era of disruption. This study explains the new paradigm of NGOs by changing the platform of NGO work operationalization. This study widens the application of 'network society' theory in the study of NGOs by emphasizing networks to create value for their stakeholders. The managerial implications of this study include the importance of technology use through social media for social sharing, thus communicating social issues more efficiently and effectively.
M21|Convenience pricing in online retailing: Evidence from Amazon.com|To expedite payments, firms use convenience pricing strategies. A price is considered convenient if it can be paid with few coins. Convenient prices are well understood in offline retailing, but not online. This article fills the gap, examining an original panel dataset more than 2.5 million observations of book prices from Amazon.com. We provide empirical evidence supporting two claims. First in a static setup, more convenient prices are more likely to be set. Second in a dynamic setup, more convenient prices are more rigid. Emphasizing the role of convenience, this work sheds new light on price setting in online retailing.
M21|Determinants of Economies of Scope in Retail|This paper studies the determinants of economies of scope in retail using a dynamic framework and novel product and store data. We estimate store productivity and consumers’ perceived shopping quality and analyze their relationship with intensive and extensive product margins, performance and welfare. We find that high productivity stores offer more products and sell more of each product. High quality stores offer fewer products and sell more of top products. Counterfactual experiments show that productivity innovations increase product variety, especially when demand uncertainty is low and in the long run. Higher shopping quality increases consumer surplus even if stores specialize.
M21|Optimal vs satisfactory transparency: The impact of global macroeconomic fluctuations on corporate competitiveness|Being able to separate temporary global macroeconomic influences – caused by fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and inflation – from intrinsic performance – related to a superior product, production process or management – is crucial to assessing the development of a firm’s competiveness. Against that background, this paper analyzes institutions’ role in making firms supply outside shareholders with relevant information corresponding to satisfactory transparency from the shareholder perspective. Based on a sample of the 100 largest public European firms, it is found that no firm provided information to a level deemed satisfactory by the outside shareholder. One explanation may be that optimal transparency for the firm does not equal satisfactory transparency for the outside shareholder. However, the implementation of IFRS/IAS 1 in the EU as of 2005 and a company’s international cross-listing activities exhibit associations with a better supply of information and a narrowing of the gap. Shareholders in the Anglo-Saxon corporate governance system are provided with more relevant information than those in other corporate governance systems. The paper adds to the literature on the role of institutions in international corporate governance, with a particular focus on information asymmetries in an international business context.
M21|消費者から見たサービスの質と生産性 : 顧客満足度指数を利用した実証分析|本論文は，日本生産性本部が2009 年から調査を行っている顧客満足度指数を使い，サービスの質と生産性との関係について実証的に分析したものである．経済学では，サービスの質の高さは，消費満足度を高めるため，実質的に消費量が増加したことと同じ効果を有する．このことを企業側から見れば，品質の高いサービスは，実質的な生産量が大きくなる．このため，品質の高度化のために要素投入量を多少増加させたとしても，実質的な生産性は高まる可能性がある．我々はまず、顧客満足度指数の対象となるサービスと企業データをマッチングし、顧客満足度と企業データから取得できる労働生産性との相関性を調べた。この結果、労働生産性が一定以上の企業群では顧客満足度も高いことが明らかになった．また，サービスの質を高度化するための企業行動や外部環境について実証分析したところ，流動性資産を相対的に多く有し，年齢の高い企業が，優秀な顧客満足度を有していることがわかった．顧客満足度というのは担保化できない資産であり，こうした資産の蓄積には流動性や長年の経験というものが必要であることを示唆している．また競争環境に関しては競争度、独占度双方が高まるにつれ、サービスの質を行動化する傾向が強まるという二極化傾向がみられた。
M21|消費者から見たサービスの質と生産性 : 顧客満足度指数を利用した実証分析|本論文は，日本生産性本部が2009 年から調査を行っている顧客満足度指数を使い，サービスの質と生産性との関係について実証的に分析したものである．経済学では，サービスの質の高さは，消費満足度を高めるため，実質的に消費量が増加したことと同じ効果を有する．このことを企業側から見れば，品質の高いサービスは，実質的な生産量が大きくなる．このため，品質の高度化のために要素投入量を多少増加させたとしても，実質的な生産性は高まる可能性がある．我々はまず、顧客満足度指数の対象となるサービスと企業データをマッチングし、顧客満足度と企業データから取得できる労働生産性との相関性を調べた。この結果、労働生産性が一定以上の企業群では顧客満足度も高いことが明らかになった．また，サービスの質を高度化するための企業行動や外部環境について実証分析したところ，流動性資産を相対的に多く有し，年齢の高い企業が，優秀な顧客満足度を有していることがわかった．顧客満足度というのは担保化できない資産であり，こうした資産の蓄積には流動性や長年の経験というものが必要であることを示唆している．また競争環境に関しては競争度、独占度双方が高まるにつれ、サービスの質を行動化する傾向が強まるという二極化傾向がみられた。
M21|Explaining growth differences across firms: The interplay between innovation and management practices|This paper provides first empirical evidence of the joint effects that innovation strategies and human resource management practices exert on firm growth. It shows that investing in technology and implementing performance-based pay policies are both positively associated with a significant turnover, employment and labor productivity growth premium. However, their joint adoption does not necessarily sum the two effects. In particular, for firms strongly relying on R&D as a lever for product and process upgrading, the estimated effect of having in place monetary incentive mechanisms is null or even negative. Job enlargement and employee empowerment policies, instead, are not found to directly impact on growth, independently of the innovation strategy pursued by firms.
M21|Business between Profitability and Sustainability|It has commonly been thought and said that the main goal of a company is to make profit and increase its value. If this is so, then the ways of achieving those goals are irrelevant. Are they really irrelevant? We are witnesses of excessive depletion of natural resources, climate change and a loss of biodiversity. Water, air, soil, light and noise pollution is increasing. We are also faced with the ignorance of human rights and income inequality. At the end the quality of life is worsening as well. The need of paradigm change from profitability to sustainability is self-evident. Sustainability is an integrative, holistic and long-term approach that advocates balance between economic, social and ecological dimensions of business, making companies responsible not only for monetary, short-term goals, but also for people and the planet. It is a known fact that many companies are mightier than numerous countries. But let us not forget that the reverse side of might is responsibility. Companies which choose the path of responsible business publish sustainable reports that reflect their efforts in respecting social and ecological business dimensions. Companies in Croatia accept this new understanding of business more and more. According to research results, they are aware of an increasing importance of social and ecological consequences of business, and the trend of sustainable reporting is on the rise. Top management has the most important function in implementing the sustainable company policy. Research shows that successful companies have a prominent role in pioneering the paradigm change. The aim of the paper is to raise awareness of sustainability in business, to reaffirm everlasting values such as respect of human rights and nature, to share examples from a small country, and to stimulate benchmarking and cooperation between international researchers.
M21|On the Economics of Audit Partner Tenure and Rotation: Evidence from PCAOB Data|This paper provides the first partner tenure and rotation analysis for a large cross-section of U.S. publicly listed firms over an extended period. We analyze the effects on audit quality as well as economic tradeoffs related to partner tenure and rotation with respect to audit hours and fees. On average, we find no evidence for audit quality declines over the tenure cycle and little support for fresh-look benefits after rotations. Nevertheless, partner rotations have significant economic consequences. We find increases in audit fees and decreases in audit hours over the tenure cycle, which differ by partner experience, client size, and competitiveness of the local audit market. More generally, our findings are consistent with efforts by the audit firms to minimize disruptions and audit failures around mandatory rotations. We also analyze special circumstances, such as audit firm switches and early partner rotations, and show that they are more disruptive than mandatory rotations, and also more likely to exhibit audit quality effects.
M21|R&D, IP, and firm profits in the North American automotive supplier industry|Economic theory implies that research and development (R&D) efforts increase firm productivity and ultimately profits. In particular, R&D expenses lead to the development of intellectual property (IP) and IP commands a return that increases overall profits of the firm. This hypothesis is investigated for the North American automotive supplier industry by analyzing a panel of 5000 firms for the years 1950 to 2011. Results indicate that R&D expenses in fact increase profitability at the firm level. In particular, increases in the R&D expense to sales ratio lead to increases in the profit contribution of intangible assets relative to sales. This indicates that more R&D intensive IP should command higher royalty rates per sales when licensed to third parties and within multinational enterprises alike.
M21|SMEs' responses to potentially disruptive innovations: Does strategic entrepreneurship provide an explanation?|This study analyses how established SMEs respond to potentially disruptive inno-vations and business models in the course of increasing digitization. Drawing on the strategic entrepreneurship approach we argue that SMEs showing strategic entrepreneurial behaviour are more likely to respond to potentially disruptive innovations and business models proactively. We find that established SMEs recognizing disruptive innovations and business models as a business opportunity apply significantly more frequently strategic measures to exploit these opportunities. Observing and evaluating relevant new technologies and devel-opments is a key determinant of belonging to the group of SMEs demonstrating strategic en-trepreneurial behaviour. In our sample only a minority belongs to the group of proactive es-tablished SMEs.
M21|Dynamic pricing for inventories with reference price effects|This article presents a dynamic pricing model of a retailer selling an inventory, accounting for consumer behavior. The authors propose an optimal control model, maximizing the intertemporal profit with consumers sensitive to the selling price and to a reference price. The optimal dynamic pricing policy is solved with Pontryagin's maximum principle with a structural (general) demand function. They obtain an original pricing rule, which explicitly accounts for the impact of price and inventory on future profits. The dynamics of price do not have to imitate the dynamics of the reference price. Instead, the dynamics of price are tied to opposing effects linked to this reference price. The authors also discuss managerial implications with regards to behavioral pricing policies.
M21|Crowdsourced Innovation: How Community Managers Affect Crowd Activities|In this study, we investigate whether and to what extent community managers in online collaborative communities can stimulate crowd activities through their engagement. Using a novel data set of 22 large online idea crowdsourcing campaigns, we find that active engagement of community managers positively affects crowd activities in an inverted Ushaped manner. Moreover, we evidence that intellectual stimulation by managers increases community participation, while individual consideration of users has no impact on user activities. Finally, the data reveal that community manager activities that require more effort, such as media file uploads instead of simple written comments, have a larger effect on crowd participation.
M21|New venture investing trajectories: A large scale longitudinal study|Investment trajectories of new enterprises are a largely neglected but important issue of new firms' business behavior. This paper debuts in showing robust evidence of new venture investment time patterns by using investment time series of 4.733 new businesses. Based on a fixed effects nonlinear panel regression approach, the study models the trajectory of new venture asset acquisition in the first years after market entry. The results unveil durations and levels of investment patterns. Showing a first investment peak at market entry and a second peak years later, an initial new venture investment cycle is bimodal. Its peak-to-peak duration yields approximately nine years on average. New venture investment can be staggered into three stages, namely an initial, a plateau, and a replacement and expansion stage.
M21|Projektmanagement-Normen und -Standards|Dieses Arbeitspapier gibt einen Überblick über aktuelle Normen und Standards, die für das Projektmanagement (PM) von Bedeutung sind. Als relevante Normungsorganisationen werden die International Organization for Standardization (ISO), das Deutsche Institut für Normung (DIN) und das US-amerikanische American National Standards Institute (ANSI) bzw. das Project Management Institute (PMI®) berücksichtigt. Bei den Standards werden solche Organisationen als relevant erachtet, die in der Lage sind, den von ihnen publizierten Standard einem breiten, im Projektmanagement tätigen Adressatenkreis publik zu machen, Dienstleistungen, wie z. B. Schulungen anzubieten, und eine Weiterentwicklung des Standards sicherzustellen. Insgesamt werden 27 PM-Normen und 13 PM-Standards beschrieben. Die Darstellung umfasst beispielsweise die Normenreihen DIN 6990x und ISO 215xx, aber auch ANSI/PMI®-Normen, wie den in der Praxis weit verbreiteten PMBOK® Guide. Als Projektmanagement-Standards werden u. a. die IPMA Individual Competence Baseline (IPMA ICB), PRINCE2® oder OpenPM2 behandelt. Auch Standards für die Prüfung von Projekten finden Berücksichtigung, z. B. der Prüfungsstandard Nr. 4 des Deutschen Instituts für Interne Revision e. V. (DIIR) zur Prüfung von Projekten. Zudem werden drei Werke zu agilen Vorgehensweisen im Projektmanagement vorgestellt. Jede Beschreibung enthält eine prägnante Inhaltsangabe, den formellen Status der Norm bzw. des Standards und Links für die eigene Recherche. Insofern soll dieses Arbeitspapier nicht nur eine aktuelle, systematische Zusammenstellung bieten, sondern es stellt auch eine Hilfestellung für ein schnelles Orientieren und Nachschlagen dar.
M21|Öffentliche Betriebe<BR>[Public Firms]|Öffentliche Betriebe weisen einige Besonderheiten gegenüber privaten Betrieben auf. Dazu werden nach dem Zweck öffentlicher Betriebe und ihren unterschiedlichen Rechtsformen in Deutschland die betrieblichen Teilfunktionen Beschaffung, Produktion, Absatz, Personal, Finanzierung und Rechnungswesen näher betrachtet. Außerdem werden die Besteuerung und Reformen von öffentlichen Betrieben sowie Hybridformen zwischen öffentlichen und privaten Betrieben untersucht.
M21|Collaborative networks and export intensity in family firms: a quantile regression approach|This paper examines if collaborative networks affect the export status and intensity in family firms. We suggest that the network effect is more relevant when the firm has low export intensity because when the firm is in the first stages of internationalization, networks are very useful to provide export resources and to solve common problems. However, this role becomes less relevant when firms show higher export intensity. For the empirical analysis, we use a dynamic Heckman-Probit model, using in the second stage a quantile regression model.
M21|End of 9-endings, price recall, and price perceptions|Prices that end with 9, also known as psychological price points, are common, comprising about 70% of the retail prices. They are also more rigid than other prices. We take advantage of a natural experiment to document an emergence of a new price ending that has the same effects as 9-endings. In January 2014, the Israeli government passed a new regulation prohibiting the use of non 0-ending prices, bringing an end to 9-ending prices. We find that seven months after 9-ending prices have disappeared, 90-ending prices acquired the same status as 9-ending prices had before the new regulation was adopted. Thus, 90-ending prices became the new psychological price points, partially eliminating the regulation’s intended effect.
M21|End of 9-Endings, Price Recall, and Price Perceptions|Prices that end with 9, also known as psychological price points, are common, comprising about 70% of the retail prices. They are also more rigid than other prices. We take advantage of a natural experiment to document an emergence of a new price ending that has the same effects as 9-endings. In January 2014, the Israeli government passed a new regulation prohibiting the use of non 0-ending prices, bringing an end to 9-ending prices. We find that seven months after 9-ending prices have disappeared, 90-ending prices acquired the same status as 9-ending prices had before the new regulation was adopted. Thus, 90-ending prices became the new psychological price points, partially eliminating the regulation’s intended effect.
M21|Business takeovers and firm growth: Empirical evidence from a German panel|The present article links business takeovers to the literature on serial autocorrelation of growth rates. The aim of the study is to identify the effects of successions on the performance of small German firms by analysing the growth pathways over a period of eight years after business takeover. Using panel data from 1,872 firms, the present article shows that for the first two years after a business takeover, small firms are subject to negative serial correlation of growth rates regarding employment. The analysis underlines the importance of longitudinal data to provide evidence on changes in the behaviour of a firm following a business takeover.
M21|The Euro from a business perspective|The euro area has several problems. Nevertheless, there is not only strong political support for it, but also most companies back the euro or at least do not complain. It is worthwhile to analyse which companies do profit from the euro and why most others do not oppose it. Exporting companies in the northern countries of the euro zone profit from the euro and the policies to save the common currency even if their countries and people suffer. Other companies, especially in the southern member countries, suffer themselves but fear a break-up of the euro area even more than its continuance. For small companies it is not worthwhile to lobby for other policies, while the companies worst affected already ceased to exist. All companies have to come to terms with the euro but should also prepare for the possible end of the euro zone. Companies in other European countries reconsider whether they really want their countries to join the euro area.
M21|Development and Operationalization of a Model of Innovation Management System as Part of an Integrated Quality-Environment-Safety System|The results of the research, presented in this article, have the purpose to contribute in the area of innovation management and its relation to other management systems. The research objective is to give to organizations a model of innovation management system as part of an integrated management system. Defining the model of innovation management system is based on the four perspectives of the balanced scorecard tool, namely: financial perspective, learning and development, internal processes and customers. In the process of defining the model several steps were taken, such as: literature review, data collection from the enterprise level through a questionnaire, analysis and correlation of data and finally the proposed model has been operationalized. In order to have a working model that can be easily adopted by any interested company, the research was deepen to the organizational processes, identifying nine processes specific for innovation that exist in an organization. Each of the nine processes have been operationalized using a SIPOC model (Suppliers ? Inputs ? Process ? Outputs ? Customers). The system for managing innovation may therefore have a positive influence on the ability and awareness of enterprises in innovation actions, and by defining this model the research conducted in this article helps to improve the efficiency of innovation, with direct implications in business performance.
M21|Assessment of the State of Implementation of Excellence Model Common Assessment Framework (CAF) 2013 by the National Institutes of Research – Development – Innovation in Romania|The paper highlights the part of the results of a research based on a questionnaire conducted at the National Institutes for Research, Development and Innovation (NIRDI) of Romania, under the coordination, under the authority or the subordination of the National Agency for Scientific Research and Innovation (NASRI), goals being pursued: Assess the current status of implementation of the Common model of excellence Self-Assessment framework (CAF) in 2013 by NIRDI in Romania; Determining the impact that the implementation of one or more management systems has on achieving excellence in research and innovation; Capacity assessment CAF 2013 model of excellence to provide enlightening information on the most important risks and challenges facing the entity being (self-) evaluation. The research was conducted in July 2016 to a representative sample of 51 of the 53 INCDI, under the coordination, under the authority or subordinate NASRI. It appears that although there is a high degree of fulfillment of the 9 criteria of the excellence model CAF 2013 NIRDI have not assimilated the spirit and the purpose of the excellence model induced by the principles of total quality management by importance (percentage) given to each criterion and sub-criterion. It appears real progress criteria results on customers and processes, products and services. At the same time there are serious shortcomings in the criteria results on the organization and results on the staff. On the one hand, based on the results analyzed, it was determined that to achieve excellence in research is not sufficient to implement two or more management systems, on the other hand it was confirmed that the results of (self-) evaluation stage of implementation of the model of excellence CAF 2013 provides significant and enlightening information to identify the principal risks and deficiencies faced by the entity (self) assessed.
M21|Dividends from Unrealized Earnings and Default Risk|Using hand-collected data on Israeli firms’ unrealized earnings and debt restructurings following adoption of the IFRS, we investigate whether and how dividend payments based on unrealized revaluation earnings affect a firm’s default risk. Our results indicate that in the era of fair value accounting, the origin of the dividend payout—coming from unrealized versus realized earnings—has a significant effect on a firm’s default risk above and beyond the effect of the extent of the payment. Specifically, controlling for various determinants of financial risk, including the amount of the dividends paid (originating from either realized or unrealized earnings), companies are over three times more likely to subsequently require debt restructuring if they distribute dividends based on unrealized earnings. However, this enhanced risk seems to be mispriced by the market; firms that distribute dividends based on unrealized earnings exhibit an insignificantly different cost of debt than firms that never do so.
M21|Pirate’s Treasure|Do countries that improve their protection of intellectual property rights gain access to new product varieties from technologically advanced countries? We build the first comprehensive matched firm level data set on exports and patents using confidential microdata from the US Census to address this question. Across several different estimation approaches we find evidence that these protections affect where US firms export.
M21|Equity Crowdfunding and Early Stage Entrepreneurial Finance: Damaging or Disruptive?|"Equity crowdfunding (ECF) offers founders of new ventures an online social media marketplace where they can access a large number of investors who, in exchange for an ownership stake, provide finance for business opportunities that they find attractive. In this paper, we first quantify the evolution of the ECF market in the UK, the world leader, as well as the benign regulatory environment. ECF already represents more than 15% of British early stage entrepreneurial finance. We then use qualitative methods to explore three research questions. First, do these large financial flows via ECF platforms supplement or merely divert more traditional forms of funding for entrepreneurs? Second, do investors understand and appropriately evaluate the risks that they are bearing by investing in this new asset class? Finally, does ECF finance bring with it the spillovers, e.g. advice and guidance critical to entrepreneurial success, associated with other sources of funding such as Venture Capital? Our study is based on extensive interviews with investors, entrepreneurs (including some who chose not to use ECF in favour of traditional funding sources) and regulators. We conclude that ECF provides real additionality to the sources of entrepreneurial finance while not bringing major new risks for investors. This suggests other jurisdictions might consider implementing the British ""principles based"" regulatory framework."
M21|Firm Efficiency, Foreign Ownership and CEO Gender in Corrupt Environments|We study the effects of corruption on firm efficiency using a unique dataset of private firms from 14 Central and Eastern European countries from 2000 to 2013. We find that an environment characterized by a high level of corruption has an adverse effect on firm efficiency. This effect is stronger for firms with a lower propensity to behave corruptly, such as foreign-controlled firms and firms managed by female CEOs, while local firms and firms with male CEOs are not disadvantaged. We also find that an environment characterized by considerable heterogeneity in the perception of corruption is associated with an increase in firm efficiency. This effect is particularly strong for foreign-controlled firms from low corruption countries, while no effect is observed for firms managed by a female CEO.
M21|To bribe or not to bribe? Corruption uncertainty and corporate practices|Using a large sample of private firms over the period from 2001 to 2013, we study the effect of corruption uncertainty on corporate investments and cash holdings. We find that a higher uncertainty about the level of corruption is associated with lower corporate investments and lower cash holdings. These results are sensitive to the ownership structure of a firm. Firms with no foreign majority ownership appear to be more sensitive to corruption-induced uncertainty than majority-controlled foreign firms. They significantly decrease their investments and cash holdings. We hypothesize that they move their cash off-balance-sheet to create cash reserves as the uncertainty of when, whom, and how much to bribe increases.
M21|Pérdidas esperadas y detrimento patrimonial por hurto de vehículos en Colombia|Este trabajo presenta una aproximación metodológica basada en el concepto de valor en riesgo operativo (VaRop) para la estimación de las pérdidas económicas máximas esperadas por el hurto de vehículos asegurados en Colombia, desagregado por empresa aseguradora y para las principales ciudades del país. También se estima la pérdida patrimonial para propietarios cuyos vehículos no están asegurados. Para el primer propósito, se identificaron las distribuciones de probabilidad asociadas a las series de hurtos tanto para la frecuencia como para la pérdida económica mensual, las cuales fueron agregadas mediante un proceso de simulación Montecarlo. Para la pérdida patrimonial se planteó un modelo multidimensional para cuantificar la distribución del detrimento patrimonial, la cual incorpora cinco distribuciones de probabilidad en un proceso de simulación Montecarlo. El estudio evidencia la gravedad del problema del robo de vehículos en Colombia, con unas pérdidas económicas máximas para las aseguradoras de $9.130,0 millones/mes y un detrimento patrimonial para los ciudadanos del orden de $16.458,0 millones/mes; además, refleja la baja cultura del seguro en el país donde solo el 28,16% del parque automotor está cubierto por compañías aseguradoras. ***** This paper presents a methodological approach based on the Value at Operational Risk (VaRop) concept in order to quantify the maximum economic loss expected for the theft of insured vehicles in Colombia disaggregated by insurance company and for major cities. The financial loss to owners whose vehicles are not insured is also estimated. To do this, we identified the probability distributions associated to the series of thefts both in terms of frequency and monthly financial loss, which were aggregated using a Monte Carlo simulation process, it permit estimate the operational VaR or maximum probable loss at 95%. For the equity loss, a multidimensional model was proposed for the Distribution of Wealth Quantify Detriment incorporating five probability distributions in a Montecarlo simulation process. The study highlights the grave problem of vehicle theft in Colombia. There is a maximum economic loss for insurers of $9,130.0 million/month and a capital expense for citizens in the order of $16,458.0 mill/month. There is also a low insurance culture: only the 28.16% of the stolen vehicles are insured.
M21|Does ownership structure affect trade credit policy in small- and medium-sized firms? Evidence from China|Abstract This paper examines whether and how ownership structure affects the trade credit policies in small- and medium-sized firms (SMEs) using a sample obtained from a survey of Chinese enterprises. Specifically, we examine how ownership concentration affects SMEs’ use of trade credit through influencing the availability of bank credit. We also examine whether the ownership of the ultimate controller influences the effect of ownership structure on trade credit. The results show that there is a significant negative relation between bank credit and trade credit when most of the firms’ shares are controlled by a dominant shareholder, indicating that concentrated ownership may lower firms’ ability to access bank credit, and SMEs use trade credit as a substitute for unavailable bank credit. The results also show that the effect of ownership concentration on the aforementioned relation is significant in private and state-controlled SMEs but not in foreign-controlled SMEs. Overall, our results suggest that ownership structure plays an important role in determining SMEs’ trade credit policies. ****** Resumen Este artículo analiza cómo afecta la estructura de propiedad las políticas de crédito comercial en las pequeñas y medianas empresas (PYME) por medio de una muestra que se ha obtenido de una encuesta a empresas chinas. Específicamente se examina cómo la concentración de la propiedad afecta al uso del crédito comercial de las PYME al influir en la disponibilidad del crédito bancario. Asimismo, se estudia si la propiedad del controlador último influye en el efecto de la estructura de la propiedad en el crédito comercial. Los resultados revelan que existe una relación negativa significativa entre el crédito bancario y el crédito comercial cuando la mayoría de las acciones de la empresa son controladas por un accionista mayoritario, lo que indica que la propiedad concentrada podría reducir la capacidad de las empresas para acceder a créditos bancarios, y que las PYME utilizan el crédito comercial como sustituto del crédito bancario no disponible. Asimismo, se observa que el efecto de la concentración de la propiedad en esta relación es relevante en las PYME privadas y estatales, pero no en las PYME de control externo. En conjunto, los resultados sugieren que la estructura de propiedad desempeña un papel importante para determinar las políticas de crédito comercial de las PYME.
M21|Los conglomerados empresariales en el Ecuador: un análisis histórico, económico y político|Posiblemente una de las formas organizacionales de mayor predominio son los conglomerados empresariales, por lo que su presencia en Ecuador no es la excepción. En este artículo se identificaron las diferentes aproximaciones teóricas que existen del constructo, posteriormente se dividió al período de estudio en etapas que explican cómo históricamente, agroexportadores, comerciantes, industriales y banqueros, se incorporaban por medio de pactos y presiones en el acontecer diario de la economía y política ecuatoriana, demostrándose que tanto los gobiernos civiles y militares, tomaron decisiones que los protegían y consolidaban. Se concluye que la concentración de capital en Ecuador tiene bases oligopólicas, por lo que las modalidades de acumulación se conformaban sin etapas previas de libre competencia.
M21|Cálculo de un WACC diferenciado por región para proyectos de generación de electricidad con fuentes renovables en Colombia|Resumen: En este trabajo estamos interesados en proponer una metodología para estimar la tasa de descuento para proyectos de generación de electricidad divididos en renovables y norenovables (convencionales) y diferenciado por región. Esto requiere estimar adicionalmente un parámetro riesgo para cada región, en este caso para cada departamento del país, que tendría el efecto inmediato de regionalizar directamente la tasa de descuento o el WACC para ambos tipos de tecnologías. En la medición del riesgo-región se consideraron variables asociadas al riesgo de corrupción y a la violencia en cada departamento. Nuestros resultados sugieren que los departamentos de Antioquia y Valle del Cauca son las regiones con más riesgo de violencia y en consecuencia donde debe exigirse una rentabilidad mínima mayor. / Abstract : In this paper we are interested in proposing a methodology to estimate the discount rate for electricity generation projects divided into renewable and non-renewable (conventional) and differentiated by region. This requires estimating a risk parameter for each region, in this case for each department of the country, which would have the immediate effect of directly regionalizing the discount rate or the WACC for both types of technologies. In the region risk measurement, variables associated with the risk of corruption and violence in each department were considered. Our results suggest that departments of Antioquia and Valle del Cauca are the regions with the highest risk of violence and consequently where a higher minimum profitability should be demanded.
M21|To Bribe or not to Bribe? Corruption Uncertainty and Corporate Practices|Using a large sample of private firms over the period from 2001 to 2013, we study the effect of corruption uncertainty on corporate investments and cash holdings. We find that a higher uncertainty about the level of corruption is associated with lower corporate investments and lower cash holdings. These results are sensitive to the ownership structure of a firm. Firms with no foreign majority ownership appear to be more sensitive to corruption-induced uncertainty than majority-controlled foreign firms. They significantly decrease their investments and cash holdings. We hypothesize that they move their cash off-balance-sheet to create cash reserves as the uncertainty of when, whom, and how much to bribe increases.
M21|Advertising Spending and Media Bias: Evidence from News Coverage of Car Safety Recalls|Do news media bias content in favor of advertisers? We examine the relationship between advertising by auto manufacturers in U.S. newspapers and news coverage of car safety recalls. This context allows us to separate the influence of advertisers, who prefer less coverage, from that of readers, who demand more. Consistent with theoretical predictions, we find that newspapers provide less coverage of recalls by their advertisers, especially the more severe ones. Competition for readers from other newspapers mitigates bias, while competition for advertising by online platforms exacerbates it. Finally, we present suggestive evidence that lower coverage increases auto fatalities.
M21|A Scientific Approach to Entrepreneurial Decision-Making: Evidence from a Randomized Control Trial|A classical approach to collecting and elaborating information to make entrepreneurial decisions combines search heuristics such as trial and error, effectuation, and confirmatory search. This paper develops a framework for exploring the implications of a more scientific approach to entrepreneurial decision making. The panel sample of our randomized control trial includes 116 Italian startups and 16 data points over a period of about one year. Both the treatment and control groups receive 10 sessions of general training on how to obtain feedback from the market and gauge the feasibility of their idea. We teach the treated startups to develop frameworks for predicting the performance of their idea and to conduct rigorous tests of their hypotheses very much like scientists do in their research. We let the firms in the control group, instead, follow their intuitions about how to assess their idea, which has typically produced fairly standard search heuristics. We find that entrepreneurs who behave like scientists perform better, pivot to a greater extent to a different idea, and do not drop out less than the control group in the early stages of the startup. These results are consistent with the main prediction of our theory: a scientific approach improves precision â€“ it reduces the odds of pursuing projects with false positive returns, and raises the odds of pursuing projects with false negative returns.
M21|Disapproval aversion or inflated inequity acceptance? The impact of expressing emotions in ultimatum bargaining|Abstract Past experimental research has shown that when rating systems are available, buyers are more generous in accepting unfair offers in ultimatum bargaining. However, it also suggests that, under these conditions, sellers behave more fairly to avoid receiving negative feedback. This paper experimentally investigates which effect is stronger with the use of a rating system: buyers’ inflated inequity acceptance or sellers’ disapproval aversion. We explore this question by varying the information condition on the buyers’ side. Our experiment shows that in a setup where the size of the pie is common knowledge for both buyers and sellers, when a rating system is present, the sellers exhibit disapproval aversion but the buyers do not display greater acceptance of inequity. By contrast, when only sellers are aware of the size of the pie, sellers behave aggressively to exploit buyers and their behavior does not change in the presence of a rating system; however, buyers display greater acceptance of inequity when a rating system is present. We discuss how these results can be explained by a theoretical model that includes sellers’ social disapproval aversion and buyers’ disappointment aversion in addition to the players’ inequality aversion.
M21|The attention of a society towards corporate brand name and its determinants within the information-rich economy|Corporate reputation can be a valuable corporate asset but a complicated concept to measure. Similarly, it is difficult to identify and quantify the determinants of corporate reputation. Considering the information rich economy and cognitive limits of economic agents (limited attention), ability to identify the effective channels of corporate communication can be a significant advantage for a corporation. This paper contributes with the methodology that enables to evaluate the attention of a society towards corporations and its determinants. The paper proposes the Googleâ€™s search volume for the specific corporation as a proxy for the attention of a society towards that company. To identify determinants of attention, the paper employs qualitative approaches Corporate Reputation QuotientTM and RepTrakÂ®, that defines the dimensions of corporate reputation. Further, the paper employs Bayesian model averaging (BMA) to handle the uncertainty in a choice of particular determinants. Set of variables identified by BMA is estimated in a linear dynamic panel environment. Delivered results enable to evaluate the current channels of corporate communication with customers and its costs.
M21|University Management Practices and Academic Spin-offs|Building upon the recent literature on the empirical economics of management, we posit that different forms of management practices introduced by Universities to support academic entrepreneurship affect how well spin-offs get created, supported and evaluated and, eventually, account for academic spinoff performance. We draw on a longitudinal sample of 790 Italian University spin-offs founded by 42 different Italian Universities and observed over the period 2006-2014. Our results suggest that management practices contribute to explain the growth of academic spin-offs and that this effect varies across management practices (e.g. support operations management vs. target management) and spin-offs’ growth patterns (e.g. high-growth vs. low-growth spin-offs). Drawing on these results, the adoption of management practices by University managers should be carefully considered as they seem to serve different purposes. Their appropriateness can vary and, not surprisingly, some management practices seem to be more effective than others in driving spin-offs’ growth.
M21|Advertising Spending and Media Bias: Evidence from News Coverage of Car Safety Recalls|Do news media bias content in favor of advertisers? We examine the relationship between advertising by auto manufacturers in U.S. newspapers and news coverage of car safety recalls. This context allows us to separate the influence of advertisers, who prefer less coverage, from that of readers, who demand more. Consistent with theoretical predictions, we find that newspapers provide less coverage of recalls by their advertisers, especially the more severe ones. Competition for readers from other newspapers mitigates bias, while competition for advertising by online platforms exacerbates it. Finally, we present suggestive evidence that lower coverage increases auto fatalities.
M21|On the Economics of Audit Partner Tenure and Rotation: Evidence from PCAOB Data|This paper provides the first partner tenure and rotation analysis for a large cross-section of U.S. publicly listed firms over an extended period. We analyze the effects on audit quality as well as economic tradeoffs related to partner tenure and rotation with respect to audit hours and fees. On average, we find no evidence for audit quality declines over the tenure cycle and little support for fresh-look benefits after rotations. Nevertheless, partner rotations have significant economic consequences. We find increases in audit fees and decreases in audit hours over the tenure cycle, which differ by partner experience, client size, and competitiveness of the local audit market. More generally, our findings are consistent with efforts by the audit firms to minimize disruptions and audit failures around mandatory rotations. We also analyze special circumstances, such as audit firm switches and early partner rotations, and show that they are more disruptive than mandatory rotations, and also more likely to exhibit audit quality effects.
M21|Blockbuster or Niche? Competitive Strategy under Network Effects| We provide a theory unifying the long tail and blockbuster phenomenon. Specifically, we analyze a three-stage game where the firms first make entry decisions, then decide on the investment in its product and lastly customers sequentially arrive to make purchase decisions based on product quality and historic sales under the network effect. We analytically show that a growing network effect always contributes to the demand concentration on a small number of products. However, product variety and quality investments, as an outcome of firms¡¯ ex-ante competitive decisions, may increase or decrease, as the network effect grows. When the network effect parameter is smaller than a threshold, the increasing network effect would shift more demand towards the products with higher qualities, preempting more products from entering the market ex ante and inducing firms to adopt the blockbuster equilibrium strategy by making larger quality investment. When the network effect is stronger than the threshold, the increasing network effect would make the market easily concentrated to a few products. Even some low quality ones may have chances to become a ¡°hit.¡± Interestingly, in this case, the ex-ante equilibrium product variety would be broader and firms adopt the niche equilibrium strategy by maker smaller quality investment. We empirically test the theory with the movie box office data and find strong supporting evidence.
M21|Housing Policy of the Administrative-Territorial Units in Northeastern Bulgaria 2010-2014|The article examines the status and the change of the parameters characterizing the housing policy in the Northeastern region of the Republic of Bulgaria. Surveyed are the various counties in the Northeastern Region of Bulgaria - Varna, Dobrich, Targovishte and Shumen. Subject of analysis are the strategic goals, the operational aspects and the indicators characterizing the housing policy in these counties. Analyzed and outlined are the impact of specific factors on housing policy and the vision and strategic objectives thereof in this region of the country. The conclusions may be summarized as follows: the strategic objectives are aimed at improving the condition of existing housing and the provision new affordable housing for the population. Housing affordability for the population is improved as a result of reduced price levels and increased incomes. The residential standard, the housing concentration and the average housing area are growing as a result of a slowdown in housing numbers relative to the population and the growth rate of the housing area. These changes are the result of the demographic, economic and social changes in this part of the country.
M21|Economic Efficiency of Real Estate Firms' Activity|The article is dedicated to the economic efficiency of real estate firms (real estate agencies, facility and property firms) from the position of our regulatory organization. Some of the indicators for measuring the economic efficiency of these firms have been studied ï¿½ those are also indicators that can be used in the analysis, planning and control of said efficiency.
M21|The Effect of Financial Ratios on the Stock Price Development| This study examines the effect of the main microeconomic factors on the stock prices of select energy industry companies listed and traded on the Prague Stock Exchange and Warsaw Stock Exchange. The microeconomic factors are based on the financial situation in companies. The financial ratios (debt/equity ratio, liquidity ratio, financial leverage ratio, return on equity ratio and return on investment ratio) are gained from the financial statements. The existence of relationship between stock prices and financial ratios is tested with the Generalized Method of Moments. During the period 2006 - 2015 we revealed a positive impact of financial leverage ratio on stock prices in both countries and a negative effect of liquidity ratio on stock prices in both countries.
M21|Modeling With @Risk:A Tutorial Guide|Excel @RISK is a helpful modeling tool used to analyze under uncertain and risky conditions. This paper aims to provide a starting resource for the use of @RISK analysis and allow readers the ability to make more productive and insightful business decisions. This paper covers the fundamentals of concepts such as simulation, measuring correlations, parent distributions, time series modeling, analysis tools and NPV analysis. This tutorial guide is intended to provide a detailed resource for the conceptual understanding and practical application of @RISK modeling.
M21|Innovation as an immanent attribute of an agile enterprise|Each organization faces the challenge of operating in an environment that is unpredictable and turbulent. Emergence of business era caused that change had become a key feature that determines the economic environment of an enterprise. Market environment forces companies to seek strategic orientation that would allow them to use market opportunities and come to grips with growing customer demands. These goals can only be achieved by an organization that bears the hallmarks of agility. The purpose of this article is to analyze relationships between obtaining an ability to be innovative and agility attributes of an organization. The problem was analyzed on the basis of empirical research of an international character. The article points out that adopting by a company agility attributes translates into a better competitive position and a higher level of innovation. Innovation in an enterprise constitute an impulse to take new challenges, which perfectly fits into the paradigm of the organization’s agility. In turn, through innovation, companies become agile. The presented research confirms that there is a connection between having agility attributes by a company and obtaining by it a high level of innovation. Many authors also specify important role of IT system in introducing product innovations and innovation processes
M21|Gender Roles in Marketing Communications in Real Estate Markets|The real estate market has attracted a lot of public interest due to its significant economic role. Changes are, however, going to abound in the nearest future as a result difficulties in accessing housing loans and amendments to the building construction laws, amongst others. This will call for even greater involvements of tenderers in the marketing communication process. Gender-related differences in the purchasing decision making process is growing in significance and should be reflected in marketing communications. The aim of the article is identify contemporary activities undertaken in marketing communications in the real estate market. The specific objective is to analyse the use of one of the most significant tools of marketing communications namely, the internet in the real estate market. The specific objective also includes seeking answers to the question if the sex of recipients of marketing messages concerning the real estate market is taken into consideration by their broadcasters. The study involved the use of literature analysis and criticism, analysis of web contents provided by tenderers of real estate as well as telephone interviews with representatives of both property developers and real estate agencies. Online marketing communications are the most important in real estate markets. Websites of real estate agencies and property developers vary a lot. Real estate tenderers, very often, make use of social media in marketing communications undertaken by them. One of the most common trend is to the use of images and not texts in marketing communications, thus creating new possibilities for communication. Very few property developers and real estate agencies exploit the knowledge of gender-related differences in the reception of marketing messages. Only few communication activities take cognisance of sex. The need for marketing communications in real estate to be directed at young customers has necessitated the engagement of new media sources in such activities.
M21|Financial sustainability for private higher education institutions|The development of higher education (HE) is amongst topical issues. The modern society recognises that the most valuable capital is a human being with his/her intellectual potential and this has become the main resource for social and economic development. The important component of the HE systems of many countries is formed by Private Higher Education Institutions (PHEIs), although in each case they have national peculiarities. Today PHEIs undergo difficulties inherent to the entire system of education. The problem of financial sustainability and efficiency of HEIs is becoming urgent. In this context, the most important issue is to deal with developing approaches for quantifying financial sustainability and identifying the indicators of its evaluation. To analyse the financial sustainability of the private sector of HE in Latvia and justify the necessity of an integrated indicator system for financial sustainability evaluation. Include methods of economic and statistic analyses, methods of the analysis and synthesis of economic information, methods of grouping, comparisons, classification, summarising, description and prediction. One of the major issues is the existing gap between the assessment of financial activities of a higher education institution (HEI) and its education activities, which is asserted by accreditation standards; according to these standards, financial and education activities are autonomous entities, hardly interconnected.
M21|Determinants of small business survival: The impacts of capital intensity and the collateral value of fixed assets|The major claim of this article is twofold, that is, that fixed assets in small manufacturing enterprises in developing countries have to be seen with respect to two roles. The first is capital intensity. The second is the collateral value of these assets. The former is associated with the small manufacturing firms’ hazard of exit in a U-shaped fashion. The latter takes up a wave-shaped relationship. Failure in the extant empirical literature to fit a binomial specification for capital intensity results in either a negative or a positive relationship, or even, lack of statistical significance. All these three outcomes are the results of a misguided attempt to fit an “artificial” monotonic specification to an actual U-shaped relationship. The trinomial specification for the collateral value of the small manufacturing enterprises’ fixed assets has never been attempted. Thus, the present article proposes a new framework for the study of the impact of the small manufacturing enterprises’ fixed assets investment strategy upon their hazard of exit.
M21|Bank Loan Loss Provisions Research: A Review|We review several observations in the bank loan loss provisioning literature to identify and discuss several advances in the literature and to suggest possible directions for future research in the literature. We address several issues including the ethical dimensions of income smoothing, motivations and constrains to income smoothing, methodological issues in the bank loan loss provisions literature and the dynamic loan loss provisioning experiment. We identify some challenges in the literature and proffer directions for future research.
M21|Multi Product and Multi Region Marketing|Firms could position themselves to compete within the same industry in different ways They try to get their competitive advantage which is defined as the ability to earn a higher rate of economic profit than the average of economic profit of other firms competing within the same markets Besanko et al 2013 Michael Porter 1980 coined generic strategies for firms to compete in the markets they serve i e cost leadership benefit leadership and focus Besanko et al 2014 noted three possible how it could happen in three different ways 1 the cost leader can get the benefit parity by producing products with the same benefit B but at lower cost C 2 the cost leader can get benefit proximity which involves offering a benefit B that is not much less than those of competitors 3 the cost leader might offer a product that is qualitatively different from that its competitors Benefit and Cost leadership closely relates to the crucial issue of how the firm will create the higher competitive advantage or economic value created compared to its rivals The other important issue is where to create higher economic value More specifically will the firm seek to create economic value across broad of regional markets segments broad coverage strategy or will it focus only on narrow set of segments focus strategy Yet Porter 1980 had not given any mathematical formula to analyze the performance of sales which is related to the strategic positioning Therefore firstly this paper is addressed to derive a mathematical formula for analyzing the performance of sales in the cases of multi product and multi region In the real all markets now a firm could produce more than one product multi product and sell the products in more than one markets multi markets It is very useful for the firms to know the determinants of the changes of their sales Are they affected by the products or the markets The mathematical formula derived in this paper offers the answer Every firm needs this information to formulate the suitable markets policies or strategies For sure the mathematical formula requires detail information on sales by products markets and competitors Secondly due to the unavailability of empirical data the formula is simulated by using hypothetical data
M21|Электронная Коммерция: Аутсорсинг В Электронном Бизнесе<BR>[E-commerce: outsourcing e-business]|В статье рассматривается развитие ит-аутсорсинга, который активно используется сегодня благодаря высокому темпу развития компьютерных технологий. Автор анализирует влияние аутсорсинга и ит-аутсорсинга на электронный бизнес. Особое значение уделено активному развитию ит-аутсорсинга как одному из направлений развития электронного бизнеса.
M21|Defining PPP Opportunities in the Road Sector of Ukraine|The road sector is one of strategic segments of Ukrainian economy and public roads are considerable part of Ukrainian infrastructure potential. Many governments have been using PPP concerning highways and other fixed assets. Despite the successful development of the PPP/concession on construction and operation of motorway roads, the failures still happen. The inefficient project is those being prepared for a long period and still being unimplemented. The main obstacles and prerequisites for the PPP in the road sector in Ukraine are explored in this publication
M21|Маркетинговые Преимущества Продвижения Товаров При Помощи Технологии «Гивэвей»<BR>[Marketing benefits of promoting products with the help of technology, “giveaway”]|Статья о преимуществах продвижения товаров и услуг в социальных сетях при помощи технологии «гивэвей». Автор рассматривает различные стороны маркетинговых преимуществ технологии в сети-интернет. Особое внимание уделено ключевым моментам использования технологии «гивэвей» в области интернет-маркетинга.
M21|Особенности Продажи Товаров На Одностраничных Сайтах<BR>[Features of selling products on landing page]|The article is devoted to the sale of goods using one-page websites. The article highlights the main features and differences of such sites from online stores. Also led the scheme of work, the highlighted pluses and minuses of single-page sites. Based on a large number of deficiencies, the rationale for the low efficiency of this type of sales is provided.
M21|Маркетинг Взаимоотношений С Поставщиками На Промышленном Рынке И Его Особенности|This article discusses the issues on relationship marketing in the industrial market. Special attention is paid to the definition of relationship marketing, proposed classification of relationship marketing research schools such as North American, Northern European and British. Revealed key concepts of relationship marketing in industrial market and its features.
M21|Qual a importância da Auditoria Operacional nas PME Portuguesas?<BR>[The importance of the operational audit of Portuguese SMEs]|Atualmente, as organizações enfrentam vários desafios, por exemplo, as suas transações organizacionais crescem em volume e complexidade e estão a viver em ambientes de negócios altamente regulamentados. Portanto, os mecanismos de controlo e monitorização são necessários para avaliar e validar todas as transações, de forma abrangente, para atender aos controlos e regulamentos. Contudo, o processo de auditoria tradicional ocorre principalmente após a conclusão das transações, uma vez que não é viável auditá-las a tempo. Assim, torna possível inibir o risco associado à sua execução. Para muitas organizações existe um conjunto de riscos significativos de erros e fraudes e estes não são detetados atempadamente, resultando num impacto bastante nefasto para as organizações. A atual crise financeira global e os sucessivos e conhecidos escândalos de algumas organizações, como Lehman Brothers, A-Tec, Madoff, Kaupthing Bank, WorldCom, Enron, Parmalat, e muitos outros, levaram a que exista uma forma de prever esses erros e fraudes. Assim, qualquer organização deve estar suficientemente preparada para sobreviver, independentemente do número de riscos a que está sujeito, mediante a implementação de um sistema adequado de Garantia Contínua, com o quadro legislativo e regulamentar aplicável. Esta garantia contínua poderá ser efetuada através da auditoria operacional. O presente artigo tem como objetivo a análise da importância da auditoria operacional das PME’s portuguesas. Através da aplicação de um questionário semiestruturado, e da análise de um caso prático, identificam-se o tipo de erros que podem ocorrer afetando de forma significativa as Demostrações Financeiras.
M21|Why Do Firms Sell Out? Separating Targets’ Motives from Bidders’ Selection of Targets in M&A|This paper explores why firms seek strategic alternatives, effectively putting themselves up for sale in the market for corporate control. Using a sample of firms that are observed to be exploring strategic alternatives, I model (1) the self-selection of firms to become potential takeover targets, which is distinct from (2) the selection of targets by bidders. The findings suggest that firms seek strategic alternatives because they are performing poorly and face financial constraints, yet corporate governance mechanisms prompt the disruptive attempt to maximize shareholder value. In contrast, the subset of firms that actually receive bids have relatively better growth prospects and performance, and lower market risk – which suggests that bidders do not prefer under-performing targets, contrary to conventional thought. The largely contrasting profiles of firms that are volitionally supplied by sellers versus demanded by bidders modify our conventional understanding of target firms’ motives and target selection in M&A.
M21|Freemium as optimal menu pricing|In online contents markets, content providers collect revenues from both consumers and advertisers by segmenting consumers who are willing to avoid advertisements and who are not. To analyze such situations, I construct a model of menu pricing by advertising platforms in two-sided markets. I find that, under certain condition, although a monopolistic platform can choose any menu of price-advertisement pairs, the optimal menu consists of only two services: ad-supported basic service and ad-free premium service. In addition, if the willingness to pay of advertisers is sufficiently high, the basic service is offered for free. This menu pricing is well known as freemium. Furthermore, this binary structure remains to hold under several extensions including duopoly platform competition.
M21|The Gift and Pay-What-You-Want Pricing|This paper addresses the participative pricing mechanism of Pay-What-You-Want pricing as related to Marcel Mauss’s concept of the Gift. Reciprocity is a behavioural pattern imminent to the Gift as well as to Pay-What-You-Want pricing. The paper refers to results from behavioural economics in order to identify factors that positively influence reciprocity. It is argued that the aspects elaborated on in the Gift are also relevant to the PWYW pricing mechanism when it comes to implementations of the latter as one of the corporate pricing strategies.
M21|Innovation And Performance. An Analysis On European And Romanian Companies|The challenges of the economy and of the modern society based on knowledge are closely related to the success of firms, their ability to generate new, innovative products and services, in a steady pace and in a large, diverse structure in order to ensure performance and long-term welfare. In a global world where countries compete to produce and promote the market for quality and convenient products for the consumers, the innovation capacity of a country and the innovative capabilities of companies acquire a special importance. Numerous studies have analyzed the determinants of innovation of the innovative activities in companies, focusing in particular on organizational and technological capabilities and associated strategies required for successful innovation. There are different types of measuring innovation at the firm level, and in this paper we chose four main groups inspired by the typology promoted by OECD and Eurostat: product innovation, process innovation, organizational innovation, and marketing innovation. To remain competitive in the long term, companies must consider all these areas, introduce new products to market, improve the quality of the existing products, upgrade or purchase new production technologies. Based on statistical reports of world and national organizations, our research highlights an extremely diverse and heterogeneous picture of the performance innovation indicators in Europe and the situation in Romania, by comparison both with the EU average, with countries in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), but also with their own performance in prior periods.
M21|Religi, budaya dan ekonomi kreatif: Prospek dan pengembangan pariwisata halal di Cirebon<BR>[Religion, culture and creative economy: Prospect and development of halal tourism in Cirebon]|This article confirms that tourism activities including religious, cultural and creative centers in Cirebon are developing separately from local government policy and program implementation, but tourism development activities are getting more advanced in the city and district of Cirebon. With a trend-analysis approach, this article is based on data collected through interviews, exploration of events, news, and information from print media and electronic media, as well as documents from tourism organizers in Cirebon. This paper concludes that Cirebon positioned itself as one of the destinations for the development of halal tourism that became the centre of the tourism industry in the future.
M21|SYNCHROMARKETING: SEBAGAI CARA PERUSAHAAN MENINGKATKAN PENDAPATAN (STUDI KASUS TOMSK GARDEN GROUP RUSSIA Ltd)<BR>[Synchromarketing strategies and Ansoff matrix in increasing the company's revenue]|The purpose of this study was to analyze the influence of synchromarketing strategies and Ansoff matrix in increasing the company's revenue during the seasonal market. The case studies carried out in Tomsk Garden Group Russia Ltd that provides landscape design services and has a lot of demand in the summer, especially during June and July. However, demand for landscape design services fell during the winter. In this paper, using descriptive qualitative methods and survey questions to consumers for increasing revenue at the seasonal market. The results of this case showed that synchromarketing and Ansoff matrix can help companies increase revenue.
M21|Country of origin effect and perception of Romanian consumers|In the context of globalization, international trade has become more intense. This exploratory research aims to identify the Romanian consumers' perception of the country of origin (COO). In the present research, we analysed two perspectives of the effect of the country of origin: political economy and marketing. The positive impact of campaigns to encourage the purchase of domestic products has not yet been confirmed for the decision-makers. On the other hand, in order to achieve a successful marketing strategy, it is essential to know the consumer’s perception of the COO effect. The research data was collected through a survey conducted on a sample of 250 respondents from the North-East Region of Romania. The results confirm that the effect of the home country has a moderate impact on purchases and the COO effect is more associated with certain product categories. The average COO effect on quality perception is greater than the COO's average effect on purchasing intent.
M21|SMEs and Start-Ups. Importance and Support Policies in European Union and Romania|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are considered as being the engine of the European economy. They lead to job creation and economic growth, guaranteeing social stability. Nine out of ten enterprises are SMEs, which generate two out of three new jobs. SMEs also stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation, and are therefore very important for boosting competitiveness and employment. Given their importance to Europe's economy, SMEs are a major objective of the European Union's policy. The European Commission has as its major aim to promote entrepreneurship and improve the business environment for SMEs by enabling them to fully realize their potential in today's globalized economy by giving them the opportunity to access funds through various programs. This paper contains some definitions and interpretations of SMEs and start-ups and aims to outline their importance in the contemporary economy as well as their support policies.
M21|Effect of Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs) on the performance of Small business in Karachi|This paper examines the impact of employee stock ownership plans on the overall performance of the organizations. From the five decades literature, the conceptual underpinning formed includes variables of interest namely; employees' motivation, job commitment, employees' turnover, and productivity/profitability of the firms. The paper follows positivist philosophy with deductive approach to gain numerical significance. Total 280 respondents targeted using combination of probability (random) sampling and non-probability (convenience and snowball) sampling techniques. The statistical tests, which are used to test the hypotheses, are regression and correlation. Results showed that they exists statistically significant correlation between ESOPs and overall performance of the organization. Interestingly, the nature of relationship is positive but the strength is moderate to weaker. Employees' turnover has moderate positive significant correlation (r=. 541, p
M21|Entrepreneurship and sustainability: The need for innovative and institutional solutions|The role of innovation and institutional quality for achieving sustainability are important issues tackled by current sustainable development debates, particularly in developing countries. Using a modified environmental Kuznets curve model, the present study improves our understanding of the critical roles of innovation, institutional quality, and entrepreneurship in structural change toward a sustainable future for Africa. Our empirical results show that formal and informal entrepreneurship are conducive to reduced environmental quality and sustainability in 17 African countries however informal entrepreneurship contributes more than formal entrepreneurship to this environmental degradation. The relationship between entrepreneurship and sustainable development turns strongly positive in the presence of high levels of innovation and institutional quality. This study contributes to this emerging research strand by clarifying the conditions that allow African countries to move toward more sustainable economies. Our results highlight the important roles played by innovation and institutions for achieving sustainability in Africa.
M21|An empirical investigation of factors affecting the performance of women entrepreneurs in Harare: a case of food vendors|Zimbabwe, whose economy is under life support; continues to be characterized by company closures with many workers losing their jobs through retrenchments (Nyathi et al, 2018). This fragile economic situation has resulted in a number of Zimbabweans resorting to entrepreneurship as their last option. We note with kin interest that the growth of women entrepreneurs in Zimbabwe has also increased significantly. This study seeks to empirically investigate the factors that affect the performance of women entrepreneurs in Harare. The study adopts a case study approach, specifically focused on food vendors in Harare. Questionnaires consisting of structured and unstructured questions were used for data collection. The research employed purposive sampling to select the target population and 190 questionnaires were completed and analyzed. While consistent with both the psychological and economic theories of entrepreneurship, the results of this study also indicate that the performance of women entrepreneurs in the food vending sector in Zimbabwe continues to be hindered by a serious lack of adequate financial resources. The study managed to come up with two main policy recommendations that are envisioned to go a long way in improving the performance of women entrepreneurs in Zimbabwe.
M21|Сучасний Стан І Тенденції Економічної Безпеки Агрохолдингів В Україні| Article aim is to consider agricultural holdings of Ukraine in terms of economic security and the basic conditions of their formation and activities. Established stages of development, compared land bank of holding agrarian companies, and determined the geographic distribution, the levels of debt security, reputation, financial reliability, effectiveness of largest agricultural holdings. Posted arguments concerning the improvement of the integrated agricultural enterprises’ economic security system based on considering functional components. Agricultural holdings formation impact on state food and environmental security. Periodic adverse reports of bankruptcy, scandals on bad product quality, financial instability, raider seizure and so on actualize study of agricultural holdings from the standpoint of guaranteeing economic security.
M21|Companies’ Characteristics and the Choice of Hedge Accounting for Derivatives Reporting: Evidence from Malaysian Listed Companies|This paper investigates the adoption of hedge accounting by Malaysian listed companies in reporting their use of derivatives for hedging activities. Based on a sample of 300 Malaysian listed companies, we found that only 162 companies (54 percent) used derivatives to hedge their financial risks exposure and only 30 percent of the companies chose to apply hedge accounting. In addition, this study examines the relationship between the company specific characteristics and their application of hedge accounting. The logistic regression results showed that the decision to apply hedge accounting by Malaysian companies is positively influenced by the company size and leverage. The implications of the findings were discussed.
M21|Dopady vlastnické struktury, firemních charakteristik a krize na efektivitu českých podniků<BR>[Impact of Ownership Type, Firm Characteristics and Crisis on Efficiency of the Czech Firms]|We analyze how efficiency of firms in the Czech Republic is affected by their size, age, competition, capital structure, ownership types, and global financial crisis. We employ the stochastic frontier approach, use a large and detailed dataset, and cover time span 2001-2012. While effects of firm characteristics are small, the effects of ownership are economically substantial. We show that majority owners are most contributive with respect to firm’s efficiency when compared to other categories we analyze. Minority owners with legally grounded power are able to impose significant efficiency improvement. The effect of the foreign ownership is strongest when foreign owners control firms with less than majority of voting power. Minority owners sharing the control do not seem to contribute to efficiency. The impact of crisis is not balanced but can be regarded as marginally positive in general. The firms’ characteristics change only a little. In contrast, worsening impact of the crisis is evidenced for controlling ownership categories. Minority owners exhibit a limited disciplining effect to improve efficiency after the crisis, though.
M21|Paralel And Multilayer Economic Dualities: An Example From Hungary|Dualities in an economy may emerge for various reasons, but the general stereotype of high-tech foreign firms at odds with underdeveloped local ones seems to be an oversimplification of the problem. Building on a sample of more than 4,600 Hungarian firms, this paper investigates the parallel existence of various economic dualities. The novelty of this paper is that it concludes that not only several different dualities can be identified, but also that several layers of duality exist. For example, both locally and foreign owned entities are very deferent in efficiency when grouped on export intensity and wage level. This phenomenon makes one-size-fits-all business support programs obsolete; instead it points to the need for tailor-made development frameworks for the various subgroups of companies to aid in their catching-up to Western economies. The highly differentiated picture of companies detailed in this paper should also help economic decision makers to promote investments that truly decrease the lag between the Central and East European countries and Western countries.
M21|The impact of Multinational Enterprises on Public Governance Institutions in Areas of Limited Statehood|We explore the interaction between Multinational Enterprises (MNEs) and public governance institutions in regions of limited statehood by focusing on three areas of inquiry: firstly, the impact of MNEs in these environments; secondly, the mechanisms and levels through which MNEs engage with external governance processes; and lastly, the strategic motivation for the mode and level of engagement. We use detailed case studies of four MNEs that are active in Afghanistan. The results reveal a relationship between the depth of country embeddedness and the level of engagement of MNEs with public institutions and this is related to issues around risk mitigation and time horizons. Deeper embeddedness in the local markets brings greater exposure to risk leading to more and wider engagement in governance processes and cross sector partnerships in order to influence these concerns. Two models of MNE engagement are presented, namely an embedded versus autonomous model and we examine their implications.
M21|The moral consequences of economic growth on the local business development: A case of Phitsanulok investigation|This paper analyses regional investment in Phitsanulok Province located in the lower north of Thailand. Using data for 3,623 local business registered from 1906 to 2015. This study examines their performance of the city growth and socio-economic problems to promote entrepreneurship based on locally-owned (LOEs) enterprises and nonlocally-owned (NLOEs) enterprises. The key determinants are identified using a unique assembled data recorded by local authority recording and comprising all local business sectors over time. The descriptive analytical approach will be applied to full sample (all sectors) and other relevant issues (capital based, size of business into SMEs; Small Medium Enterprises). Most enterprises are small business; while, there are few medium and large sizes in the community areas.The aim of the research is to explore the evolution of local business development in the province and the major determinants to increase the investment into local. The quantitative approach has been investigated together with face to face interview from the purposive samples by sectors. The results show that local entrepreneurs experience the high competitiveness from outsides especially from the large and medium nonlocally-owned enterprises. The development of entrepreneurship in the areas based of Phitsanulok has gradually changed. The huge capital investment from outside has injected into the areas. The phenomenon how the small ? medium enterprises will be survived from the large enterprises dominated into the areas has to be discussed in terms of policy priority actions and the economic and social instruments at the level of economic entities of local business development in the areas. This study briefly examines the city growth of businesses? existence and its changes over time. This approach can be applied to analyze the city growth at provincial-level of the country.
M21|The Pay-What-You-Want game: What can be learned from the experimental evidence on Dictator and Trust Games?|This paper introduces the Pay-What-You-Want game which represents the interaction between a buyer and a seller in a Pay-What-You-Want (PWYW) situation. The PWYW game embeds the dictator game and the trust game as subgames. This allows us to use previous experimental studies with the dictator and the trust game to identify three factors that can influence the success of PWYW pricing in business practice: (i) social context, (ii) social information, and (iii) deservingness. Only few cases of PWYW pricing for a longer period of time have been documented. By addressing repeated games, we isolate two additional factors which are likely to contribute to successful implementations of PWYW as a long term pricing strategy. These are (iv) communication and (v) the reduction of goal conflicts. The central contribution of this study is an attempt to bridge the gap between laboratory experiments and the research on PWYW pricing, which relies largely on evidence from the field. By reviewing the relevant experiments, this study identifies factors crucial for the success of PWYW pricing and provides guidance to developing long-term applications of PWYW pricing.
M21|Strategic risk in supply chain contract design|Abstract Supply chains facing asymmetric information can either operate in a cooperative mode with information and benefit sharing or can choose a non-cooperative form of interaction and align their incentives via screening contracts. In the cooperative mode, supply chain efficiency can be achieved, but high levels of trust and trustworthiness are required. In the non-cooperative mode, the contract mechanism guarantees a second best supply chain performance, but only if all parties choose their equilibrium strategies without trembles. Experimental evidence, however, shows that both operating modes often fail due to strategic risk. Cooperation is disrupted by deceptive signals and the lack of trust, whereas non-cooperative strategies suffer from persistent out-of-equilibrium behavior. We present two means to reduce strategic risk. First, a punishment mechanism leads to a better matching of trust and trustworthiness and supports the cooperative operating mode. Second, an enforcement of self-selection supports the non-cooperative equilibrium by increasing the attractiveness of screening contracts. We find that supply chain performance can benefit from reduced strategic risk in either operating mode.
M21|The changing relevance of accounting information to debt holders over time|Abstract A number of studies have examined the change over time in the information content of accounting numbers to stockholders. However, the stockholders’ perspective is not necessarily identical to that of debt holders. The two groups face different risks and rewards, and thus their informational needs are not the same. We examine the change in the information content of accounting numbers over time from the debt holders’ perspective and hypothesize about the economic and reporting factors likely to affect this change. Using the association between accounting numbers and bond valuation and returns, we find that the information content to debt holders has increased over time. In contrast, but consistent with prior studies, we find that the information content to equity holders has declined. The results suggest that the increased information content to debt holders is related to changes in credit risk and to reporting factors such as the increase in reporting conservatism, the shift towards fair value accounting, and the increase in the frequency of losses. The findings contribute to the scant literature on the use of accounting information by debt holders and the extent to which financial reporting meets their unique needs.
M21|Prior education and entrepreneurial intentions: the differential impact of a wide range of fields of study|Abstract Studies on entrepreneurial intentions often neglect the heterogeneity of individuals’ education background. This paper develops an integrated intention-based framework and analyzes the impact of fields of study on entrepreneurial intentions. Based on a sample of 2423 final-year students, enrolled in 32 fields of study, and resorting to logistic estimations, we find that, beside the attitude towards starting a business, fields of study, considered at a highly detailed level, are relevant (direct and indirect) predictors of entrepreneurial intention. We unambiguously show that there is a huge hidden potential for new venture creation in fields of study related to creative and leisure activities (e.g., Arts and humanities, or, more specifically, Literature and linguistics, History and archaeology, Audio-visual techniques and media production, Sports, and Architecture and town planning), Law, and Health (most notably, Pharmacy and Veterinary). Significant differences in the level of intention between students of different fields of study indicate that universities should more extensively focus entrepreneurship education on students in other subject area than business or engineering/technology sciences.
M21|A co-utility approach to the mesh economy: the crowd-based business model|Abstract We explore the mesh economy applications of co-utility, a new concept describing self-enforcing and mutually beneficial interactions among self-interested agents. We show that the crowdsourcing market is naturally co-utile (without additional incentives). Furthermore, we analyze the investment crowdfunding industry and propose solutions that can neutralize the fear and mistrust effects underlying its market in order to make it strictly co-utile. Up on our analysis under the co-utility framework, we corroborate that collaboration is always rationally sustainable, as long as the system is co-utile and that all co-utile outcomes are Pareto-optimal; but not all Pareto-optimal outcomes are co-utile. In addition, reciprocity and hybridity equilibrium are compatible with co-utility in specific cases at which they provide Pareto-optimal outcomes. This methodology of analysis within the framework of co-utility can be extended beyond the crowd-based business models and promises to significantly contribute to economic theory.
M21|Privacy Regulation and Quality Investment|This paper analyzes how a privacy regulation restricting data disclosure affects quality investment by a monopoly service provider - who derives revenues solely from sharing user data with third parties - and social welfare. In our model, a user's gross utility from the service depends on its quality and the amount of information shared. We show that in a fully covered market, the regulation reduces quality investment but may still be socially desirable when quality and information are not strong complements. In a partially covered market, the regulation may raise quality and social welfare even when quality and information are highly complementary
M21|La gestione finanziaria nelle imprese di costruzioni.Riflessioni da unâ€™analisi empirica|The construction sector in Italy has been characterised by a long-lasting economic decline, causing a slump both in terms of GDP and employment. The financial management of this type of companies can be claimed as one of the main difficulties they have to cope with. The high reliance on short-term bank loan, the long payment delays by public administration, together with the lack of planning capabilities can explain partly the financial difficulties encountered. In this paper, we aim at shedding some light on the financial management practices and knowledge diffused in the Italian construction companies. Besides, we provide some reflections on the actual and future financial strategy for construction companies.
M21|Optimization by Integration: A Corporate Governance and Human Resource Management Dimension|Contemporary business entities that are keen to achieve measurable growth can no longer rely on inflexible corporate management frameworks for running their affairs. This viewpoint is adduced in the light of the emergence and re-emergence of unpredictable and likewise complex operating contexts. Notwithstanding the connected legal, financial, economic and social issues; business concerns must devise innovative ways to sustain holistic performance levels. Moreover, corporate and regulatory interests must collaborate to effectively mitigate corporate failures attributable to various business concerns. In furtherance of the debate on the nexus between corporate governance and human resource management, this paper presented a conceptual model that aggregates specific aspects of business processes that synergizes both concepts. Practical perspectives on the interrelatedness between corporate governance and human resource management provide a veritable basis to explore the theme of this paper. The paper opined that an appropriate balance must be achieved with regards to identifiable and fundamental aspects of the corporate structure and process. It was recommended that a diverse model of corporate integration enhances the functionalities of the corporate entity; facilitates optimization processes, thereby contributing to long term sustainability and growth.The central role of human actors in the governance of business entities is also duly emphasized, as this viewpoint underlies the essence of integrating the two concepts in general and specific terms.
M21|Relationships between Institutional Capital, Dynamic Capabilities and Competitive Advantage: Empirical Examination of the Agribusiness Sector|Resource-based view (RBV) is based on the economic rent concept which explains sources of competitive advantage (CAd) at firm level. The RBV lacks a causality chain between resources and CAd which calls for further examination along with dynamic capabilities possessed by firms. This study aims to determine the relationship between institutional capital (IC), dynamic capabilities and CAd of agribusiness firms, more specifically the minor export crop farms, at the same time contending that the relationship between IC and CAd is mediated by the specific capabilities. The scope of the study comprises entities which have experience in commercial cultivation of minor export crops. 456 farm owners were selected from the highest growing districts of the selected crops (cinnamon, clove and pepper) using proportionate stratified random sampling technique. Self-administrated structured questionnaire was used to collect data. The regression-based path analysis was used to measure the direct and mediation relationship amongst the latent variables. The results of the study suggest that IC has a significant influence on both the quality management capability and marketing capability. This connection contributes valuable insights to the empirical support on the importance of specific capabilities on sustainable CAd. Managerial implications are highlighted along with future research directions
M21|Experiential Marketing Creative Antecedence for Success of Brand Loyalty (A Study on the Users of Perfume for Body in Indonesia)|The main objective of this study is to develop a model of marketing conceptual on creative experiential marketing in order to boost brand loyalty. The specific target of this study is to empirically test creative influence on experiential marketing. Purposive sampling technique is applied in the study the collect data. Samples are taken as many as 171 respondents of the users of perfume for body sold in Indonesia. Data in this study is collected by interview. Data collection is using the combination of open questions and closed questions which are given to respondents. Managerial finding in this study is developing creative experiential marketing to enhance brand loyalty
M21|CO2 volatility impact on energy portfolio choice: A fully stochastic LCOE theory analysis|Market based pricing of CO2 was designed to control CO2 emissions by means of the price level, since high CO2 price levels discourage emissions. In this paper, it will be shown that the level of uncertainty on CO2 market prices, i.e. the volatility of CO2 prices itself, has a strong influence not only on generation portfolio risk management but also on CO2 emissions abatement. A reduction of emissions can be obtained when rational power generation capacity investors decide that the capacity expansion cost risk induced jointly by CO2 volatility and fossil fuels prices volatility can be efficiently hedged adding to otherwise fossil fuel portfolios some nuclear power as a carbon free asset. This intriguing effect will be discussed using a recently introduced economic analysis tool, called stochastic LCOE theory. The stochastic LCOE theory used here was designed to investigate diversification effects on energy portfolios. In previous papers this theory was used to study diversification effects on portfolios composed of carbon risky fossil technologies and a carbon risk-free nuclear technology in a risk-reward trade-off frame. In this paper the stochastic LCOE theory will be extended to include uncertainty about nuclear power plant construction times, i.e. considering nuclear risky as well, this being the main uncertainty source of financial risk in nuclear technology. Two measures of risk will be used, standard deviation and CVaR deviation, to derive efficient frontiers for generation portfolios. Frontier portfolios will be analyzed in their implications on emissions control.
M21|How do neighboring peer companies influence SMEs’ financial behavior?|Recent research into corporate finances has found that the financial decisions of peer companies are related. Companies tend to “kept an eye” on the decisions of other peer companies, among other things, trying to overcome the limitations caused by the lack of information. This paper further examines these interactions including geographical proximity among companies. With this aim, we use a heterogeneous Partial Adjustment Model on a sample of 12,444 small and medium Spanish manufacturing industrial companies. We find strong nonlinearities in the adjustment processes of liquidity, indebtedness and profitability ratios associated with basic characteristics of the companies such as size, technology, age or financial imbalances. Our results indicate that the influence of the environment on the financial behavior of each company, and its responsiveness, vary in function of neighbor firms’ characteristics.
M21|Welfare-improving vertical separation with network externality|Considering the interplay between network externalities and the degree of product substitutability in a vertical structure, we compare the outcomes of vertical integration and vertical separation. In contrast to previous results, we show that when both products are sufficiently close substitutes, there is a threshold level of the network externality parameter, beyond which vertical separation is more efficient than vertical integration. This is due to the internalization of the network externality by a multiproduct monopolist, which, in the balance between the extensive and intensive margin, leads to higher output prices.
M21|Heteroscedasticity-robust model screening: A useful toolkit for model averaging in big data analytics|Frequentist model averaging has been demonstrated as an efficient tool to deal with model uncertainty in big data analysis. In contrast with a conventional data set, the number of regressors in a big data set is usually quite large, which leads to a exponential number of potential candidate models. In this paper, we propose a heteroscedasticity-robust model screening (HRMS) method that constructs a candidate model set through an iterative procedure. Our simulation results and empirical exercise with big data analytics demonstrate the superiority of our HRMS method over existing methods.
M21|Strategic capacity withholding through failures in the German-Austrian electricity market|In electricity day-ahead markets organized as uniform price auction, a small reduction in supply in times of high demand can cause substantial increases in price. We use a unique data set of failures of generation capacity in the German-Austrian electricity market to investigate the relationship between electricity spot prices and generation failures. Differentiating between strategic and non-strategic failures, we find a positive impact of prices on non-usable marginal generation capacity for strategic failures only. Our empirical analysis therefore provides evidence for the existence of strategic capacity withholding through failures suggesting further monitoring efforts by public authorities to effectively reduce the likelihood of such abuses of a dominant position.
M21|Independent boards and innovation|Much research has suggested that independent boards of directors are more effective in reducing agency costs and improving firm governance. How they influence innovation is less clear. Relying on regulatory changes, we show that firms that transition to independent boards focus on more crowded and familiar areas of technology. They patent and claim more and receive more total future citations to their patents. However, the citation increase comes mainly from incremental patents in the middle of the citation distribution; the numbers of uncited and highly cited patents—arguably associated with riskier innovation strategies—do not change significantly.
M21|Patent, R&D and internationalization for Korean healthcare industry|Using panel data, this study investigates how Patent and R&D expenditures affect internationalization in Korean healthcare industry. Korean healthcare industry is designated as one of the core bread and butter industries. Tremendous government investments in Korean healthcare industry are expected to increase Patent and R&D expenditures, causing internationalization for Korean healthcare industry. In material way, this study focuses on testing spillover effects between Patent and R&D expenditures on internationalization.
M21|The signal effect of Government R&D Subsidies in China: Does ownership matter?|R&D subsidies as a policy instrument are used to reduce market failure, apart from its input and output additionality, the notion of behavioural additionality has caused increasingly interest. We focus on the signal/certification effect of behavioural additionality, which means that government grants may serve as a signal for private investors. The signal effect is a certification enhancing a firm's access to external finance. The objective is to examine the impact of different ownership nature to the signal/certification effect. We use data on Chinese listed corporations from 2009 to 2013. The results show that receiving R&D subsidies increases the likelihood that firms will raise external finance, and the state-owned enterprises can receive more subsidies than private enterprises. However, the signal effect of R&D grants is stronger in private enterprises than that in state-owned enterprises of China, indicating that the ownership nature does matter in the R&D subsidies certification effect. This paper enriches current literature of government R&D subsidies by providing empirical evidences in Chinese mixed market.
M21|The merit order effect of Czech renewable energy|We assess the impact of photovoltaic power plants and other renewable sources on the electricity supply curve in the Czech Republic. The merit order effect is estimated as the elasticity of electricity spot price with respect to change in supply of electricity from renewable sources. Data for the Czech electricity spot market from 2010 to 2015 are analyzed as this is the period with the steepest increase in a renewable generation capacity. The effect is estimated separately for solar and other renewable sources. We find a significant difference between these two groups. Our results show that based on hourly, daily and weekly data energy produced by Czech solar power plants does not decrease electricity spot price, creating double cost to the end consumer. However, the merit order effect based on averaged daily and weekly data is shown to exist for other renewable sources excluding solar (mainly water and wind). This contributes to the conclusion that the Czech renewables policy that prefers solar to other renewable sources may be considered as suboptimal.
M21|Equity crowdfunding and early stage entrepreneurial finance: damaging or disruptive?|Equity crowdfunding (ECF) offers founders of new ventures an online social media marketplace where they can access a large number of investors who, in exchange for an ownership stake, provide finance for business opportunities that they find attractive. In this paper, we first quantify the evolution of the ECF market in the UK, the world leader, as well as the benign regulatory environment. ECF already represents more than 15% of British early stage entrepreneurial finance. We then use qualitative methods to explore three research questions. First, do these large financial flows via ECF platforms supplement or merely divert more traditional forms of funding for entrepreneurs? Second, do investors understand and appropriately evaluate the risks that they are bearing by investing in this new asset class? Finally, does ECF finance bring with it the spillovers, e.g. advice and guidance critical to entrepreneurial success, associated with other sources of funding such as Venture Capital? Our study is based on extensive interviews with investors, entrepreneurs (including some who chose not to use ECF in favour of traditional funding sources) and regulators. We conclude that ECF provides real additionality to the sources of entrepreneurial finance while not bringing major new risks for investors. This suggests other jurisdictions might consider implementing the British “principles based” regulatory framework
M21|The Problem of Individualization of Legal Entities in Terms of Innovative Development of the Russian Federation and the European Union Economy|This article is a comprehensive analytical study of the problem of individualization of legal entities in terms of innovative development of the Russian Federation and the European Union. Using the latest methodology of scientific research, the authors provide a justification of the legal institution of individualization, as well as offer a wide range of means of individualization of innovation actors and participants, including in the virtual space of the Internet.
M21|The conduciveness of the South African economic environment and Small, Medium and Micro Enterprise sustainability: A literature review|Since the early 1980s Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) have been regarded as the driving forces of both developing and developed economies around the world. In a South African dispensation, SMMEs are responsible for adding imperative socio-economic value to the country, particularly in terms of eradicating poverty and diminishing unemployment levels. By doing so, these business entities are believed to contribute at least 50% to the national Gross Domestic Product. Albeit the aforementioned, previous research studies report that up to 75% of South African SMMEs fail after being in existence for only 42 months. Though the latter dispensation has been blamed on many economic factors, over the years the sustainability of South African SMMEs has not improved to a great extent. In order to provide insight on the latter dispensation, this literature review paper was conducted to ultimately formulate two hypotheses for further empirical testing.
M21|The merit order effect of Czech photovoltaic plants|We assess the impact of photovoltaic power plants on the electricity supply curve in the Czech Republic. The merit order effect is estimated as the elasticity of electricity spot price with respect to change in supply of electricity from renewable sources. Data for the Czech electricity spot market from 2010 to 2015 are analyzed as this is the period with the steepest increase in a renewable generation capacity. The effect is estimated separately for solar and other renewable sources. We find a significant difference between these two groups. Our results show that based on hourly, daily and weekly data energy produced by Czech solar power plants does not decrease electricity spot price, creating double cost to the end consumer. However, the merit order effect based on averaged daily and weekly data is shown to exist for other renewable sources excluding solar (mainly water and wind). This contributes to the conclusion that the Czech renewables policy that prefers solar to other renewable sources may be considered as suboptimal.
M21|Updating the Long Term Rate in Time: A Possible Approach|This study proposes the potential methodological approach to be utilized by regulators when setting up a Long-Term Rate (LTR) for the evaluation of insurers’ liabilities beyond the last liquid point observable in the market. Our approach is based on the optimization of two contradictory aspects – stability and accuracy implied by economic fundamentals. We use U.S. Treasury term structure data over the period 1985-2015 to calibrate an algorithm that dynamically revises LTR based on the distance between the value implied by long-term growth of economic fundamentals in a given year and the regulatory value of LTR valid in a year prior. We employ both Nelson-Siegel and Svensson models to extrapolate yields over maturities of 21-30 years employing the selected value of the LTR and compare them to the observed yields using mean square error statistic. Furthermore, we optimise the parameter of the proposed LTR formula by minimising the defined loss function capturing both mentioned factors.
M21|Franchisors'choice between royalties and fixed fees evidence from Brazil|In franchise contracts, the royalty rate and the fixed entrance fee are the main monetary clauses defining the payment scheme between the franchisor and the franchisee. In the traditional agency view, the presence of distant outlets leads the franchisor to choose a payment mechanism designed to provide incentives to the franchisee; that is, a low royalty rate associated with a high fixed fee. Based on a unique panel dataset, we provide evidence that, in the Brazilian context, spatial dispersion has the opposite impact, with interesting practical and research implications.
M21|A Critical Analysis of Startup Business in Indonesia by Means of Mato-Based Profit Sharing Accounting|"""Objective – This research aims to analyze and deconstruct digital-based startup business practice and offer a new concept of sharing economy. The online transportation companies operated in Indonesia, have been selected as the subject of the research. Methodology/Technique – A critical paradigm referring to mato-based profit sharing accounting was used as a method of the research. Data was collected from online transportation companies’ websites as well as either news or media article published on mass media. Findings – On the other side, it has not completely been in line with the practice of profit sharing economy concept which has long been the ideal of the constitutional ideology of Indonesia. Thus, in the final section of this research, a new concept of sharing economy, which is relatively in line with the constitutional ideology of Indonesia is proposed for practice in startup companies. Novelty – The study proposes new concept of sharing economy for startup business."""
M21|Earnings Management: An Advantage or Disadvantage?|"""Objective – The purpose of this research is to examine the consequences of accrual based earnings management and real earnings management on future operating performance. The firms studied engage in accrual-based earnings management with discretionary accrual measures using the modified Jones model and some of the following real earnings management activities, (1) Sales manipulation that accelerates the timing of sales through increased price discounts or cutting prices to boost sales in the current period; and/or (2) cutting of discretionary expenditures to increase income in the current period. Furthermore, the study examines the extent to which discretionary accrual and real earnings management affects subsequent operating performance (as measured by both return on assets and operating cash flows). Methodology/Technique – The sample manufacturing firms that engage in financial statement were listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2012 and 2014. The hypothesis testing method used in this research is multiple regression linear. Findings – The results suggest that accrual-based earnings management, with discretionary accrual measures, and real earnings management through sales manipulation and discretionary expenditures are positively associated with return on assets after one and two years. Meanwhile, accrual-based earnings management and real earnings management through sales manipulation enhances subsequent operating cash flows. However, real earnings management through discretionary expenditures does not influence operating cash flows. Novelty – This research contributes to the existing literature on the subsequent impact of accrual-based earnings management and real earnings management"""
M21|The Competitiveness Creation Strategy of Islamic Banking|"""Objective – The development of Islamic banks in Indonesia requires a new strategy. The size of the population of Indonesia is a potential market for Islamic banks to target religious and non-religious customers and implement quality innovation to create value-based services to support the competitiveness of regional economies. This may improve the standard and quality of living. Specifically, this study investigated the influence of Islamic banking service quality dimensions to consumer satisfaction, word-of-mouth communication and loyalty. Methodology/Technique – This study was conducted in Banjarmasin, South Kalimantan, which is an Indonesian province that has a fairly a rapid rate of development of Islamic banking. The study focused on 191 people. Data collection was done by observation and interviews using questionnaires. Findings – Using Partial Least Squares, the results demonstrates the effects of variable compliance, empathy, and value proposition quality on overall satisfaction. This showed that overall satisfaction influences word-of-mouth communication and loyalty. This indicates that both the religious market consumers and the floating market consumers desire the establishment of a strong emotional bond between the Islamic bank, customers and shareholders that are developed together in the face of business risks and share profits fairly and honestly, in accordance with the principles of Islamic law. Furthermore, they want employees to be more empathetic and respond individually to customers. Novelty – The study suggest that a strategy be created in relation to competitiveness in Islamic banking in Banjarmasin to improve the quality of service-based value, and to increase the cultivation of religious customers as well as penetrating the floating market segment."""
M21|Business Model in Islamic Perspective: Practising of Baitul Maal Wattamwil (BMT) UGT Sidogiri East Java Indonesia |"""Objective – The purpose of the research is to explore, to investigate, and to develop a business model in Islamic perspective in microfinance BMT UGT Sidogiri Indonesia. Methodology/Technique – The research developed by qualitative research with a single case study. The content analysis used as the method to analyze the data describes analytic, intuitive, interpretative, textual and strict textual analysis approaches. Findings – The main finding that the framework Islamic business model in perspective Islam proposed previously can be well understanding and applied in BMT UGT Sidogiri. The result showed that there three main building in developing of an Islamic business model consist of the business foundation, business design, and business development. Novelty – The model can be used to optimize the potential business model of Islam in BMT UGT Sidogiri and other microfinance in Indonesia in the future."""
M21|The Government Policies Effect on Initiation and Implementation of the Project: A Conceptual Model|"""Objective – An urgency to investigate the impact of government policies on project performance through strategic management perspective is motivated by the gap of knowledge on a relationship between government policies and project. This paper proposes a conceptual model for further empirical research in the future. Six latent variables and ten hypotheses are developed through reviewing some literature in three following research avenues: Entrepreneurship, Strategic Management, and Project Management. Methodology – In order to observe a logical fitness of model development on government policies influences to firm activities, a specific context is chosen, namely the Indonesian renewable energy power generation. The last research avenue is strongly related to the research context. Further empirical study is required, and a discussion on it is presented in this paper. Findings – This paper emphasizes that project activities should be strategically managed since those support the achievement of business performance. Novelty – The study will bring benefits to the three following aspects: theoretical, managerial and regulatory aspects. """
M21|External and Internal Factors Influence to the Return on Equity and Risk Investment in Jakarta Islamic Index (JII)|"""Objective – This study aims to analyze the direct influence of external factors (inflation, foreign exchange rates, interest rate of Bank Indonesia) and internal (capital structure, liquidity) on Return On Equity (ROE) in companies that went public in Jakarta Islamic Index, analyze the indirect influence of external and internal factors on the risk of investing in companies that go public in Jakarta Islamic Index, analyze the effect of ROE on the risk investment in companies that go public in Jakarta Islamic Index. Methodology/Technique – The sample used 10 companies using purposive sampling. Analysis tools using path analysis. Findings – Results showed inflation and exchange rates (foreign exchange rates / USD) no significant effect on ROE and Investment Risk. BI rate has no effect on ROE but significant effect on the risk of investment. Capital structure and liquidity significantly influence the ROE but had no effect on the risk of investment. ROE has no effect on the risk of investment. Novelty – Results of research it pays advisable for investors and prospective investors pay attention to internal factors (capital structure, liquidity and other fundamental factors) companies due to internal factors will affect the profitability of Integration."""
M21|A critical review of entrepreneurial ecosystems research: towards a future research agenda| The entrepreneurial ecosystem (EE) literature has attracted much attention, especially in policy circles. However, the concept suffers from a number of shortcomings: (1) it lacks a clear analytical framework that makes explicit what is cause and what is effect in an EE; (2) while being a systemic concept, the EE has not yet fully exploited insights from network theory, and it is not always clear in what way the proposed elements are connected in an EE; (3) it remains a challenge what institutions (and at what spatial scale) impact on the structure and performance of EE; (4) studies have often focused on the EE in single regions or clusters, but lack a comparative and multi-scalar perspective and (5) the EE literature tends to provide a static framework taking a snapshot of EE without considering systematically their evolution over time. For each of these shortcomings, we make a number of suggestions to take up in future research on EE.
M21|Privacy and Quality|This paper analyzes the effects of a privacy regulation that caps the level of data disclosure on investment in quality and social welfare. We develop a model in which a monopolist offers a service to consumers for free, and derives revenues from disclosing user data to third parties. Consumers choose whether to use the service and how much information to provide. We find that when the market is fully covered, a disclosure cap set prior to the firm's investment decision (an ex ante cap) always decreases quality level, but is socially desirable if quality and information are not strong complements from consumers' perspective. When the market is partially covered, quality may increase under an ex ante cap and, setting a cap may be socially desirable even when quality and information are strongly complementary. Finally, we extend our analysis to scenarios involving heterogeneous third-party data buyers, a consumer-surplus-maximizing regulator and the regulation of disclosure ex post.
M21|Diversification And Family Control As Determinants Of Performance: A Study Of Listed Business Groups|The study analyses the individual and joint impact of family control and diversification on the perfor-mance of major Spanish corporations, considering the nature of the ltimate owner of non-family groups.The study uses a sample of ninety-nine Spanish corporations, each comprising a parent company listed onthe stock exchange and a set of subsidiaries. Heckman’s two-step correction is used to eliminate selectionbias and the endogeneity of family ownership. Different models are contemplated in which we alysethe impact of both diversification and the family nature of a business on performance, established asTobin’s q-value. The results show how family control has a egative impact on Tobin’s q-value, and thatdifferences are greater between family groups and non-family groups controlled by banks and/or foreignagents. They also show ow diversification does not affect the creation of value either individually orconsidering the possible moderating effect of family ownership. / 0
M21|The Effect of Board Directors from Countries with Different Genetic Diversity Levels on Corporate Performance|We link genetic diversity in the country of origin of the firms’ board members with corporate performance via board members’ nationality. We hypothesize that our approach captures deep-rooted differences in cultural, institutional, social, psychological, physiological, and other traits that cannot be captured by other recently measured indices of diversity. Using a panel of firms listed in the North American and UK stock markets, we find that adding board directors from countries with different levels of genetic diversity (either higher or lower) increases firm performance. This effect prevails when we control for a number of cultural, institutional, firm-level, and board member characteristics, as well as for the nationality of the board of directors. To identify the relationship, we use—as instrumental variables for our diversity indices—the migratory distance from East Africa and the level of ultraviolet exposure in the directors’ country of nationality. This paper was accepted by Wei Jiang, finance .
M21|New Strategy for Business Process Management – Quantitative Research in Czech Republic|No abstract is available for this item.
M21|Entry Mode of Firms in an Emerging Economy: Evidence from Malaysia|The dynamics of the global competition patterns and world economy are encouraging construction firms to expand into emerging economies. Entry modes and its predictors have been the subjects of interest in international market strategic management research which is nonetheless lacking in the construction firms. This paper seeks to identify the entry modes preferred by construction firms in Malaysia, on whether they choose equity modes, non-EQ modes or both modes for their international projects. The cross-sectional data was collected by distributing 119 questionnaires; the response rate was 53%. By applying multinomial logit model, this study validates the proposition that entry mode selection in an emerging economy is significantly influenced by situational contingencies at three levels of country-specific factors (CSFs) which are government intervention, property right and environmental uncertainty. Entrepreneurial skill (ES) is the predictor of entry mode. The effect of the CSF and ES on entry mode of construction firms depend on a level of ES. This study contributes to the international market strategic management choice of entry mode
M21|The Effect of Leverage and Firm Size to Profitability of Public Manufacturing Companies in Indonesia|This study aimed to analyze the effect of leverage and the size of a company to its profitability. Data were obtained from the financial statements of 100 qualified manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange in the period of 2009-2014. Leverage was measured by debt ratio, while firm size was measured by total assets and total sales, and profitability by return on assets. Panel data regression analysis was implemented to analyze the influence of independent variables to the dependent variable. The most suitable panel data regression model in this study was a fixed effect model. The study found that the debt ratio had a significant positive effect on profitability while total assets had a significant negative impact. In contrast, total sales had statistically insignificant effect to the profitability of the companies
M21|The Empirical Study on Intellectual Capital Approach toward Financial Performance on Rural Banking Sectors in Indonesia|The success of a company in high level competition requires public trust. Similarly, the banking services provider of rural banking sector in Java, Indonesia. To keep customer satisfaction with high trust of financial performance that customer loyalty can be achieved is necessary for public which is measured through financial performance. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of intellectual capital in the banking sector on the island of Java, Indonesia to financial performance. Data processing techniques using multiple regression. The research method using purposive sampling and exploratory with a sample number 615. The data were analyzed using Eviews 7 and Microsoft Exel 2007. The results showed that the value added (VA) capital employee variables significantly influence toward financial performance and VA human capital variables and variable structural capital VA have significant effect also on toward financial performance. The overall test results produced an adjusted R2 indicate that the intellectual capital variables significantly influence toward financial performance.
M21|Effects of Exchange Rate and World Prices on Export Price of Vietnamese Coffee|Identifying factors of export price fluctuation in agricultural products is necessary to equip decision makers and producers with bases and tools in forecasting price fluctuation and then suggesting solutions for risk mitigation. This research integrated quantitative and qualitative methods to analyze and measure effects of some major factors on export price of Vietnamese coffee. The data of 34 years from 1981 to 2014 shows that coffee price have fluctuated with a cycle of 5-year increase and 7-year decrease. The study found major factors of the price fluctuation are exchange rate and export prices of other exporting countries like Brazil and Colombia. Export price of Brazilian coffee made a positive effect on the price of Vietnamese suggesting a competition between two countries in the world coffee market while Colombian coffee occupied its own market share. To promote sustainable growth in exports, Vietnamese coffee needs to maintain stable markets and invest more on branding and product quality to improve its competition capacity.
M21|The Effect of Crude Oil Price Moments on Socially Responsible Firms in Eurozone|The present study examines the effect of moments of crude oil prices including the variance, skewness and kurtosis, on the returns of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) of the Eurozone. The GARCH model is employed to examine the relationship of these moments with the DJSI of the Eurozone, for the time period from November 2001 until March 2015. According to our findings, an increase in the oil returns, as well as in the oil price volatility, leads to a decrease in the value of the Index employed. It was also found that asymmetry affects positively the stock price of the Eurozone social responsibility companies, because the more the asymmetry increases, the less the concentration of the prices to the right side of the distribution, consequently the more the investors feel that the related risk is reduced, as the frequency of oil prices is below the average oil price. On the contrary, it was found that the interaction of asymmetry and kurtosis of oil prices affect negatively the DJSI of the Eurozone, a fact that is attributed to the kind of the oil price distribution for the above mentioned time period
M21|Techno-economic Analysis of Liquid Petroleum Gas Fueled Vehicles as Public Transportation in Indonesia|In Indonesia, the use of liquid petroleum gas (LPG) in vehicles has been promoted through government policy since 1988. However, the progress has not significantly run. Therefore, this paper presents the techno-economic analysis of LPG as road vehicles fuel alternative in comparison with gasoline RON 88 and RON 92 for public transportation in Indonesia. The techno-economic analysis is considered running cost, break-even point (BEP) distance, net present value (NPV), internal rate of return (IRR), payback period (PP), and sensitivity analysis. This analysis indicates that the BEP distance of public transportation vehicles are approximating at 55,351 km compared to gasoline RON 92 and 93,168 km compared to gasoline RON 88. Meanwhile, the result of the investment analysis shows that the investment feasibility indicators which include NPV, IRR, and PP show the investment was feasible but the investment is sensitive to fuel cost ratio between LPG and gasoline.
M21|Loosing Your Best Talent: Can Leadership Retain Employees? The Dilemma of the Banking Sector of Hyderabad Sindh, Pakistan: A Mediation Investigation|Country expects that commercial banking systems contribute to the overall development, but this development depends upon qualified and competent employees of the commercial banks institutions. Retaining this resource is of utmost importance for higher commercial banks. However, commercial banks are finding it hard to retain competent and qualified faculty in the face of competition from the industry. Retention is becoming a big dilemma for developing countries. The present study investigates the relationship between leadership style, job satisfaction, organization commitment and retention of employee in commercial banks of Sindh, Pakistan. The data was collected from the commercial bank of Sindh whereby, SmartPLS 2.0 was used for data analysis. The results have indicated a strong and positive relationship between leadership style and employee retention. Job satisfaction and organization commitment mediate the relationship between leadership style and employees retention. This study is significant for top management of commercial banks who are facing retention problems. Findings of study could provide them with guidelines regarding to how the leadership style retain talent employees in the commercial bank. Limitation and Future reconditions also discussed.
M21|SERVQUAL on Brand Image and Relationship Equity|The purpose of this study is to determine the effect on the service quality toward brand image and the development of customer relationship. The object of research is the Umrah services in Bandung. The total respondents of this study are 187 people with proportional random sampling technique. Exploration research methods used structural equation modeling partial least square. The results showed that service quality was proven to give impact on equity relationship and brand image of the Umrah services. This implies that in order to improve the relationship equity Umrah services need to improve service quality and brand image so that companies can obtain optimal benefit
M21|How uncertain are economic policies? New evidence from a firm survey|This study, using data from an original survey covering both public and private firms in Japan, presents evidence on uncertainties over economic policies, their effects on managerial decisions, and firms’ evaluations of the government’s numerical targets related to economic policies. The results indicate that Japanese firms perceive uncertainty over certain economic policies, such as the social security system, tax policy, fiscal expenditure, and international trade policy. Policy uncertainties have substantial effects on managerial decisions, especially on equipment investment and hiring of regular employees. Medium- to long-term numerical targets related to the government’s economic policies are perceived to be difficult to achieve.
M21|Platform optimal capacity sharing: Willing to pay more does not guarantee a larger capacity share|In this paper, we study how a mediating business organization or platform allocates a fixed capacity (such as space, infrastructure, or bandwidth) between two distinct but interdependent groups of consumers (sides) that suffer from congestion. The analysis highlights that the platform's capacity sharing management depends not only on the participation levels of both sides but also on the externalities running between them. It is not true that a group's capacity share uniquely depends on its size. Besides, we argue that the platform may not assign the smallest capacity share to the least congestion-sensitive group. Finally, we establish a management rule that a platform's decision maker, e.g. trade fair manager, clinic owner, airport planner, or Internet Service Provider, should adopt when she is confronted with a capacity sharing trade-off between interdependent parties.
