M31|Not All Price Endings Are Created Equal: Price Points and Asymmetric Price Rigidity|There is evidence that 9-ending prices are more common and more rigid than other prices. We use data from three sources: a laboratory experiment, a field study, and a large US supermarket chain, to study the cognitive underpinning and the ensuing asymmetry in rigidity associated with 9-ending prices. We find that consumers use 9-endings as a signal for low prices, and that this signal interferes with price information processing. Consequently, consumers are less likely to notice a bigger price when it ends with 9, or a price increase when the new price ends with 9, in comparison to a situation where the prices end with some other digit. We also find that retailers respond strategically to this consumer bias by setting 9-ending prices more often after price increases than after price decreases. 9-ending prices, therefore, usually increase only if the new prices are also 9ending. Consequently, there is an asymmetry in the rigidity of 9-ending prices: they are more rigid than non 9-ending prices upward but not downward.
M31|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
M31|Pricing Better|Electronic shelf label (ESL) is an emerging price display technology around the world. While these new technologies require non-trivial investments by the retailer, they also promise significant operational efficiencies in the form of savings in material, labor and managerial costs. The presumed benefits of ESL, for example, tend to be focused around lower price adjustment costs (PAC), also known as menu costs. However, ESL not only can save PAC but may also enable the retailer to price “better,” generating greater value for the transacting parties. Thus, ESL’s strategic impact for retailers occurs between claiming these presumed efficiencies and realizing the value generating potential. Using transactions data from a longitudinal field experiment, we assess such impact of ESL by studying how it shapes retail pricing practices and outcomes. Our general finding is that ESL plays an enabling role to the retailer’s strategy – thereby enhancing the retailer’s sales and revenues. The price adjustment efficiencies of ESL allows retailers to do better waste management, price discovery, as well as leveraging value in information for consumers. However, ESL’s impact on prices is nuanced, based on the retail strategy (EDLP, HI-LO) being used. Papers quantifying emerging technologies’ impact on retail outcomes are sparse, even fewer investigating their role in pricing. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first study to explore and quantify how ESL interacts with retail strategy to affect retail pricing practices and retail outcomes.
M31|Data brokers co-opetition|Data brokers collect, manage, and sell customer data. We propose a simple model, in which data brokers sell data to downstream firms. We characterise the optimal strategy of data brokers and highlight the role played by the data structure for co-opetition. If data are “sub-additive”, with the combined value lower than the sum of the values of the two datasets, data brokers share data and sell them jointly. When data are “additive” or “supra- additive”, with the combined value equal to or greater than the sum of the two datasets, data brokers compete. Results are robust to several extensions.
M31|Exclusive Data, Price Manipulation and Market Leadership|The unprecedented access of firms to consumer level data not only facilitates more precisely targeted individual pricing but also alters firms’ strategic incentives. We show that exclusive access to a list of consumers can provide incentives for a firm to endogenously assume the price leader’s role, and so to strategically manipulate its rival’s price. Prices and profits are non-monotonic in the length of the consumer list. For an intermediate size, price leadership entails a semi-collusive outcome, characterized by supra-competitive prices and low consumer surplus. In contrast, for short or long lists of consumers, exclusive data availability intensifies market competition.
M31|A Note on Moral Licensing and Foot-In-The-Door Effect|Literature in economics and psychology on moral behaviour explores the contexts in which people act in ways that are consistent or inconsistent with their past actions. Such inconsistencies appear to violate economists' assumption of rational consumer behaviour. In this note we show that a simple model of rational (utility-maximising) consumer behaviour, in both static and dynamic forms, can explain both consistent and inconsistent behaviour.
M31|The Causal Effect of Service Satisfaction on Customer Loyalty|We propose an instrumental-variable (IV) approach to estimate the causal effect of service satisfaction on customer loyalty, by exploiting a common source of randomness in the assignment of service employees to customers in service queues. Our approach can be applied at no incremental cost by using routine repeated cross-sectional customer survey data collected by firms. The IV approach addresses multiple sources of biases that pose challenges in estimating the causal effect using cross-sectional data: (i) the upward bias from common-method variance due to the joint measurement of service satisfaction and loyalty intent in surveys; (ii) the attenuation bias caused by measurement errors in service satisfaction; and (iii) the omitted-variable bias that may be in either direction. In contrast to the common concern about the upward common-method bias in the estimates using cross-sectional survey data, we find that ordinary-least-squares (OLS) substantially underestimates the casual effect, suggesting that the downward bias due to measurement errors and/or omitted variables is dominant. The underestimation is even more significant with a behavioral measure of loyalty–where there is no common methods bias. This downward bias leads to significant underestimation of the positive profit impact from improving service satisfaction and can lead to under-investment by firms in service satisfaction. Finally, we find that the causal effect of service satisfaction on loyalty is greater for more difficult types of services.
M31|A Structural Model of a Multitasking Salesforce: Job Task Allocation and Incentive Plan Design|We develop the first structural model of a multitasking salesforce to address questions of job design and incentive compensation design. The model incorporates three novel features: (i) multitasking effort choice given a multidimensional incentive plan; (ii) salesperson’s private information about customers and (iii) dynamic intertemporal tradeoffs in effort choice across the tasks. The empirical application uses data from a micro nance bank where loan officers are jointly responsible and incentivized for both loan acquisition repayment but has broad relevance for salesforce management in CRM settings involving customer acquisition and retention. We extend two-step estimation methods used for unidimensional compensation plans for the multitasking model with private information and intertemporal incentives by combining flexible machine learning (random forest) for the inference of private information and the first-stage multitasking policy function estimation. Estimates reveal two latent segments of salespeople-a “hunter” segment that is more efficient in loan acquisition and a “farmer” segment that is more efficient in loan collection. We use counterfactuals to assess how (1) multi-tasking versus specialization in job design; (ii) performance combination across tasks (multiplicative versus additive); and (iii) job transfers that impact private information impact firm profits and specific segment behaviors.
M31|Multi-Brand Loyalty in Consumer Markets: A Qualitatively-Driven Mixed Methods Approach|Purpose—Although multi-brand loyalty (MBL) in consumer markets has been identified in previous brand loyalty research, empirical studies have not yet explored the facets of its different types. This article seeks a deeper understanding of MBL by investigating its different types and facets. Design/methodology/approach—This study uses a sequential, qualitatively-driven mixed method design consisting of in-depth interviews and supplementary survey research. Findings—The findings of this study suggest that mood congruence, identity enhancement, unavailability risk reduction and market competition are the most important facets that explains the two types of MBL (complementary-based and product substitutes). Furthermore, the findings show that the family factor can motivate consumers to be multi-brand loyal by adding brands to an initially family-endorsed brand. Research limitations/implications—This study advances the conceptual foundations of MBL and extends previous research on brand loyalty. Some of the findings may be limited to the economic and cultural context of relatively affluent countries with an abundance of market offers. Practical implications—Marketing managers gain insights into how to manage brand loyalty as well as how to transition from MBL to single-brand loyalty. Originality/value—The study generates novel insights into the facets of different types of MBL
M31|Mixed-Strategies of Marketing in BBTF: Seller Persuasion Towards Prospective Buyers|Objective – This paper examines the performance of the Bali & Beyond Travel Fair (BBTF) 2018, an event whereby buyers and sellers meet to negotiate on travel and tourism businesses at the Bali Nusa Dua Convention Centre (BNDCC). The study also explains the marketing strategies being used, through the perspective of the 7 Ps. Furthermore, the paper presents an authentic account of how marketing and tourism services (tour events) are actually initiated and performed. Methodology/Technique – The data of the study is in the form of travel business correspondences, tour itineraries, the circular event of the travel fair, in-depth interviews with stakeholders, and the writer's observational notes. The analysis was conducted by applying a descriptive qualitative research, focusing on the 7 Ps of marketing strategy. Findings – The study reveals that the travel fair plays an important role in attracting buyers to purchase products offered. Novelty – The study shows that sellers must use events such as this as a marketing model and a powerful tool when reviewing strategic options and selecting the best future direction of their company. Type of Paper: Empirical
M31|Understanding What Drives Consumers to Use Gourmet Apps: Applying a Relationship Quality Perspective|Objective – In modern society, technology has become an important part of our daily lives and the growth of the technology sector has grown exponentially. This rapid growth has seen the expansion of several industries, in particular, the mobile app industry. This study explores customer satisfaction toward gourmet mobile applications, based on the quality of the app (download delay, visual, navigability and security) and customer reviews (consumer review, providing image and star rating). Moreover, this study attempts to identify the common characteristics of users of gourmet apps. Methodology/Technique –325 questionnaires were returned to the researchers following distribution and 276 of those were valid. In total, 164 questionnaires were analysed. Findings – The results reveal that trust, commitment, and satisfaction have a positive influence on the number of purchases from an App. Novelty – This study makes several suggestions for marketing practices of mobile apps and future research. Type of Paper: Empirical
M31|The Effect of Product, Service, and Customer Satisfaction on Word-of-Mouth Behavior|Objective - Banks are financial intermediaries which are vital to support the economy of a country. Banks can be interpreted as the financial institutions whose activities are collecting funds from the community, distributing the funds back to the community, and providing other banking services. The development and improvement of service quality from the banks should be the center of public attention. This is because of the tight competition in terms of quality of the services, products, and marketing strategies undertaken by the banks. In an environment of tight competition, the top priorities of service companies such as banks are customer satisfaction and excellent service quality in order to improve customer loyalty and word-of-mouth behavior. This research aims to study, analyze, and explore the effect of product, service, and customer satisfaction on word-of-mouth (WOM) behavior at PT Bank Jakarta. Methodology/Technique - The models used in this research is a descriptive and associative model using SPSS 19. This study uses a simple random sampling technique with a total sample of 80 people. The research instrument used as a measuring tool in this study is a questionnaire consisting of 40 statements. Findings & Novelty - The result of this research show that product (X1), service (X2), and customer satisfaction (X3) simultaneously affect word-of-mouth behavior (Y). The results conclude that PT Bank Windu Kentjana International Tbk Jakarta should improve the quality of its products and services delivered to its customers and prospective customers in order to build their loyalty and improve their word-of-mouth.
M31|The Impact of Market Orientation and Dynamic Marketing Capability on the Marketing Performance of 'Make-To- Order' SMEs|Objective - Literature suggest that companies should focus their Market Orientation (MO) on good marketing and business performance. However, previous research in this area deals mostly with large companies. The objective of this research is to study the significance of MO for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with the specific production strategy of Make-To-Order.Methodology/Technique - The sample of this study is 111 Indonesia SMEs. The descriptive research design is supported by exploratory research. The structural model is analysed using the Structural Equation Modelling approach with LISREL 8.8 and SPSS 16.00.Finding - The result shows that MO does not have a significant impact on Marketing Performance. In the context of MTO, SMEs do not need to have a high Market Orientation to have satisfactory performance. It is more important for them to take care of the relationship with their principal companies. Government regulations, such as raw material regulations, also have an impact on SMEs performance. It is recommended that future research explore the types of capabilities of SMEs relating with the era of Industry 4.0. Other strategic orientations, such as production orientation, could be considered as factors in future research. Type of Paper - Empirical.
M31|The Influence of User Generated Content and Purchase Intention on Beauty Products|Objective - The thrive of social media enables everyone to share their purchase and consumption experiences, including beauty product consumption. The study aims to determine whether the attitude towards UGC, perceived credibility and user activity of UGC on YouTube influences the purchase intention toward a beauty product. Methodology/Technique - Questionnaires were distributed online to 200 people who had watched beauty product review videos on YouTube at least once and who were minimum 18 years old. The data was analyzed using multiple regression. Finding - The results indicate that attitudes towards UGC content on YouTube and perceived credibility affect purchasing intentions. Whereas user activities does not correlate with purchase intentions on beauty products. UGC content usually provides information and provides tips and tricks about using beauty products. The more attractive the content is, the more people want to see it and the more likely they will be to use the content to fulfill their information needs. Beauty vloggers are considered more credible than producer-generated content. Activities such as searching for, liking, subscribing or commenting does not necessarily indicate purchase intentions. This simply represents people fulfilling their social needs to interact with each other in a social environment. Novelty – Companies could provide training or facilities for UGC creators in order to create more attractive content. The most important finding of this study is that companies should continually improve the quality of their products, because the credibility of content makers relies on their experience with the products themselves. Marketers should monitor community discussions to find out more about the public interest in their products. In addition, marketers can also identify the shortcomings of their products to better enable them to fix them by reviewing comments on UGC. Type of Paper - Empirical.
M31|How to Manage Customer Satisfaction through Brand Association and Perceived Value Strategy|Objective - The purpose of this study is to identify which factor has a stronger influence on customer satisfaction: perceived value or brand association. By understanding the influencer, the seller understands what policies and implications should be addressed to maintain and even enhance customer loyalty.Methodology/Technique - This empirical study uses a quantitative method and employs a PLS program to ensure a correlation between the constructs. Finding - The study concludes that brand association is a crucial determinant factor in customer satisfaction. Brand associations influence satisfaction relatively more than perceived value does. From the customer perspective, brand associations are affected more by salesman personality than brand image. Type of Paper - Empirical.
M31|The Influence of Online Review on Consumers' Purchase Intention|Objective - The development of cafe businesses in Indonesia has recently increased, making the level of competition become tighter. This is what makes cafe business able to maintain the loyalty of the customer, due to consumers' tending to try new things or places. In this context, research was conducted to determine the impact of online reviews on a review website platform on consumer purchase intention in choosing the first visited cafe. Methodology/Technique - The customer's decision-making is affected by various factors such as review platforms, other customer reviews, and property characteristics as well as the customer's profile itself. Previous research models have become a reference for this study, and this study was conducted by collecting data from questionnaires that were distributed using an online survey. Finding - This study identified six features of online review content and one source attribute, namely timeliness, reviewer expertise, usefulness, volume, positive online reviews, negative online reviews, and comprehensiveness. Regression analysis was used to examine the impact of these attributes on consumer purchase intention. Novelty – The results of the regression analysis showed significant relationships among variables like usefulness, volume, timeliness, positive online reviews, negative online reviews, and comprehensiveness, along with property characteristics on consumer's purchase intention. Type of Paper - Empirical.
M31|On Factors of Consumer Heterogeneity in (Mis)Valuation of Future Energy Costs: Evidence for the German Automobile Market|In this paper, we first recover the individual valuation of expected future fuel costs at the time of a car purchase and then explore how various factors relate to the recovered consumer undervaluation of fuel savings (on average, consumers\' willingness-to-pay for a €1 reduction in fuel costs is below €0.20).
M31|The Moderating Effect of Fuel Prices On the Market Value of Fuel Efficiency, Driving Intensity, and Co2 Emissions|In the current paper, we quantify the effect that fuel prices have on vehicle prices\' responsiveness to fuel economy. We apply a hedonic price model to the German automobile market by using data on detailed technical specifications of high-sales vehicles of three sequential model years. In the contribution to previous research, our specification enables us to distinguish between consumers\' valuation of fuel economy versus their reaction to changes in fuel prices. Two sources of changes in consumers\' willingness-to-pay for better fuel economy are discussed - changes in the budget for driving a car and changes in capital investments in better car quality. We also discuss the subsequent changes in the optimal driving intensity and the resulting carbon dioxide emissions. Differences in the effects are studied for various car makes of both diesel and gasoline engines.
M31|Metric and Scale Effects in Consumer Preferences for Environmental Benefits|No abstract is available for this item.
M31|MARKETING FACTORS AND BRAND EQUITY IN ON THE CONSUMER?S BUYING DECISION OF MODERN TRADE THE DOHOME IN BANGKOK AND ITS ViCINITY|The objectives of this research were to study the marketing factors and brand equity influence on the buying decision of modern trade Dohome in Bangkok and its vicinity. The samples for the research were 385 people who purchased product in the modern trade Dohome in Bangkok. The questionnaires were used for the research tool, whereas the statistics used for analyzing the obtained data were percentage, frequency, mean, standard deviation and multiple regression analysis. The results showed that overall level of opinions on marketing factors and brand equity of modern trade Dohome is high level. Furthermore, overall level of purchasing decision is high level too. Results of the hypothesis test showed that marketing factors in product and price influences buying decisions and brand equity in perceived quality influences buying decisions of the modern trade Dohome with a statistical significance at a 0.05 level.
M31|Customer Satisfaction towards Service Quality of Energy Complex Conference Rooms in Thailand|The purpose of this research was to study customer satisfaction towards service quality and communication of Energy Complex Conference or ?EnCo? rooms. The venue, named Energy Complex, was located in Bangkok, mainly served for tenants within the premise and general customers. Quantitative research consisting of 400 samples was employed to those who had at least 1 year experience in renting conference rooms or conference rooms with catering services. Data were collected through convenience sampling method. The results revealed that most of the respondents were female, aged between 31 - 40 years old, held bachelor degree, with 1-2 times experience in using EnCo rooms or EnCo rooms with catering services.The service dimension that respondents perceived and expected in the highest level was assurance dimension, especially corporate?s integrity and customer - centric culture. However, respondents ranked the reliability service dimension in the highest importance, followed by empathy and responsiveness, respectively. When considering the service quality gap by comparing customers? perception and expectations, results showed that the biggest gap that customers gave the highest importance was the reliability dimension ( weighted mean score = -1.69 ),followed by responsiveness and empathy dimensions ( weighted mean score = -1.65 and -1.56, respectively ). The higher the service quality gap means the less customer satisfaction. The hypothesis testing results showed that different demographic factors led to different customer expectation and perception differently at the statistical significance level of 0.05. It was recommended that EnCo should improve service reliability through proactive teamwork and correct communication by using digital media such as application, and social media.
M31|Modelling the enablers of sustainable value co-creation at tourist destinations|Value co-creation is one of the important factor to maintain the environmental and social sustainability at the tourist destination. According to service dominant logic firms do not sale product but the value propositions and final experience, and value of the product depends upon the co-creation capabilities of firms and consumers. In case of tourism, sustainability is considered as one of the dimension of overall value. This study focuses on the interaction among the enablers of sustainable value co-creation at tourist destination. Preserving local environment and customs provide better experience, and that experiential value is fundamental to the value co creation. Research Methodology - To understand the concept of sustainable value co-creation, an expert survey was conducted to understand the interactions among the enablers of sustainable value co-creation at tourist destination. Interpretive Structural Modelling (ISM) was used to understand the interrelationships among the enablers and MICMAC was used to classify the enablers based on the driving and dependence power of each enabler.Findings - This study found that awareness about the local culture and importance of environment among tourists can facilitate the value co-creation at tourist destination. This study also found the linkage variables that helps in understanding the relationship between driving and dependence variables. Practical implications - Findings of this study can work as a base for the policy makers. This study consider a system of value creation and hence, provide suggestions to each and every actor of the system including government, local business, hotel owner and as well as for the tourists. Originality/Value - This study demonstrate the use of ISM in tourism industry. This study can lay the foundation for the future work on the sustainable value co-creation in tourism industry.
M31|Recruitment marketing: Do we understand what Generation Z expects from its future employers?|"The struggle for finding good employees in Austrian companies is in full swing, and it rests as a big problem on the desks of recruitment marketers and HR departments. Aside from a general shortage due to demographic developments, a new generation of future employees (the ?Z? generation) is growing up, and will be present on the labour markets in a very short time. These young people have been raised under completely different (technological, economic, and social) conditions and, in turn, have different expectations of their future job life and employers. Experience as well as literature on employment related expectations, motivation, and behaviours of Gen Z representatives is scarce, which makes it hard for companies to shape their job offerings in an efficient and effective way, matching the demands of this group. In order to contribute to a better understanding of this phenomenon, a large-scale mixed-method research was undertaken, six focus groups with 43 participants and 550 personal interviews with pupils and young students were conducted in Austria. The motivation was to identify and categorize criteria, which might distinguish an ?attractive from an average job? in the eyes of a Gen X candidate. Factor analysis methods were employed to reveal the categories that matter for this group.The findings suggest that the most important criteria for Gen X members are predominantly ?social?, namely team spirit, working atmosphere, job-life-integration. ?Factual? arguments like salary, job security, career advancement and task diversity only play a secondary role. The HOW is more important than the WHAT. A paradigm shift seems to gain momentum: Currently, most current job descriptions emphasize ""what"" statements: ""What are your tasks??; ""what are opportunities for development?""; or ""what is expected from you?"". However, Generation Z seems to be much more concerned about the ""HOW"": ""How does it feel to work here?""; ""how does my team function?""; ""How will my working day in this company look like?""; or "" how diversified and exciting is my job?"" Salary, job security and a financially stable company are still relevant, but they are not in the foreground. In addition, trends such as home office or high tech equipment of the office appeared to be not too catchy.The paper ends with recommendations for HR-representatives, including a better visualization of team spirit and working atmosphere, raising awareness for the social aspect of work, and establishing tangible elements of ?how it is to work in that company?."
M31|How Banned Brands Come To Light: A Content Analysis on Stealth Marketing Cases From Turkey|Changing marketing practices, legal regulations and new media channels push brands to use different marketing tactics. In all changing marketing tactics, stealth marketing shines out due to restrictive law that forbids some brands and sectors to run a marketing campaign in Turkey. As a term stealth marketing is a technique to deliver the brand's message to the people who should not realize the message is received as a marketing or sales purpose. In this way, brands are able to deliver desired messages for their target publics without getting caught by any restrictive laws. As the main channel to be used under this purpose is social media that shines out compared to traditional. The main reason for that is when traditional media is easy to control by the laws but social media doesn't. In this paper, we made a research about how these banned brands run a stealth marketing campaign in Turkey. Three brands that run a clear stealth marketing campaign from the alcoholic beverages sector are chosen and their campaign and it's social media site (Instagram) are analyzed with content analysis method for six months of duration. Analyzes show that brands use made up names and identities for running their campaigns to avoid getting caught from laws. Also, it is clear that all made up names that brands use have very similar corporate identities with the original brand. According to social media analyzes, storytelling shines out as a main structure of brands use in their Instagram posts and creating an interaction is also shines out as the main strategy that brands use in their stealth marketing campaigns.
M31|Brands in Motion: How Frictions Shape Multinational Production|Following the 2016 Leave vote in the referendum on UK membership in the EU and the election of Donald Trump, trade agreements have entered a period of great instability. To predict the impact of possible disruptions to existing arrangements requires counterfactual analysis that takes into account the complex set of factors influencing the production and marketing strategies of multinational corporations. We estimate a model of multinational decision-making in the car industry. This model predicts the production reallocation and consumer surplus consequences of changes in tariffs and non-tariff barriers induced by US-led protectionism, Brexit, transpacific, and transatlantic integration agreements.
M31|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886‒1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
M31|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low, Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
M31|Pricing Better|Electronic shelf label (ESL) is an emerging price display technology around the world. While these new technologies require non-trivial investments by the retailer, they also promise significant operational efficiencies in the form of savings in material, labor and managerial costs. The presumed benefits of ESL, for example, tend to be focused around lower price adjustment costs (PAC), also known as menu costs. However, ESL not only can save PAC but may also enable the retailer to price “better,” generating greater value for the transacting parties. Thus, ESL’s strategic impact for retailers occurs between claiming these presumed efficiencies and realizing the value generating potential. Using transactions data from a longitudinal field experiment, we assess such impact of ESL by studying how it shapes retail pricing practices and outcomes. Our general finding is that ESL plays an enabling role to the retailer’s strategy – thereby enhancing the retailer’s sales and revenues. The price adjustment efficiencies of ESL allows retailers to do better waste management, price discovery, as well as leveraging value in information for consumers. However, ESL’s impact on prices is nuanced, based on the retail strategy (EDLP, HI-LO) being used. Papers quantifying emerging technologies’ impact on retail outcomes are sparse, even fewer investigating their role in pricing. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first study to explore and quantify how ESL interacts with retail strategy to affect retail pricing practices and retail outcomes.
M31|Price Competition Online: Platforms vs. Branded Websites|The focus of this theoretical study is price competition when some firms operate their own branded websites while others sell their products through an online platform, such as Amazon Marketplace. On one hand, selling through Amazon expands a firm's reach to more customers, but on the other, starting a website can help the firm to increase the perceived value of its product, that is, to build brand equity. In the short run the composition of firms is fixed, whereas in the long run each firm chooses between Amazon and its own website. I derive the equilibrium prices and profits, analyze the firms' behavior in the long run, and compare the equilibrium outcome with the social optimum. Comparative statics analysis reveals some interesting results. For example, I find that the number of firms that choose Amazon may go down in response to an increase in the total number of firms. A pure-strategy Nash equilibrium may not exist; I show that price dispersion among the firms of the same type is more likely in less concentrated markets and/or when the increase in the perceived value of the product is relatively small.
M31|Enhancing customer retention in case of service elimination? An empirical investigation in telecommunications| Generally, service industries require a rapid innovation of service portfolios to gain and maintain a competitive advantage. In this context, service elimination is a tool of portfolio renewal, where customer retention is a strategic priority for companies. This is especially so because service elimination usually causes higher churn rates than an average churn in telecommunications. Thus, customer retention is seen as a major aspect in enhancing service elimination success. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the factors that increase customer churn in the case of service elimination. We use one of the three Hungarian telecommunication operator’s databases containing usage data three months before and after service elimination in the course of a major service package reform. Contract-related information and demographics of 10 065 customers are used to differentiate between high and low churn factors, taking care of a possible sample selection problem. The results show that in the course of service elimination there is a significant positive relationship between price decrease, tenure, interaction intensity on the one, and customer retention on the other side. Besides these, demographics (age and residence) also play an important role in explaining churn rates during service elimination. Furthermore, we find that a higher monthly fee after elimination increases the customer’s usage intensity. This research aims to contribute both to service elimination, as well as to customer retention literature, by hierarchical modeling of retention and usage during service elimination with practical implications for decision-makers in rapidly innovating telecommunication markets.
M31|Navigating new marketing technologies, channels and metrics|Modern technologies in all industries are drastically changing the behaviour of the consumers as well as their purchasing patterns. Companies are directing their marketing investment resources into mobile and online while the traditional marketing channels slowly become less effective because of the new generation of consumers and more effective targeting possibilities. New retail technologies offer many possibilities for reaching consumers directly through their mobile phones when they are in the store. A variety of marketing analytics tools helps the companies to measure marketing performance in both online and mobile channel. The goal of this paper is to analyse the advantages of today’s marketing technologies, marketing channels and marketing metrics and to identify some of the difficulties which companies face in navigating them. The conclusion is that companies which resist to use new technologies, channels and metrics are only hurting their business in the long run. Research methodology includes study of literature and scientific articles on digital marketing and researching YouTube videos on retail and mobile marketing.
M31|Unaprjeđenje strategije konkurentskog pozicioniranja poduzeća primjenom marketinške revizije|Revizija marketinga može pomoći poduzeću bolje upravljati podacima o marketingu s kojima raspolaže, kao i podacima koje tek treba prikupiti, sistematizirati i integrirati u izvještaje te kvalitetno upotrijebiti za poboljšanje svojeg poslovanja i strategije nastupa na tržištu. Marketinška revizija može pomoći poduzeću prestići konkurenciju i ostvariti veći tržišni udio zbog toga što će bolje poznavati okruženje u kojem djeluje, želje i potrebe potrošača i društva, te u odnosu na konkurenciju primjenjivati bolji način poslovanja. Ako poduzeće redovito provodi reviziju marketinga, moći će u kratkom vremenskom razdoblju doći do informacija o događanjima na tržištu. Kontinuiranom evaluacijom podataka koji su ključni za marketing, jasnije će razumjeti svoju tržišnu poziciju i razloge zaostajanja za konkurencijom. Revizija marketinga može rukovodstvu poduzeća ukazati na potrebu za promjenom u strateškom pozicioniranju koju je nužno potrebno provesti kako bi se ostvarilo uspješnije konkurentsko pozicioniranje poduzeća. Također, revizija marketinga uputiti će rukovodstvo na odabir ispravne strategije reagiranja na konkurentske prijetnje te potom na pronalaženje adekvatnih rješenja za poteškoće u poslovanju do kojih će doći ukoliko se ne reagira pravovremeno. Informacije prikupljene putem marketinške revizije mogu poslužiti kao smjernice za odabir i oblikovanje strategije konkurentskog pozicioniranja, u zavisnosti od inicijalnog razloga / svrhe i cilja provođenja revizije marketinga. Primjerice, ukoliko svrhu primjene revizije marketinga predstavlja želja rukovodstva za boljom procjenom adekvatnosti marketinških aktivnosti, provoditi će se revizija marketinškog okružja. Tada će u fokusu revizije biti mjerenje učinkovitosti sustava planiranja i kontrolnih postupaka, utjecaj asortimana proizvoda na marketinške ciljeve, te usklađenost cjenovnih i distribucijskih ciljeva, strategije, procedura i aktivnosti s marketinškim strategijama i ciljevima. Rezultati ovakve revizije marketinga poslužiti će kao temelj za odabir i oblikovanje strategije konkuriranja pomoću marketinškog miksa. Bez obzira na to koju strategiju konkurentskog pozicioniranja poduzeće odluči koristiti, revizija i mjerenje učinkovitosti marketinga imati će pozitivan utjecaj na poslovanje poduzeća u kratkom i u dugom roku.
M31|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low, Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
M31|A look at Airline Management as Event Management: About the challenging task of trying to run a profitable Airline|Warren Buffett once famously stated that airlines were infamous for destroying shareholder value . His hindsight proposition to better have taken the Wright brothers out of the sky violently surely was a pointed one, if not entirely serious. This paper seeks to shed some light on the challenges underlying the industry that Buffett blames as a value destroyer, and explain the difficulties most airlines have to tackle on a daily basis. The idea of aviation management as event management is the basis of this exploration of the airline industry, emphasizing the daunting task of offering an intangible product , created long before demand is certain, at a price that is lowest when the product itself is most difficult and costly and complex to produce. This underlying conundrum is one of the central challenges airlines need to confront when trying - hard at most times - not to actively destroy shareholder value.
M31|Encouraging appropriation: immersion as a strategy to enhance the online video, watching experience appraisal|"To set up successful experiences, academics and managers need to identify and promote the ""positive"" experiential trajectories that lead to the enjoyable experiences such as flow states, presence, or immersion, and limit ""negative"" processes such as hedonic adaptation (HA) (Carù & Cova, 2007; Hoffman & Novak, 2009). Hedonic adaptation is psychological mechanism that occurs following prolonged exposure to a stimulus (Alba & Williams, 2013; Bao & Lyubomirsky, 2012). This process is often inferred, or measured with physiological apparatus like galvanic skin response (GSR) (Brechman, Bellman, Robinson, Rask, & Varan, 2016) but to our knowledge there is currently no measurement scale for hedonic adaptation despite its importance, most of the papers remain conceptual only. In this article, we distinguish between two types of digital contents: (a) contents with a narrative structure (ie: presence of storytelling like films), and (b) contents with non-a narrative structure (ie: rhetorical and information based, like documentaries). The literature suggests that both these contents can be negatively affected by the hedonic adaptation (HA). In this paper, we first propose a conceptualization for this concept and demonstrate through two empirical studies the reliable psychometric properties of the new developed (HA) measurement instrument. In the second part of this paper, we demonstrate that consumers prefer longer contents with a narrative structure (ie: based on storytelling), and shorter ones when they are rhetorical because of the hedonic adaptation."
M31|Artificial Intelligence: Socio-Political Challenges of Delegating Human Decision-Making to Machines|Artificial intelligence is at the heart of current debates related to ethical, social and political issues of technological innovation. This briefing refocuses attention from the techno-ethical challenges of AI to artificial decision-making (ADM) and the questions related to delegating human decisions to ADM. It is argued that (a) from a socio-ethical point of view the delegation is more relevant than the actual ethical problems of AI systems; (b) instead of traditional responsible AI approaches focusing on accountability, responsibility and transparency (ART) we should direct our attention to trustworthiness in the delegation process; and (c) trustworthiness as a socio-communicational challenge leads to questions that may be guided by a responsible research and innovation framework of anticipation, reflexivity, inclusion, and responsiveness. This may lead to different questions policymakers and other interested publics may ask as well as novel approaches, including regulatory sandboxes and other measures to foster a more inclusive, open and democratic culture of human-ADM relations.
M31|Shedding Light on the Dark: The Impact of Legal Enforcement on Darknet Transactions| Darknet markets have been increasingly used for the transaction of illegal products and services in the last decade. In particular, it is estimated that drugs make up two-thirds of darknet market transactions. The growth of illicit transactions on darknet markets have led enforcement agencies to invest greater proportion of time and efforts to monitor and crack down on criminal activities on the darknet websites. Despite the successes in convicting perpetrators, it is unknown whether these policing efforts are truly effective in deterring future darknet transactions, given that the identities of the transacting parties are very well protected by the markets’ features. To this end, this study attempts to empirically evaluate the susceptibility of darknet markets breaking down upon police arrests of dealers and buyers. Using drug review data from a few major darknet markets, we discovered a deterrence impact – the transactions in the targeted country would decrease on the market where arrests occurred. More interestingly, we find that disclosure of the arrests will influence the transactions of vendors not only from the same country but also those from other countries that did not experience any arrest incidents. As the darkweb techniques have led to a considerable proliferation of online drug trading, we believe that study findings that reveal the nature of these illicit markets will have key policy and theoretical implications to law makers, enforcement agencies, and academicians.
M31|How Incumbents Beat Disruptors? Evidence from Hotelsâ€™ Responses to Home-sharing Rivals| Growing research attention is paid to the disruption of sharing economy services (Airbnb, Uber, Lending Club, etc.) and how they cut into incumbent firmsâ€™ profit. Yet, the literature is silent on how incumbents respond to the rivalry and what are the performance outcomes if taking a defensive stance. In this paper, we investigate incumbent hotelsâ€™ responses to home sharing and how different reactions among hotels lead to distinct outcomes in customer satisfaction. Integrating casual inference and machine learning, we analyze large-scale, multidimensional data on hotels and home-sharing services in Beijing from March, 2015 to December, 2017 and three findings are gleaned. First, we find heterogeneous reactions of hotels, with their management responses to online guest reviews (reviews, hereafter) surging at higher-priced hotels while plunging at lower-priced ones compared with hotels that do not experience home sharingâ€™s entry. The distinct response strategy (active vs passive) is likely due to different extent of decline in sales at these two types of hotels after home sharingâ€™s entry. Second, hotels that are responsive to reviews experience a significant rise in customer satisfaction while the less responsive hotels do not. We show that this difference can be attributed to distinct response strategies of hotels and not their price segment (higher-priced or lower-priced). Third, utilizing state-of-the-art deep learning algorithms combined with topic modeling, we identify the theme-specific content features (topics and their sentiments) in reviews on both hotels and home sharing. Hotels that are responsive to reviews improve significantly on sentiments of two out of seven topics (i.e., cleanliness and service), which explains their performance gains when facing the disruption. And these two topics are the exact areas where home sharing outperforms hotels based on the review comparison. These suggest that responding to reviews allows hotel managers to not only bridge the gap between their property and home-sharing rivals but also differentiate from hotels less responsive - an interesting segmentation in the market when disruptors enter the game. This study makes the first attempt to investigate incumbent firms acting to sharing economy disruptors. Implications are made on how different types of hotels can and should react for improved performance.
M31|¿Qué ocurre cuando viajamos en grupo? Análisis de la situación del estudio del turismo grupal|La investigación sobre el comportamiento de los turistas en la literatura de marketing no es reciente. Es especialmente abundante la literatura sobre turismo en general o centrada en la perspectiva individual, pero son escasos los estudios sobre viajes en grupo. A este hecho, se debe añadir que el impacto de las nuevas tecnologías móviles en la forma en que los grupos de consumidores realizan actividades hedónicas (como viajar), prácticamente se desconoce. Así, este trabajo pretende hacer un análisis de la situación sobre el turismo grupal y esbozar diferentes líneas de investigación que sirvan como punto de partida para futuras investigaciones, así como destacar el papel de la tecnología móvil para realizar y consumir viajes de forma colectiva.
M31|Efecto moderador de la imagen de marca de fabricante y de distribuidor sobre el valor de marca y el precio relativo de fabricantes duales|Este trabajo estudia los efectos de la fabricación de las marcas de distribuidor (MD) por fabricantes duales, fabricantes de sus propias marcas y de MD. La identificación de los proveedores en los envases de las MD puede influir en el valor de marca y la percepción de precio relativo de las marcas de fabricante (MF). Mediante un experimento se demuestra que existen efectos diferentes dependiendo de la imagen de la MF y la MD cuando el fabricante de dicha MD es identificado en el envase. Mientras que la identificación no afecta al valor de marca de las MF de menor imagen, afecta negativamente al valor de marca de las MF con alta imagen, especialmente cuando la imagen de la MD fabricada es alta y está más posicionada en precio. Además, las MF de menor imagen se perciben como más caras cuando fabrican MD con mejor imagen y más posicionadas en precio, es decir, la identificación afecta negativamente a la percepción de precio relativo de una MF de baja imagen si la MD tiene alta imagen y un fuerte posicionamiento en precio.
M31|Bundling in a Distribution Channel with Retail Competition|We analyze the incentives for retail bundling and the welfare effects of retail bundling in a decentralized distribution channel with two retailers and two monopolistic manufacturers. One manufacturer exclusively sells his good to one retailer, whereas the other manufacturer sells his good to both retailers. Thus, one retailer is a monopolist for one product but competes with the other retailer in the second product market. The two-product retailer has the option to bundle his goods or to sell them separately. We find that bundling aggravates the double marginalization problem for the bundling retailer. Nevertheless, when the retailers compete in prices, bundling can be more profitable than separate selling for the retailer as bundling softens the retail competition. The ultimate outcome depends on the manufacturers’ marginal costs. Given retail quantity competition, however, bundling is in no case the retailer’s best strategy. Furthermore, we show that profitable bundling reduces consumer and producer surplus in the equilibrium.
M31|The Importance of Education in Peace Marketing|Peace defined means the absence of war. War and peace have always been not only military but also political issues advantage. Educational systems are confronted with exceptional challenges during violent conflict. During the conflict International humanitarian law is particularly important. Geneva Conventions a specific reference to protection related to education in wartime. Education peace is also related to the creation of values and skills that help students achieve fullness a life that embraces all people. Education peace relates to aid pupils to recognize many forms and causes violence and promote values and skills to live society. Peace marketing is trying to influence social behavior, change attitudes, habits, and not to the marketing person, but to the benefits of society in general. Article analyzes peace education concepts, role education in promoting peace marketing, universities peace initiative.
M31|Modeling and Analysis of Queuing Systems in Banks: (A Case Study of Banque Commerciale du Congo-BCDC/Mbujimayi)|This study examined the application of queue theory in the banking system in Democratic Republic of Congo, with particular reference to BCDC (Banque Commerciale du Congo)/Mbujimayi. The queuing characteristics of the bank were analyzed using a Multi-Server Queuing Model. The obvious implication of customers waiting in long and winding queues could result to prolonged discomfort and economic cost to them; however increasing the service rate will require additional number of tellers which implies extra cost to management. Data for this study was collected at BCDC bank for one week through observations and was formulated as multi-server single line queuing model. The data was analyzed using TORA optimization Software as recommended software for operational research. The performance measures of different queuing systems were evaluated and analyzed. The results of the analysis showed using a six-teller system was better than a five in terms of average waiting time.
M31|Advertising strategy in the presence of reviews: An empirical analysis|We study the relationship between online reviews and advertising spending in the hotel industry. Combining a dataset of TripAdvisor reviews with other datasets describing these hotels’ advertising expenditures, we show, first, that online ratings have a causal demand-side effect on ad spending. Second, this effect is negative: hotels with higher ratings spend less on advertising than hotels with lower ratings. This suggests that hotels treat TripAdvisor ratings and advertising spending as substitutes, not complements. Third, the relationship is stronger for independent hotels than for chains, and stronger in less differentiated markets than in more differentiated markets. The former suggests that a strong brand name continues to provide some immunity to reviews and the latter that the advertising response is stronger when ratings are more likely to be pivotal. Finally, we show that the relationship between online ratings and advertising has strengthened over time, just as TripAdvisor has become more popular, implying that firms respond to online reviews if and only if consumers respond to them.
M31|Antecedents and Effects of App-user Satisfaction: Empirical Evidence from Greece|The purpose of this research is to explore the antecedents and effects of mobile app satisfaction. A survey conducted using a “positivism” approach, in which 450 app users participated to answer the research instrument. Emotional Attachment and App design proved to be the most influential antecedents of app satisfaction, whereas Safety of personal data & user identification were important as well. However, app satisfaction has no effect on Intention to upgrade to premium service, showing that the basic revenue stream still derives from advertising and sponsorships. On the other hand, Word of Mouth communication is stimulated by app user satisfaction. This finding shows that satisfaction is the vehicle to spread the value of the app to other users cheaper and with more credibility. This research provides certain implications to digital marketing practitioners and academics in order to make decisions on building strong service brands using a mobile app as a distribution channel.
M31|Leveraging Loyalty Programs Using Competitor Based Targeting|Loyalty programs are widely used by firms but their effectiveness is subject to debate. These programs provide discounts and perks to loyal customers and are costly to administer, and with uncertain effectiveness at increasing spending or stealing business from rivals. We use a large new dataset on retail purchases before and after joining a loyalty program (LP) at the customer level to evaluate what determines LP effectiveness. We exploit detailed spatial data on customer and store locations, including locations of competing firms. A simple analysis shows that location relative to competitors is the strongest predictor of LP effectiveness, suggesting that LPs work primarily through business stealing and not through other demand expansion. We next estimate what variables best predict LP effectiveness using high-dimensional data on spatial relationships between customers, the focal firm’s stores, and competing stores as well as customers’ historical spending patterns. We use LASSO regularization to show that spatial relationships are more predictive of LP effects than are past sales data. Finally, we show how firms can use this type of predictive analytics model to leverage customer and competitor location data to substantially increase the performance of their LP through spatially driven targeting rules.
M31|The impact of deceptive advertising on Customer loyalty: A case of Telecommunication industry in Karachi, Pakistan|This study examined the impact of deceptive advertising on customer loyalty in the telecommunication industry of Karachi, Pakistan. This research was quantitative in nature. The sample size was 250, questionnaires were distributed electronically and manually. Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) was used to analyze the data with the help of SPSS. Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA) and Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) using AMOS, conducted to ensure the model and testing the hypothesis. The outcome of the present study verifies that word of mouth has a strong significant influence on customer loyalty. Hence customer satisfaction and customer trust are causing word of mouth in a positive and significant way. So it shows that there is a positive and strongly significant influence of customer satisfaction and trust on customer loyalty with the mediation of word of mouth. On the other hand, deceptive ads are causing word of mouth in a negative way. Hence it is concluded that deceptive ads have a negative influence on customer loyalty with the mediation of word of mouth. This study suggested that in order to increase customer loyalty and build a long-term relationship with the customer's telecom companies should focus on accurate information and rendering the level of competitive services to their customers.
M31|Duration of Price Promotion and Retail Profit: An In-depth Study Based on Point-of-Sale Data|Anecdotal evidence has shown that retail price promotions can help small and medium-sized retailers enhance their sales, and thus, retail profits. However, most marketing managers usually stop a promotion after a certain duration. This study aims to explain why these retailers discontinue their price promotion. Our approach posits that the promotion’s overall contributions to the total retail profit progressively diminish with time. We present a theoretical framework to explain the relationship between duration and profit effects of price promotions and propose a statistical model to empirically examine this framework using point-of-sale (POS) data. Our findings provide empirical support that the overall profit effects of price promotions have a downward trend with elapsed time, upholding the hypothesis. The results are helpful for marketers to understand how price promotions dynamically influence retail profits and when the promotion should be terminated.
M31|Festivals and destination marketing: An application from Izmir City|Festivals are among the growing global city and destination attraction factors and they are very trendy. Studies indicate that there is a direct relationship between the successful organizations of festivals and the number of visitors and tourism income of a city destination. Thus, festival marketing efforts usually have a direct impact on city marketing efforts. Due to this fact, the study tries to figure out the festival marketing potential of Izmir city that seems to lag behind the general tourism development pattern of Turkey contrary to the great potential it has. The study comprises of two main sections, first one being a literature review on festival marketing, followed by the second section on a qualitative research on Izmir’s festivals and their marketing potential. It tries to determine the positive impacts of Izmir’s festivals on destination marketing and by grouping and categorizing them under similar characteristics figuring out the most promising ones. The research consists of four open-ended interview questions on festivals held in Izmir city. As practical implications, Destination Management Organizations, Destination Marketing Organizations, destination and city marketers, festival managers and destination tourism developers may benefit from the findings of this study.
M31|Traveler segmentation through Social Media for intercultural marketing purposes: The case of Halkidiki|This paper aims to present a methodology for the segmentation of travelers by studying social media profiles and extracting information on their preferences and demographic traits. Through the study of the sample’s social media profiles (Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter), information about travelers’ demographics and preferences are combined for the segmentation of the tourists visiting a Greek region. From the analysis of the data, 10 preference-based segments occur, while the cultural-based division corresponds to the main national groups visiting the region.
M31|Closed House of Wonders museum: Implications to the tourism of Zanzibar Stone Town, UNESCO World Heritage Site|This paper examines the impact of the closed House of Wonders Museum in the tourism industry of Stone Town, Zanzibar. The paper aims to propose the best practices taken into account due to the impact raised by the closure of the Museum. There has been no clear information on the overall situation which faces the site since 2012 when the Museum closed. Data collected through mixed methods, including the sample size of 105 tourists who visited the House of Wonders Museum, 8 Government Official, 6 Tour Guides and 8 Tour Operators. The findings show that the closed museum has affected the level of tourists’ satisfaction, tour operators, community and tour guides economically. The paper recommends quick rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Museum to save the integrity and authenticity of this World Heritage Site.
M31|Confidence and loyalty for agrotourism brands: The Lesvos paradigm|It has been established that strong brands are important in the agrotourism industry. Agrotourism brands provide the link between visitors and the agrotourism firms and tourists may or may not develop a degree of loyalty to relevant brands. The present study suggests that confidence in an agrotourism brand has high influence in development of brand loyalty. Based on hypotheses developed, confidence in an agrotourism brand is influenced by brand characteristics, agrotourism company characteristics and visitor characteristics. The present survey took place in Greece and examined the attitudes of visitors in agrotourism firms at the island of Lesvos. Survey results demonstrate that agrotourism firm brand characteristics appear more important in their impact on a visitor’s confidence in a brand. It was also established that confidence in a brand is positively influencing loyalty. Recommendations are developed for agrotourism marketers in relation to building and maintaining visitor confidence in a brand.
M31|The changing role of convention bureaus: An analysis of business models currently adopted by privately owned CBS|This study aims to describe how Italian Convention Bureau (CB) organisations faced the uncertainty about their future existence and role caused by government funding cuts and increased pressure from stakeholders to demonstrate market effectiveness and organisational efficiency. Firstly, it uses the business model concept to describe actors, activities and value creation processes of today’s CBs that largely rely on private funds. Secondly, it investigates the degree of concern of CB’s Board on measuring and monitoring the value created for the stakeholders that provide financial resources. Selected case studies relative to Italian CBs are analysed through in-depth interviews and document analysis. Findings point out that the profit model of the investigated CBs strongly relies on fees from partners and members or revenues from the sale of services to local operators. This implies that CBs make efforts to monitor the value created for these specific groups of stakeholders while less attention is given to the measurement of customers’ (i.e. event planners) satisfaction and impact of CB’s activities on the quality of life of local communities.
M31|Travellers’ choice of information sources and information channels for domestic trips|The topics of disintermediation and re-intermediation, both offline and online, have captured the attention of researchers and practitioners alike. Relying on an information search perspective, this study aims to identify which factors (i.e. different socio-demographic characteristics and travel-related variables) best predict whether a traveller will seek information from a travel agency or from a service provider (i.e. information source choice) and if this will be done face to face or through the Internet (i.e. choice of communication channel). Contribution to the body of knowledge and managerial implications are discussed and suggestions for future research are given.
M31|E-learning as a marketing tool for Tour Operators. The ‘Go Academy’ case study|Professional training has become increasingly more important as the tourism industry grows and evolves. It plays a particularly vital role in supporting business competitiveness in the traditional distribution system. This has encouraged a growing focus on e-learning and on the interesting advantages that it opens up in training activities. However, it has been given limited attention as a useful tool for marketing purposes. This paper aims to analyze the use of e-learning in the marketing perspective, with specific reference to the relationship between tour operators and travel agents, using the case study of the e-learning platform, Go Academy.
M31|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886?1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
M31|Conceptualizing triathlon sport event travelers’ behavior|This paper analyzes the relationships between self-congruity, functional congruity, satisfaction, sport event involvement and behavioral intentions of triathlon sport travellers. The moderating effect of different training experiences is assessed in allowing these relations. 885 data were collected among triathletes participating to international triathlon competitions. A theoretical model has been developed and tested using Structural Equation Modelling (SEM). The majority of hypotheses are empirically confirmed. Regarding the moderation hypothesis, a multi-group SEM has been estimated (considering high-intensity and low-intensity sport training as moderators). Some differences between the two groups are highlighted, remarking the need to develop differential marketing strategies in active sport tourism.
M31|Персонал В Ресторанном Бизнесе<BR>[The personnel in restaurant business]|Статья посвящена специфике человеческих ресурсов в ресторанном бизнесе. Автор рассматривает особенности управления персоналом в сфере общественного питания, существующие подходы к управлению персоналом и необходимость создания собственной команды квалифицированных сотрудников. The article is devoted to the specifics of human resources in the restaurant business. The author considers the peculiarities of personnel management in the field of catering, existing approaches to personnel management and the need to create their own team of qualified employees.
M31|Система Отбора Найма Персонала В Сфере Ресторанного Бизнеса<BR>[The selection system of recruitment in the field of restaurant business]|Статья посвящена особенностям формирования системы подбора персонала ресторана, а также основным критериям найма сотрудников. Автором рассматриваются особенности кадровой политики и ее влияние на рекрутинг персонала. Особое внимание уделяется мероприятиям, направленным на удовлетворение мотивации сотрудников. The article is devoted to the peculiarities of the formation of the system of selection of staff to the restaurant, as well as the basic criteria for the selection of staff. The author considers the peculiarities of personnel policy and its impact on the recruitment of personnel. Special attention is paid to the activities aimed at satisfying the motivation of employees.
M31|Мотивация Работников Промышленного Предприятия<BR>[Motivation of workers industrial enterprises]|В статье рассматриваются особенности систем мотивации работников на промышленном предприятии. На базе рассмотренной характеристики сделаны выводы о целесообразности соединения существующих систем мотивации на промышленных предприятиях. The article discusses the features of employee motivation systems an industrial enterprise. On the basis of the considered characteristics, conclusions are drawn on the expediency of combining the existing motivation systems in industrial enterprises.
M31|Особенности формирования резюме при отсутствия опыта работы Features of formation summary with no experience<BR>[Features of formation summary with no experience]|В статье рассматривается, особенности формирования резюме для тех, кто является новичком на рынке труда. На основе проведенного анализа сделаны важные выводы, благодаря которым каждый сможет составить грамотное резюме. The article discusses the features of forming a resume for those who are new to the labor market. On the basis of the analysis made, important conclusions have been made, thanks to which everyone will be able to make a competent summary.
M31|Antecedents of brand loyalty in the fashion industry of Pakistan: Moderating effect of Individual-level collectivist values|The main purpose of this research was to find the moderation effect of individual-level collectivist values on the antecedents of Brand loyalty (BL). What effect does consumer difference on low or high collectivist values have on the brand loyalty in the fashion apparels? It has been found that both groups of consumers have different choices while buying. To investigate this, Individual Level and three antecedent’s promotion (PRO), perceived brand quality (PBQ), and brand trust (BT) were selected to check the effect on Brand Loyalty. The questionnaire was self-developed and distributed online on social networking sites through a non-restricted non-probability sampling technique among 201 Pakistani respondents. Path Analysis and SEM analysis was performed to check the moderation in AMOS. This study has developed and tested the theory by finding that individual-level collectivist values (ILCV) have a significant moderating effect on the relationship between PBQ and BL. The findings reveal that consumers low in ILCV become significantly more loyal to a brand, particularly when PBQ is relatively at high levels. The main contribution of the study is that it presents the validated brand loyalty model with the interaction of ILCV.
M31|Culture and authenticity: regulating shadow economy to foster market growth|Competition in the cultural and creative industries is much dependent upon product and service differentiation. Differentiation is about the unique features that are embedded in the cultural products themselves. These unique features relate to and determine, the value that consumers ascribe to cultural products. Authenticity is commonly used to underlie the uniqueness of a cultural product and is thus a sign of a thing worthy of admiration. Within this context the current study undertakes a comparison of practices related to the way in which authenticity in the paintings’ market is handled. The aim is to sketch policy interventions for effectively regulating the shadow economy in this market. It is argued that good regulations are necessary and if enforced, positive outcomes in terms of the paintings’ market turnover and employment levels might be generated. In particular, we discuss interventions that would transform the threat of an illegal fake market into an opportunity for market growth through the development of a ‘parallel authentic copy market’. Under certain conditions such a policy intervention could have direct and indirect positive effects via: a) the incorporation of an important part of the activities of the shadow economy in the official market, b) the use of a parallel market to protect consumers and their welfare and c) the use of the parallel market to strategically foster growth in the cultural industry at large. Given the economic significance of the cultural industries at both the national and the EU level and the commitment of the later to support the industry’s growth insights, as to how we might best regulate the market in line with such directions, are critical.
M31|Análisis de la calidad de la experiencia en e-food a través de los test de usabilidad|El objetivo (y la principal implicación empresarial) de esta investigación es ayudar a las empresas a medir la calidad de su experiencia de compra. Para ello, se muestra cómo realizar un test de usabilidad, tomando como referencia a Ulabox, el supermercado online más premiado en usabilidad. Los resultados indican que con menos de 1,3 intentos y un esfuerzo mínimo, sus usuarios son capaces de buscar productos, evaluarlos y añadirlos al carrito con una precisión del 90%, y de registrarse con una del 96%. Sin embargo, necesitan 2,4 intentos para finalizar la compra con una tasa de éxito del 94%. En definitiva, no tiene problemas importantes, pero sí algunos leves relacionados principalmente con su arquitectura de la información.
M31|Does Aggregate Buyer Satisfaction affect Household Consumption Growth?|This study finds that measures of the University of Michigan’s American Customer Satisfaction Index are related to Personal Consumption Growth, controlling for typical predictors that are commonly included in the Index of Leading Indicators. In assessing the relationship, this study uses a Bayesian mean-variance regression that addresses problems of small sample sizes and non-normal distributions by considering both parameter and distributional uncertainty in a semi-parametric framework. Importantly, this paper introduces a new psychometric measure to assess consumer satisfaction; variants of this measure are gaining acceptance in the private and public sectors in Scandinavia, China, Japan, Korea, the United States and in other countries.
M31|Editorial - Publicación del DOCFRADIS número 50|Con motivo de la publicación del Documento de Trabajo que hace el número 50, el Editor de la Colección DOCFRADIS hace un repaso a la trayectoria de la colección e invita a los investigadores del área de la Distribución Comercial a continuar profundizando en sus líneas de investigación y difundir sus resultados a través de DOCFRADIS.
M31|El proceso de compra de las reservas turísticas online. Variables implicadas y revisión de los modelos de medida|La literatura sobre la cadena de valor calidad-satisfacción-lealtad de servicios turísticos online, no es concluyente. Los modelos son parciales y las mediciones de las variables no están consensuadas. Este trabajo revisa el papel de las variables básicas y sus modelos de medida a través de una aplicación práctica. Se validan los modelos para cada variable, confirmando su dimensionalidad: la calidad de la página web, los costes de transacción, la satisfacción y la lealtad intencional. Finalmente, se formulan relaciones entre las variables y se propone un modelo teórico integral, implicaciones para la gestión y líneas de investigación futuras.
M31|Efecto de la personalidad de tienda y el género del consumidor sobre la lealtad hacia las tiendas|Este trabajo estudia el efecto del género del consumidor, la personalidad de la tienda y la interacción entre ambas variables sobre la lealtad del consumidor. Para ello, 212 consumidores de la tienda Primark (50% mujeres, 50% hombres) evaluaron la personalidad de la tienda y su fidelidad hacia ella. Los resultados muestran que las dimensiones Competente, Excitante y Audaz influyen positivamente sobre la lealtad del consumidor y que esta relación se puede encontrar modulada por el género. Estos resultados revelan un efecto de interacción entre algunas dimensiones de personalidad de la tienda y el género del consumidor que podría explicar resultados contradictorios en la investigación y facilitar el desarrollo de mejores estrategias de fidelización.
M31|In the Eye of the Beholder? Empirically Decomposing Different Economic Implications of the Online Rating Variance|The growing body of literature on online ratings has reached a consensus of the positive impact of the average rating and the number of ratings on economic outcomes. Yet, little is known about the economic implication of the online rating variance, and existing studies have presented contradictory results. Therefore, this study examines the impact of the online rating variance on the prices and sales of digital cameras from Amazon.com. The key feature of our study is that we employ and validate a machine learning approach to decompose the online rating variance into a product failure-related and taste-related share. In line with our theoretical foundation, our empirical results highlight that the failure-related variance share has a negative impact on price and sales, while the impact of the taste-related share is positive. Our results highlight a new perspective on the online rating variance that has been largely neglected by prior studies. Sellers can benefit from our results by adjusting their pricing strategy and improving their sales forecasts. Review platforms can facilitate the identification of product failure-related ratings to support the purchasing decision process of customers.
M31|Crowd-Driven Competitive Intelligence: Understanding the Relationship Between Local Market Competition and Online Rating Distributions|In this paper, we analyze how changes in local market structure affect the properties of a market’s mean rating distribution. To this end, we combine demographic, socioeconomic, and Yelp restaurant review data for 372 isolated markets in the United States. Our empirical estimates demonstrate that an increase in overall competition – measured as total number of businesses in a market – leads to a broader range and to a decrease in the average of a market’s mean rating distribution. The implication is that a larger market has proportionately more lower rated restaurants, whereas higher rated restaurants have relatively fewer comparable substitutes and face less competition in such a market. These effects are particularly pronounced when the analysis is limited to specific cuisine types where vertical differentiation is more natural or when we control for city-specific unobserved heterogeneity. Our findings highlight that practitioners and scholars using online mean ratings of businesses from disparate markets should account for the local market structure to judiciously analyze the relative market power of a business.
M31|A Homeowner’s Guide to Airbnb: Theory and Empirical Evidence for Optimal Pricing Conditional on Online Ratings|Optimal price setting in peer-to-peer markets featuring online ratings requires incorporating interactions between prices and ratings. Additionally, recent literature reports that online ratings in peer-to-peer markets tend to be inflated overall, undermining the reliability of online ratings as a quality signal. This study proposes a two-period model for optimal price setting that takes (potentially inflated) ratings into account. Our theoretical findings suggest that sellers in the medium-quality segment have an incentive to lower first-period prices to monetize on increased second-period ratings. The possibility of monetizing on second-period ratings depends on the buyers’ assessment of the rating system’s reliability. Additionally, we find that total profits and prices increase with online ratings and additional quality signals. Empirically, conducting Difference-in-Difference regressions on a comprehensive panel data set from Airbnb, we can validate that price increases are associated with lower ratings, and we find empirical support for the prediction that additional quality signals increase prices. Our work comes with substantial implications for sellers in peer-to-peer markets looking for an optimal price setting strategy.
M31|The Traveling Reviewer Problem – Exploring the Relationship between Offline Locations and Online Rating Behavior|Amongst the growing body of literature on the drivers of online ratings, the influence of customers’ local offline environment on their ratings has largely been neglected. This study examines the relationship between ratings made outside of a customer’s home area, i.e., when traveling, and the magnitude of online ratings. In line with our theory, we find that customers who rate while traveling give, on average, higher ratings than locals. This relationship is moderated by the posting time of a review relative to consumption, as travelers also post more positive ratings during or shortly after consumption compared to locals. Our identification strategy leverages panel data to control for unobservable reviewer heterogeneity and a clustering approach to mitigate reviewer-restaurant selection biases. We also investigate several additional factors such as travel distance, identification strategy of a reviewer’s home city, and the size of the home city relative to the size of the travel destination. Our results come with substantial implications for a business’ average rating and for customer decision making.
M31|Determinants of students’ loyalty to university: A service-based approach|This study is conducted to find determinants of student loyalty to the university. The determinants of student loyalty have been studied before, but the majority of the studies have covered just main determinants of loyalty such as student satisfaction, service quality and university image, but ignored university switching cost as a factor of student loyalty, interrelationships of all these antecedents and their collective impact on student loyalty. Despite many studies on student loyalty, the literature still lacks the comprehensive definition of student loyalty. This study has been conducted to fill these knowledge gaps and propose a comprehensive model depicting elaborate relationships of all important antecedents of student loyalty. This study has covered perceived academic quality, perceived administrative quality, physical facilities, student satisfaction, university image, and university switching cost as determinants of student loyalty. The data is analyzed through Exploratory Factor Analysis and structural equation modeling (SEM) using AMOS. The results reveal the significant impact of student satisfaction and perceived university image on student loyalty. This study has important implications for academics to enhance student loyalty.
M31|Sales impact of servicescape's rational stimuli: A natural experiment|Environmental psychologists suggest that people feelings and emotions determine what they do and how they do it. We used the Stimulus-Organism-Response model (S-O-R) as an inspiring theoretical basis for our empirical contribution. We conducted a natural field experiment in six stores, settled in six different Italian cities, of a multinational company who sells furniture, furnishing accessories and household articles. We provided empirical evidence about the effects of a rational-functional stimulus, i.e. the availability of a new tool for collecting items that is more comfortable and less cumbersome for consumers. Through both a non-parametric and parametric testing, we found a positive effect of the stimuli in terms of sales.
M31|Sales impact of servicescape’s emotional and rational stimuli: a survey study|Environmental psychologists suggest that people feelings and emotions determine what they do and how they do it. According to the stimulus organism respons model (SOR), the environment creates a behavioral/emotional response in individuals that, in turn, induces approach or avoidance behaviors. We conducted survey in six stores, settled in six different Italian cities, of a Swedish-founded Dutch-based multinational group, that designs and sells ready-to-assemble furniture, kitchen appliances and home accessories. Firstly, we apply the SOR model to evaluate loyalty program participation impact on consumers receipts. Subsequently, we provide empirical evidence about the effects of an emotional-sensorial stimulus (i.e. the presence of the restaurant inside the store). Through both a non-parametric and parametric testing, we found that environmental stimuli have a positive effect in terms of sales.
M31|Influența surselor de informare asupra comportamentului consumatorului<BR>[Influence of online information sources on consumer’s behaviour]|Acest studiu își propune să identifice măsura în care sursele de informare online influențează comportamentul de consum și atitudinea consumatorilor cu privire la sursele de informare online în scop comercial. Pentru a atinge obiectivele studiului, a fost creat un chestionar cu 19 întrebări, pentru a colecta date primare de la 140 de respodenți. Datele au fost colectate din mediul online și apoi ipotezele au fost testate. Rezultatele arată că site-urile producătorilor influețează în foarte mare măsura comportamentul de consum.
M31|Marketing Chapter 3|Conventional marketing is focused on exponential expansion. However, that's where all the brands are competing for incremental gains. Eventually, markets get saturated with supplies which drive prices down. Reviewing past economic events this exposé points out correlations between demand and supply that triggers market erosion. This paper explores some Geo-economic perspectives in the context of Marketing Inspired Branding and it also shows how individual entrepreneurs might be able to avoid the traps of being dragged into the spiral of becoming obsolete.
M31|Effects of Personality on Impulsive Buying Behavior: Evidence from a Developing Country|Normally impulse buying is considered to take place in the presence of extrinsic factors which lure customers into unplanned buying. Th e role of intrinsic factors in generating impulse buying remains under-researched, espe cially in the context of a developing country like Pakistan. This study aims to study the impact of personality on impulse buying behavior. The effect of personality on impulse buying is measured through five personality traits, namely Op enness, Conscientiousness, Extr aversion, Agreeableness and Neuroticism-also known as the OCEAN Model. It is an explanatory research study involving 400 people of diverse backgrounds an d wide age brackets. Results indicated significant effects of Openness, Extraver sion, Conscientiousness and Neuroticism and insignificant effect of Agreeableness on Impulse Buying Behavior. This study has valuable implications for Pract itioners as well as Academics.
M31|Modelling wedding marketing strategies: An fsQCA Analysis|Aim of the study is to develop a model delineating customer perceptions on wedding marketing strategies in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. Main objective of this paper is to analyse a category of special events: the wedding market sector in Kaohsiung, Taiwan by examining how they attract consumers regarding their marketing strategies using the method of fuzzy-set Qualitative Comparative Analysis (fsQCA). Based on a survey to married, in relationship and singles local citizens of Taiwan the relationships between impressions, importance, push factors with decision making was explored. To test the hypotheses of the proposed model a primary research study was conducted employing a mall intercept technique via distribution of a self-administered questionnaire within a cross sectional on-site field research context. A fsQCA modelling approach technique was employed in order to measure, estimate and confirm the different casual paths constructs, as well as to test the significance of the paths between different segments of the wedding industry. Our findings reveal that the presence of importance, push factors and decision making determines the level of consumer perception performance. However, impressions do not show significant impact on consumer perceptions.
M31|Does market competition dampen environmental performance? Evidence from China|Research Summary: Departing from the extant literature, which assumes that firms pursue strong environmental performance as a differentiation strategy, we analyze the general relationship between firms’ competitive strategy and their response to heightened market competition. We find that, using a large sample of Chinese manufacturing firms between 2000 and 2005, intensified market competition has an overall negative impact on firms’ environmental performance. The negative impact is exacerbated in firms adopting a cost‐leadership strategy, but is attenuated in those adopting a differentiation strategy. The results emphasize the importance of including an examination of the particular competitive strategies chosen by firms in seeking to understand the impact of intensified market competition. Managerial Summary: Advocates of corporate social responsibility (CSR) have long argued for the differentiation role of CSR. However, managers may be misguided if the assumed benefits of differentiation critically depend on certain presumptions. In the Chinese context and focusing on the environmental dimension of CSR, our study finds a negative relationship between market competition and corporate environmental performance. It suggests that firms, to a large extent, cannot escape competition via environmental differentiation. Managers should therefore be cautious about the value of strategic investment in CSR as a viable competitive device.
M31|Effects of Service Quality and Customer Satisfaction on Repurchase Intention in Restaurants on University of Cape Coast Campus|This study sought to examine the effects of service quality and customer satisfaction on the repurchase intentions of customers of restaurants on University of Cape Coast Campus. The survey method was employed involving a convenient sample of 200 customers of 10 restaurants on the University of Cape Coast Campus. A modified DINESERV scale was used to measure customers’ perceived service quality. The results of the study indicate that four factors accounted for 50% of the variance in perceived service quality, namely; responsiveness-assurance, empathy-equity, reliability and tangibles. Service quality was found to have a significant effect on customer satisfaction. Also, both service quality and customer satisfaction had significant effects on repurchase intention. However, customer satisfaction could not moderate the effect of service quality on repurchase intention. This paper adds to the debate on the dimensions of service quality and provides evidence on the effects of service quality and customer satisfaction on repurchase intention in a campus food service context.
M31|Influential Factors of Competitive Advantage Progression on SME Third-Party Logistics in Selangor Malaysia|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) of third-party logistics struggle to stay competitive and facing various pressure to stay competitive. One of the tactics to be competitive is to implement effective competitive measures. The purpose of this research was to explore the influential factors of competitive advantage on third-party logistics in Selangor Malaysia. Data collection included semi-structured questionnaires from 370 managers involved in logistics activities from the small and medium-sized enterprise manufacturing industries located in Selangor. Data analysis was used to identify key influential factors of competitive advantage progression. Correlation and regression analysis were conducted to test the research hypotheses. The results reflect that competitive measures needed extensive attention to stay competitive in the market. Thus, third-party logistics needs to cultivate competitive advantage knowledge and other competitive measures that will drive the third-party logistics service uniqueness. The findings may contribute to social change by helping small and medium-sized third-party logistics to improve their survival rate and to create their firm’s sustainable competitive capability and performance and as well provide solutions to challenges facing the third-party logistics.
M31|Impact of celebrity endorsement on consumer buying behavior towards beauty soap in Karachi city|This research paper focused on the impact celebrity endorsement has on consumer buying behavior towards beauty soaps particularly in Karachi city. Pakistan is a country where people would love and proud to follow or copy or be look like their favorite celebrities. Unilever Pakistan has cashed or used this psyche of Pakistanis very beautifully for their beauty soap named LUX but on the other hand for its beauty soap, named Dove, it has taken commoners to promote that product. In this research it is founded that in Pakistan especially in Karachi city there are more users of LUX than Dove and this is due to two reasons in which Celebrity endorsement is one described in detail in this paper. Results of this paper indicates that when companies choose celebrities based on factors such as, Credibility (physical attractiveness, trustworthiness, expertise), Emotional Involvement (passion, dedication), Meaning Transfer (effective communication, field of celebrity endorsed that best match with the product attributes) this would have a positive impact on consumers’ buying behavior. Recommendation for companies regarding selection of celebrities is that companies should do that after ensure that the celebrities’ image and overall personalities must match with the brand personality.
M31|Sport eFANgelism Demographics|Brand evangelism, an advanced form of marketing where consumers voluntarily advocate on behalf of the brand, can bring numerous benefits to a firm. It would be a new era to explore brand evangelism within the spectator sport context. This study concentrates on eFANgelism demographics based on gender, generation, number of children owned and education level.
M31|Le city branding comme moteur de développement pour le Maroc ? Cas de la ville de Dakhla<BR>[City branding as a development engine for Morocco? Case of the city of Dakhla]|Today, competition and competitiveness are key factors in economic development. Inserted into a globalized economy, dominated by the laws of the market, the territories have no alternative but to stand out from each other to attract potential investors. (M E, Ferréol 2013). The use of the territorial brand (culture, musical, culinary, artisanal, tourist, industrial, etc) is one of the major innovations in the promotion of territories. This marketing strategy conceives the territory as a product that must be sold, starting from the creation of a brand image, the development of a communication strategy and a promotion plan. In this context, there is a growing interest in territorial marketing strategies by public entities in charge of territories, be they cities (Babey & Giauque, 2009), regions (Mihalis Kavaratzis, Warnaby & Ashworth, 2015), from states (Papadopoulos & Heslop, 2002). This poses the opportunity for the implementation of a city branding strategy of the city of Dakhla and this to influence the economic and social development of the region.
M31|Does subliminal advertisement affect consumer behavior? An exploratory comparative analysis between marketing and non-marketing professionals|This research study is an effort to explore the difference in the understanding of marketers and non-marketers about their perception, awareness, knowledge, attitude and behavior about the subliminal messages in advertising. To serve the objective of comparative analysis conceptual model was developed for both groups which involved Perception, Awareness and Knowledge relationship with attitude, then relationship of attitude on Behavior towards the brand. Three commercials were selected which had embedded subliminal messages and respondents viewed the advertisements before filling out questionnaires to identify their level of awareness and the degree of knowledge about the type of subliminal content embedded in the ads. For each group total of 140 participants gave their responses. Structural Equation modeling was performed to test the hypothesized relationship between variables. Results of Path analysis show that only one factors for marketers, such that Knowledge about subliminal messages had significant positive effect on attitude towards subliminal Ads. Also marketers’ attitude towards subliminal ads was negatively significant on behavior towards brand. For non-marketers, no support for any of the hypotheses found. Overall results reveal that both the marketing and non-marketing professionals view and perceive the subliminal messages embedded in the ads with a statistically significant difference.
M31|Pengaruh Kualitas Layanan, Kebijakan Harga Dan Promosi Terhadap Keputusan Konsumen Serta Dampaknya Pada Kepuasan Konsumen<BR>[The Effect Of Service Quality, Price And Promotion Policy On Consumer Decisions And Its Impact On Customer Satisfaction]|This Study aims to analyze the effect of quality of service, price, and promotion to customer satisfaction that impact on customer decision. The sample used is customer satisfaction conducted for 5 (five) years. The Research instrument uses income and consumer response data on price and promotion cost for 5 (five) Years. Data analysis techniques used are data analysis, classical assumption test, the coefficient of determination, multiple linear regression analysis and testing of hypothesis test F and t-test. The results showed that the variable quality of service prices and promotion costs together or partially have a positive and significant impact a customer satisfaction that impact on customer decisions.
M31|Pengaruh Atribut Produk, Promosi Dan Kesadaran Merek Terhadap Keputusan Pembelian Sepeda Motor Honda Pcx<BR>[The Effect Of Product, Promotion, And Brand Awareness Attractions On Honda Pcx Motorcycle Decisions]|With this technological advancement and competitive market competition, every business actor who wants to win the competition must pay attention and apply the right marketing strategies and changes in consumption patterns that occur in the marketing environment. Companies must pay attention, understand and respond quickly to changes in the needs and desires of these consumers to be able to become winners in such intense competition. This research uses a type of survey research with a quantitative approach, which is analyzed using multiple linear regression methods, the population used in this research is the people of Pangkalpinang City who use Honda PCX motorcycles. The sample is determined based on the accidental sampling method, with a total sample of 100 respondents. The results of this research that simultaneously (F-test) promotion, product attributes, and brand awareness have a significant effect on purchasing decisions of Honda PCX motorcycles in Pangkalpinang City. This is evidenced by the value of Fcount> Ftable which is 78.725> 2.70.
M31|Influence of reference group indicators to the image of modern retail (case in Indonesia)|This study aims to analyze the influence of the reference group to the image of modern retail in Medan. The research population is modern retail consumers in Medan.The samples in this study were consumers who shop at Indomaret, Alfa Mart and Alfa Midi modern retailers in Medan City, Indonesia and tthe sample size obtained was 204 by the fraction sample method. This study analysis uses a Structural Equation Modeling (SEM). The results concluded that the reference group has a significant effect on the modern retail images.
M31|Impact Of Sales Management Control Strategy On Sales Perfomance In Life Insurance Sector|The purpose of this study is to discuss the impact of sales performance in life insurance sector. Sales performance in life insurance industry has seen a major concern to practitioners due to severe competition and to design marketing strategy. Further to that, one way to enhance sales performance in life insurance is by focusing on good strategy and developing salesforce. Life insurance need to have a good understanding of their strategy and salesforce management so that appropriate great marketing strategies directed towards sales management control strategy. The objective of this study is to examine the causal impact of several antecedents of sales performance in the context of insurance in Java Island, Indonesia. Thus, it will review the marketing literature on the sales performance ie., sales volume, market share, profitability and customer satisfaction. Next, we present the research framework, methods, measures and findings and conclusion. Finally, the results were discussed in terms of its contribution to the upgrading of life insurance strategies and recommendations for future research.
M31|Consumers’ perception on human-like artificial intelligence devices|The presence of Artificial Intelligence in our everyday life has become one of the most debated topics nowadays. In opposition to the past, nowadays, in the age of broadband connectivity, it is difficult for individuals to imagine their everyday life, at work or in their spare time, without computers, internet, mobile applications or other devices. Most of these devices have had a contribution to the improvement of our everyday life by being more efficient and having a higher convenience. Few people are aware of the fact that, by continuously developing and improving these technologies, they might become more intelligent than we are and that they will have the potential to control us. In the attempt to make these devices friendlier to consumers, they have started to take human-like aspect and even having own identities. We have nowadays call center answering machines with names or robots with names and citizenship. The objective of this article is to determine the acceptance and preference of consumers for personalized or human-like robots or devices. For four different cases, the respondents had to choose between a classic device and a human-like robot. The results of the research show, with a high significance, that consumers still prefer the classic devices over anthropomorphic robots.
M31|Rise of Digital Media to Triumph Brand Loyalty|Modern era of management has seen a rise in the level of customer engagement, which was not that much of importance earlier. Earlier, brands tend to compete on the products or service they offer. In the recent digital era, it is much more than what a brand has to offer. The emergence of digital media has boosted the importance of customer engagement. Now, customers can easily get in touch with the companies through digital channels. Corporations use these channels to let customers aware about their offerings, ask for suggestions and recommendations, and solve the queries of the customers. This research is focus on ascertaining the relationship between customer engagement, customer satisfaction, and customer loyalty, and to identify how these factors impacts the repeat purchases in telecommunication sector. The research is based on descriptive research design; quantitative research design was trailed for questionnaire developing 5-point Likert scale technique.
M31|Impact of advertizing on brand’s market-shares in the automobile market:: a multi-channel attraction model with competition and carry-over effects|This article presents a new approach to measure the impact of multi-channel advertising investments on brands’ market shares in the main segment of the French automobile market. We propose a multi-channel attraction model with adstock, in order to take into account the advertising carryover effect and the competition. This model allows to distinguish between short term and long term effect of the advertising. As, from a mathematical point of view, a vector of market shares is a composition belonging to the simplex space, i.e. subject to positivity and summing up to one contraints, we take benefit from the compositional data analysis (CODA) literature to estimate properly this model. We show how to determine the carryover parameters for each channel (outdoor, press, radio and television) in a multivariate way. We consider several model specifications with more or less complexity (cross effects between brands), including Dirichlet models, and we compare them using goodness-of-fit and prediction accuracy measures. We explain how to built confidence and prediction ellipsoids in the space of market shares. The impact of each channel on market shares is measured in terms of direct and cross elasticities. We conclude that in this market, radio only has a contemporaneous impact whereas outdoor, press and television have a large decay effect. Moreover, the advertising elasticities vary across brands and channels, and can be negative. It also turns out that positive interactions do exist between certain brands for certain media.
M31|On the firms’ decision to hire academic scientists|This paper provides a theoretical rationale for private investment in basic research. It explains the decision by some firms to hire scientists who have an intrinsic motivation to pursue academic research and allow them to do so while they also dedicate time to the firm’s applied agenda. We show that this decision maximizes firms’ profits in a context where basic and applied research activities are not strong substitutes and the opportunity cost, associated with deterring scientists from remaining in academia, is sufficiently low. Allowing scientists to pursue an academic agenda facilitates participation. When scientists are privately informed about their ’taste for science’, the contract requires that the more academically driven scientists dedicate greater attention to their personal agenda to satisfy incentive compatibility. When the reservation utility is weakly correlated with the scientist’s academic inclination, this restriction has no impact and the first best contract remains optimal. But as the correlation increases, the firms tend to select less academically driven scientists. Underinvestment in basic research is not triggered by the need to reduce informational rents which are non-existent as scientists face countervailing incentives. Instead it arises from the need to curb the increased cost of efforts.
M31|Noisy Persuasion|We study the effect of noise due to exogenous information distortions in the context of Bayesian persuasion. In particular, we ask whether more noise is always harmful for the information designer (viz., the sender). We show that in general this is not the case. That is, more noise is often beneficial for the sender. However, when we compare noisy channels with “similar basic structures”, more noise cannot be beneficial for the sender. We apply our theory to applications from the literatures on voting and cognitive biases.
M31|Smokers’ Rational Lexicographic Preferences for Cigarette Package Warnings: A Discrete Choice Experiment with Eye Tracking|We asked 97 cigarette smokers to make a series of 12 binary choices between experimental cigarette packages with varying warnings and background colors. Each smoker had to decide which of the two packages contained cigarettes less risky for his health. We tested whether the smokers, confronted with warnings that were repugnant and threatening to many of them, could still make choices that adhered to the standard axioms of rational choice. We supplemented our observations on smokers’ choices with data on their eye movements. We find that participants universally made choices consistent with a complete, transitive preference ordering. We find little evidence of inconsistent choices violating the weak axiom of revealed preference. In a majority of smokers, we find strong evidence of the use of a lexicographic decision rule to assess the riskiness of a cigarette package. These smokers first ranked the two packages solely on the basis of their warnings. Only when the two packages had the same warning did they rankthe packages on the basis of their color. The data on eye tracking strongly confirmed the lexicographic nature of the underlying decision rule. Our studyrepresentsan entirely different angle of inquiry into thequestion of rational addiction.
M31|Consumer Resistance|This paper studies the impact of consumer resistance, which is triggered by deviations from a psychological reference point, on optimal pricing and cost communication. Assuming that consumers evaluate purchases not only in the material domain, we show that consumer resistance reduces the pricing power and profit. We also show that consumer resistance provides an incentive to engage in cost communication when consumers underestimate cost. While cheap communication does not affect behavior, persuasive communication may increase sales and profit. Finally, we show that a firm can benefit from engaging in operational transparency by revealing information about features of the production process.
M31|Cultural consumption and the artistic benefit|This research-based paper aims to analyse the benefits linked with the art & culture consumption in order to improve their taxonomy. Starting from a list of benefits composed by five voices: functional, symbolic, emotional, social and artistic, this paper is dedicated to an analysis aimed at understanding what are the features that a cultural product of performing arts should have. Particular attention is dedicated to the artistic benefit, defined as the feeling of being part of the artistic process. This benefit, through the optic of the customer engagement, helps to push forward arts and culture marketing and management into a service-dominant logic. Data collection and analysis are divided in two main studies. The first qualitative, explorative and item-generation study is based on in-depth interviews with pivotal witnesses of the art management process; the second quantitative study intends to purify the items generation process and evaluate the validity of the identified semantic dimensions in comparison with the starting framework. The results confirm the relevance of the topic for the arts consumption in order to shed light on the customer engagement process within the art & culture marketing and management dynamics.
M31|Experimental marketing and the crisis of postmodernism. Problems and perspectives|In this paper, we outline some fundamental aspects of Experiential Marketing Ð or EM Ð, which distinguish it from more traditional forms of Marketing and bestow its distinctive character upon it. We also spell out EMÕs relation to different philosophical traditions, on one hand, and to different scientific trends, on the other, highlighting some heretofore underestimated aspects of its theoretical background. In particular, we delve into the relationship between EM and Romanticism, on one hand, and Phenomenology, on the other. Our analysis focuses upon the relevance of three notions for EMÕs theoretical discourse and practice: experience, authenticity, and reality. All these notions are only apparently na•ve; on the contrary, as we show, they are rooted in complex philosophical paradigms, and are inhabited by conceptual tensions. EM inherits those tensions, as we point out, tensions expressed in paradoxical forms in some of its most prominent formulations, e.g. in the works of Holbrook and Hirschman, Pine and Gilmore, and in those of Schmitt. As we show, most of those contradictions derive from the allegiance of EM to postmodernist metaphysical assumptions, pertaining to the notion of reality and to its relation to the one of experience.
M31|The cultural omnivorousness and the consumption of performing arts|This paper aims to understand and investigate the relationship between the cultural omnivorousness and the research of the artistic benefit in the fruition of cultural products. The hypothesis at the base of the research is that the omnivore, as an expert and consumer protagonist of his time and of his choices, moves in search of artistic enriching experiences based on the sense of re-enchantment and authenticity as an antidote to the experiential standardization and homologation. To search for the conceptual link between omnivorousness and artistic benefit, in the context of the fruition behaviors, this research aims to understand, through a mixed methods methodology, the point of view of the omnivore user and to investigate his cultural logic of distinction. The aim is to identify managerial implications for the planning of new business models in the cultural and artistic fields.
M31|Managing digital marketing strategies in emerging markets: The case of China|Since Internet has been seen as global, few studies have examined the influence of the context in the digital marketing strategies. This paper wants to contribute on the debate about standardization-adaptation, focusing on the digital strategies, defining how companies adapt them to the Chinese market identifying the drivers that call for this adaptation. China is selected because it is a contradictory market: more advanced than the Western one but also with many restrictions. We carry out a qualitative research based on interviews with nine key informants operating in the digital Chinese market with different roles. Our findings suggest that there are drivers that force companies to create an online presence and drivers that impact the digital localization. The main adaptations concern international distribution strategy and communication related to contents and media as well as organization.
M31|Moving beyond the contingent valuation versus choice experiment debate – Presentation effects in stated preference|We reexamine the literature comparing “contingent valuation” (“CV”) and “choice experiments” (“CEs”) in terms of stated preference design features, and empirically investigate an understudied dimension in these comparisons, namely presentation effects. Structured analysis of the literature suggests that the comparisons of “CV” and “CEs” as broad descriptive terms may mask the many design and methodological differences seen in implementations of the approaches. In the empirical component, we find preference disclosure to be unaffected by text and table presentation formats in elicitation tasks, except when only the first task is considered. Implications of our findings for stated preference research are discussed.
M31|Hypothetical bias and framing effect in the valuation of private consumer goods|In the laboratory experiment, I examine two behavioral effects: hypothetical bias and the framing effect. I elicited willingness to pay (WTP) for a cosmetic product, and manipulated framing conditions (positive vs. negative attribute framing) and incentives to reveal the actual valuation (hypothetical vs. real). In this case, I demonstrated that hypothetical bias has a significant impact on WTP values; however, the framing effect has no effect on valuation of the product. Similarly, I found no interaction between the two effects. This observation contributes to claims that hypothetical research methods lead to equally reliable data as those based on consequential choices.
M31|Perceived brand reliability of insurance companies as customer loyalty factor|A regular obstacle in insurance business is the problem of attracting new users of insurance products/services while it is getting more difficult to keep the existing clients. Beside financial risk and barriers to exit which restrain clients contractually and legally from leaving an insurance provider and switching to another, there aren't many reasons why they should not do it, and the possibilities are vast. That is why it is important to continually strengthen the emotional bond with the clients and to affect their perception of insurance provider’s brand strength, brand reliability and quality. Another limitation in attracting new clients is a significant similarity in the offer of all insurance providers, which is why they have to make effort to create a recognizable differential advantage which will be noticed by the clients and not easily imitated by the competitors. Not enough attention is given to strengthening the brand of insurance providers and brand equity is exactly what can affect the opinion of clients when choosing or changing an insurance provider. The feeling of belonging to a particular insurance provider is the most important factor because it is a generator strong bond with the brand. In order for insurance users to gain trust in the insurance provider, it has to make sure that users have solid understanding of types of insurance coverage and exclusions in their insurance policies. In practice it is often the opposite, which creates lower level of satisfaction on clients' side due to high expectations. By analysing market research results, the author examines aspects of perceived stability, trust and reliability of insurance providers’ brands on Croatian market. After collecting insurance users' attitudes and opinions based on their previous experiences and perception, the author makes conclusions regarding their current and future loyalty by methods of synthesis and induction.
M31|Empirische Studie zum Messeverhalten von kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern|[Einleitung - Ausgangslage und Zielsetzung] Messen sind eines der wichtigsten Marketinginstrumente. Auf Messen werden nicht nur Geschäfte vorbereitet und abgeschlossen, sie sind auch ein zentraler Ort des Wissensaustausches und der Kommunikation. Entscheider aus dem Bereich Einkauf und Beschaffung nutzen insbesondere Messen zur Informationsgewinnung.1 Außerdem ist festzustellen, dass wie zu erwarten, die Onlinenutzung an Bedeutung stark zunimmt, dies aber nicht zulasten von Messebesuchen bei Entscheidungsträgern führt.2 Im Beschaffungsprozess von Unternehmen sind Verlässlichkeit und Kompetenz einerseits und persönlicher Kontakt für Entscheider von zentraler Bedeutung.3 Gerade diese Merkmale werden in besonderer Weise durch das Austellerverhalten auf Messen widergespiegelt. Außerdem ist festzustellen, dass viele internationale Leitmessen in Deutschland stattfinden, daher haben Messen in Deutschland für die Exportförderung eine bedeutende Funktion. Vor diesem Hintergrund hat das Messeverhalten von Unternehmen für deren wirtschaftliche Entwicklung eine zentrale Bedeutung. Sowohl die Landesregierung des Landes Mecklenburg-Vorpommern als auch die IHKs und HWKs des Landes Mecklenburg-Vorpommern unterstützen daher mit wirtschaftspolitischen Förderprogrammen und verbandspolitischen Maßnahmen die aktive Messebeteiligung der Unternehmen in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. Die vorliegende Studie, die sich an der Messestudie 20094 orientiert, wurde ebenfalls von der Hochschule Wismar durchgeführt. An der aktuellen Studie haben insgesamt 456 Unternehmen teilgenommen, dabei wurde die Befragung getrennt nach IHK- und HWK-Mitgliedschaft in den jeweiligen Kammergebieten durchgeführt. Das Ziel der vorliegenden Studie besteht darin, die Motive der Unternehmen zu analysieren, die zu einer Teilnahme und Nichtteilnahme an Messen als Aussteller führen. Die Analyse der nichtausstellenden Unternehmen ist ein zentrales Problem der messewissenschaftlichen Analysen. Es liegt außer der Messestudie MV aus dem Jahr 2009 erst eine weitere empirische Studie vor, die der AUMA im Herbst 2017 veröffentlicht hat.5 Darüber hinaus wurde geprüft, ob sich das Messeverhalten seit 2009 signifikant verändert hat. Um einen derartigen Vergleich der Messestudien 2009 und 2017 zu ermöglichen, wurden der Aufbau der Studie und die Struktur des Fragebogens im Wesentlichen beibehalten.
M31|Trendstudie 2018: Lese- und Schreibverhalten der Generationen X, Y, Z|No abstract is available for this item.
M31|Reference Price Shifts and Customer Antagonism: Evidence from Reviews for Online Auctions|Using data from a large-scale sales campaign on eBay, I show that successful auction customers punish the seller through unfavorable public feedback when they later learn discover a cheaper fixed-price offer. The probability of receiving such feedback is four times bigger for auctions than for fixed -price sales of the same item from the same seller. Remarkably, this probability is increasing in the auction price, even though auction customers actively shaped this price themselves. In line with an explanation based on ex-post reference price shifts, this price effect is concentrated in a period during which reference prices were particularly salient because customers information about them, but not about idiosyncratic transaction features (e.g. quality), could change. Consistent with the reference price explanation, the difference in unfavorable feedback between auctions and fixed-price sales is also concentrated in this period and drops to a quarter of its initial size afterwards.
M31|Puppets on a String|For more than a century, scholars in psychology have debated whether humans are ‘of two minds,’ that is, whether they have both conscious and unconscious thoughts, and whether both conscious and unconscious thought processes determine their behavior. According to Freud’s iceberg model, conscious thought is just the tip of the iceberg, with most of our thought processes taking place unconsciously. Marketing scholars and practitioners have embraced the iceberg model with great enthusiasm. They have incorporated models where people’s drives and motivations are built in layers, with only the top layer consciously accessible, but the real drivers hidden underneath. According to one of the most influential contemporary theories, human thinking is governed by dual systems. System 1, it is argued, is the evolutionarily oldest system, based in parts of the brain we share with lower animals, operates unconsciously, uncontrollably, with low effort, has huge capacity, is fast, nonverbal, parallel, and associative. System 2, conversely, is evolutionarily more recent, resides in our frontal cortex, operates consciously, controllably, with high effort, has small capacity, is slow, verbal, serial, and based on rules. Despite their intuitive appeal, dual system theories have been challenged in recent years. I discuss some of their more problematic aspects and the research I have conducted testing core propositions of the dual system approach. Especially my research on the way brands become more well-liked through advertising and conditioning procedures is highly relevant for the debate, but so is research on people’s risk perceptions and self-control performance. Overall, I have seen support for some of the key predictions of dual process theory, but no support at all for its strong claim that mental processes should clearly belong to one of two systems with highly separable features. I argue that we need to acknowledge that the human mind cannot be neatly divided into two complementary processing systems. Rather, we should recognize that thought processes can be characterized to a greater or lesser extent by some but not all the features of automaticity. Researchers should start recognizing the full complexity of the human mind and embrace research that is more detailed, more precise – and perhaps a bit less grand in its claims.
M31|Learning with a purpose: the balancing acts of machine learning and individuals in the digital society|No abstract is available for this item.
M31|Methods and Communication Techniques in Online Environments and Target Audience|Means and the communication techniques used in rapidly evolving online environment. The Internet has not only changed the rules of marketing and public relations, but also the way in which companies choose to promote their business (products/services) in the online environment. Firms know their goals of, and so their marketing programs, websites and blogs by their contents fail to stimulate action. The effective strategies for marketing and public relations used in the online environment offers target audience containing complex information, which induce them to take action. By means of this study we aim to identify the means and techniques of social communication with high impact on the target audience, actor without which marketing strategies would have no efficiency. The Internet has shaped a new vision of how the public communicate and interact; He has sketched a different relationship between business and current consumers but does not exclude neither potential clients.
M31|Earnings Management, Effective Tax Rate (Etr) And Book-Tax Gap (Btg)|Objective – This research examines the effect of company size, changes in out-cash flow, return on assets, conservatism, and profit levelling on earnings management. Methodology/Technique – The results of this research show that banking capital structure, capital intensity, intensity of inventory, and intensity of R & D have a significant impact on effective tax rates. Further, the results also show that, with respect to the non-banking sector, R & D expenditure contributes significantly to effective tax rates. Simultaneously, earnings management and effective tax rates, as well as other factors, also have an effect on book tax gap. Findings – This study shows that profit management has a significantly positive effect on book tax gap, and effective tax rates has a significant negative effects o book tax gap. In terms of the non-banking sector, earnings management and effective tax rate have no effect on book tax gap. Deferred tax expenses have a lower capability to detect earnings management than accrual, in both the banking and non-banking sector. Novelty – The study of management capabilities optimizes the role of book tax gap and effective tax rate for earning management. Both tax management and earnings management are closely related to behavior management in managing a company based on the agency theory. Furthermore, the study identifies a relationship between earnings management and book tax gap
M31|Motivations and Communication Effectiveness of Solar Energy Adoption among Malaysian Household Consumers|Objective - This paper aims to explain the motivational drives underlying the use of solar energy and to examine the effectiveness of integrated marketing communication tools in the dissemination of solar PV information among household consumers in Malaysia. Methodology/Technique - Data was collected using in-depth interviews, participant observations, and on-site visits to participants' homes. Sixteen private household consumers who were registered with the Sustainable Energy Development Authority Malaysia (SEDA), and who were located in different regions of several states in Malaysia, were selected using purposive and snowball sampling. The data was then transcribed and analyzed by identifying the themes and commonalities of the respondents. Findings - The findings indicate that there are 4 motivating factors that lead to solar PV adoption. Those are: economic, societal well-being, environmental well-being, and knowledge/cognition. The integrated marketing communication tools found to be most effective include mass media (television), electronic media (including social media and websites) and interpersonal sources. Novelty - The study elaborates on the motivations underlying the adoption of solar energy based on the real experiences of solar PV users. The study also assesses the effectiveness of integrated marketing communication tools used by various stakeholders in promoting solar PV systems based on user feedback.
M31|The Effect of Emotional Branding on Word-Of-Mouth: Evidence from Indonesia|Objective - The purpose of this paper is to explore how brand love affects consumers' brand trust, brand loyalty and word-of-mouth promotion towards an online public transport app in Jakarta, Indonesia. GO-JEK is a cost-effective, transport-based application that is used by passengers in Indonesia. Methodology/Technique - This research uses a purposive sampling technique to select 380 GO-JEK users. Partial least square version 3.0 analysis was used to analyze the data collected through the questionnaires. Findings - The study reveals that brand love, brand trust and brand loyalty have a positive in?uence on word-of-mouth advertising. Novelty - Brand love strongly influences brand trust, followed by brand loyalty and word-of-mouth.
M31|The Effect of Advertising Strategies for the Sale of Message Soap on the Decision Purchase in East Java|Objective – The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of advertising of FMCG products on the decision to purchase those products, and brand loyalty, in East Java. Methodology/Technique –This study examines the effect of television advertising on the decision to purchase and brand loyalty with respect to FMCG products. The study uses purposive sampling to gather information in the district of East Java, with a sample of 140 respondents. The study also uses SEM (Structural Equation Modelling) to measure the results. Findings – The SEM analysis shows that product advertising has a significant effect on the decision to purchase and brand loyalty on FMCG products in East Java, which tends to increase at a rate of 5% alpha. Novelty – This study examines the purchasing power of people in the district of East Java.
M31|Gender-based Susceptibility to Interpersonal Influences in Buying Fashion Products in Surabaya, Indonesia|Objective – As sales in the fashion industry continue to grow, consumer behaviour with respect to purchasing fashion products has also grown. This paper provides an overview of consumers' susceptibility to interpersonal influence (CSII) and examines whether there is the difference between male and female consumers with respect to buying fashion products in Surabaya, Indonesia. Methodology/Technique – The conceptual framework in this paper compares males and females in terms of their normative susceptibility to interpersonal influences (NSI) and informative susceptibility to interpersonal influences (ISI). The study uses a quantitative methodology with an independent sample t-test for analysis. The data is collected through the distribution of questionnaires to 200 respondents, being 100 males and 100 females, falling between the ages of 17 and 45 years old. Further, all respondents live in Surabaya, Indonesia. Findings – There study results show that thre is no difference in normative susceptibility to interpersonal influences (NSI) between males and females however, there is a difference in informative susceptibility to interpersonal influences (ISI) between male and female, with respect to purchasing fashion products. Novelty – This study provides an insight into the similarity in normative susceptibility to interpersonal influences and differences in informative susceptibility to interpersonal influences (ISI) between males and females. This information may be useful for fashion manufacturers, vendors and other interested stakeholders.
M31|Marketing Strategies of Services and Purchasing Incentives in Asia|Objective - This research explores the changing mechanism in the relationship between retailers and consumers whereby consumers face higher-prices due to inflation while their earnings, and thereby their disposal income, does not simultaneously increase. Methodology/Technique - An examination is conducted on the use of loyalty cards in the Malaysian retail sector to determine whether Asian consumers are enticed by the use of loyalty programs, which can be seen as an attempt to save money when making purchases. Findings - The findings suggest that loyalty programs will expand in the future to include other offerings as they gain momentum and popularity. This research concludes that Malaysian consumers, like most of Southeast Asian consumers, are price adverse, and hence will take opportunities to save money when making purchases. Novelty - The findings of this research can be generalized to the Southeast Asian region due to the similarity of consumption and national characteristics between Malaysian and Southeast Asian consumers.
M31|Store Brand Familiarity as a Moderating Variable on the Effect of Personal Involvement on Store Brand Buying Intention|Objective - This study aims to examine the influence of personal involvement and store brand familiarity on store brand buying intentions at a store named Indomaret in Bengkulu City. This study also examines how store brand familiarity, as a moderating variable, influences personal involvement of store brand purchases. Methodology/Technique - The data in this study is obtained from a questionnaire distributed to 200 respondents who shop for store brand products at Indomaret in Bengkulu City. The method of analysis used is the SmartPLS 2.0 as a statistical technique was used to identify the variables studied. Findings - The results clearly show that personal involvement and store brand familiarity both have a partial effect on store brand buying intention. Further, store brand familiarity does not have a moderating effect on personal involvement in store brand buying intention. Novelty - The findings of this study are the first to identify store brand familiarity as moderating variable in the study of the influence of personal involvement on store brand buying intention.
M31|A Multiple Measure of Organizational Performances and its Effect on Distinctive Marketing Competencies: An Empirical Study of India and the Maldives|Objective - The role of knowledge management and competencies related to marketing skills are essential for Indian and Maldivian businesses, due to the emerging economy and globalization. This study therefore aims to identify the impact of marketing competencies on organizational performance in automobile sales centers, by reviewing the relationship between marketing competencies and firm performance, to support interest and investments in such a concept.Methodology/Technique - 424 respondents (327 Indian samples and 97 Maldivian samples) were randomly selected for the research, with a 71% response rate. The first section of the questionnaire consists of questions related to marketing competencies (32 items) and the second section contains items related to organizational performance (10 items), and the last part includes questions about the respondents' demographical differences. After the data collection, construct validity and reliability statistic tests were conducted to check the validity and reliability of the instrument using IBM SPSS AMOS 23.Findings - The structural equation modelling results for the Indian and the Maldivian samples reveal that marketing competencies have a significant and positive affect on organizational performance.Novelty - This study may be useful for policymakers and top-level managers in the automobile sector; this study provides empirical insights into how the performance of the firm is affected by marketing competencies.
M31|The Mediating Role of Actual Self-Congruity on the Relationship between Religion and Store Loyalty: A Case of Mauritius|Objective - This study develops a mediation model to test the link between religious affiliation, religiosity and store loyalty through the inclusion of Actual Self-Congruity (ASC) as a mediating variable. The theoretical frameworks underpinning this study are drawn from literature related to religion, self-congruity theory, and more specifically Sheth's (1983) Shopping Preference Theory. Methodology/Technique - The data was collected through telephone interviews among a random sample of 409 Mauritian grocery shoppers. The sample was divided as follows: Hindus (n= 202), Muslims (n=71) and Catholics (n= 136), in line with the religious proportion of the population. Findings - The mediation model was tested using regression analysis. The findings indicate that religiosity is positively related to store loyalty. Moreover, ASC fully mediates the link between religiosity and customers' store loyalty. Research Limitations/Implications – This research is confined to Mauritian grocery shoppers. The generalisation of the results could be extended to include high and low involvement products. Future research may also consider dual congruity approaches (functional and self –congruity) so as to reflect a more balanced view of congruity in explaining store loyalty. A larger number of religious groups could also be considered. Novelty - The inclusion of consumer religiosity and ASC as antecedents of store loyalty as proposed in the mediation model is one of the distinctive features of this research. To date, this area is under-researched. The results provide new and valuable insights into how ASC is instrumental in developing store loyalty in the grocery sector in a devoutly religious population.
M31|Behavior Analysis Matrix for Women Soap Opera Viewers: A Structural Analysis|Objective - In modern times, soap operas are thought to be a good source of leisure and are considered a powerful medium for propagating specific attitudes, ideas and different cultures within society. They are also useful for educating, informing and entertaining audiences, particularly women and children. The present investigation examines behavioural changes in women who watch soap operas. The Behaviour Analysis Matrix is used to assess changes in socio-cultural, psychological, economic, physiological and functional traits. Methodology/Technique - The present paper develops a global model for behavioural analysis of women who view soap operas using structural equation modelling. Findings - The present SEM model on behavioural analysis of soap opera viewers can be adopted as a global model for intervention. Novelty - The present study is useful for medical personal, social workers, academics and researchers in understanding the positive and negative effects of television shows on women, specifically, whether these serials create attitude changes among modern day women and the extent of the effect of their inter-personal relationships with family members and society. It is believed that this study will assist satellite media personnel in the development of their future programmes with social consciousness.
M31|E-commerce in Hungary: A Market Analysis|E-commerce is on the rise in Hungary, with significantly growing numbers of customers shopping online. This paper aims to identify the direct and indirect drivers of the double-digit growth rate, including the related macroeconomic indicators and the Digital Economy and Society Index (DESI). Moreover, this study provides a deep insight into industry trends and outlooks, including high industry concentration and top industrial players. It also draws the profile of the typical online shopper and the dominant characteristics of online purchases. Development of e-commerce is robust, but there is still plenty of potential for growth and progress in Hungary.
M31|Factors affecting farmers’ WTP for innovative fertilizer against soil salinity|Salt stress noxiously shocks agricultural yield all over the world affecting production either it is for subsistence or economic outcomes. However, the market for anti-salinity products is still developing and little is known about the willingness to pay for agricultural supplies, these have been largely focused on using stated preference methods only. This paper applied both Contingent and Inferred Valuation Method for the purpose of examining the determinants of farmers’ willingness to pay for two packages of an innovative anti-salinity fertilizer, which does not yet exist in the market, in the regions of southwest Greece. With the aid of questionnaire, primary data were obtained from 150 farmers. Willingness to pay for the two packages of liquid fertilizer was measured through dichotomous choice. For the econometric analysis, interval regression model was used. The results revealed that farmers’ willingness to pay for the specific anti-salinity product is influenced by a host of factors. Especially, the regression showed that the size of cultivated land, the level of education, the knowledge scale about salinity, the package of liquid fertilizer that farmers usually buy and the consequentiality script have a positive effect on willingness to pay, whilst hypothetical bias and inferred valuation method have a negative effect. Also, we examined a methodological issue concerning the order that the package of fertilizer was appeared in the willingness to pay question which has a positive effect on willingness to pay. The implication is that taking these factors into account while large companies are looking for new and profitable products by investing for research and development enables companies’ managers to come up with projects that win acceptance from the farmers.
M31|Sales Performance and Social Preferences|We use an incentivized experimental game to uncover heterogeneity in other-regarding preferences among salespeople in a large Austrian retail chain. Our results show that the majority of agents take the welfare of others into account but a significant fraction reveals self-regarding behavior. Matching individual behavior in the game with firm data on sales performance shows that higher concern for others is significantly associated with higher revenue per customer. At the same time, it is also associated with fewer sales per day. Both effects offset each other, so that the overall association with total sales revenue becomes insignificant. Our findings highlight the nuanced role of self- vs. other-regarding concerns in sales contexts with important implications for management and marketing research.
M31|Sales Performance and Social Preferences|We use an incentivized experimental game to uncover heterogeneity in otherregarding preferences among salespeople in a large Austrian retail chain. Our results show that the majority of agents take the welfare of others into account but a significant fraction reveals self-regarding behavior. Matching individual behavior in the game with firm data on sales performance shows that higher concern for others is significantly associated with higher revenue per customer. At the same time, it is also associated with fewer sales per day. Both effects offset each other, so that the overall association with total sales revenue becomes insignificant. Our findings highlight the nuanced role of self- vs. other-regarding concerns in sales contexts with important implications for management and marketing research.
M31|Innovation and Distribution: A General Equilibrium Model of Manufacturing and Retailing|I propose a general equilibrium model of competition in manufacturing and retailing. Relative to the counterfactual of direct sales by manufacturers, the retail sector increases manufacturing entry and produced variety. Although double marginalization in the sales channel raises prices and hurts consumers in quantity, the retail sector increases variety and convenience, both valued positively. Pricing power in the vertical channel reflects surplus or scarcity of manufactured substitutes relative to retailer store size. Finally, the size of the retail sector is a constant fraction of the total economy across nations of differing size and wealth.
M31|Consumer Misinformation and the Brand Premium: A Private Label Blind Taste Test|We run in-store blind taste tests with a retailer's private label food brands and the leading national brand counterparts in three large CPG categories. In a survey administered during the taste test, subjects self-report very high expectations about the quality of the private labels relative to national brands. However, they predict a relatively low probability of choosing them in a blind taste test. Surprisingly however, an overwhelming majority systematically chooses the private label in the blinded test. During the week after the intervention, the tested private label product market shares increase by 15 share points, on top of a base share of 8 share points. However, the effect diminishes to 8 share points during the second to fourth week after the test and to 2 share points during the second to fifth month after the test. Using a structural model of demand, we show these effects survive controls for point-of-purchase prices, purchase incidence, and the feedback effects of brand loyalty. We also find that the intervention increases the preference for the private label brands, and that it decreases the preference for the national brands, relative to the outside good. The findings are consistent with a treatment effect of information on demand where the memory for this information decays slowly over time. Alternative explanations to the information treatment are ruled out.
M31|Consumer Time Budgets and Grocery Shopping Behavior|Home production not only requires money to buy market goods but also varying degrees of time to shop and to prepare consumption goods. Households' time budgets therefore affect their use of the market and the bundle of market goods chosen. Using a novel household panel data set that combines purchase records with time-budget shifting labor-events, and controlling for demographics, this paper shows how the availability of time affects purchasing behavior. We first find that more discretionary time, due to, e.g., retirement, leads to additional shopping trips across a more diverse set of stores, increased spending on groceries, and more diversity in products chosen. In addition, when time is less scarce, restaurant expenditures go down and grocery expenditures go up. We next classify products according to the time it takes to turn them into consumption experiences. Availability of additional time shifts a household's shopping bundle towards more time-intensive market goods. Our results suggest that product- and retail innovations aimed at forward-integrating into household production are important drivers of demand in CPG industries.
M31|Social Interaction and Technology Adoption: Experimental Evidence from Improved Cookstoves in Mali| We investigate the role of social interaction in technology adoption by conducting a field experiment in neighborhoods of Bamako. We invited women to attend a training/marketing session, where information on a more efficient cooking stove was provided and the chance to purchase the product at market price was offered. We randomly provided an information nudge on a peer’s willingness to buy an improved cookstove. We find that women purchase and use the product more when they receive information on a peer who purchased (or previously owned) the product, particularly if she is viewed as respected. In general, we find positive direct and spillover effects of attending the session. We also investigate whether social interaction plays a role in technology diffusion. We find that women who participated in the session, but did not buy during the intervention, are more likely to adopt the product when more women living around them own it. We investigate the mechanisms and provide evidence supporting imitation effects, rather than social learning or constraint interaction.
M31|The Influence Of Trust On Social Commerce Intent Of Instagram Users|Social commerce is a new form of social media-mediated commerce that allows customers to participate actively in the marketing and selling of products in online marketplaces. Social media such as Instagram provides a digital trade platform for their users. It is important for social commerce vendors to know the antecedents of social commerce intent. Trust is one of the important antecedents and it is also critical to build trust. The aim of this study is to propose and validate a research model including trust and its antecedents (product differentiation and reputation) and measure the influence of trust on social commerce intent on Instagram users by means of PLS-Sem. The research sample consists of Instagram users who bought anything from Instagram in the last three months. Data were collected in the months of December of 2017 and January of 2018. A total of 289 survey responses from participants, were collected. Based on the initial screening of the collected questionnaires, 31 of them were excluded as they were inappropriate. This study provides useful implications for both academics and practitioners in digital economy. PLS-Sem method was used to test the research model. The scale of Yahia et al. (2018) was adapted for all of the antecedents. The findings of the research showed that all of the antecedents were found to have statistically significant influence on social commerce intent of Instagram users. According to the modelling results several digital marketing strategies were proposed.
M31|Exploring The Influence Of Demographic Characteristics On The Satisfaction Of Call Center Customers|Call centers are strategically important for many companies. Call centers help companies to develop long term relations with customers and also represent an important channel between the customer and the company for customer satisfaction. The behavior of call center employees and customer expectations that are influenced by the behavior are important in forming customer satisfaction. In addition, demographic characteristics such as gender, age, education, occupation, monthly income, frequency of calls, the reason of calls and etc. may influence the satisfaction of call center customers. The aim of this study is to explore the influence of demographic characteristics on the satisfaction of call center customers and propose strategies to improve customer relations. The sample of the study consists of consumers who have called a call center at least once in the last six months in Bursa, a town of Turkey. The data were collected by a structured questionnaire in the months of November and December of 2017. A total of 227 questionnaires were collected and 16 of them were excluded as they were incomplete. The findings of the research showed that there were significant differences in the scores of satisfaction within demographic characteristics. According to the analysis results several strategies were proposed.
M31|Using Importance-Performance Analysis (Ipa) To Evaluate Factors Affecting The Living In Elderly Condominium|In recent years, some real estate developers in Thailand have established elderly condominiums. Previous studies found many important factors affecting elder?s living in senior residence, but this study aimed to investigate elderly opinions about the important factors that influence their living and the performance of senior condominium?s operation. This study collected data by having face-to-face interviews and conducting a questionnaire survey with 73 elders living in ?Sawangkanives?, a senior condominium project operated by Thai Red Cross Society, a medical state agency. The questionnaires were processed and analyzed by performing exploratory factor analysis to extract influenced factors; and then generated the importance-performance analysis (IPA) grid to assess the elder?s living satisfaction in the elderly condominium. Four factors affecting elder?s living are Ambience of Surroundings (AS), Physical Attributes of Room and Common Area (PA), Quality of Staff?s Services (QS) and Social Stimulation (SS). The derived IPA grid showed no factors were in Low Priority quadrant. QS or quality services offered by staff factor was in Concentrate Here quadrant. PA factor and AS factor were in Keep Up the Good Work quadrant. SS factor was in Possible Overkill quadrant. The most worried issue with respect to the services was the rapidly helps that elderly can receive from staff or nurses staying in the condominium. The second issue needed to be addressed was the proper helps the elderly receive from staff or nurses staying in the condominium. The manager of this condominium should not pay any attention to create the activities in order to stimulate the social life or to make them lively. The factors which had high importance and high performance or which manager should maintain good standards were PA factor and AS factor, which implied that this condominium located in proper location, had proper layouts of room and hallway, and also suitable for elderly. In addition to physical attributes, this condominium provided suitability of lighting and entrances and all area in this condominium had good air ventilation for the elderly too.
M31|Exploring adoption intention in 3D printing market based on asymmetric thinking in data analysis|Three-dimensional (3D) printing has become the major strategic technology in the world, and managers must understand customer behavior in 3D printing market to enhance competition of business activities. In addition, most of social science theories are formulated in set relations or asymmetrical relationship, method for asymmetrical or set-theoretic relationship has been receiving a lot of attention from social science academics and practitio¬ners. Drawing on theory of planned behavior, the major purpose of this study is to extend our understanding of the antecedents of adoption intention in 3D printing market based on asymmetric thinking in data analysis. Specifically, this study employs a set-theoretic approach based on fuzzy set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA) to combine potential relevant antecedents (i.e., product quality, service quality, system quality, perceived risk, perceived ease of use, and perceived usefulness) into various causal recipes to explore the configurations for achieving high 3D printing adoption intention. To assess the applicability of this conceptual model, this study employs an Internet-based questionnaires survey and collected primary data from 3D printing customers. The statistical techniques adopt contain descriptive statistics, factor analysis, reliability analysis, and fsQCA. The intermediate solutions of fsQCA indicate four causal configurations have found to be sufficient for high level of 3D printing adoption intention. For instance, first configuration signals a logical statement ?product quality * system quality *~ perceived risk *~ perceived ease of use * perceived usefulness?, and this result represents that the combination of high level of product quality, system quality, and perceived usefulness with low level of perceived risk and perceived ease of use can achieve high level of 3D printing adoption intention. In other words, even the level of customer?s perceived ease of use is low, he/she will like to adopt 3D printing if firm can improve product quality, system quality, perceived usefulness, and reduce perceived risk.
M31|The Study Of Brand Logo Features: Comparisons Between Fast Moving Consumer Products And Durable Products|This research studied brand logo features by comparing between fast moving consumer products and durable products. The representatives of both product groups consisted of cosmetic and furniture businesses respectively. This study focused on three important components of brand logos, which are pictures, colors and font characters. Data for logo picture studied was collected from 400 samples using judgmental sampling technique and questionnaire survey. Data analysis from previous research and literatures were employed for logo color and font. According to the results for the cosmetic products, the chosen suitable picture was related mainly to emotional benefits. The selected logo color was pertinent to feminine, luxury, mystery and loyalty. The font characters in this respect were connected well to attractiveness, happiness and feminine. Regarding the furniture products, the suitable picture was related mainly to functional benefits. The selected logo color was pertinent to stability, reliability, trustworthy, dependability and durability. The font characters in this respect were connected well to stability, rigidity and conformist.
M31|Investigating Perceptions of U.S. Millennial Buyers Versus Non-Buyers of Green Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) across Product Categories|Millennials or Generation Y (born between the early 1980s and the early 2000s) play a considerable role in driving the growth of consumer-packaged-goods (CPG) consumption. In the U.S. alone, millennials account for a quarter of the U.S. population with about $10 trillion in lifetime buying power and are estimated to spend $65 billion on CPGs over the next decade. Even though millennials often claim to support green products and movements that do not harm environment, the truth is quite different in their actions. To gain insights into this group, our study aims to examine the differences between millennial buyers (defined as those who have purchased green CPGs in the past 3 months) and non-buyers (those who have not purchased green CPGs in the past 3 months) of green CPG products on their perceptions of the role of different marking efforts which would increase the likelihood of purchase across four major green household CPG categories (food, health care/cosmetics, cleaning products, and other household products).Our online study surveyed 1,403 millennials from a small private Midwestern US college, which represent the defined demographic profile and are less likely to be biased comparing to those from either US coast which are more likely to be environmentally conscious. The results obtained from a final valid sample of 380 revealed the statistically significant differences between the buyer and the non-buyer groups in most factors. The results also demonstrated that the buyer groups were likely to agree with the statements that firms? marketing efforts have positive roles in their purchases. Additionally, the results shed lights on the areas that may aid marketers to convert non-buyers to become buyers. For examples, the results disclosed that both groups believe that green products are somewhat (food) to well (health care/cosmetic products) promoted and are available at supermarkets (cosmetic products.) The results also showed that both groups are likely to purchase if the green CPGs are produced by a trusted brand (cleaning products and other household products), are known for its health and wellness benefits (cleaning and other household products) and are healthier options (other household products).This study not only adds new insights into the growing body of literature to understand the difference between millennial buyers and non-buyers of green CPGs, it also provides additional angles in helping marketers to highlight important elements or adapt their practices to meet the demand of both buyers and non-buyers of green CPGs.
M31|Factors influencing consumers? decision about which international clothing retailer to purchase from: A South African value and image perspective|Many international clothing retailers (e.g., Cotton On, H&M, and Zara) have entered emerging market economies such as South Africa (Tanusondjaja, Greenacre, Banelis, Truong & Andrews, 2015:783; Euromonitor, 2017) due to their benefits such as economic growth, increased consumer spending, large populations, and the rise of Internet shopping. But these international retailers must be aware that emerging market consumers, especially South Africans, exhibit different shopping patterns and have different expectations than their developed country counterparts, which will influence the retailers? marketing strategy. Therefore, to be successful, international clothing retailers need to consider which factors emerging market consumers regard as important when selecting an international clothing retailer. Previous research has indicated that a number of factors influence consumers? purchase intentions with regard to local versus international brands, including value (quality and price, utilitarian, and hedonic), brand (retailer) image, and country of origin (Ergin & Akbay, 2010; Strydom, 2011:12; Mpinganjira, 2014; Scarpi, Pizzi & Visentin, 2014). For this study, the focus is on utilitarian value and retailer image and their influence on South African consumers when they are deciding from which international clothing retailer to purchase. A positivist research philosophy, following a quantitative convenience sampling method, was used to collect 267 self-administered questionnaires. Data was checked for suitability, and a CFA and multiple regression were conducted to test the conceptual model. The study found that retailer image and convenience were the largest predictors of purchase intentions, contradicting previous studies of Scarpi et al. (2014), who had determined that utilitarian value as a whole predicted purchase intentions in the clothing industry. International clothing retailers operating in South Africa should therefore focus their marketing strategies on developing and marketing an image to consumers that shows quality, is convenient (e.g. availability of an online website), and provides value for money.
M31|Business cycle survey and B2B buying decision|The objective of the paper is to determine the degree of agreement between the anticipated industrial demand and the subsequent development of the indicators of economy performance, considering the time period. The methodology of the research compares the balances of business cycle indicators, to the balances of real industry performance in the machining sector. The analyzed time period was 2003 ? 2017, and it was split into several parts on account of diverse economic development. It was proved that the reliability of the selected data varies in accordance with the development of economy. The results indicate that there is a dependency between the assessed variables; the more positive economic development, the more reliable the data. The research was realized in the Czech industry with the intention of providing a tool for another potential user ? so far, an underestimated one ? an industrial business. The results should serve as a tool for mitigation of the B2B market purchase decision uncertainty.
M31|Customer-oriented reverse logistics and customer satisfaction on product returns|Most reverse logistics researches have not incorporated marketing concept or customer orientation into their frameworks. This study proposes that it is imperative to take customer point of view in reverse logistics process to improve customer satisfaction. Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to conceptualize and operationalize customer- oriented reverse logistics. It also examines the relationship between the developed construct and its impact on customer satisfaction. In this regard, a literature review was carried out to identify customer- oriented reverse logistics. Based on customer orientation, service quality and service recovery literature, the new construct was developed. A pilot study was subsequently conducted using the questionnaire survey with managers and employees of a particular company in the mobile telecommunications industry and its customers who have experience in product returns. The findings showed that the dimensions of the proposed construct comprised tangibility, reliability, assurance, empathy, responsiveness, information availability and employee?s empowerment. Path analysis indicated that customer-oriented reverse logistics perceived by both employees and customers positively related to customer satisfaction of product returns service. The developed construct based upon cross disciplinary in marketing and logistics could facilitate future empirical studies in reverse logistics area. The proposed framework will also be useful for practitioners to implement their product returns strategies accordingly.
M31|The relationship between marketing mix and buying decision process on the online shopping in Thailand|The objectives of this study were 1) to study the buying decision process of the consumers on Central Online Shopping website, 2) to study the personal factors influencing the priority of consumers? buying decision process on Central Online Shopping website, 3) to study the relationship between marketing mix and buying decision process on Central Online Shopping website. The study found that the majority of samples were female, age between 25-30 years old, single status, education with graduated bachelor degree and work as the employees in private company with the average income per month Less than or equal to 40,000 baht. Moreover, different occupations were influencing the priority of consumers? buying decision process on Central Online Shopping website. The marketing mix had positive relationship with the buying decision process.
M31|The Social Media Exposure and Online Clothes Buying Behavior in Thailand|The purpose of this research was to study social media exposure and online clothes buying behavior. Quantitative research consisting of 400 samples was employed to those who had at least 1 year experience on online buying clothes via social media exposure in Bangkok Metropolitan. Data was collected through online questionnaires with convenience sampling method. The results revealed that most of the respondents were female, aged between 26 - 35 years old , held bachelor degree , had marital status of single , were private firm?s employees and earned monthlyincome between 10,001 - 15,000 Thai baht. They made their own purchase via online shops via Facebook for latest collection. Their purchase decision making was influenced by online products reviews. The important step of buying process was information searching about products on social network. The hypothesis testing results showed that different demographic factors led to different decision making procedures on clothes online buying through social media. The difference in demographic factors also affect social media exposure behavior at a statistical significance level of 0.05.
M31|The Relationship between Customer Loyalty and Marketing Mix Satisfaction of Music Streaming Service|PurposeWith the remarkable market share of fifty-six percent, Joox music streaming service from Tencent Holdings is the most popular for its kind in Thailand. To retain customers with the provider, increasing loyalty level is important. What are marketing factors that satisfy customers until they have loyalty to Joox? This paper aims to explore those factors. Design/methodology/approachApproximately four hundreds respondents are surveyed with online self-administered questionnaires. Respondents are requested to identify satisfaction level toward Joox?s marketing mix and their loyalty level toward Joox service. Multiple regression analysis is used to find the relationship between these two variables to pinpoint regression function predicting service loyalty from satisfaction. FindingsHow satisfaction helps increase loyalty is found through regression function. Satisfaction toward marketing mix factors include product, price, place, promotion, people, process, and physical evidence. Loyalty includes repurchasing, spreading word of mouth, and performing low price sensitivity. Originality/valueMarketing implementation for planning strategic program to retain loyalty customers are advised. Providers of music streaming service are able to prioritize marketing activities wisely according to companies? resources and strengths.LimitationsMusic streaming service in Thailand is studied. The finding may be used for this service in this country by several providers. Generalization to other industries and countries may not be appropriated.
M31|Internet Shopping and Buying Behavior of Baby Boomers in Bangkok, Thailand|Nowadays retailers have using multichannel of distribution, especially they are more focus on Internet shopping. Because of today consumers are more using internet for several activities such as entertainment, searching for information, social media and also shopping. This conceptual paper focus on internet shopping of Baby Boomers and their buying behavior. Adult consumers are specifically targeted because of their buying power and they are high potential customers for Internet retailer. The study specially address the issues how often and why Internet purchase is made. The 6 Ws and 1 H of buying behavior are asked; who are in the target market, what do they buy, why do they buy, who participate in the buying, when and where do they buy and how do they buy. Regarding the design, methodology, and approach of this paper, a thorough literature investigation will conduct through major databases of leading academic journals and research papers related to the scope of this paper in both Thai and English. An analysis of literature reviews of relevant articles will carry out and present in the paper. The study will provide a vital information for marketers and retailers to develop effective online marketing strategy.
M31|Internet Shopping and Buying Behavior of Clothing and accessories by young single consumer in Bangkok, Thailand|Nowadays clothing retailers have using multichannel of distribution, especially they are more focus on Internet shopping via website and application such as Instagram and Facebook fanpage. Because of increasing of internet usage rate of consumers. The use internet for several activities such as entertainment, searching for information, social media and also shopping. The clothing and accessories business are very fast moving industry. Their market growth are in the third rank follow food industry and department store. This study aim to explore marketing factors influencing buying behavior of young single consumer in clothing and accessories business via internet and social network. The samples of this research are young single consumer in Bangkok, Thailand by using convenience sampling and get 400 samples. Using questionnaire as an instrument and distribute via internet. The primary data was analyzed by SPSS program.The result of this research shows that the most popular product is blouses and fashion bags. The samples like to shop online because of a new trend and it provide product variety and resonable price. Moreover, online shopping provide convenience for them both time and money. Sales promotion of the shop is the most important to encourage sale volume. They shopping via Instagram and company website. Therefore, the reliability and trust of company are the most important for their decision making.The result of this research suggests that clothing and accessories companies should always maintain their product variety and up to date fashion with reasonable price. Purchase process is easily and trustworthy. Moreover, using sales promotion can booth up sale.
M31|Assessment of Benefits Commercial Customers Can Receive from Their Demand Flexibility in the Power Market of Georgia|The purpose of our study is twofold: the first is to demonstrate that power-intensive commercial entities (with 1,0 MW or more network connection capacities) can benefit from participation in Demand Response (DR) programme(s) by selling excess power generated by them to the balancing market of Georgia if they are permitted to have an access to the electrical grid. The additional benefits come from the avoidance of network charges; and the second is to show that for relatively small power-intensive commercial entities (with 100 kW or less network connection capacities) participation in Demand Response (DR) programme(s) is not equally beneficial but still reasonable. To meet research objectives 4 (four) case studies have been conducted. Study participants were the Hotel (with 1,0 MW network connection capacity) and the private University (with 0,04 MW network connection capacity). Their names cannot be divulged due to the confidentiality requirements. Each of them was offered two DR programme(s) with different schemes for participation. These schemes were approved by DSR participants and adapted to the current needs of National Grid of Georgia. Finally, the cost of each DR programme as well as the expected annual revenues for participants have been calculated based on selected schemes -(a) availability requirement, (b) response time, (c) maximum duration of activation, and (d) estimated number of activations/yr, and on the basis of ESCO?s annual reports reflecting the companies? power consumptions in the year of 2017. Under the study two hypotheses have been tested. The first research hypothesis is following: ?Power-intensive commercial entities (with 1,0 MW or more network connection capacities) can benefit from participation in Demand Response (DR) programme(s) if they are permitted to do so. For these entities more beneficial will be the investments in CCHP (Combined Coolong, Heat, and Power) plant than in PV panels?. The second research hypothesis is following: ?For relatively small power-intensive commercial entities (with 100 kW or less network connection capacities) participation in Demand Response (DR) programme(s) is less profitable but still reasonable. For them it is better to use the generated power for their own purposes than just to sell it to the Balancing Market and make money?. The results of the case studies are presented in the article.
M31|What influences most on anchoring willingness to pay? Consumer self-confidence and hedonic-utilitarian consumption as underlying factors for price-anchoring susceptibility|Prior research on anchoring indicates that arbitrary values can influence human judgment and decision-making. However, the findings differ regarding the magnitude of this effect, implying that in some circumstances the anchoring phenomena may not occur at all. The present research suggests that this behavior is not universal and attempts to identify how consumer self-confidence (CSC), a personal trait, and product category (hedonic vs. utilitarian) may affect consumers? susceptibility to anchoring effect on participants? willingness to pay. Although the moderation relationship could not be proved, it was statistically demonstrated that the kind of consumption (utilitarian/hedonic) accounts for 25% of the variability of consumer?s willingness-to-pay. Overall, this research contributes to the literature on Consumer Behavior, by shedding light on personal traits and product features that can shape anchoring response.
M31|Toward International Market Selection: A Practical Tool To Select The Most Appropriate Export Market|When firms plan their internationalization strategies, they have to take several decisions before initiating its international venture, being one of the most complex selecting the most appropriate export market, because it could be a decisive factor that can determine the future success or failure of a business. Selecting an export market as part of an internationalization process requires the analyses of political, economic, social, cultural and legal environments, but also to examine a wide range of public services, purchasing power and demand-related issues, as well as international trade indicators. The need to obtain information concerning the destination markets is therefore fundamental. However, this type of analysis in most cases is a difficult situation, because not all companies (specially the small ones) have enough experience to carry out this analysis on their own and/or they don´t have enough investment capacity to contract a consultancy firm to do the research for them.So, the aim of this research is to propose a tool which assists companies when facing the challenge of selecting the most appropriate market for the internationalization of their products, i.e. providing an answer to the question of how to choose an appropriate export market. The tool is divided into three stages, as it is commonly agreed in the majority literature available on the process of market selection. In each of these stages, different indicators are defined, in order to finish with a comparison of different analytic-quantitative indicators through a 7-dimensional weighted decision matrix.However, this tool can also be generalized and used by companies searching for new markets abroad, as well as consulting companies or also it will be useful for future researchers that require a procedure to evaluate the potential of countries as export destination. The validity of the tool is proven through a case study, where it can be concluded that the obtained results through the applied methodology don´t differ from reality. This research is not exempt from some limitations. First, it has to be said that the reach of the tool is restricted to a selection analysis based on external factors that are not related to the internal environment of the company. Second, the methodology was developing with some no standard indicators, so some of them would vary depending on the sector and the export product itself.
M31|Old McDonald's had a brand?: How traditional brands lose their breath|Traditional brands have to review implementation of previously used concepts and techniques of brand value building and management. The reason of such a managerial decision consists in the evolution of the market and buying decision stereotypes. So far, branding theory do not know how to explain that traditionally valuable brands lose their value sharply despite their position in global brand value rankings have not indicated it. The danger of this situation is really high. So, the aim of this paper is to verify through the cluster analysis based on secondary data from Interbrand ranking our hypothesis that the scissors between actual brand value of traditional and modern brands are opening more and more. And at the same time to predict which brands will have to face the threat of brand value decrease.
M31|Managing commitment in the personal care service industry: the special case of hairdressing services|Since its inception, the concept of customer commitment has been extensively researched, especially in the field of relationship marketing. It is therefore not surprising to find that the concept of commitment has been applied to various industries, both on an academic and practical level. However, the same cannot be said about the personal care service industry, which refers to industries that are characterised by high levels of customer interaction during the service delivery process. These industries include the hairdressing, legal services and medical services industries. This study focuses on the management of customer commitment from a personal care service perspective. The specific context of the study is the hairdressing industry. The study applies Meyer and Allen?s well-documented three-component model of commitment, and investigates the management of affective, calculative and normative commitment in the hairdressing industry. A quantitative approach was used to analyse the perceptions of 270 Generation Y respondents. Generation Y, also known as the millennials, refers to people who were born in the 1980s and 1990s. The data were analysed in SPSS version 25, and a regression analysis was used to assess the statistical significance of the hypothesised relationships. The results of the study indicate that satisfaction, social bonds, attractiveness of alternatives, relationship benefits and communication are significant antecedents of customer commitment in the hairdressing industry. The primary contribution of the study lies in the fact that it provides both theoretical insights and practical recommendations on how customer commitment in this relatively under-researched context should be managed.
M31|Creating An Environment Conducive For Developing Customer Commitment: Does Shock Intensity Make A Difference?|Customer relationship management has become more important than ever before, especially since service providers are faced with increased competition. It is not surprising to find that both marketing academics and practitioners are progressively confronted by the challenge to create new and innovative ways to manage relationships with customers. Although relationship management entails managing a vast number of dimensions, customer commitment is often viewed as one of the most important elements of any marketing relationship. Given this importance, service providers need to provide services in line with the promises made to customers. Service providers also need to strive towards creating an environment in which customers feel comfortable and free from unexpected changes. The reality is that no service is fail-safe, resulting in a situation where customers are frequently confronted with negative experiences. These negative experiences are often referred to as relational shocks.It was against this background that this study investigated the influence that varying levels of relational shocks might have on customer commitment. Three experiments were conducted. In each of the experiments, respondents were exposed to a different shock scenario, namely a low, a medium or a high shock scenario. A total of 372 Generation Y respondents participated, and the mobile phone industry was selected as context for the study. Data were analysed by means of SPSS Statistics version 25, and a one-way ANOVA was performed to examine possible differences. The results of the study revealed that the three different levels of relational shocks indeed influenced customer commitment, but not all three types of commitment (affective, calculative and normative) were influenced equally. The study also highlighted the importance of limiting relational shocks in general to improve customer commitment. However, the major contribution of the study is that it is the first of its kind, as far as could be ascertained, to investigate the effect of different levels of relational shock on customer commitment, specifically from a mobile phone perspective.
M31|Validating a utility and trust in mobile banking scale in the South African context|A widespread search of four large online academic databases, namely Sabinet Reference, EBSCOhost, Google Scholar and Emerald showed no evidence of a validated attitudes-towards-personal-financial-planning scale within the South African context. To fill this gap in the literature, the aim of this study was to describe the process undertaken to validate attitudes towards personal financial planning as a 13-factor structure within the South African context. The study followed a descriptive and single cross-sectional research design and used a survey self-administered questionnaire to collect the required data from a convenience sample of 334 Generation Y students registered at the campuses of two Gauteng-based public South African universities. The data analysis techniques comprised Pearson?s product-moment correlation analysis, multicollinearity analysis, reliability measures and confirmatory factor analysis using the maximum likelihood method. The findings of the analysis validate that the proposed measurement model of utility and trust in mobile banking is a 13-factor structure that consists of attitudes towards mobile banking, perceived ease of use, perceived behavioural control, perceived self-efficacy, trust in mobile banking, perceived integrity of the mobile bank, perceived relative advantage, perceived compatibility, behavioural intention to use mobile banking, perceived structural assurance, perceived information quality, perceived system quality and subjective norms. In addition, the measurement model revealed evidence of internal-consistency reliability, composite reliability, construct, convergent, discriminant and nomological validity. Furthermore, the measurement model displayed no evidence of multicollinearity between the factors and the goodness-of-fit indices produced by AMOS suggested a well-fitting model.
M31|Exploring the factors that influence Generation Y students? attitudes towards university websites|In South Africa, an increasing number of Generation Y students register at higher education institutions on an annual basis. This rising number, coupled with university websites being a primary source of information and a basis for creating institutional impressions that can affect the attitudes and behavioural intentions of students, highlights the importance of understanding the factors that influence Generation Y students? attitudes towards university websites. As such, the purpose of this study was to determine the influence of ease of use, usefulness and playfulness on Generation Y students? attitudes towards university websites within the South African context. A self-administered questionnaire was used to collect data from a convenience sample of 319 Generation Y students registered at two higher education institution campuses in the Gauteng Province of South Africa. Data analysis included descriptive statistics, correlation analysis and multivariate regression analysis. The findings indicate that the ease of use, usefulness and playfulness of university websites have a significant positive influence on Generation Y students? attitudes towards university websites. Universities can use the findings of this study to improve the effectiveness of their websites in an attempt to positively influence Generation Y students? attitudes towards the sites.
M31|Universities As Systems: Exploring The Lecturers? Experience|South African higher education institutions are faced with a number of challenges (Mushemeza, 2016), and as an important role player and service provider in society (PwC, 2013), higher education institutions should be enabled to respond proactively to societal needs and changes. Systems theory dictates that organisations (including higher education institutions) need to understand that they function within a system, and that all the areas within this system are interrelated and should work in synergy (Ingram, 2018). Mofokeng (2002:69) specifically argues for the importance of the role of the lecturer within higher education institutions, because they serve as important service providers in a people-intensive system. As an initial step towards understanding how universities can become more responsive to changing needs, this paper takes a systems perspective of a university. It opens with a focus on one unit: the role of the lecturer as an important service provider in this complex and interrelated system. The objectives of the study also include a service design perspective to understanding lecturers, and therefore focus predominantly on exploring and uncovering their overall experiences at a specific university in South Africa. The study makes use of a qualitative and exploratory research design, and presents findings from in-depth interviews conducted with eight lecturers. Data were analysed using an interpretative analytical perspective (Strauss & Corbin, 1990) and themes were developed. The main themes identified include ?Time management?, ?Student concerns?, and ?Teaching and research?. A framework demonstrating the interrelatedness of the themes, as well as the impact of the two themes, ?Time management? and ?Student concerns?, on lecturers? core function (teaching and research) is presented. Recommendations focused on the removal of specific time-consuming duties, as well as the improvement of identified concerns about students, are proposed. The recommendations strive to provide initial solutions to optimising this specific unit in the greater complex system of a university structure.
M31|Bank products and services for children, youths and young adults: features, models, customization|Banks often offer their products and services to young people, i.e. children, youths and young adults. Such products and services are characterised by special features and functions as they are offered to clients with low financial competences, low economic knowledge as well as a lack of regular income. In effect they do not bring current profits to banks and the process of servicing of young people is treated rather as a long-term investment project. The purpose of this paper is to characterise and evaluate bank products and services offered to young customers, including their features, functions and legal terms of using as well as to identify ways of their offering in the Polish banking sector. To achieve the research goal, the authors studied literature, analysed offers of banks in Poland, and conducted a survey using CAWI technique on a group of 209 young respondents. Based on the research, the authors identified optimal features of products and services for young customers as well as their customisation. The authors also identified several models of offering products to children, youths and young adults. The research indicated that young people use bank products and services commonly and they are satisfied with banking offers. They find safety of money as the most important feature of products and services.
M31|Automotive industry in the Visegrad Group|The article is focused on the current situation of automotive industry in the Visegrad Group. The main goal of the article is to analyze the current situation and define the major aspects of automotive industry in V4 countries. The main sources for the article are secondary data gained from publicly available databases. Analyses rely on basic macroeconomic indicators of V4 countries in comparison with German economy as the main leader of automotive industry in Europe. In the comparison of national?s automotive industries are used following indicators: GDP, GDP per capita, unemployment rate, GVA and turnover of automotive industry, Capital Expenditures and vehicles production. All the informations were acquired from well-known and recognized national, European and other international institutions. The result of the analysis is a compact view of automotive industry?s significance in V4 countries, which is according to initial assumption very high. One of the partial outcomes of the analysis is also a finding proving lack of relevance of some indicators frequently used as a sole scale for automotive industry importance. This have been proven especially on the absolute number of produced vehicles, which doesn?t have to describe the capability of national automotive industry in a relevant way. The article also contains recommendations for further research in this field.
M31|Self-customization and price competition|New technologies increasingly provide firms with abilities to design self-customizable products, that can be redeveloped by end-users at their own expenses. The decision to market only a standard product or also a self-customizable one is a strategic one; we analyze this decision in a duopoly with product differentiation. In our model adding a customizable product cannibalizes part of own demand but also allows exploitation of a distinct segment of consumers who attach high value to customizability; it also diverts demand from the rival firm. Firms use second degree price discrimination, attaching a different price to the different products. We find the conditions leading to both firms introducing the self-customizable product, both refraining from it, and to asymmetric equilibria. Our results indicate that self-customization appears in equilibrium; it is profit improving; it can be used by only one or both firms according to the value of the market for customizability. It also leads to lower prices. An increase in consumers’ ability to self-customize reduces profits, while a higher cost of self-customization increases profits. Finally a first-mover advantage arises in offering a self-customizable product.
M31|Approccio al mercato cinese del turismo (Approaching the Chinese tourism market)|The outbound Chinese tourism market is relatively recent. The purpose of this work is to draw attention on this phenomenon and its characteristics. Specific attention is devoted to identify the future opportunities connected and the critical issues related to the definition of a strategy for attracting this type of tourists in Italy.
M31|Argo Tractors: un caso di reshoring di successo (Argo Tractors: a successful reshoring case)|Scholars and policy makers are devoting increasing attention to reshoring. This phenomenon can be defined as the decision to relocate back to the home-country the company’s activities previously offshored. Reshoring can be explained by the pursuit of different types of benefits, not only economic, and calls for research to understand better the connected risks, opportunities, and implications. This work aims to investigate a specific case of reshoring developed by a well-known Italian company, operating in the agro-mechanical industry, which decided to relocate all its activities back to Italy.
M31|Smokers’ Rational Lexicographic Preferences for Cigarette Package Warnings: A Discrete Choice Experiment with Eye Tracking|We asked 97 cigarette smokers to make a series of 12 binary choices between experimental cigarette packages with varying warnings and background colors. Each smoker had to decide which of the two packages contained cigarettes less risky for his health. We tested whether the smokers, confronted with warnings that were repugnant and threatening to many of them, could still make choices that adhered to the standard axioms of rational choice. We supplemented our observations on smokers’ choices with data on their eye movements. We find that participants universally made choices consistent with a complete, transitive preference ordering. We find little evidence of inconsistent choices violating the weak axiom of revealed preference. In a majority of smokers, we find strong evidence of the use of a lexicographic decision rule to assess the riskiness of a cigarette package. These smokers first ranked the two packages solely on the basis of their warnings. Only when the two packages had the same warning did they rank the packages on the basis of their color. The data on eye tracking strongly confirmed the lexicographic nature of the underlying decision rule. Our study represents an entirely different angle of inquiry into the question of rational addiction.
M31|The Pivotal Role of Fairness: Which Consumers Like Annuities?|Life annuities can be a valuable component of the decumulation stage of wealth during retirement. While economists argue that most retirees should annuitize, actual demand in the marketplace is low. We analyze data from two studies to determine how measurable individual differences among consumers affect their interest in annuities. We find that a relatively high percentage of respondents dislike all annuities. Demographic factors are not predictive of which individuals dislike annuities, and individual factors predicted by economic models to be important (such as beneficiaries) have small or even opposite effects. The strongest individual differences we measured that predicts liking of annuities is the respondent’s perception of product fairness. We discuss implications of our findings for financial planners hoping to help their customers with these decumulation challenges.
M31|Consumer Misinformation and the Brand Premium: A Private Label Blind Taste Test|We run in-store blind taste tests with a retailer’s private label food brands and the leading national brand counterparts in three large CPG categories. In a survey administered during the taste test, subjects self-report very high expectations about the quality of the private labels relative to national brands. However, they predict a relatively low probability of choosing them in a blind taste test. Surprisingly however, an overwhelming majority systematically chooses the private label in the blinded test. During the week after the intervention, the tested private label product market shares increase by 15 share points, on top of a base share of 8 share points. However, the effect diminishes to 8 share points during the second to fourth week after the test and to 2 share points during the second to fifth month after the test. Using a structural model of demand, we show these effects survive controls for point-of-purchase prices, purchase incidence, and the feedback effects of brand loyalty. We also find that the intervention increases the preference for the private label brands, and that it decreases the preference for the national brands, relative to the outside good. The findings are consistent with a treatment effect of information on demand where the memory for this information decays slowly over time. Alternative explanations to the information treatment are ruled out.
M31|Řízení vztahů se zákazníky CRM| Řízení vztahů se zákazníky je v centru pozornosti firem již poměrně dlouho. Vyvíjí se pohled firem i marketingových odborníků na to, jak tento vztah budovat, jaké používat přístupy a prostředky. Řeší se jednotlivé prvky a části CRM. Vyhodnocují se přínosy a bariéry CRM. Řízení vztahů se zákazníky zajímá firmy různých velikostních kategorií z různých odvětví. Cílem tohoto článku je prezentovat dílčí výsledky kontinuálního výzkumu zaměřeného na řízení vztahů se zákazníky na Obchodně podnikatelské fakultě v Karviné, Slezské university v Opavě. Tento výzkum započal kolem roku 2005 v rámci grantového projektu a poté pokračoval v dalších projektech. Posledním je projekt “Studentské grantové soutěže” zahájený v roce 2017. Konkretním cílem tohoto příspěvku je představení výsledků kvalitativního výzkumu pomocí polostandardizovaného rozhovoru v malých a středních českých podnicích v odvětvích služeb. Rozhovor sloužil jako předvýzkum. Zjišťoval hlavní problémové oblasti v řízení vztahů se zákazníky.
M31|Past and Future Research Trends of Regional Brands with Accent to Technology| The main aim of this article is to examine the past and current research trends of regional brands, with great emphasis on the influence of technology, which will allow us to define areas for further research. The main basis for this article are secondary data, meaning other research from prestigious databases, such as Web of Science and SCOPUS, on which authors will try to describe the past and current research trends. Authors also take into account their previous vast research on this topic. There is also a need to find suitable brand model. The technology will be examined from the perspective of the technology acceptance model. This will lead to a discussion about the areas that need to be researched in the future. This article will thus serve as the cornerstone for years-long research programme
M31|Aplikace behaviorální ekonomie v marketingovém mixu| Marketing je aplikovanou disciplínou, která se nejčastěji opírá o poznatky z ekonomie a psychologie, přičemž obě tyto společenské vědy v širším slova smyslu zkoumají lidské chování a rozhodování a z jejich poznatků často čerpá i marketing. Pohledy obou těchto věd na problematiku lidského rozhodování se výrazně liší a ekonomie ve svých modelech tradičně nebere v úvahu psychologické faktory ovlivňující chování jednotlivců. Vývoj behavioralní ekonomie je jedním z nejzásadnějších koncepčních pokroků ve společenských vědách v posledních letech a take doposud jeden z nejúspěšnějších pokusů, jak zařadit do ekonomických teorií poznatky z psychologie a vysvětlit, proč se někdy trhy chovají jinak, než standartní ekonomie předpokládá. Tohoto propojení ekonomie s psychologií je už využíváno v některých příbuzných oborech jako např. marketing. Předmětem tohoto článku je poukázat na praktické možnosti aplikace behaviorálního přístupu v oblasti marketingu, konkrétně v rámci prvků notoricky známého marketingového mixu.
M31|On the Firms’ Decision to Hire Academic Scientists|This paper provides a theoretical rationale for private investment in basic research. It explains the decision by some firms to hire scientists who have an intrinsic motivation to pursue academic research and allow them to do so while they also dedicate time to the firm’s applied agenda. We show that this decision maximizes firms’ profits in a context where basic and applied research activities are not strong substitutes and the opportunity cost, associated with deterring scientists from remaining in academia, is sufficiently low. Allowing scientists to pursue an academic agenda facilitates participation. When scientists are privately informed about their ’taste for science’, the contract requires that the more academically driven scientists dedicate greater attention to their personal agenda to satisfy incentive compatibility. When the reservation utility is weakly correlated with the scientist’s academic inclination, this restriction has no impact and the first best contract remains optimal. But as the correlation increases, the firms tend to select less academically driven scientists. Under-investment in basic research is not triggered by the need to reduce informational rents which are non-existent as scientists face countervailing incentives. Instead it arises from the need to curb the increased cost of efforts.
M31|Sales Performance and Social Preferences|We use an incentivized experimental game to uncover heterogeneity in other-regarding preferences among salespeople in a large Austrian retail chain. Our results show that the majority of agents take the welfare of others into account but a significant fraction reveals self-regarding behavior. Matching individual behavior in the game with firm data on sales performance shows that higher concern for others is significantly associated with higher revenue per customer. At the same time, it is also associated with fewer sales per day. Both effects offset each other, so that the overall association with total sales revenue becomes insignificant. Our findings highlight the nuanced role of self- vs. other-regarding concerns in sales contexts with important implications for management and marketing research.
M31|An Analysis of Optimal Attributes of Organic Shampoo|This survey research interviewed 400 consumers in Bangkok who ever used or are using organic shampoo. The study objectives were 1) Study the general characteristics of consumers 2) Study consumer behavior in organic shampoo purchase and 3) Analyze the appropriate attributes of organic shampoo products that consumers are satisfied. Cluster Analysis divided the consumers into 2 groups and then Kano Model identified attributes of the products each group prefer. The result indicated that the first group is a group of college students and those who just start the first job. People around them have an influence on the purchase. This group prefers the product of various varieties and formulas, get reviewed on online media. The second group is a group of consumers in the working age always shop for health, The product features are of various varieties and formulas, get reviewed on online media, portable size available at convenience store and online channel distribution.
M31|A Bayesian Gamma Frailty Model Using the Sum of Independent Random Variables: Application of the Estimation of an Interpurchase Timing Model|In statistics, researchers have rigorously investigated the reproductive property, which maintains that the sum of independent random variables with the same distribution follows the same family of distributions. However, even if a distribution of the sum of random variables demonstrates the reproductive property, estimating parameters appropriately from only summed observations is difficult. This is because of identification problems when component random variables have different parameters. In this study, we develop a method to effectively estimate parameters from the sum of independent random variables with different parameters. In particular, we focus on the sum of Gamma random variables composed of two types of distributions. We generalize the result according to Moschopoulos(1985) to a proportional hazard model with covariates and a frailty model to capture individual heterogeneities. Additionally, to estimate each parameter from the sum of random variables, we incorporate auxiliary information using quasi-Bayesian methods, and we propose the estimation procedure by Markov chain Monte Carlo. We confirm the effectiveness of the proposed method through a simulation study and apply it to the interpurchase timing model in marketing.
M31|Consumer Resistance|This paper studies the impact of consumer resistance, which is triggered by deviations from a psychological reference point, on optimal pricing and cost communication. Assuming that consumers evaluate purchases not only in the material domain, we show that consumer resistance reduces the pricing power and profit. We also show that consumer resistance provides an incentive to engage in cost communication when consumers underestimate cost. While cheap communication does not affect behavior, persuasive communication may increase sales and profit. Finally, we show that a firm can benefit from engaging in operational transparency by revealing information about features of the production process.
M31|The Effects of Linguistic Devices on Consumer Information Processing and Persuasion: A Language Complexity × Processing Mode Framework|People—be they politicians, marketers, job candidates, product reviewers, bloggers, or romantic interests—often use linguistic devices to persuade others, and there is a sizeable literature that has documented the effects of numerous linguistic devices. However, understanding the implications of these effects is difficult without an organizing framework. To this end, we introduce a Language Complexity × Processing Mode Framework for classifying linguistic devices based on two continuous dimensions: language complexity, ranging from simple to complex, and processing mode, ranging from automatic to controlled. We then use the framework as a basis for reviewing and synthesizing extant research on the effects of the linguistic devices on persuasion, determining the conditions under which the effectiveness of the linguistic devices can be maximized, and reconciling inconsistencies in prior research.
M31|Seeking and Avoiding Choice Closure to Enhance Outcome Satisfaction|Consumers gain choice closure when they perceive a sense of finality over a past decision and limit comparisons between the selected and the forgone options. We investigate consumers’ ability to make strategic use of choice closure to enhance outcome satisfaction. Seven studies show that consumers experience greater satisfaction when they achieve choice closure with an inferior outcome and when they do not achieve choice closure with a superior outcome; however, they expect to be more satisfied by avoiding choice closure with an inferior outcome and by seeking it with a superior outcome. We provide a rationale for this experience–expectation contrast based on rule overgeneralization. Consumers form their expectation on an implicit rule learned and internalized in a context in which it is appropriate and advantageous: when they aim to increase satisfaction with a future choice; however, consumers erroneously apply the same implicit rule to a different context, one in which they aim to increase satisfaction with a past choice. We conclude that consumers are unlikely to be able to make strategic use of choice closure to enhance satisfaction with the outcome of a decision they have made.
M31|Undermining the Restorative Potential of Compensatory Consumption: A Product’s Explicit Identity Connection Impedes Self-Repair|When people experience threats to important aspects of their self-concept (e.g., power, intelligence, sociability), they often compensate by consuming products that symbolize success, mastery, or competence on the threatened self-domain (within-domain compensatory consumption). Our research examines whether such compensatory consumption is effective in repairing the self-concept. Across seven experiments, we show that whether compensatory consumption is effective depends on the extent to which the connection between the compensatory products and the threatened domains is made explicit. When the connections are made explicit (e.g., through product names and marketing slogans), self-repair is impeded, but when the connections are only implicit (product is inherently symbolic of self-threat domain), self-repair can be successful. We further show that these differential effects of product connection explicitness are mediated by rumination: explicit connections induce rumination about the self-threat, which undermines self-repair, whereas implicit connections cause no rumination, facilitating self-repair. Our research provides a reconciliation of conflicting findings on self-repair in previous research, and also shows that despite the differences in efficacy, consumers compensate regardless of whether product connections are implicit or explicit, which has implications for consumer well-being.
M31|Consumer Stockpiling and Sales Promotions|In retailing markets of storable goods, consumer behavior is typically characterized by stockpiling. While existing research has developed rich models for such strategic consumer behavior, little is known about how sellers should ideally respond to it. In this paper, we provide insights into how frequency and depth of promotions affect consumer purchases and seller revenues in the long run. We show an application to the U.S. market for laundry detergent. We use estimates from a structural dynamic demand model to simulate different pricing policies and find that in the detergent market, an increase in promotion depth is more effective than a change in promotion length. Our results suggest that this finding can be translated to markets with a large heterogeneity in storage costs and steady consumption rates.
M31|Inference of Consumer Consideration Sets|When consumers face a large number of alternatives, they tend to simplify the decision problem by reducing the number of available alternatives to a subset of relevant alternatives, i.e. a consideration set. Since consideration sets are typically unobserved, most studies in the demand literature have to assume a consideration model. If these consideration models are misspecified, the demand estimates can be biased. In this paper, we develop an approach to formally test any two competing models of consideration against one another in order to determine which model fits the data best. Our test follows the intuition of a menu approach and uses supplemental data on marginal cost-shifters to construct overidentifying restrictions. We show an application to German retailing of coffee and milk. We find that consideration sets are fundamentally different for coffee and milk, and relate our findings to differences in demand and supply conditions of the two product categories.
M31|Gremlins in the Data: Identifying the Information Content of Research Subjects|Empirical demand functions (based on experimental studies, such as Choice Based Conjoint) are critical to many aspects of marketing, such as targeting and segmentation, setting prices and evaluating the potential of new products. While considerable work has been done on developing approaches for ensuring that research subjects are both honest and engaged, the reduced cost associated with collecting data in an online setting has driven many studies to be collected under conditions which leave researchers unsure of the value of the information content provided by each subject. Objective measures related to how the subject completes the study, such as latency (how quickly answers are given), can only be tied to other objective measures (such as the fit of the model or consistency of the answer) and ultimately have questionable relationship to the subject's utility function. In response to this problem, we introduce a mixture modeling framework which clusters subjects based on variances in a choice based setting (multinomial logit models). This model naturally groups subjects based on the internal consistency of their answers, where we argue that a higher level of internal consistence (hence lower variance) reflects more engaged consumers who have sufficient experience with the product category and choice task, to have well-formed utilities. This approach provides an automated way of determining which consumers are relevant. We discuss both the modeling framework and illustrate the methods using data from several commercial conjoint studies.
M31|A Flexible Demand Model for Complements Using Household Production Theory|We utilize household production theory to address the problem of micro-level demand estimation across complementary goods. According to this theory, consumers buy inputs and combine them to produce final goods from which they derive utility. We use this idea to build a structural model of demand for complements that can be estimated on purchase data in the presence of corner solutions and indivisible packages. We find that, even when reusing the same functional form as some previous models of demand for substitutes, the model can accommodate very different patterns of consumer preferences over complements and lead to a flexible demand system from perfect complementarity to no complementarity. We estimate the model on purchase data from a panel of consumers and show how it can be used to increase the profitability of couponing strategies by taking into account the spillover effect of coupons on demand for complementary categories.
M31|Do Stakeholder Orientation and Environmental Proactivity Impact Firm Profitability?|While single-brand reward programs encourage customers to remain loyal to that one brand, coalition programs encourage customers to be “promiscuous” by offering points redeemable across partner stores. Despite the benefits of this “open relationship” with customers, store managers face uncertainty as to how rewards offered by partners influence transactions at their own stores. We use a model of multi-store purchase incidence to show how the value of points shared among partner stores can explain patterns in customer-level purchases across them. The model is used to empirically test hypotheses on how reward spillovers among partners are driven by: (1) differences in policies on reward redemption, (2) the overlap in product categories between stores, and (3) geographic distance between stores within a city. In addition, we leverage variation generated by a natural experiment, i.e., a devaluation of the program's points, to demonstrate how the value of points influences the positioning of partner stores within the coalition and the purchasing patterns across them. We conclude by delineating some managerial implications for the design of a coalition's reward policies, including a simulation showing that customer-centric targeted rewards can be an effective strategy to compensate for the devaluation.
M31|Service Quality as an Antecedent of Brand Equity: Empirical Evidence in the Medical Tourism from Jordan|This study aims to investigate the effect of service quality (SQ) on brand equity in medical tourism context. SQ is considered as a critical success element for achieving competitive advantage and building strong medical tourism brands in today’s competitive market, Jordan is included. A brand with strong equity is vital weapon for a medical tourism’s differentiation strategy and development of customer loyalty. In this study, a survey has been distributed to 384 medical tourist’s in Jordan. Only, 306 data are usable and were used for data analysis. The findings of this study showed that the SQ is significantly associated with overall brand equity. Also, each of SQ dimensions that referring to tangibility, reliability, responsiveness, empathy, and assurance are significantly correlated with overall brand equity.
M31|Relationship between Consumer Characteristics and Impulse Buying Behavior: The Mediating Role of Buying Intention of New Clothing Buyers|The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between consumer characteristics and impulse buying behavior focusing on buying intention. This survey used a descriptive applied methodology and causal correlation. Participants included new clothing buyers in malls of Rasht during autumn and winter. Data was collected by questionnaire. Results of factor analysis indicated high reliability of the constructs. Results showed that self-esteem, followed by new product knowledge and excitement, respectively, had the greatest effect on impulse buying behavior. The results provided a basis for implementing strategies to take advantage of consumer characteristics for more sales and optimal productivity.
M31|Real Value of Advertising Value Equivalent in Sport Sponsorship|Conducted examinations were aimed at examining to what degree formal values of the advertising value equivalent (AVE) are ahead of their real value. The reason behind setting the real amount of the AVE is that many sponsoring entities supporting sport treat this factor as the main determinant in evaluation of their sponsoring campaign, even though there are justified doubts about its credibility (Hagyari et al., 2016). During the implementation of studies a thesis was adopted that the official value of the AVE is elevated, and hence distort the process of evaluation of sponsorship. Conducted research involved determining number of visual contacts of respondents with logotypes of chosen sponsors while watching video material with volleyball matches. Research process was based on an eye-tracker. Obtained data was used to determine real values of AVE obtained by each brand. Obtained findings allowed to accept the thesis, as applied innovative test procedure confirmed that real value of the AVE, which had been set, was significantly lower in case of every examined enterprise: Differences between the official and real value of the AVE fluctuated from 57% to 96%. Sponsoring enterprises shouldn’t base the evaluation of their sponsorship campaigns on official AVE as obtained data may lead to erroneous conclusions.
M31|Loyalty or Inertia? Customer Perspective on Traditional Micro-retailing of Fisheries Commodities in Small Islands Coastal Area|The traditional micro-retailing market its existence today threatened by the strong penetration of supermarkets, the condition does not occur only in big cities in developed country but also in development country such as rural coastal area. In order to measure the sustainability and durability on existence of the traditional wet market against rapid penetration of supermarket then study to investigate whether the customer who shop wet product on traditional market categories as loyal or inertia (spurious loyalty) is necessary. This research conducted in the Kei Islands which is rural coastal area in Indonesia with respondents were customers who shop wet product on the traditional micro-retail market for at least four times in a month. Using the structural equation modeling, the results of this research showed that customer who buy fisheries wet product on the traditional micro-retail market in Kei Islands were identified as spurious loyalty or inertia. Implication of this result for local governments need to tightening regulation to prevent supermarket penetration especially in rural area and for seller (fishermen and aquaculture farmers) to increase their brand image by maintaining the consistency of quantity and quality of their product to keep their current customers against penetration of supermarket.
M31|Brand Resonance Behavior among Online Brand Community|Brand commitment studies had gained considerable attention in today’s marketing practices. Sustaining the brand competitive advantages become challenging especially in the context of digital marketing. Development of Web 2.0 that enables interactive communication had offered a new mechanism for owner of the brand to strengthen the bond among their admirers and users via online brand community. Attitude and behavior of online brand community members can be crucial to overall brand competitive advantage. This is because brand image and reputation can be praised or tarnished just by one click from the members. Hence, owner of the brand should understand how online brand community commitment could affect overall brand performance. This study attempts to examine how brand trust and brand community commitment among online brand community will affect their brand resonance behavior namely brand referral and intention to purchase new product of the brand in the future. The study among 167 members of online brand community indicate that brand trust and brand community commitment play a significant roles in determining brand community behavior such as brand referral and intention to purchase new product. Discussion and recommendation for future research direction also were discussed in this article.
M31|Heuristics as an Aid to Inter-organizational Value Creation|The purpose of this paper is to analyze the moderating effects of heuristics on the relationship between asset specificity, formal contracting/relational contracting and value creation. More importantly, this paper explores the role of heuristics on the inter-organizational relationships. An integrative theoretical framework is proposed, grounded on literature review on transaction cost economics and heuristics. Then, the relationships between heuristics, asset specificity, formal contracting/relational contracting and value creation are analyzed, using the proposed theoretical framework. Heuristics has different implications to the choice of governance mechanisms (formal contracting and relational contracting) and value creation. Moreover, this work develops hypotheses indicating how heuristics moderates the relations between these constructs and highlights future research directions relating to inter-organizational relationships. Heuristics, assets specificity and governance mechanisms alone have limited capacity of improving inter-organizational value creation, but combined they can support improvement initiatives. Nevertheless, heuristics, assets specificity and governance mechanisms can also suppose some novel obstacles to effective inter-organizational value creation. Several studies have analyzed value creation in the inter-organizational relationships, but, to the best of our knowledge no study has focused on the role of heuristics. This work can draw attention of the managers by making them aware of how important is heuristics as a decision-making tool which can influence governance of asset specificities
M31|E-lifestyle, Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty among Mobile Subscribers in Thailand|This paper aims at assessing the relationship between e-lifestyle, customer satisfaction (CS), and loyalty among mobile service subscribers in Thailand. The results reveal that e-lifestyle has a substantial effect on CS. Subsequently, CS affects strongly on consumer loyalty towards telecommunication service providers. Moreover, CS mediates the relationship between e-lifestyle and consumer loyalty. The study concludes that e-lifestyle has to be integrated into marketing strategies and customer relationship management in order to sustain consumer loyalty. From a practical point of view, the findings of this study could be used to inform businesses, particularly those in the telecommunication services industry in developing countries on the ways of enhancing CS and loyalty
M31|The Infl uence of Electronic-Word-of-Mouth on Travel Intention among Foreign Students in Malaysia: Does Gender Really Matter?|As an attractive educational hub within this region, Malaysia currently accommodates an enormous number of foreign students. These students are known for their inclination towards tour and travel activities during their spare time. In view of the potential contribution of foreign students’ travel activities towards the nation, this study attempts to examine the tour behaviour among foreign students in Malaysia. This study specifi cally focuses on the foreign students’ travel intention and possible infl uences of electronic-word-of-mouth (E-WOM) on their travel intention. In addition, this study intends to determine the infl uence of gender differences on the impact of the E-WOM towards students’ travel intention. The foreign students pursuing their tertiary education in Limkokwing University located at Cyberjaya, Malaysia comprise the population of this study. Snowball sampling was used to draw 500 representative elements for the study’s self-administrated survey. Structural equation modelling analysis was used to analyse the data collected. Findings revealed that E-WOM signifi cantly infl uenced the foreign students’ intention to travel in Malaysia. Nonetheless, an insignifi cant moderation effect of gender on the relationship between E-WOM and travel intention was found. Following a detailed discussion on the fi ndings obtained, this study presented several managerial implications alongside recommendation for future researches.
M31|Market Orientation, Learning Orientation and Small Medium Enterprises Performance:The Mediating Role of Innovation|This study aims to empirically demonstrate the relationship of market orientation, learning orientation on innovation and business performance within the scope of the small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Besides, this research also explaines the importance of company’s innovation as a mediating relation to improve business performance. The samples of this study were 155 managers or owners of Meubeller SMEs in the Region of Karisidenan Surakarta. The sampling technique used in this research was purposive sampling. The basic consideration of this research was the experience of the SMEs Meubeller (either the manager or owner) in managing their businesses. The hypothesis testing results showed that market orientation gave positive effect on business performance and innovation of the company. Orientation learning gave positive effect on business performance and innovation of the company. Company’s innovation infl uenced business performance.
M31|Can Price Sway Children Preference? Preliminary Experiment among Malay Children|This study deals with young Malay children’s behavior concerning money. The objectives are to determine the children knowledge of money value, source of their money knowledge and whether price can sway their preference. The literature on Children Socialization and Information Processing Theory in consumer behavior suggests that most young children under 8 are not cognitively skilled about pricing and to use price in decision making. An interview has been conducted to gain the children insight about their money value and the source of money knowledge. In order to test for the effects of price, an experiment has been conducted to determine their preference. The study has found that children didn’t have strong knowledge of money value and pricing of products not dependably influence their preference. In order to conclude for a better generalization, this preliminary finding could be used as a initial point for a larger scale of research in term of sample size, range of aged group and ethnicity
M31|“What really matters is the economic performance: Positioning tourist destinations by means of perceptual maps|The present study aims to cluster the world's main tourist destinations according to the growth of the economic performance of the tourist activity and of the tourist and economic development experienced during the last decade. With this objective, we combine the information from a set of tourist and economic indicators for the main 45 tourist destinations over the period between 2000 and 2010. Destinations are ranked with respect to their average growth rate over the sample period. By assigning a numerical value to each country corresponding to its position, all the information is summarised into two components (“economic performance of tourist activity” and “tourist and economic development”) via multivariate techniques for dimensionality reduction: multidimensional scaling (MDS) and categorical principal components analysis (CATPCA). By means of perceptual maps, we find that destinations can be clustered into four different groups. The first one, dominated by Western and Northern Europe markets, contains some of the top destinations (France, Spain and the United States). A second one, with a predominance of Mediterranean destinations (Cyprus, Greece, Italy and Israel), obtains high scores in both dimensions. In the third one, we find Cambodia and China, alongside Egypt and Turkey. Finally, a fourth group dominated by Eastern Europe destinations (Bulgaria, Croatia and Latvia) with low scores in both dimensions.
M31|Social ties and the demand for financial services|This paper studies the importance of social interactions for the adoption of financial services among young adults. Specifically, we investigate whether, how, and why financial decisions among interacting agents are correlated. We exploit a unique dataset of friendship networks in the United States and a novel estimation strategy that accounts for possibly endogenous network formation. We find that not all social contacts are equally important: only long-lasting relationships influence financial decisions. Moreover, this peer influence exists only in cohesive social structures. This evidence is consistent with an important role of trust in financial decisions. When agents consider whether or not to adopt a financial instrument, they face a risk and may place greater value on information coming from agents they trust. These results can help explain the importance of face-to-face social contacts for financial decisions.
M31|Cultural Tourism|The present work features a detailed analysis of the multitude of elements encompassing cultural tourism. In this paper, we will define the concept and describe the numerous particularities and forms of this type of activity. We will highlight its complex and dynamic nature and underline the important interconnectivity characteristic. Furthermore, we will submit a target market analysis, emphasizing the typical profile of the cultural tourism consumer. To illustrate the conceptual elements, we will present a case study, analyzing the George Enescu classical music festival in Romania and highlighting the economic and cultural benefits brought by this cultural tourism event.
M31|Die Inflation kommt zurück! Immer mehr Firmen in Deutschland wollen ihre Preise anheben|Die ifo Preiserwartungen sind ein zuverlässiger Frühindikator zur Prognose der sektorspezifischen Preisentwicklung. Zudem ist der ifo Indikator in der Lage, die Kernrate der deutschen Inflation treffsicherer vorherzusagen als ein einfaches Referenzmodell. Nach den jüngsten Befragungsergebnissen des ifo Konjunkturtests wollen auch in Zukunft immer mehr Firmen ihre Preise anheben. Aus diesem Grund dürfte die zuletzt gestiegene Inflation sowohl auf den Fertigungsstufen, die dem Endverbrauch vorgelagert sind, als auch auf der Verbraucherstufe in den kommenden Monaten weiterhin hoch bleiben. Die Inflation in Deutschland kommt also zurück.
M31|Marketing + internet = e-commerce: oportunidades y desafíos|Pese a los pocos años en que se conoce internet, hoy es claro que está produciendo cambios significativos en los negocios. Como se infiere de este artículo, esto es solo el comienzo, pues, por ejemplo, se están introduciendo cambios en la vida del hogar y de la oficina. Por ello, se continuarán realizando estudios para conocer el impacto y el papel que tiene internet en el proceso de globalización. Actualmente hay una nueva realidad y muchas actividades son sustituidas, incluso el marketing, que ahora requiere de un nuevo tipo de profesional y una nueva forma de hacer las cosas. La gerencia tiene un desafío en relación con la información: lo que antes era escaso, ahora es abundante y poco ordenado. El futuro de los negocios está en cuánto la empresa puede aprovechar internet. En esta línea, el artículo busca exponer acerca del aporte de internet al sector empresarial y, en consecuencia, a la economía nacional. Asimismo, pretende explorar acerca de las cualidades que hacen interesante internet para la estrategia empresarial, en especial los beneficios que la empresa debe generar, no solo esperar. Finalmente, busca exponer las acciones que la empresa debe llevar a cabo aprovechando internet, para mejorar la productividad de los costos, posicionar el producto o fortalecerlo y generar mayores beneficios para los accionistas.******Despite only a short time passing since the Internet started to be used, it is clear today that it is producing significant changes in business. As this article highlights, this is only the beginning, since, for example, changes are beingintroduced to the way of life at home and at the office. For this reason, studies will continue to be carried out in order to better understand the impact and role of the Internet on the process of globalization. Currently, there is a new reality and many activities are replaced, including marketing, which now requires a new type of professionals and a new way of doing things. Management faces a challenge regarding information: what previously was scarce is now abundant and unordered. The future of business depends on the extent companies take advantage of the Internet. In this line, the article seeks to present the contribution of the Internet to the business sector and, consequently, to national economy. Similarly, it aims to explore the qualities that make the Internet attractive for business strategy, especially the benefits that companies must generate, not only expect. Finally, it seeks to expose the actions that companies must take, by making the most of the Internet, to improve cost productivity and to position their product or to strengthen it, while generating greater profits for the shareholders.******Embora os poucos anos em que a internet é conhecida, hoje é claro que ela está produzindo mudanças significativas nos negócios. Como se infere deste artigo, isso é somente o começo, pois, por exemplo, estão sendo introduzidas mudanças na vida no lar e no trabalho. Por isso, continuarão sendo realizados estudos para conhecer o impacto e o papel que a internet tem no processo de globalização. Atualmente, há uma nova realidade, e muitas atividades são substituídas, inclusive o marketing, que agora requer de um novo profissional e de uma nova forma de fazer as coisas. A gerência tem um desafio no que se refere à informação: o que antes era escasso, agora é abundante e pouco organizado. O futuro dos negócios está em quanto a empresa pode aproveitar a internet. Nessa linha, este artigo procura expor sobre a contribuição da internet para o setor empresarial e, em consequência, para a economia nacional. Além disso, pretende-se explorar sobre as qualidades que tornam a internet relevante para a estratégia empresarial, em especial os benefícios que a empresa deve gerar, não somente esperar. Finalmente, busca expor as ações que a empresa deve realizar, aproveitando a internet, para melhorar a produtividade dos custos, posicionar o produto ou fortalecê-lo e gerar maiores benefícios para os acionistas.
M31|Do disaster experience and knowledge affect insurance take-up decisions?|This study examines the effect of experience and knowledge on weather insurance adoption. First, we conduct insurance games with farmers, and find that the treatment improves real insurance take-up by 46%. The effect is not driven by changes in risk attitudes and perceived probability of disasters, or by learning of insurance benefits, but is driven by the experience acquired in the game. Second, we find that providing information about the payout probability has a strong positive effect on insurance take-up. Finally, when subjects receive both treatments, the probability information has a greater impact on take-up than does the disaster experience.
M31|Sharing the proceeds from a hierarchical venture|We consider the problem of distributing the proceeds generated from a joint venture in which the participating agents are hierarchically organized. We introduce and characterize a family of allocation rules where revenue ‘bubbles up’ in the hierarchy. The family is flexible enough to accommodate the no-transfer rule (where no revenue bubbles up) and the full-transfer rule (where all the revenues bubble up to the top of the hierarchy). Intermediate rules within the family are reminiscent of popular incentive mechanisms for social mobilization or multi-level marketing.
M31|Consumer preferences before and after a food safety scare: An experimental analysis of the 2010 egg recall|In August 2010, more than half a billion eggs were recalled in the U.S. because of a Salmonella outbreak. This study examines the effect of the recall with a unique pair of auction experiments investigating willingness to pay (WTP) for conventional and organic eggs, one conducted shortly before and one right after the recall with the same participants. In addition to the before and after bids, participants bid again after a negative information or balanced information treatment about the event. Accompanying surveys showed consumers had a high level of awareness of the recall but less knowledge of specific details, and viewed information on egg farm conditions as very important in their WTP. While there were no significant before and after differences, WTP for organic eggs significantly increased in the negative information treatment, and balanced information had a positive effect on consumer WTP for conventional eggs.
M31|Do charities get more when they ask more often? Evidence from a unique field experiment|Charitable organizations send out large volumes of direct mailings, soliciting for money in support of many good causes. Without any request, donations are rarely made, and it is well known that each request for money by a charity likely generates at least some revenues. Whether a single request from a charity increases the total amount donated by an individual is however unknown. Indeed, a response to one request can hurt responses to others. The net effect is therefore not easily observable, certainly not when multiple charities address the same individuals.
M31|Experience of Greece on Recapitalization of Banks, Marketing Management and Personnel Retraining in Conditions of Economic Recession|The article covers instruments which are aimed at strengthening of global and national financial and credit systems, encouraging banks recapitalization, techniques of marketing management of financial and credit sector development focused on ensuring financial stability of banks. The authors consider also basic methods of banking market services regulation, point out specific issues of bank management and human recourse management development in conditions of economic recession. Greek experience of anti-crisis measures has revealed key factors and peculiarities of the changes that were brought by the global financial crisis of 2008-2010 to development of banking systems of the countries implementing the model of “catch-up development”. The experience of Greece in development and application of regulatory instruments has shown that if in the period of long sustainable economic growth for countries having emerging markets an opportunity to use the methods and control systems of developed countries can be visible, then with the appearance of negative scenarios system limitations come to the fore and the risks associated with high degree of uncertainty are realized.
M31|Performance Marketing Model through Acculturation Innovation and Market Orientation in the Bakery Industry|Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) have their own superiority in which they pervade not only in terms of human resources, but also in their role in national economic development. The aim of this study is to develop acculturation innovation and competing superiority for increasing the marketing development of the bakery business actors in Central Java. This study’s sample consists of 161 respondents who are bakery business owners from Central Java. By using the purposive sampling technique, several criteria were considered for the SMEs representatives from the bakery industry sample, such as the SMEs must be certified at Disperindag, have at least one employee, and invest at least IDR 1.000.000,- . The analyzing method that is used in this study is SEM. The result of the study shows the market orientation with specific dimensions, such as gaining information about the customers’ needs, competitors’ powers, and functions’ coordination affected competitors’ superiority, and acculturation innovation. While it comes to some dimensions such as changes in culture-based products, culture-based price’ changing, culture-based packaging, and production processes, competing superiority is affected.
M31|Prior Academic Performance and Passing Professional Accounting Examinations, Empirical Evidence from Malaysia|"""Objective – The purpose of this research is to examine the relationship between prior academic performances at the secondary school level with passing professional accounting examinations. Methodology/Technique – Data for this research was extracted from the database of the Department of Professional Accounting Studies, Faculty of Accountancy, Universiti Teknologi MARA. University Teknologi MARA or UiTM is the only local university offering professional accounting courses by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and is a Platinum Approved Learning Partner with ACCA. Data was extracted on the students’ success in completing ACCA, together with results of the secondary school examination Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM). The population used in this study included students who had either successfully completed or did not complete their professional studies at the university. The sample consisted of 780 students, of which 400 had not successfully graduated and 380 had successfully graduated. Data from 780 students were used for the statistical analysis. Findings – The study found that for successfully completion of professional accounting examinations, receiving distinction in Additional Mathematics during SPM, scoring a maximum number of A’s, and starting from the science stream were highly significant. Novelty – This research is significant as it contributes to the literature on professional accounting education. It may be used to review prerequisites for entering professional accounting courses, which would help increase the number of professional accountants in Malaysia."""
M31|The Competitiveness Creation Strategy of Islamic Banking|"""Objective – The development of Islamic banks in Indonesia requires a new strategy. The size of the population of Indonesia is a potential market for Islamic banks to target religious and non-religious customers and implement quality innovation to create value-based services to support the competitiveness of regional economies. This may improve the standard and quality of living. Specifically, this study investigated the influence of Islamic banking service quality dimensions to consumer satisfaction, word-of-mouth communication and loyalty. Methodology/Technique – This study was conducted in Banjarmasin, South Kalimantan, which is an Indonesian province that has a fairly a rapid rate of development of Islamic banking. The study focused on 191 people. Data collection was done by observation and interviews using questionnaires. Findings – Using Partial Least Squares, the results demonstrates the effects of variable compliance, empathy, and value proposition quality on overall satisfaction. This showed that overall satisfaction influences word-of-mouth communication and loyalty. This indicates that both the religious market consumers and the floating market consumers desire the establishment of a strong emotional bond between the Islamic bank, customers and shareholders that are developed together in the face of business risks and share profits fairly and honestly, in accordance with the principles of Islamic law. Furthermore, they want employees to be more empathetic and respond individually to customers. Novelty – The study suggest that a strategy be created in relation to competitiveness in Islamic banking in Banjarmasin to improve the quality of service-based value, and to increase the cultivation of religious customers as well as penetrating the floating market segment."""
M31|Influence of Age and Education on Purchase Intention of Halal Labelled Food Among Indonesian Muslim Mothers|"""Objective – This study examines the discrepancies that exist among the influence of age and education on purchase intention of halal labelled food, by using conscientiousness as a covariate. Methodology/Technique – Total number of respondents used in this research were 352 Indonesian mothers. Data has been collected through questionnaires measuring the purchase intention of halal labelled food and analysis has been performed through analysis of covariance. Findings – The results have indicated that when conscientiousness trait is controlled, the interaction of age and education exhibit influence on purchase intention of halal labelled food with (F=6.079; p=.03), and effect size of 3.4% (.034). The influence of education, with controlled conscientiousness trait, over purchase intention of halal labelled food is significant (F=3.407; p=.034), effect size 1.9% (.019). On the other hand, age, with controlled conscientiousness trait, does not have significant influence over purchase intention of halal labelled food (F=3.407; p=.34). Novelty – This paper has revealed demographic variables; education and age; that influence purchase intention by controlling psychological factor."""
