M37|From Local to Global Competitors on the Beer Market|Liberalization of trade has been high on the political agenda after the Second World War. First through the international corporation in GATT and WTO and later the creation of the internal market in Western Europe and the opening up of Eastern Europe and China. The breweries respond to these changes in institution by a global M&A strategy and the following concentration of ownership among breweries increased the large breweries’ global market share dramatically. Why does this concentration in ownership take place, and was there some pay off to the breweries of this strategy? We will examine the market power hypothesis, how the increasing concentration has affected the growth of global brands and the beer prices. First, we examine where the increasing global concentration is reflected in a concentration of ownership in local markets. Next, we examine the effects of ownership concentration on the level of beer prices. Finally, we examine the effects of the global ownership on the market share of the global beer brand.
M37|The Digital Services Tax as a Tax on Location-Specific Rent|In 2018, the European Council and the UK and Spanish governments each proposed to introduce a Digital Services Tax (DST), to be levied on the revenue of large digital platforms from advertising, online intermediation, and/or the transmission of data. We offer a rationalization of the DST as a tax on location-specific rent (LSR). That is, just as many countries already levy royalties on rent from extracting natural resources, one can think of the DST as levied on rent earned by digital platforms from particular locations. We provide stylized illustrations of how platform rent can be assigned to specific locations, even when users from multiple jurisdictions participate. We then elaborate the analogy between the DST and resource royalties, and analyze the DST’s incidence and effect on consumer welfare using a simple model. Finally, we argue that the DST suggests useful directions for redesigning international taxation in the age of labor-replacing AI technology.
M37|Price Discrimination in the Information Age: Prices, Poaching, and Privacy with Personalized Targeted Discounts|We study list price competition when firms can individually target discounts (at a cost) to consumers afterwards, and we address recent regulation (such as the GDPR in Europe) that has empowered consumers to protect their privacy by allowing them to choose whether to opt in to data-gathering and targeting. In equilibrium, consumers who can be targeted receive poaching and retention discount offers from their top two firms. These offers are in mixed strategies, but final profits on such a consumer are simple and Bertrand-like. More contestable consumers receive more ads and are more likely to buy the wrong product. Poaching exceeds retention when targeting is expensive, but this reverses when targeting is cheap. Absent opt-in choice, firm list pricing resembles monopoly, as marginal consumers are lost to the lowest feasible poaching offer, not to another firm's list price. Opt-in choice reintroduces the standard margin too on those who opt out. The winners and losers when targeting is unrestricted (rather than banned) depend on the curvature of demand. For the empirically plausible case (convex but log-concave), targeting pushes up list prices, reduces profits and total welfare, and (if demand is convex enough) hurts consumers on average. Outside of this case, more convex (concave) demand tends to make targeting more advantageous to firms (consumers). We then use our model to study the welfare effects of a policy that forbids targeted advertising to consumers who have not opted in. Consumers opt in or out depending on whether expected discounts outweigh the cost of foregone privacy. For empirically relevant demand structures, allowing opt-in makes all consumers better-off.
M37|Viral Advertisement: Conceptualisation of Factors Affecting Viral Behaviour|Objective - The objectives of this article are threefold; first, to identify factors affecting the effectiveness of social media advertising; second, to classify the factors into four main dimensions (namely: source, social, content and attitudinal); third, to conceptualise the factors and provide the proposition. Novelty - The theoretical framework of this paper can be used to direct future empirical research to see how each construct affects consumer acceptance towards the advertisement and the spread of viral advertisement.
M37|The Influence of User Generated Content and Purchase Intention on Beauty Products|Objective - The thrive of social media enables everyone to share their purchase and consumption experiences, including beauty product consumption. The study aims to determine whether the attitude towards UGC, perceived credibility and user activity of UGC on YouTube influences the purchase intention toward a beauty product. Methodology/Technique - Questionnaires were distributed online to 200 people who had watched beauty product review videos on YouTube at least once and who were minimum 18 years old. The data was analyzed using multiple regression. Finding - The results indicate that attitudes towards UGC content on YouTube and perceived credibility affect purchasing intentions. Whereas user activities does not correlate with purchase intentions on beauty products. UGC content usually provides information and provides tips and tricks about using beauty products. The more attractive the content is, the more people want to see it and the more likely they will be to use the content to fulfill their information needs. Beauty vloggers are considered more credible than producer-generated content. Activities such as searching for, liking, subscribing or commenting does not necessarily indicate purchase intentions. This simply represents people fulfilling their social needs to interact with each other in a social environment. Novelty – Companies could provide training or facilities for UGC creators in order to create more attractive content. The most important finding of this study is that companies should continually improve the quality of their products, because the credibility of content makers relies on their experience with the products themselves. Marketers should monitor community discussions to find out more about the public interest in their products. In addition, marketers can also identify the shortcomings of their products to better enable them to fix them by reviewing comments on UGC. Type of Paper - Empirical.
M37|The Relationship between Advertising and Consumption|This paper investigates the causal relationship between advertising and consumption with panel data at industry level for some European countries. At macroeconomic level consumption can rise only if saving will decrease. But the competition effect of advertising is better captured at industry level that allow for interaction between firms. We apply a panel Granger causality framework to our unique data set of consumption and advertising spending on different sectors across 9 years for 5 European Union countries. We reach robust results showing that consumption Granger causes advertising, rather than the other way. Our findings also suggest that compared to economic structures of different countries and interactions of sectors, consumption is a more important driver to advertising.
M37|Advertising strategy in the presence of reviews: An empirical analysis|We study the relationship between online reviews and advertising spending in the hotel industry. Combining a dataset of TripAdvisor reviews with other datasets describing these hotels’ advertising expenditures, we show, first, that online ratings have a causal demand-side effect on ad spending. Second, this effect is negative: hotels with higher ratings spend less on advertising than hotels with lower ratings. This suggests that hotels treat TripAdvisor ratings and advertising spending as substitutes, not complements. Third, the relationship is stronger for independent hotels than for chains, and stronger in less differentiated markets than in more differentiated markets. The former suggests that a strong brand name continues to provide some immunity to reviews and the latter that the advertising response is stronger when ratings are more likely to be pivotal. Finally, we show that the relationship between online ratings and advertising has strengthened over time, just as TripAdvisor has become more popular, implying that firms respond to online reviews if and only if consumers respond to them.
M37|Increasing clicks through advanced targeting: Applying the third-party seal model to airline advertising|From five-star hotels and Michelin Star restaurants, few industries signal their quality and unique selling points through the use of third-party seals like tourism. However, despite using seals and certifications in advertising being widespread, little academic research has been conducted into their effectiveness. Through the running of campaigns on Facebook’s Ad Manager for Indian airline Jet Airways, this study applies the Third-Party Seal Model to optimise campaign audiences to target the right prospects with the most effective message. Findings and a practical framework for optimal campaign delivery for the airline industry are presented.
M37|If You Think 9-Ending Prices Are Low,Think Again|9-ending prices are a dominant feature of many retail settings, which according to the existing literature, is because consumers perceive them as being relatively low. Are 9-ending prices really lower than comparable non 9-ending prices? Surprisingly, the empirical evidence on this question is scarce. We use 8 years of weekly scanner price data with over 98 million price observations to document four findings. First, at the category level, 9-ending prices are usually higher, on average, than non 9-ending prices. Second, at the product level, in most cases, 9-ending prices are, on average, higher than prices with other endings. Third, sale prices are more likely to be non-9 ending than the corresponding regular prices. Fourth, among sale prices, 9-ending prices are often lower, on average, than comparable non 9-ending prices. The first three findings imply that although consumers may associate 9-ending prices with low prices, the data indicates otherwise. The fourth finding offers a possible explanation for this misperception. Retailers may be using 9-ending prices to draw consumers’ attention to particularly large price cuts during sales, which perhaps conditions the shoppers to associate 9-ending prices with low prices.
M37|Exploring In-Game Advertising and Brand Recall|Digital gaming is increasingly recognized as one of the most important entertainment sectors worldwide, turning it into a promising medium for advertisers. Games are extremely engaging, interactive and challenging, as a result, it attracted advertisers who are seeking the attention of the customers through a nontraditional medium to convey their advertising messages. Along with this growth in digital games, there are several important contextual factors to consider in the selection and placement of the advertising messages in digital games. The objective of this research was to explore the effect of in-game advertising on brand recall processing. The quantitative approach was employed and a survey was distributed on 201 respondents applied on FIFA game players in Egypt. The results showed that in-game advertising has an effect on brand recall. Additionally, the position of the advertisement and time of appearance appear to be the most significant factor in affecting brand recall.
M37|Online privacy and market structure: Theory and evidence|This paper investigates how privacy regulation affects the structure of online markets. We provide a simple theoretical model capturing the basic trade-off between the degree of privacy intrusion and the informativeness of advertising. We derive empirically testable hypotheses regarding a possibly asymmetric effect of privacy regulation on large and small firms using a diff-diff-diff model with heterogeneous treatment timing. Our theoretical model predicts that privacy regulation may affect predominantly large firms, even if - as our data confirms - these large firms tend to offer more privacy. Our empirical results show that, if any, only large firms were negatively affected, suggesting that privacy regulation might boost competition by leveling out the playing field for small firms.
M37|Measuring the Welfare of Intermediation in Vertical Markets|We empirically investigate the welfare implications of intermediaries in oligopolistic markets, where intermediaries offer additional services to differentiate their products from the ones of the manufacturers. Our identification strategy exploits the unique circumstance that, in the outdoors advertising industry, there are two distribution channels: consumers can purchase the product either directly from manufacturers, or with the intermediation of retailers. Using product-level data for the whole industry, we estimate a differentiated products’ equilibrium model that includes: consumers who have preferences that are specific to each distribution channel and engage in costly search on the demand side; and two layers of activity (where manufacturers and intermediaries bar- gain over wholesale prices) with two distribution channels (where the two distribution channels compete a la Bertrand) on the supply side. The estimated model is used to simulate counterfactual scenarios, where intermediaries do not offer additional services. These counterfactuals are used to quantify the welfare effects of intermediaries.
M37|Does Cheap Talk Affect Market Outcomes? Evidence from eBay|We study the use of and response to cheap talk by firms and their consumers, focusing on unverifiable promises of charitable donations on eBay. For transactions during March 2005 – May 2006, cheap talk listings have lower sales probabilities but sell at higher prices when they are successful. The negative relationship between cheap talk and sales is concentrated in the months following Hurricane Katrina, a time when both verifiable and unverifiable charity-related listings increased dramatically. Finally, we show that cheap talk sellers have significantly lower quality ratings than sellers who make verifiable donations. Collectively, our results suggest that most buyers (justifiably) avoid cheap talk listings when credible quality signals are available, thus limiting the extent of cheap talk under these conditions.
M37|Buying the Verdict|We document evidence that firms systematically increase specialized, locally targeted advertising following the firm being taken to trial in that given location - precisely following initiation of the suit. In particular, we use legal actions brought against publicly traded firms over the 20 year sample period that progress to trial from 1995-2014. In terms of magnitude, the increase is sizable: targeted local advertising increases by 23% (t=4.39) following the suit. Moreover, firms concentrate these strategic increases in locations where the return on their advertising dollars are largest: in smaller, more concentrated advertising markets where fewer competitor firms are advertising. They focus their advertisement spikes specifically toward jury trials, and in fact specifically toward the most likely jury pool. Lastly, we document that these advertising spikes are associated with verdicts, increasing the probability of a favorable outcome.
M37|Consumer Misinformation and the Brand Premium: A Private Label Blind Taste Test|We run in-store blind taste tests with a retailer’s private label food brands and the leading national brand counterparts in three large CPG categories. In a survey administered during the taste test, subjects self-report very high expectations about the quality of the private labels relative to national brands. However, they predict a relatively low probability of choosing them in a blind taste test. Surprisingly however, an overwhelming majority systematically chooses the private label in the blinded test. During the week after the intervention, the tested private label product market shares increase by 15 share points, on top of a base share of 8 share points. However, the effect diminishes to 8 share points during the second to fourth week after the test and to 2 share points during the second to fifth month after the test. Using a structural model of demand, we show these effects survive controls for point-of-purchase prices, purchase incidence, and the feedback effects of brand loyalty. We also find that the intervention increases the preference for the private label brands, and that it decreases the preference for the national brands, relative to the outside good. The findings are consistent with a treatment effect of information on demand where the memory for this information decays slowly over time. Alternative explanations to the information treatment are ruled out.
M37|Measuring the Welfare of Intermediaries in Vertical Markets|We empirically investigate the welfare of intermediaries in oligopolistic markets, where intermediaries offer additional services. We exploit the unique circumstance that, in our empirical setting, consumers can purchase from manufacturers or intermediaries. We specify an equilibrium model, and estimate it using product-level data. The demand includes consumers with costly search and channel-specific preferences. The supply includes two distribution channels. One features bargaining about wholesale prices between manufacturers and intermediaries, and price competition among intermediaries. The other is vertically integrated. The model is used to simulate counterfactuals, where intermediaries do not offer additional services. We find that intermediaries increase welfare.
M37|Does subliminal advertisement affect consumer behavior? An exploratory comparative analysis between marketing and non-marketing professionals|This research study is an effort to explore the difference in the understanding of marketers and non-marketers about their perception, awareness, knowledge, attitude and behavior about the subliminal messages in advertising. To serve the objective of comparative analysis conceptual model was developed for both groups which involved Perception, Awareness and Knowledge relationship with attitude, then relationship of attitude on Behavior towards the brand. Three commercials were selected which had embedded subliminal messages and respondents viewed the advertisements before filling out questionnaires to identify their level of awareness and the degree of knowledge about the type of subliminal content embedded in the ads. For each group total of 140 participants gave their responses. Structural Equation modeling was performed to test the hypothesized relationship between variables. Results of Path analysis show that only one factors for marketers, such that Knowledge about subliminal messages had significant positive effect on attitude towards subliminal Ads. Also marketers’ attitude towards subliminal ads was negatively significant on behavior towards brand. For non-marketers, no support for any of the hypotheses found. Overall results reveal that both the marketing and non-marketing professionals view and perceive the subliminal messages embedded in the ads with a statistically significant difference.
M37|Measuring the Welfare of Intermediation in Vertical Markets|We empirically investigate the welfare implications of intermediaries in oligopolistic markets, where intermediaries offer additional services to differentiate their products from the ones of the manufacturers. Our identification strategy exploits the unique circumstance that, in the outdoors advertising industry, there are two distribution channels: consumers can purchase the product either directly from manufacturers, or through intermediaries. We specify a differentiated products’ equilibrium model, and estimate it using product-level data for the whole industry. On the demand side, the model includes consumers who engage in costly search with preferences that are specific to the distribution channel. On the supply side, the model includes two competing distribution channels. One features two layers of activity, where manufacturers and intermediaries bargain over wholesale prices, and intermediaries compete on final prices to consumers. The other is vertically integrated. The estimated model is used to simulate counterfactual scenarios, where intermediaries do not offer additional services. We find that the presence of intermediaries increases welfare because the value of their services outweighs the additional margin charged.
M37|The Study Of Brand Logo Features: Comparisons Between Fast Moving Consumer Products And Durable Products|This research studied brand logo features by comparing between fast moving consumer products and durable products. The representatives of both product groups consisted of cosmetic and furniture businesses respectively. This study focused on three important components of brand logos, which are pictures, colors and font characters. Data for logo picture studied was collected from 400 samples using judgmental sampling technique and questionnaire survey. Data analysis from previous research and literatures were employed for logo color and font. According to the results for the cosmetic products, the chosen suitable picture was related mainly to emotional benefits. The selected logo color was pertinent to feminine, luxury, mystery and loyalty. The font characters in this respect were connected well to attractiveness, happiness and feminine. Regarding the furniture products, the suitable picture was related mainly to functional benefits. The selected logo color was pertinent to stability, reliability, trustworthy, dependability and durability. The font characters in this respect were connected well to stability, rigidity and conformist.
M37|Exploring the factors that influence Generation Y students? attitudes towards university websites|In South Africa, an increasing number of Generation Y students register at higher education institutions on an annual basis. This rising number, coupled with university websites being a primary source of information and a basis for creating institutional impressions that can affect the attitudes and behavioural intentions of students, highlights the importance of understanding the factors that influence Generation Y students? attitudes towards university websites. As such, the purpose of this study was to determine the influence of ease of use, usefulness and playfulness on Generation Y students? attitudes towards university websites within the South African context. A self-administered questionnaire was used to collect data from a convenience sample of 319 Generation Y students registered at two higher education institution campuses in the Gauteng Province of South Africa. Data analysis included descriptive statistics, correlation analysis and multivariate regression analysis. The findings indicate that the ease of use, usefulness and playfulness of university websites have a significant positive influence on Generation Y students? attitudes towards university websites. Universities can use the findings of this study to improve the effectiveness of their websites in an attempt to positively influence Generation Y students? attitudes towards the sites.
M37|Newspapers in Times of Low Advertising Revenues|We model the consequences on newspapers' content and prices of a reduction in advertising revenues. Newspapers choose the size of their newsroom, and readers are heterogeneous in their ideal amount of journalistic-intensive content. We show that a reduction in advertising revenues lowers newspapers' incentives to produce journalistic-intensive content. We also build a unique dataset on French newspapers between 1960 and 1974 and perform a difference-in-differences analysis exploiting the introduction of advertising on television, which affected national newspapers more severely than local ones. We find robust evidence of a decrease in the amount of journalistic-intensive content produced and the subscription price.
M37|Advertising as a reminder: Evidence from the Dutch State Lottery|We use high frequency data on TV and radio advertising together with data on online sales for lottery tickets to measure the short run effects of advertising. We find them to be strong and to last for up to about 4 hours. They are the bigger the less time there is until the draw. We develop the argument that this finding is consistent with the idea that advertisements remind consumers to buy a ticket and that consumers value this. Then, we point out that in terms of timing the interests of the firm and the consumers are aligned: consumers wish to be reminded in a way that makes them most likely to consider buying a lottery ticket. We present direct evidence that this does not only affect the timing of purchases, but leads to market expansion. Then, we develop a tractable dynamic structural model of consumer behavior, estimate the parameters of this model and simulate the effects of a number of counterfactual dynamic advertising strategies. We find that relative to the actual schedule it would be valued by the consumers and profitable for the firm to spread advertising less over time and move it to the last days before the draw.
M37|Legal Advertising and Frivolous Lawsuits|Following a recent wave of deregulation, lawyers now use a large variety of media to advertise their services. A common argument against this increasing reliance on advertising is that it might stir up frivolous lawsuits. In this article, we investigate the relevance of this argument by developing an asymmetric information game of litigation. The main results show that this stirring-up effect does not necessarily occur in equilibrium and advertising may improve welfare by decreasing the social cost of accidents. Therefore, the liberalization of legal advertising should not necessarily be considered as a threat to the efficiency of the tort system.
M37|Experimental marketing and the crisis of postmodernism. Problems and perspectives|In this paper, we outline some fundamental aspects of Experiential Marketing Ð or EM Ð, which distinguish it from more traditional forms of Marketing and bestow its distinctive character upon it. We also spell out EMÕs relation to different philosophical traditions, on one hand, and to different scientific trends, on the other, highlighting some heretofore underestimated aspects of its theoretical background. In particular, we delve into the relationship between EM and Romanticism, on one hand, and Phenomenology, on the other. Our analysis focuses upon the relevance of three notions for EMÕs theoretical discourse and practice: experience, authenticity, and reality. All these notions are only apparently na•ve; on the contrary, as we show, they are rooted in complex philosophical paradigms, and are inhabited by conceptual tensions. EM inherits those tensions, as we point out, tensions expressed in paradoxical forms in some of its most prominent formulations, e.g. in the works of Holbrook and Hirschman, Pine and Gilmore, and in those of Schmitt. As we show, most of those contradictions derive from the allegiance of EM to postmodernist metaphysical assumptions, pertaining to the notion of reality and to its relation to the one of experience.
M37|Customer recognition and mobile geo-targeting|We focus on four important features of mobile targeting. First, consumers' real-time locations are known to sellers. Second, location is not the only factor determining how responsive consumers are to discounts. Other factors such as age, income and occupation play a role, which are imperfectly observable to marketers. Third, sellers may infer consumer responsiveness from their past purchases. Fourth, firms can deliver personalized offers to consumers through mobile devices based on both their real-time locations and previous purchase behavior. We derive conditions that determine how combining behavior-based marketing with mobile geo-targeting influences profits and welfare in a competitive environment. Our setting nests some earlier models of behavior-based price discrimination as special cases and yields additional insights. For instance, different from previous studies we show that pro.t and welfare effects of behavioral targeting may depend on firm discount factor.
M37|Empirische Studie zum Messeverhalten von kleinen und mittleren Unternehmen in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern|[Einleitung - Ausgangslage und Zielsetzung] Messen sind eines der wichtigsten Marketinginstrumente. Auf Messen werden nicht nur Geschäfte vorbereitet und abgeschlossen, sie sind auch ein zentraler Ort des Wissensaustausches und der Kommunikation. Entscheider aus dem Bereich Einkauf und Beschaffung nutzen insbesondere Messen zur Informationsgewinnung.1 Außerdem ist festzustellen, dass wie zu erwarten, die Onlinenutzung an Bedeutung stark zunimmt, dies aber nicht zulasten von Messebesuchen bei Entscheidungsträgern führt.2 Im Beschaffungsprozess von Unternehmen sind Verlässlichkeit und Kompetenz einerseits und persönlicher Kontakt für Entscheider von zentraler Bedeutung.3 Gerade diese Merkmale werden in besonderer Weise durch das Austellerverhalten auf Messen widergespiegelt. Außerdem ist festzustellen, dass viele internationale Leitmessen in Deutschland stattfinden, daher haben Messen in Deutschland für die Exportförderung eine bedeutende Funktion. Vor diesem Hintergrund hat das Messeverhalten von Unternehmen für deren wirtschaftliche Entwicklung eine zentrale Bedeutung. Sowohl die Landesregierung des Landes Mecklenburg-Vorpommern als auch die IHKs und HWKs des Landes Mecklenburg-Vorpommern unterstützen daher mit wirtschaftspolitischen Förderprogrammen und verbandspolitischen Maßnahmen die aktive Messebeteiligung der Unternehmen in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. Die vorliegende Studie, die sich an der Messestudie 20094 orientiert, wurde ebenfalls von der Hochschule Wismar durchgeführt. An der aktuellen Studie haben insgesamt 456 Unternehmen teilgenommen, dabei wurde die Befragung getrennt nach IHK- und HWK-Mitgliedschaft in den jeweiligen Kammergebieten durchgeführt. Das Ziel der vorliegenden Studie besteht darin, die Motive der Unternehmen zu analysieren, die zu einer Teilnahme und Nichtteilnahme an Messen als Aussteller führen. Die Analyse der nichtausstellenden Unternehmen ist ein zentrales Problem der messewissenschaftlichen Analysen. Es liegt außer der Messestudie MV aus dem Jahr 2009 erst eine weitere empirische Studie vor, die der AUMA im Herbst 2017 veröffentlicht hat.5 Darüber hinaus wurde geprüft, ob sich das Messeverhalten seit 2009 signifikant verändert hat. Um einen derartigen Vergleich der Messestudien 2009 und 2017 zu ermöglichen, wurden der Aufbau der Studie und die Struktur des Fragebogens im Wesentlichen beibehalten.
M37|Dynamic pricing for inventories with reference price effects|This article presents a dynamic pricing model of a retailer selling an inventory, accounting for consumer behavior. The authors propose an optimal control model, maximizing the intertemporal profit with consumers sensitive to the selling price and to a reference price. The optimal dynamic pricing policy is solved with Pontryagin's maximum principle with a structural (general) demand function. They obtain an original pricing rule, which explicitly accounts for the impact of price and inventory on future profits. The dynamics of price do not have to imitate the dynamics of the reference price. Instead, the dynamics of price are tied to opposing effects linked to this reference price. The authors also discuss managerial implications with regards to behavioral pricing policies.
M37|Trendstudie 2018: Lese- und Schreibverhalten der Generationen X, Y, Z|No abstract is available for this item.
M37|Measuring the Return to Online Advertising: Estimation and Inference of Endogenous Treatment Effects|In this paper we aim to conduct inference on the “lift” effect generated by an online advertisement display: specifically we want to analyze if the presence of the brand ad among the advertisements on the page increases the overall number of consumer clicks on that page. A distinctive feature of online advertising is that the ad displays are highly targeted- the advertising platform evaluates the (unconditional) probability of each consumer clicking on a given ad which leads to a higher probability of displaying the ads that have a higher a priori estimated probability of click. As a result, inferring the causal effect of the ad display on the page clicks by a given consumer from typical observational data is difficult. To address this we use the large scale of our dataset and propose a multi-step estimator that focuses on the tails of the consumer distribution to estimate the true causal effect of an ad display. This “identification at infinity” (Chamberlain (1986)) approach alleviates the need for independent experimental randomization but results in nonstandard asymptotics. To validate our estimates, we use a set of large scale randomized controlled experiments that Microsoft has run on its advertising platform. Our dataset has a large number of observations and a large number of variables and we employ LASSO to perform variable selection. Our non-experimental estimates turn out to be quite close to the results of the randomized controlled trials.
M37|The Price of Discovering Your Needs Online|Thanks to new digital technologies, web users are continuously targeted by offers that potentially fit their interests even if they are not actively looking for a product. Does this matching always promote transactions with high social value? We consider a model in which web users with state-contingent preferences are targeted by relevant banners. We characterize the optimal strategy of a seller who, in addition to the price of the offered good, designs a banner. We show that, in equilibrium, there is a positive relationship between the price of the offered good and the accuracy of the banner sent to users. Then, we consider the strategic decision of a Platform that attracts sellers because of its targeting abilities and we underline that a reduction in seller's costs may translate into less informative banners and lower prices, fueling purchases of goods that rational individuals may regret due to the persuasive nature of banners.
M37|Advertising as a Reminder : Evidence from the Dutch State Lottery|We use high frequency data on TV and radio advertising together with data on online sales for lottery tickets to measure the short run effects of advertising. We find them to be strong and to last for up to about 4 hours. They are the bigger the less time there is until the draw. We develop the argument that this finding is consistent with the idea that advertisements remind consumers to buy a ticket and that consumers value this. Then, we point out that in terms of timing the interests of the firm and the consumers are aligned: consumers wish to be reminded in a way that makes them most likely to consider buying a lottery ticket. We present direct evidence that this does not only affect the timing of purchases, but leads to market expansion. Then, we develop a tractable dynamic structural model of consumer behavior, estimate the parameters of this model and simulate the effects of a number of counterfactual dynamic advertising strategies. We find that relative to the actual schedule it would be valued by the consumers and profitable for the firm to spread advertising less over time and move it to the last days before the draw.
M37|Consumer Misinformation and the Brand Premium: A Private Label Blind Taste Test|We run in-store blind taste tests with a retailer's private label food brands and the leading national brand counterparts in three large CPG categories. In a survey administered during the taste test, subjects self-report very high expectations about the quality of the private labels relative to national brands. However, they predict a relatively low probability of choosing them in a blind taste test. Surprisingly however, an overwhelming majority systematically chooses the private label in the blinded test. During the week after the intervention, the tested private label product market shares increase by 15 share points, on top of a base share of 8 share points. However, the effect diminishes to 8 share points during the second to fourth week after the test and to 2 share points during the second to fifth month after the test. Using a structural model of demand, we show these effects survive controls for point-of-purchase prices, purchase incidence, and the feedback effects of brand loyalty. We also find that the intervention increases the preference for the private label brands, and that it decreases the preference for the national brands, relative to the outside good. The findings are consistent with a treatment effect of information on demand where the memory for this information decays slowly over time. Alternative explanations to the information treatment are ruled out.
M37|Methods and Communication Techniques in Online Environments and Target Audience|Means and the communication techniques used in rapidly evolving online environment. The Internet has not only changed the rules of marketing and public relations, but also the way in which companies choose to promote their business (products/services) in the online environment. Firms know their goals of, and so their marketing programs, websites and blogs by their contents fail to stimulate action. The effective strategies for marketing and public relations used in the online environment offers target audience containing complex information, which induce them to take action. By means of this study we aim to identify the means and techniques of social communication with high impact on the target audience, actor without which marketing strategies would have no efficiency. The Internet has shaped a new vision of how the public communicate and interact; He has sketched a different relationship between business and current consumers but does not exclude neither potential clients.
M37|Earnings Management, Effective Tax Rate (Etr) And Book-Tax Gap (Btg)|Objective – This research examines the effect of company size, changes in out-cash flow, return on assets, conservatism, and profit levelling on earnings management. Methodology/Technique – The results of this research show that banking capital structure, capital intensity, intensity of inventory, and intensity of R & D have a significant impact on effective tax rates. Further, the results also show that, with respect to the non-banking sector, R & D expenditure contributes significantly to effective tax rates. Simultaneously, earnings management and effective tax rates, as well as other factors, also have an effect on book tax gap. Findings – This study shows that profit management has a significantly positive effect on book tax gap, and effective tax rates has a significant negative effects o book tax gap. In terms of the non-banking sector, earnings management and effective tax rate have no effect on book tax gap. Deferred tax expenses have a lower capability to detect earnings management than accrual, in both the banking and non-banking sector. Novelty – The study of management capabilities optimizes the role of book tax gap and effective tax rate for earning management. Both tax management and earnings management are closely related to behavior management in managing a company based on the agency theory. Furthermore, the study identifies a relationship between earnings management and book tax gap
M37|A Multiple Measure of Organizational Performances and its Effect on Distinctive Marketing Competencies: An Empirical Study of India and the Maldives|Objective - The role of knowledge management and competencies related to marketing skills are essential for Indian and Maldivian businesses, due to the emerging economy and globalization. This study therefore aims to identify the impact of marketing competencies on organizational performance in automobile sales centers, by reviewing the relationship between marketing competencies and firm performance, to support interest and investments in such a concept.Methodology/Technique - 424 respondents (327 Indian samples and 97 Maldivian samples) were randomly selected for the research, with a 71% response rate. The first section of the questionnaire consists of questions related to marketing competencies (32 items) and the second section contains items related to organizational performance (10 items), and the last part includes questions about the respondents' demographical differences. After the data collection, construct validity and reliability statistic tests were conducted to check the validity and reliability of the instrument using IBM SPSS AMOS 23.Findings - The structural equation modelling results for the Indian and the Maldivian samples reveal that marketing competencies have a significant and positive affect on organizational performance.Novelty - This study may be useful for policymakers and top-level managers in the automobile sector; this study provides empirical insights into how the performance of the firm is affected by marketing competencies.
M37|消費者から見たサービスの質と生産性 : 顧客満足度指数を利用した実証分析|本論文は，日本生産性本部が2009 年から調査を行っている顧客満足度指数を使い，サービスの質と生産性との関係について実証的に分析したものである．経済学では，サービスの質の高さは，消費満足度を高めるため，実質的に消費量が増加したことと同じ効果を有する．このことを企業側から見れば，品質の高いサービスは，実質的な生産量が大きくなる．このため，品質の高度化のために要素投入量を多少増加させたとしても，実質的な生産性は高まる可能性がある．我々はまず、顧客満足度指数の対象となるサービスと企業データをマッチングし、顧客満足度と企業データから取得できる労働生産性との相関性を調べた。この結果、労働生産性が一定以上の企業群では顧客満足度も高いことが明らかになった．また，サービスの質を高度化するための企業行動や外部環境について実証分析したところ，流動性資産を相対的に多く有し，年齢の高い企業が，優秀な顧客満足度を有していることがわかった．顧客満足度というのは担保化できない資産であり，こうした資産の蓄積には流動性や長年の経験というものが必要であることを示唆している．また競争環境に関しては競争度、独占度双方が高まるにつれ、サービスの質を行動化する傾向が強まるという二極化傾向がみられた。
M37|消費者から見たサービスの質と生産性 : 顧客満足度指数を利用した実証分析|本論文は，日本生産性本部が2009 年から調査を行っている顧客満足度指数を使い，サービスの質と生産性との関係について実証的に分析したものである．経済学では，サービスの質の高さは，消費満足度を高めるため，実質的に消費量が増加したことと同じ効果を有する．このことを企業側から見れば，品質の高いサービスは，実質的な生産量が大きくなる．このため，品質の高度化のために要素投入量を多少増加させたとしても，実質的な生産性は高まる可能性がある．我々はまず、顧客満足度指数の対象となるサービスと企業データをマッチングし、顧客満足度と企業データから取得できる労働生産性との相関性を調べた。この結果、労働生産性が一定以上の企業群では顧客満足度も高いことが明らかになった．また，サービスの質を高度化するための企業行動や外部環境について実証分析したところ，流動性資産を相対的に多く有し，年齢の高い企業が，優秀な顧客満足度を有していることがわかった．顧客満足度というのは担保化できない資産であり，こうした資産の蓄積には流動性や長年の経験というものが必要であることを示唆している．また競争環境に関しては競争度、独占度双方が高まるにつれ、サービスの質を行動化する傾向が強まるという二極化傾向がみられた。
M37|Branding and Performance in the Global Beer Market|The mass market for beers is served by a few global breweries in an oligopoly structure covering most of the world market. The homogeneity of their main lager beers are very high and produced at large scaled plants at low costs. However, the breweries spend large amounts of money to promote some of the lager beers as premium beers and at a high and increasing price premium. Based on a database with prices for standard and premium lager, the paper study the development in the consumption of different types of beers on the global market in recent years. We estimate the price premium on premium beers and relate it to the rapid change in the oligopoly structure of the market through the merger and acquisition activities.
M37|Measuring the “Free” Digital Economy within the GDP and Productivity Accounts|We develop an experimental methodology that values ”free” digital content through the lens of a production account and is consistent with the framework of the national accounts. We build upon the work in Nakamura, et al. (2016) by combining marketing‐ and advertising‐supported content and find that the impact of ”free” digital content on U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) has accelerated in recent years, particularly since 2005. However, the explosion in ”free” digital content is partially offset by a decrease in ”free” print content like newspapers. Including these, real GDP growth would grow at 1.53 percent a year from 2005 to 2015 rather than the official growth rate of 1.42 percent, a tenth of a percent faster. Thus, there is a substantive impact on 2005 to 2015 real growth, even when we do not measure the full consumer surplus benefits of free goods. In addition, from 1995 to 2005, real GDP growth, including ”free” content, would grow 0.07 percentage point faster, and in the earlier period, from 1929 to 1995, 0.01 percentage point faster. We further find that the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) and core PCE deflators would have risen about 0.1 percentage point slower from 2005 to 2015. To analyze the impact of ”free” content on measured private business total factor productivity (TFP) growth, we account for inputs of ”free” content used in production. We find that TFP would grow faster by 0.07 percentage point per year from 2005 to 2014 and faster by 0.07 percentage point from 1995 to 2005.
M37|Advertising Competition in the Free-to-Air TV Broadcasting Industry|This paper empirically investigates the advertising competition in the French broadcast television industry within a two-sided market framework. We use a unique dataset on the French broadcast television market including audience, prices, and quantities of advertising of twenty-one TV channels from March 2008 to December 2013. We specify a structural model of oligopoly competition and identify the shape and magnitude of the feedback loop between TV viewers and advertisers. We also implement a simple procedure to identify the conduct of firms on the market. We find that the nature of competition in the French TV advertising market is of the Cournot type. Further, we provide empirical evidence that the price-cost margin is not a good indicator of the market power of firms operating on two-sided markets. Finally, we provide a competition analysis. The counterfactual simulation suggests that the merger of advertising sales houses would not have significantly affected the equilibrium outcomes in this industry because of the strong network externalities between TV viewers and advertisers. These results provide a critical evaluation of the 2010 decision of the French competition authority to authorize the acquisition of two broadcast TV channels by a large media group under behavioral remedies.
M37|Ad Networks and Consumer Tracking|We study the role of ad networks in the online advertising market. Our baseline model considers two publishers that can outsource the sale of their ad inventories to an ad network, in a market where consumers and advertisers multi-home. The ad network increases total advertising revenue by tracking consumers across outlets and reduces competition between publishers by centralizing the sale of ads. Consequently, outsourcing to the ad network is beneficial to the publishers, but may penalize the advertisers. We show that the ad network’s ability to track consumers may either expand or reduce the provision of ads, depending on consumers’ prefer-ences for the publishers and how advertisers use tracking information. Specifically, tracking is more likely to expand (resp. reduce) the provision of ads when consumers’ preferences for the publishers are positively (resp. negatively) correlated. Tracking is also more likely to expand (resp. reduce) the provision of ads when advertisers use tracking information to cap the fre-quency of impressions (resp. target specific consumers). Furthermore, we study the implications of consumers’ choice to block tracking. Generally, blocking generates a negative impact on the advertising industry, by making the allocation of ads less effective. Blocking also entails an externality on consumers, which is negative when tracking reduces the provision of ads. Given these conditions, regulatory restrictions on tracking may reduce consumer surplus as well as advertising revenue. These findings contrast with the presumption that regulation should make it easier for consumers to avoid tracking. We propose further extensions, including competing ad networks, more than two publishers and networks that do not sell ads, but only tracking information to the advertisers.
M37|Assisted Self-Persuasion: Advertising with Consumer Adjustment to Choice|I develop a new theory of persuasive advertising in which consumers rationally adjust to (i.e., improve their attitude toward) the products they choose and advertising facilitates adjustment. Advertisings price effects depend on whether marginal or inframarginal consumers are most heavily targeted, consistent with the literature. But they also depend on advertisings role as an overall adjustment intensifier, whence variation in the cost of adjustment with the strength of the consumers initial product preference determines the equilibrium price level. Whether too much or too little advertising is provided in equilibrium depends on the sign and size of advertisings price effect, the relative density of marginal consumers, and the relative extent to which advertisings adjustment cost reductions benefit marginal consumers.
M37|Advertising Spending and Media Bias: Evidence from News Coverage of Car Safety Recalls|Do news media bias content in favor of advertisers? We examine the relationship between advertising by auto manufacturers in U.S. newspapers and news coverage of car safety recalls. This context allows us to separate the influence of advertisers, who prefer less coverage, from that of readers, who demand more. Consistent with theoretical predictions, we find that newspapers provide less coverage of recalls by their advertisers, especially the more severe ones. Competition for readers from other newspapers mitigates bias, while competition for advertising by online platforms exacerbates it. Finally, we present suggestive evidence that lower coverage increases auto fatalities.
M37|Cheap Talk Advertising in Auctions: Horizontally vs Vertically Differentiated Products|This paper explores the possibilities for sellers to usefully transmit product information to buyers by cheap talk public advertising. We explore two polar cases, contrasting vertically differentiated products (a la Milgrom Weberís (1982) general symmetric model) with horizontally di§erentiated products (a la Hotellingís (1929) line). We consider both the message only case and where reserve price-message pairs can be chosen by the seller. For horizontally di§erentiated products partitional messageonly informative equilibria are shown to exist providing the number of bidders is sufficiently large. The equilibrium is characterized by more precise information provided for less popular product attributes. The seller optimal disclosure policy displays a complementarity relationship between the number of bidders and the amount of product information disclosed. In contrast, for the vertically di§erentiated products benchmark, message-only informative equilibria do not exist. With reserve prices, informative equilibria exist in both cases. For the vertical case these equilibria yield lower seller revenue than uninformative equilibria. In the horizontal case with sufficiently large number of bidders higher revenue is possible and full disclosure becomes feasible and seller optimal in the limit.
M37|Service Quality as an Antecedent of Brand Equity: Empirical Evidence in the Medical Tourism from Jordan|This study aims to investigate the effect of service quality (SQ) on brand equity in medical tourism context. SQ is considered as a critical success element for achieving competitive advantage and building strong medical tourism brands in today’s competitive market, Jordan is included. A brand with strong equity is vital weapon for a medical tourism’s differentiation strategy and development of customer loyalty. In this study, a survey has been distributed to 384 medical tourist’s in Jordan. Only, 306 data are usable and were used for data analysis. The findings of this study showed that the SQ is significantly associated with overall brand equity. Also, each of SQ dimensions that referring to tangibility, reliability, responsiveness, empathy, and assurance are significantly correlated with overall brand equity.
M37|Brand Resonance Behavior among Online Brand Community|Brand commitment studies had gained considerable attention in today’s marketing practices. Sustaining the brand competitive advantages become challenging especially in the context of digital marketing. Development of Web 2.0 that enables interactive communication had offered a new mechanism for owner of the brand to strengthen the bond among their admirers and users via online brand community. Attitude and behavior of online brand community members can be crucial to overall brand competitive advantage. This is because brand image and reputation can be praised or tarnished just by one click from the members. Hence, owner of the brand should understand how online brand community commitment could affect overall brand performance. This study attempts to examine how brand trust and brand community commitment among online brand community will affect their brand resonance behavior namely brand referral and intention to purchase new product of the brand in the future. The study among 167 members of online brand community indicate that brand trust and brand community commitment play a significant roles in determining brand community behavior such as brand referral and intention to purchase new product. Discussion and recommendation for future research direction also were discussed in this article.
M37|E-lifestyle, Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty among Mobile Subscribers in Thailand|This paper aims at assessing the relationship between e-lifestyle, customer satisfaction (CS), and loyalty among mobile service subscribers in Thailand. The results reveal that e-lifestyle has a substantial effect on CS. Subsequently, CS affects strongly on consumer loyalty towards telecommunication service providers. Moreover, CS mediates the relationship between e-lifestyle and consumer loyalty. The study concludes that e-lifestyle has to be integrated into marketing strategies and customer relationship management in order to sustain consumer loyalty. From a practical point of view, the findings of this study could be used to inform businesses, particularly those in the telecommunication services industry in developing countries on the ways of enhancing CS and loyalty
M37|Limited attention by lenders and small business debt financing: Advertising as attention grabber|Developing predictions by drawing upon the limited attention perspective, we investigate if small firms may use advertising as an attention grabber to increase their opportunities to access debt financing. Using a sample of over a million observations, we find that small firms with higher advertising expenditure are more likely to gain access to debt financing, thus increasing their financial leverage. Our tests show that lenders constrained by a limited attentional capacity are more likely to be attracted by small firms with higher advertising expenditure, and that small firms with financial constraints are not found to use advertisement intentionally to acquire resource.
M37|Computational analysis of perfect-information position auctions|After experimentation with other designs, major search engines converged on weighted, generalized second-price auctions (wGSPs) for selling keyword advertisements. Theoretical analysis is still not able to settle the question of why they found this design preferable to other alternatives. We approach this question in a new way, adopting an analytical paradigm we dub “computational mechanism analysis.” Specifically, we sample position auction games from a given distribution, encode them in a computationally efficient representation language, compute their Nash equilibria, and calculate economic quantities of interest. We considered seven widely studied valuation models from the literature and three position auction variants. We found that wGSP consistently showed the best ads of any position auction, measured both by social welfare and expected number of clicks. In contrast, we found that revenue was extremely variable across auction mechanisms and was highly sensitive to equilibrium selection, the preference model, and the valuation distribution.
M37|Firm efficiency, advertising and profitability: Theory and evidence|This paper presents a linear-city model where firms compete on price and levels of advertising, which affects the perceived utility of products. More cost efficient firms extend their advantage with more advertising, which leads to higher profits, if advertising is sufficiently effective. We test this relationship using a unique S&P sample. Our empirical results indicate a positive relationship between profits and levels of advertising for all model specifications.
M37|Consumer Mistakes and Advertising : The Case of Mortgage Refinancing|Does advertising help consumers to find the products they need or push them to buy products they don't need? In this paper, we study the effects of advertising on consumer mistakes and quantify the resulting effect on consumer welfare in the market for mortgage refinancing. Mortgage borrowers frequently make costly refinancing mistakes by either refinancing when they should wait, or by waiting when they should refinance. We assemble a novel data set that combines a borrower's exposure to direct mail refinance advertising and their subsequent refinancing decisions. Even though on average borrowers would lose approximately $500 by refinancing, the average monthly exposure of 0.23 refinancing advertisements reduces the expected net present value of mortgage payments on average by $13, because borrowers who should refinance are targeted by advertisers and more responsive to advertising. A counterfactual advertising policy that redirects all advertising to borrowers who should refinance would increase the gain in borrower welfare to $45.
M37|Measuring the Free Digital Economy within the GDP and Productivity Accounts|We develop an experimental methodology that values ”free” digital content through the lens of a production account and is consistent with the framework of the national accounts. We build upon the work in Nakamura, et al. (2016) by combining marketing‐ and advertising‐supported content and find that the impact of ”free” digital content on U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) has accelerated in recent years, particularly since 2005. However, the explosion in ”free” digital content is partially offset by a decrease in ”free” print content like newspapers. Including these, real GDP growth would grow at 1.53 percent a year from 2005 to 2015 rather than the official growth rate of 1.42 percent, a tenth of a percent faster. Thus, there is a substantive impact on 2005 to 2015 real growth, even when we do not measure the full consumer surplus benefits of free goods. In addition, from 1995 to 2005, real GDP growth, including ”free” content, would grow 0.07 percentage point faster, and in the earlier period, from 1929 to 1995, 0.01 percentage point faster. We further find that the personal consumption expenditures (PCE) and core PCE deflators would have risen about 0.1 percentage point slower from 2005 to 2015. To analyze the impact of ”free” content on measured private business total factor productivity (TFP) growth, we account for inputs of ”free” content used in production. We find that TFP would grow faster by 0.07 percentage point per year from 2005 to 2014 and faster by 0.07 percentage point from 1995 to 2005.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M37|The Effectiveness of Information Architecture Design towards Brand Equity|"""Objective – The paper aims to investigate the effectiveness of information architecture design towards brand equity in the case of GO-JEK company. Methodology/Technique – Types of research are a descriptive analysis and causal also measuring a conclusion by using a regression analysis and for hypothesis testing using t-test and F-test. The results of this research indicated that information architecture design is effective and also has a significant influenced on brand equity. Findings – The results show that design information architecture included in the criteria of """"Highly Effective"""", this means that the customer respondents had a positive view of the effectiveness of design information GO-JEK architecture by using these indicators: The Principle of Object, Choice, Disclosure, Exemplars, Fronts-Doors, Multiple Classification, Focused Navigation, and Growth. Novelty – The study suggests that brand equity is influenced by the effectiveness of the design information architecture, then what should be done is the creation of effective information architecture."""
M37|Utilizing City Festival as an Event Marketing for Creative Industry Product (Case Study of Jember Fashion Carnaval)|"""Objective – This study discusses the role of tourism event marketing in promoting creative industry products in a city by taking a case study in Jember district. Jember has third largest fashion carnival in the world named Jember Fashion Carnaval (JFC) which is held annually. JFC is capable of being a magnet of Jember tourism in recent years. That big potential of JFC can be utilized as a tourism event marketing. Hopefully, JFC is able to be a market for creative industries in Jember, given that the main problem of creative industries in Jember is related to marketing capability. JFC utilization as an event marketing requires a quadruple helix model approach, where local government, universities, creative industries, and society work together and synergically. Methodology – This study is designed using analytical descriptive approach. Findings – This study concluded that creating JFC as an event marketing in promoting creative industry product in Jember applies active synergy between government, academics, industries, and society. Government can act as creative industry promotor and supporter of facility and infrastructure; academics can contribute as source of knowledge, technology, and creative human resources; industries can develop their own enterprise using knowledge and experience transfer; and community can act as program partner related to JFC and creative industries. Novelty – The research based on the analytical descriptive approach suggests marketing challenge of creative industries with new product development and innovation."""
M37|Consumers’ Internal Meaning on Complementary Co-Branding Product by Using Osgood’s Theory of Semantic Differential|"""Objective – The research focuses on applying semantic meaning theory and semantic differential scale to marketing communication, particularly co-branding products strategy, as an external stimulus to the consumers. The research aims to evaluate a hypothesis that co-brands have different meaning from the consumers, however, the consumers would express more positive meaning –evaluation, activity, potency- toward a parent brand. Methodology – Although co-branding products have been in use for some time, there is surprisingly little quantitative empirical research on the subject. Findings – A survey on 100 respondents reveals that although co-brands –Avanza and Xenia- have identical products, they have different meaning from the consumers, and the consumers express more positive meaning –evaluation, activity, potency- toward Avanza rather than Xenia. Novelty – It contributes to develop the study of co-branding in Indonesia."""
M37|Do Web Atmospherics Affect Purchase Intention? The Role of Color and Product Display|"""Objective – The growth of online retailers has increased competition in online business. This situation has forced online retailers to design web atmospherics more attractively. This empirical study examines how web atmospherics, namely, web color and product display, will influence visitor responses. Methodology/Technique – The method was experimental design. Using factorial design and ANOVA, this paper investigates whether cool colors (versus warm) and models (versus without a model) generate more positive emotional arousal, attitude, and purchase intention. Four artificial websites, based on a combination of web color and product display (with versus without model), were developed; 120 participants evaluated each website between subjects. Findings – The result show that a cool color, with a model on the product display, can stimulate emotions and more positive attitude toward a website than any other combination. Furthermore, it will encourage purchase intention. Novelty – This research combines color and human models to offer apparel products on an artificial website. The combination can be implemented in a real apparel website to optimize an online business."""
M37|FMCG Product Endorser Advertising Variable Affect the Purchase Decisions and Brand Loyalty in the Community in the Korwil Jember|"""Objective – The purpose of this study to determine Endorsers of FMCG effect on Buying Decision and Brand Loyalty in Society in Korwil Jember. Phenomena of this study is the purchasing power of people in the district of Korwil Jember decisions. The purchase and brand loyalty FMCG products with their advertising endorser in television. Methodology/Technique – This study used purposive sampling to gather information in the district of Situbondo, with a sample of 126 respondents and data measured with SEM (Structural Equation Modelling). Findings – By knowing the quality of the product, usually bring an attitude like the product so that brand loyalty will be achieved. If a customer has made a purchase decision, and loyal to a brand, it is likely that consumers would recommend the product to others. Novelty – The study tests the Endorser effect in the context of Indonesia with original data."""
M37|Analysis of The Effect of Digital Word of Mouth (WOM) Marketing To Customer Purchase Decision|"""Objective – The study aims to explore the effect of digital Word of Mouth (WOM) marketing on customer purchase decision. Methodology/Technique – Types of research are a descriptive analysis and causal also measuring a conclusion by using a regression analysis and for hypothesis testing using t-test and F-test. Findings – The results of this research indicated that digital word of mouth marketing is effective and also has a influenced on customer purchase decision. The results show that digital word of mouth marketing included in the criteria of “Effective”, this means that customer respondents had a positive view about digital word of mouth marketing at Dusun Bambu by using these indicators: Talking, Promoting, and Selling. Novelty – It is suggested that the company can increase the quantity of purchases in one transaction by cooperating with local tour and travel agents in order to raise the number of visitors."""
M37|Digital Video as a Promotional Media and Brand Equity of a Product That has an Influence on Consumer Buying Interest (A Research of Social Media Active Users)|"""Objective – The research aims to test influence of promotion in social media and effect of brand equity on Consumer Buying Interest. Methodology/Technique – This research uses descriptive verification method that examines many as 115 respondents with 15-40 years of age category, because it is an age of active users of social media such as: Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, etc. This study also uses primary data is based on interviews during the pre-survey and distribute questionnaires. After that at the time of processing the data, this study using multiple regression analysis as a verification method to measure how much digital video as a media campaign on consumer buying interest as well as to determine how much influence the brand equity on consumer buying interest as active users of social media Findings – After passing the calculations using regression and t-test, promotion through social media consisting of online communities and forums, blogs and social networks has a very strong influence on consumer buying interest compared to brand equity. This can be enhanced by strengthening social networking through social media to increase product sales, many companies still believe that social media as a low-cost promotional media but can increase sales, more promotion in social media will increase brand equity in the minds of consumers, so that in the end will benefit both sides. Novelty – The research conducted in the context of Indonesia with original data on brand equity effect on confidence of consumers."""
M37|For Patriotism and Profit: Advertising in Service of the Swedish Government 1935-1985|Beginning just before the outbreak of World War II, the advertising industry in (neutral) Sweden began cooperating with the government. This cooperation was highly beneficial for the industry during the war as blockades and rationing caused the civilian advertising market to almost disappear. After the war, the cooperation continued, albeit in relation to primarily military matters. Later, however, the government began procuring advertising and media services on largely commercial grounds. Using documents (including previously classified records) from government agencies, trade organizations and individual advertising companies, this study presents the history of the special relationship between private advertising companies and the Swedish government. In the half century after the first examples of government advertising during World War II, distinct phases can be identified. The first phase began with the end of World War II, when government advertising was considered inappropriate during peacetime and cooperation occurred almost exclusively within the National Information Service (an organization similar to the US War Advertising Council), which prepared wartime advertising for World War III. The second phase began in the late 1960s, when the Swedish government began running large public advertising campaigns. The first campaign was connected with the introduction of right-hand traffic in 1967, and later campaigns were aimed at, for example, energy savings and public health. Finally, the third phase began in the late 1970s, when advertising developed into an integral part of public sector activities and government agencies and municipalities became major buyers of media and advertising services. In addition to the history of the relationship between the industry and the government, this paper provides an analysis of the incentives for cooperation and the influence of the public advertising market on the industry structure.
M37|Party in Business: The Swedish Social Democratic Party's Advertising Venture 1947-1997|The Social Democratic Party not only ruled Sweden for most of the 20th century; they also owed of one of the country’s largest advertising groups. The company, founded as “Folkreklam” in 1947, later renamed “Förenade ARE-Bolagen” rapidly became the dominant player in outdoor advertising in Sweden, and remained in this position until the late 1980s. This paper covers the history of the company from its inception in the late 1940s to its eventual merger with J C Decaux in the 1990s. Aspects such as governance, strategy and creative development are covered in the paper, and also the importance of the men who ran the company. A central question also covered is why the company lost its leading standing and the Party found it necessary to divest itself of the company. As will be demonstrated the relationship with the ruling Social Democratic party was very beneficial for the company; both when it came to the acquisition of advertising space on billboards and in the public mass transit systems, and for acquisition of customers. During most of the company's active years there were no public tender laws regulating public procurement and Förenade ARE-Bolagen was able to win a number of profitable accounts from government agencies, regions and municipalities without formal competition.
M37|CMO priorities in approaching consumer decision journey, and inspiration and influence in marketing|In today’s digital world there is a real need of approaching consumer decision journey within a well-orchestrated program by placing more emphasis on the initial consideration set, and expanding initial consideration. CMO are challenged to clearly identify priorities in the year of data and measurement, of Agile Marketing, focusing marketing activity on creating customer value, tying marketing’s contribution to this customer value, and measuring marketing’s performance within the context of the company’s business value. They also need to include customer inspiration as a metric in managerial decision-making, and to consider influence as a driving force for change in approaching customer experience, building proper relationships on the way of digital transformation, and enabling the customer-centricity, reimagining marketers’ role as a central driver of organisational change, output, and impact, and avoiding thinking of influencers in a linear way.
M37|Echo Chambers: Voter-to-Voter Communication and Political Competition|I investigate, in a model of informative campaign advertising, how the ability of voters to strategically communicate with each other shapes the advertising strategies of two competing parties. Two main results are put forward. First, information does not travel among voters biased toward different parties even if they are ideologically close â âecho chambersâ arise endogenously. Second, whenever the probability of interaction among like-minded voters is low (low homophily), parties tailor their advertising on their opponentâs supporters rather than on swing or core states voters.
M37|Competition for attention in the digital age: The case of single releases in the recorded music industry|In markets with long tails and thousands of products, like recorded music, consumers cannot possibly be aware of every product. We analyze how record labels use single releases as a strategic instrument to attract consumer attention in a competitive environment. In particular, we study how the advent of digitization has changed firm strategy. In accordance with predictions from a simple theoretical model, we show that record labels release more singles with shorter intervals in between when facing greater competitive pressure. We show that this effect is stronger in the digital age. With individual songs becoming readily available (forced unbundling), the attention generation motive becomes predominant and single releases more closely resemble a form of advertising.
M37|Advertising Spending and Media Bias: Evidence from News Coverage of Car Safety Recalls|Do news media bias content in favor of advertisers? We examine the relationship between advertising by auto manufacturers in U.S. newspapers and news coverage of car safety recalls. This context allows us to separate the influence of advertisers, who prefer less coverage, from that of readers, who demand more. Consistent with theoretical predictions, we find that newspapers provide less coverage of recalls by their advertisers, especially the more severe ones. Competition for readers from other newspapers mitigates bias, while competition for advertising by online platforms exacerbates it. Finally, we present suggestive evidence that lower coverage increases auto fatalities.
M37|Marketing Agencies and Collusive Bidding in Online Ad Auctions|The transition of the advertising market from traditional media to the internet has induced a proliferation of marketing agencies specialized in bidding in the auctions that are used to sell ad space on the web. We analyze how collusive bidding can emerge from bid delegation to a common marketing agency and how this can undermine the revenues and allocative efficiency of both the Generalized Second Price auction (GSP, used by Google and Microsoft-Bing and Yahoo!) and the VCG mechanism (used by Facebook). We find that, despite its well-known susceptibility to collusion, the VCG mechanism outperforms the GSP auction both in terms of revenues and efficiency.
M37|Economic Damage of Cookie Lifetime Restrictions| Over the past few years, regulators have begun to consider restricting a cookie’s lifetime or even banning cookies altogether as a way to protect consumer privacy. Most of this debate has taken place in the absence of any quantified cost-benefit analysis. To begin to fill this gap in the discourse, we estimate the potential economic damage of lifespan restrictions on cookies. Our analysis is based on an empirical study on cookies of 54,127 users who received about 130 million ad impressions over 2.5 years. Only 22% of all cookies increase their daily value over time but the value of that quantile represent 61% of the value of all cookies. This analysis suggests that restricting their lifetime to one year as the European Union proposes (two years as Google advocates) decreases cookie lifetime value by 14.8% (5.9%), which represents a decrease in the value of all cookies of about 7.4% (1.3%). Overall, we find that the average lifetime of a cookie is 215 days (median 68 days) and the average value of a cookie is €1.43 (median €.02).
M37|How do Platform Participants respond to an Unfair Rating? An Analysis of a Ride-Sharing Platform Using a Quasi-Experiment| Online rating systems can lead, on occasion, to reviews that are unfair or unrepresentative of the true quality provided. On the one hand, receiving an unfairly low rating once, might induce someone a platform supplier to exert more effort and receive a better rating the next time. On the other hand, it might dispirit suppliers and make them exert less effort. We use data from a ride-sharing platform in India where driver ratings were made particularly salient to the driver after each trip. Our data suggests that if a customer experiences a ride cancellation, they are more likely to unfairly blame the replacement driver. We use this as a exogenous source of unfair negative ratings for the driver. We show that drivers are more likely to respond negatively to a bad rating and receive subsequently bad ratings if they were blameless for the previous negative rating. This effect is larger in contexts where there is a higher potential for an emotional response and when there is a greater need for driver skill in the subsequent ride.
M37|Sustainable Consumption: Eco-labelling and its impact on consumer behavior - evidence from a study on Polish consumer|Environmental pollution has led to a growing interest in protecting the environment of various stakeholder groups, especially consumers, who in their purchasing behavior point to eco-labels. The purpose of the study is to analyze consumers attitudes towards eco-labels. The direct survey method was used. The survey was conducted from 1 December 2015 to 31 January 2016 among 390 consumers who are residents of south-eastern and southern Poland. The study conducted confirms that consumers have positive attitudes toward eco-labels, but have overall and partial knowledge of them. Almost half of respondents (48.2%) buy eco-labels, but only a small group has knowledge of various eco-labels (24.9%). The recognition of EU eco-labels is declared by 43.4% of survey participants (national eco-label – 35.1%). One may notice an inconsistency in the test participant declarations. A large group of respondents believe that manufacturers use eco-labels for sales and image purposes (61%). Only one third (32.1%) have confidence in eco-labels products. Quite a large number of respondents (43.1%) are willing to pay a higher price for such products. Almost three quarters of respondents declared that they were buying products from reliable sources but without eco-labels (76.2%). This study is a valuable contribution to research and a discussion on consumer ecological behavior, and contributes to sustainable consumption research. It creates a deeper and more detailed analysis of attitudes towards eco-labelling. It gives guidance to manufacturers and retailers, especially in consumer communication strategies. The results of the study may help to increase the effectiveness of eco-labelling. The research implies some values to society and helps to solve environmental problems.
M37|Discount pricing|"This paper investigates ""discount pricing"", the common marketing practice whereby a price is listed as a discount from an earlier, or regular, price. We discuss two reasons why a discounted price---as opposed to a merely low price---can make a rational consumer more willing to purchase the item. First, the information that the product was initially sold at a high price can indicate the product is high quality. Second, a discounted price can signal that the product is an unusual bargain, and there is little point searching for lower prices. We also discuss a behavioral model in which consumers have an intrinsic preference for paying a below-average price. Here, a seller has an incentive to offer different prices to identical consumers, so that a proportion of its consumers enjoy a bargain. We discuss in each framework when a seller has an incentive to offer false discounts, in which the reference price is exaggerated."
M37|Маркетинговые Преимущества Продвижения Товаров При Помощи Технологии «Гивэвей»<BR>[Marketing benefits of promoting products with the help of technology, “giveaway”]|Статья о преимуществах продвижения товаров и услуг в социальных сетях при помощи технологии «гивэвей». Автор рассматривает различные стороны маркетинговых преимуществ технологии в сети-интернет. Особое внимание уделено ключевым моментам использования технологии «гивэвей» в области интернет-маркетинга.
M37|Comparative Advertising: The role of prices|In markets where firms sell similar goods to their competitors, firms may be able to free-ride off the costly price signalling of competitor firms by engaging in price comparative advertising. As the goods are similar, consumers can reason that if one good is high quality (revealed through price signalling) then so is the other. This paper models this phenomenon and finds that in equilibrium there will be firms price signalling as well as freeriding firms that signal through price comparative advertising. Welfare is strictly higher in markets where advertising firms are active relative to pure price signalling markets. In some cases advertising markets can be even more efficient than full information markets as advertisers surrender market power to avoid costly price signalling.
M37|The Mechanism behind Product Differentiation An Economic Model|The strategy of product differentiation has been viewed as very important in the field of business administration but it has not necessarily been viewed as an important source of large differences in firms profits in the field of economics In this paper this apparent contradiction is examined based on the concepts of ranking preference and value In the proposed model if a product s implicit rank is higher households will purchase the product far more often than competing products even if their qualities are almost identical and the tastes of households are uniformly distributed Even a slight difference in quality can result in a clear difference in implicit ranks and consequently large differences in firms profits Therefore the effects of differentiation are amplified by ranking preference and product differentiation efforts are truly very important for firms
M37|Freemium as optimal menu pricing|In online contents markets, content providers collect revenues from both consumers and advertisers by segmenting consumers who are willing to avoid advertisements and who are not. To analyze such situations, I construct a model of menu pricing by advertising platforms in two-sided markets. I find that, under certain condition, although a monopolistic platform can choose any menu of price-advertisement pairs, the optimal menu consists of only two services: ad-supported basic service and ad-free premium service. In addition, if the willingness to pay of advertisers is sufficiently high, the basic service is offered for free. This menu pricing is well known as freemium. Furthermore, this binary structure remains to hold under several extensions including duopoly platform competition.
M37|Impact of voluntary product recalls on utilitarian and hedonic attitudes: Is it the same for all brands?|The number of defective and unsafe products recalled from the market has increased dramatically in the last decade. While several studies have investigated consumer reaction to product recalls, the impact of such events on utilitarian versus hedonic attitudes towards the brand involved in the recall has not yet been assessed. Similarly, it is not clear whether brands with utilitarian positioning and brands with hedonic positioning are equally affected by recalls. Through an experiment based on a real-world stimulus from the laptop product category, this study shows that hedonic brands are more resistant to the negative effects of voluntary product recalls than are utilitarian brands. Furthermore, data show that brand familiarity mitigates the effect of the recall on utilitarian attitudes for both utilitarian and hedonic brands. Brand familiarity also positively moderates the impact of the recall on hedonic attitudes, but only for hedonic brands.
M37|Rational and Emotional Messages Amid Online News Exposure of the Brand|Customers receive a large amount of information from today?s online world. It has been increasingly difficult for the marketers to monitor and respond to different types of messages affecting their brand. At the same time, marketers also need to communicate with customers through various types of messages. It is interesting to understand the roles of message appeals have while customers expose to different types of online news about the brand. We conduct an experiment with 240 randomly selected subjects on a 2 message appeals (rational and emotion) X 4 online news exposure (no exposure, positive news exposure, negative news exposure and both positive and negative news exposure) factorial design to explore their effects on five aspects of consumer responses: attitude toward the ad, credibility, persuasion, attitude toward the brand and purchase intention. The results revealed both message appeals and online news exposure significantly affect attitudes toward the ad and the brand. Message appeals have a significant effect on persuasion and only the interactions of both factors affect purchase intention. Discussion and implications on the findings will be provided.
M37|Umbrella Branding in Pharmaceutical Markets|Umbrella branding is a marketing practice whereby multi-product firms leverage their reputation across different product categories. This paper investigates how advertising in the market of over-the-counter (OTC) drugs affects the decision to buy prescription drugs from a promoted brand name. I exploit specific charac- teristics of market regulation in Germany to identify the effect of advertising and find positive effects of umbrella branding on sales of prescription drugs. Umbrella branding results in market expansion, particularly for generic firms which invest in OTC drug advertising. If the effect leads to more consumers of generic substitutes or to more patients in undertreated therapeutic areas, market expansion can have a positive effect on welfare.
M37|Umbrella Branding in Pharmaceutical Markets|Umbrella branding is a marketing practice whereby multi-product firms leverage their reputation across different product categories. This paper investigates how advertising in the market of over-the-counter (OTC) drugs affects the decision to buy prescription drugs from a promoted brand name. I exploit specific charac- teristics of market regulation in Germany to identify the effect of advertising and find positive effects of umbrella branding on sales of prescription drugs. Umbrella branding results in market expansion, particularly for generic firms which invest in OTC drug advertising. If the effect leads to more consumers of generic substitutes or to more patients in undertreated therapeutic areas, market expansion can have a positive effect on welfare.
M37|False advertising|There is widespread evidence that some firms use false advertising to overstate the value of their products. We consider a model in which a policy maker can punish such false claims. We characterize an equilibrium where false advertising actively influences rational buyers and analyze the effects of policy under different welfare objectives. We establish precise conditions where policy optimally permits a positive level of false advertising and show how these conditions vary intuitively with demand and market parameters. We also consider the implications for product investment and industry selfâ€ regulation and connect our results to the literature on demand curvature.
M37|Follow The Money: Piracy and Online Advertising|"Online copyright enforcement, in the form of either direct action against the supply- side (via website shutdowns) or the demand-side (via individual lawsuits against users), has not been very effective in reducing piracy. Regulators have therefore put forward the so called “follow the money"" approach. Because the main source of revenue for infringing websites often comes from online advertising, the idea is that cutting access to advertisers could lower the financial incentives for website owners. In this paper, we aim to provide systematic evidence on the effectiveness of such a policy. We collect data on the advertising services associated with a large number of piracy websites and corresponding set of legitimate \placebo"" websites before and after the _rst steps of a self-regulatory effort in the European Union went in place. Preliminary results suggest that advertising services indeed reduce their activities on piracy websites, however only those that are most likely to be directly affected by the regulation. We further provide evidence that some advertising services that did not cater to the piracy market before, start to do so { perhaps as a strategic response."
M37|Persuasion and Gender: Experimental Evidence from Two Political Campaigns|This paper investigates the differential response of male and female voters to competitive persuasion in political campaigns. We implemented a survey experiment during the (mixed gender) electoral race for mayor in Milan (2011), and a field experiment during the (same gender) electoral race for mayor in Cava de’ Tirreni (2015). In both cases, a sample of eligible voters was randomly divided into three groups. Two were exposed to either a positive or a negative campaign by one of the opponents. The third—control—group received no electoral information. In Milan, the campaigns were administered online and consisted of a bundle of advertising tools (videos, texts, slogans). In Cava de’ Tirreni, we implemented a large scale door-to-door campaign in collaboration with one of the candidates, randomizing positive vs. negative messages. In both experiments, stark gender differences emerge. Females vote more for the opponent and less for the incumbent when they are exposed to the opponent’s positive campaign. Exactly the opposite occurs for males. These gender differences cannot be accounted for by gender identification with the candidate, ideology, or other observable attributes of the voters.
M37|Islamic branding and marketing: An insight of consumer perception in Pakistan|This paper studies the impact of Islamic marketing and branding on consumer perception in Pakistan. Although traditionally Islam enforces the idea of Halal for all the products in accordance to teachings of the Holy Quran, scholars have time and again debated the connection of this traditional Islamic branding to the modern branding and marketing theories. Modern branding and marketing techniques focus on creating a demand among the target population, which is then met by supplying adequately. More often than not, these techniques can be dubious or sometimes borderline malpractice, leading to consumer dissatisfaction and disappointment. However, Islamic marketing techniques focus not only on meeting consumer expectations. But also take into consideration the cultural, social and hierarchical aspects of the society. Therefore, the question arises if Islamic marketing and branding techniques falls under the item hypothesis or the brand hypothesis. Following an extensive review of literature, Islamic marketing and Islamic branding were chosen as predictors, the impact of which was to be seen on consumer perception. Two hypotheses were constructed accordingly and a questionnaire was constructed with several appropriate parameters using Islamic brands and Islamic marketing practices. The target population consisted of all consumers in Karachi who had ever experienced or had awareness of Islamic marketing and branding strategies. Sample was drawn using the unrestricted non-probabilistic method and a total of 280 consumers were interviewed. The survey was carried out, and the data was processed using inferential statistics using the SPSS 21.0 software. The Independent T-Test and Frequency Distribution statistical techniques were performed on the data and results interpreted accordingly. The results showed that while Islamic marketing is highly influential on consumer perception, the same could not be said of Islamic branding. Although there are a lot of factors affecting the consumer’s decision of buying products, the average Muslim consumer was highly influenced by the laws of Islam, especially the idea of halal. Along with these, consumers are also driven by moral values deeply imbibed in Islam, to buy products that reflect or adhere to the same. Consequently, manufacturers and marketers are forced to play closer attention to these Islamic teachings and rules of halal and haram, in order to avoid consumer disappointment and lawsuits. This study has strong implications on the future of Islamic marketing, since the rules shall apply to not only Pakistanis, but all the Muslims all over the world. Lastly, further research has to be done in order to develop a model based on Islamic branding and marketing rules.
M37|Determinants of the effectiveness of celebrity endorsement in advertisement|Celebrity endorsement advertisement is an emerging trend nowadays. There are many companies which are inclined to use celebrities as an endorser for their product. However, no perfect celebrity can endorse all types of brands and generate maximum outcomes. Hence, the success of an advertisement depends on the selection of an endorser. Although there are many previous studies done in other countries, there are not many recent studies available, especially in Malaysia. In view of this, the main objective of this paper is to find out source model (attractiveness, trustworthiness, expertise) of celebrity endorsement perceived by consumers. Besides, the research also intends to identify the influence of endorser’s nationality (local/foreign) and celebrity endorser/product fit (matched/unmatched) on celebrity endorsement advertisement effectiveness. The celebrity endorsement advertisement effectiveness will be measured according to five dimensions: positive feeling towards the advertisement, attention grabbing, purchase intention, personality and appealand high recall rates. A total of 135 set of structured questionnaires are distributed to the shoppers at hypermarket in Malacca which is Giant, Tesco and Mydin but only 120 sets are usable. The respondents are required to answer according to the “5-point Likert scale” in the questionnaire. The data collected are analyzed using descriptive analysis, reliability test, Pearson correlation, and regression analysis. The results shows that attractiveness, trustworthiness and expertise, in celebrity are important determinants for celebrity endorsement in advertisement effectiveness. When a good-looking celebrity is used in an advertisement, theviewer’s first impression is positive even before looking at the products. With regards to expertise, most respondentsevaluate positively on expertise associated with athlete, such as Michael Jordan who endorsed Nike. As different people have different perceptions on trust, building the trustworthiness of a celebrity among the consumers will take some time. Foreign celebrity endorser appeared to be generating higher celebrity endorsement advertisement effectiveness. Advertisement endorsed by foreign celebrity endorsers is perceived by consumers as related to the product quality. A better celebrity endorser/product fit also results in better outcomes such as increases the appeal of the endorsed brand, recall rate and purchase intentions among the respondents.
M37|Advertising competition in presidential elections|Abstract Presidential candidates purchase advertising based on each state’s potential to tip the election. The structure of the Electoral College concentrates spending in battleground states, such that a majority of voters are ignored. We estimate an equilibrium model of multimarket advertising competition between candidates that allows for endogenously determined budgets. In a Direct Vote counterfactual, we find advertising would be spread more evenly across states, but total spending levels can either decrease or increase depending on the contestability of the popular vote. Spending would increase by 13 % in the extremely narrow 2000 election, but would decrease by 54 % in 2004. These results suggest that the Electoral College greatly increases advertising spending in typical elections.
M37|Benchmarketing - Fashionable Term Concerning Traditional Processes|Marketing is a major factor to boost the competitiveness of the firm in an environment which is more and more turbulent. It centers the company’s management as being the ideal satisfaction of the current and potential consumer. This is why, in our conception, the marketing’s management represents a subsystem of the company’s’ general management by which shall be administered to specific activities, and also designed to contour the company’s’ activity object. In this article, the intent is to highlight the fact that the benchmarketing has come loose from cultivating the traditional process to the innovative organizational culture product. In this paper, the authors consider benchmarketing as a process of qualitative organizational culture adaptation to market requirements, depending on the context, so as to ensure the improvement of the economic criteria of appreciation of the business lucrative activities. Based on direct observations concerning small firms, followed by analysis, comparison and synthesis, the authors suggest taking into consideration the theoretical and practical benchmarketings’ approach, as being the current strategy of acquiring and cultivating excellence, as initiation philosophy and business development.
M37|A Proposed Conceptual Model for Online Car Purchase Intention|Several researchers addressed the problem of internet assistance regarding purchasing intention in the automobile industry, without referring to an online conceptual model. This paper presents a model which specifies online factors involved, such as: credibility of social networks, online car advertisements and information sought after about cars through online websites. The suggested online model enables the automobile industry to better study and clarify the involved factors affecting online car purchasing intention, and reveals new results. The proposed model consists of the element of trust of social networks, and how it impacts online brand image through the influence of online car advertisements and online information sought after about cars, which in turn affects online purchase intention. This proposed online model successfully explains the impact of trusting social networks on creating a positive online brand image, and on online car purchase intention.
M37|A test of the Behavioral versus the Rational model of Persuasion in Financial Advertising|We present a test of the behavioral versus the rational model of advertising in the financial market. We analyze the Granger-causality relationship existing between Comit stock market index and advertising of financial products and services from the most important daily published financial newspaper in Italy. We run the test for both the risky and non-risky advertising, finding that the behavioral model of advertising is supported when risky financial products and services are considered, while the rational model is true for the non-risky. We ascribe this result to the dual process of reasoning: When investors evaluate the decision to buy risky nancial products and services, they activate the automatic, rapid decision making process. The behavioral model of advertising copes with it and provides an advertising strategy that responds to market evolutions. When non-risky financial products and services are considered, a di erent mental process, requiring slow and sequential reasoning, operates, compatibly with a rational decision making process.
M37|The Formation of Consumer Brand Preferences|Brands and brand capital have long been theorized to play an important role in the formation of the industrial market structure of consumer goods industries. We summarize several striking empirical regularities in the concentration, magnitude and persistence of brand market shares in consumer goods categories. We then survey the theoretical and empirical literatures on the formation of brand preferences and how brand preferences contribute to our understanding of these empirical regularities. We also review the literature on how brand capital creates strategic advantages to firms that own established brands.
M37|Profitability Of Children’S Market|The main purpose of this paper is to point out and verify the profitability of children’s market. 30-40 years ago, children were not considered as an important market and they were treated as savers and future consumers. Today, they are perceived as consumers and spenders and are actively engaged in the marketplace as buyers, users and recipients of consumer goods. Nowadays, children are viewed as a viable market by many manufacturers and retailers. Namely, two recent trends have increased manufacturer and retailer’s interest in child market. First, both the discrecionary income of children and their growing power to influence parents purchases and second growing media space (television, Internet, mobile phones, computers, video games, etc) that through advertisments and promotions attract younger population. In order to understand children as consumers, one has to recognize the impact of the marketplace in children’s everyday lives and to consider the ways in which they experience the commercialized world. Many marketing experts discuss the negative effects and consequences that marketing activities have on children, as eating disorders and childhood obesity, tremendous behavior changes, family stress, violence and delinquency, alcoholism, increased materialism among children. Nevertheless, companies have recognized the role of children as consumers and acknowledged their contribution to family decision making. Some experts claim that companies play on children’s dreams and vulnerabilities. Companies are interested in making high profits by selling their products and services to a broad, extended public, including children. They will do their outmost to make profits, even though they can damage the health and dreams of children. This paper describes the exposure of children and teenagers to marketing programs, benefits for companies, disadvantages arising from it and the role of children as consumers, providing recommendations for their protection. Finally, it describes the impact of marketing activities to Macedonian children and their involvement as consumers to the marketplace.
M37|Particularities Of Place Branding In The European Countries|This article examines the role of place branding in the image forming of certain European countries. The relevance of the article is confirmed by an acute need to identify the factors and branding tools that should be taken into account while a country develops a brand and influences the process of image forming. The purpose of the article is to examine successful examples and failures of the branding strategies of some European countries and cities. The results have to identify similarities and differences in the approach of European countries to promote a certain area as a part of country branding; to determine the key success factors that lead a country to the recognition by the international community.
M37|Rhetorics of Bulgarian Advertising – an Empirical Study of the Use of Rhetorical Figures in Advertising Slogans|The paper presents the results of an em­pirical research devoted to the use of rhetorical figures in Bulgarian advertising. The project is realized on the basis of 605 advertising slogans. We calculated the average slogan’s length with­in the sample, as well as the average slogan’s length within the following product categories: (1) Food; (2) Drinks, (3) Automobiles, airlines, bus lines; (4) Banks and insurance companies; (5) Retail store chains and shopping centers; (6) Technology and communications; (7) Clothes and cosmetics; (8) Tourism; (9) Other product categories. The usage frequency for each of the following rhetorical figures has been estimated: (1) figures of thought - accumulation, allusion, anadiplosis, anti-climax, antithesis, applica­tion, aposiopesis, exclamation, epanalepsis, inversion, climax, litotes, metaphor, metonymy, oxymoron, parallelism, paronomasia, personifi­cation, rhetorical question, synecdoche, hyper­bole; (2) figures of speech - anaphora, epistro­phe, appeal, àlliteration, àssonance, gradation, epithet, repetition, pun, neologism, resonance, figura etymologica. The usage frequency of rhetorical figures across product categories has also been analyzed
M37|Historical Traces and Contemporary Approaches regarding Fairs and Exhibitions, as complex Instruments in Marketing|"Fairs have evolved permanently since their appearance until now, in terms of content, forms of organization, means and techniques of realization. The organization’s concerns to promote their offer more efficiently led to an increase of the role and importance of fairs, as marketing tools. ""Fairs and exhibitions"", an expression used in theory, but also in practice, can be used in every area of activity, of all companies, regardless their size and activity field, ensuring a tailored marketing, able to assure economic success and a positive image to all participants in these events. The technological progress in all areas of activity, specific for the last 50-60 years, influenced in many ways, also the ""fair and exhibitions industry."" In this paper we propose to analyze the general evolution of fairs and how they became, in time, tools of intern and international marketing."
M37|Determinants of emotional regulation among marketing staff in the Jordanian banking sector|This study empirically verifies the determinants of emotional regulation as observed among marketing staff in the Jordanian banking sector. In particular, it examines the relationship between participants’ cognitive flexibility capabilities, their levels of response inhibition and their levels of mindfulness on the degree of emotional regulation they exhibited. Data was collected from a sample of 120 respondents who were administered four standardized survey questionnaires. Multiple linear regression was used to analyze the data, and results show no significant relationship between cognitive flexibility, inhibition levels, and a combination of both factors on emotional regulation. However, it found that mindfulness had a low but significant and positive relationship with emotional regulation.
M37|Этические Аспекты Рекламы В Борьбе За Доверие Потребителей<BR>[Ethical aspects of advertising in the struggle for consumer confidence]|В данной статье рассматриваются вопросы, связанные с этическими аспектами рекламной деятельности предприятия и их восприятие потребителем. Значимость исследования обусловлена, прежде всего, тем, что в современном мире реализация любой продукции (товара) невозможна без рекламной поддержки. Потребитель имеет право на получение необходимой, доступной, достоверной и своевременной информации о продукции, что обеспечивает возможность ее сознательного и компетентного выбора. Целью данной статьи является раскрытие проблемных вопросов этики и правдивости в рекламе и демонстрация их влияния на выбор потребителя. Результаты исследования показали, что потребитель склонен выбирать продукт, о котором он больше осведомлен, даже зная о недостатках данного товара. Компании, которые открыты для потребителя все чаще выходят в лидеры рынка. This article discusses the issues associated with ethical aspects of advertising activities of the enterprise and consumer perception. The significance of this study is primarily due to the fact that in today's world, the realization of any products (goods) is impossible without advertising support. The consumer has the right to receive the necessary, affordable, reliable and timely information about the product, which allows its conscious and informed choice. The purpose of this article is to reveal the problematic issues of ethics and truthfulness in advertising and to show their influence on consumer choice. The results of the study show that consumers tend to choose the product, which they are more informed about, even being aware of the shortcomings of this product. Companies, open to consumers, increasingly come into market leaders.
M37|Особенности И Эффективные Методы Партизанского Маркетинга<BR>[Features and effective methods of guerrilla marketing]|This article discusses the principles of guerrilla marketing. The author examines the characteristics of guerrilla marketing in the flower business, which can effectively promote your product to attract new customers and increase your profits without investing or not investing much money. Particular attention is paid to the effectiveness of the methods used by flower shop. В данной статье рассмотрены принципы партизанского маркетинга. Автор рассматривает особенности партизанского маркетинга в области цветочного бизнеса, которые позволяют эффективно продвигать свой товар, привлекать новых клиентов и увеличивать свою прибыль, не вкладывая или почти не вкладывая денег. Особое внимание уделено эффективным методам, которые использует магазин цветов.
M37|Ordered Consumer Search|The paper discusses situations in which consumers search through their options in a deliberate order. Topics include: the existence of ordered search equilibria with symmetric sellers (all consumers first inspect the seller they anticipate will set the lowest price, and a seller that is inspected first by consumers will set the lowest price); the use of price and non-price advertising to direct search; how purchase history can guide future search; and the incentive a seller can have to raise its own search cost. I also show how ordered search can be reformulated as a simpler discrete choice problem without search frictions.
M37|Evaluating Advertising Effectiveness of Creative Television Advertisements for High Involvement Products|This study investigates advertising effectiveness of creative TV advertisements (Ads) for high involvement products. The majority of such studies have been conducted using low involvement products. There is a need to conduct a research to find out the effectiveness of creative advertisements for high involvement products. This study will fill this knowledge gap. This study aimed at measuring the impact of creativity in Ads on Attitude toward Advertisement, Unaided Recall and Purchase intention. It involved 94 university students in an experimental research. Paired sample t-test was used for evaluating creative and control Ads .Data analysis reveals that creative Ads are better than control Ads in generating favorable attitude toward ad and high Ad recall but equally ineffective in persuading customers to buy. Binary logistic regression showed small role of creativity in causing high Ad recall while multiple regression analysis confirmed the supremacy of creative Ads for forming a favorable attitude toward Ad.
M37|Effectiveness of Animated Spokes-Character in Advertising Targeted to Kids|The purpose of this study is to find the effectiveness of using animated characters in advertising targeted to kids. The research design is quantitative and its research type is causal. The respondents of the study are ‘Pre-primary school going kids’ from nine different schools belonging to different areas of Karachi, Pakistan. Data is analyzed through Classification Regression Tree (CART). The findings of this research study reveal that liking of the animated spokes character has a significant effect on product and brand character recognition, Product-Brand Character Association and brand preference. The majority of earlier related studies have been descriptive in nature. This study has used relatively advanced measurement technique like CART thereby making a methodical contribution. It is especially useful considering the paucity of research studies on advertising targeted at kids in Pakistan.
M37|Advertising and Competition for Market Share between a New Good Producer and a Remanufacturer|We study the strategic interaction between a new good producer and a remanufacturer who use advertising campaigns to compete for a dominant share of the market for a certain good. Each firm chooses one of three possible strategies for running its advertising campaign. The two rival firms care only about capturing a dominant share of the relevant market. Hence, if a firm expects to capture dominant market share with probability pÂ âˆˆÂ [0,Â 1], then its payoff in the game we study is also p. Our analysis leads to four results. First, we provide the normal form representation of the game between the new good producer and the remanufacturer. Second, we specify the game in matrix form. Third, we indicate what happens at each stage of the elimination of strictly dominated strategies. Finally, we show that the iterated elimination of strictly dominated strategies yields a clear and unique prediction about the outcome of the advertising game.
M37|Marketing Communication|Empirical research in the USA and the Asia Pacific suggests that the occasions of miscommunication far outnumber the occasions where communication has been interpreted in the way that it was intended. Though the data is vastly different from region to region and particularly when cross-continental communication has taken place, there are very few cases where attendees to a marketing conference were concluding similar outcomes. It appears that the communication gap is particularly wide when the cultural differences between the communicator and the recipients of the communication, are from the different cultural background. For example delegates from the USA attending a marketing conference in Japan and vice versa.
M37|The Impact of the Digital Revolution in the Development of Market and Communication Strategies for the Luxury Sector (Fashion Luxury)|In recent years the luxury industry has been strongly affected by the rapid evolution of digital technology and the internet. The use of the internet and the new digital technologies has contributed to the growth of the market and its different sectors. This meant an advantage for others, but for the luxury sector, it has been a challenge and the adaptation process slow. The online participation - in certain cases incipient - of some brands in the sector has been directed by new consumption habits, which had an impact in the marketing and communication strategies on a managerial level. Based on a theoretical review, this paper proposes a central concept known as brand expression, from which elements involved in the phenomenon of the digital era, some significant for the development of the study, are described. The resulting relations between them, together with findings obtained in interviews of consumers in the sector, describe the reason for the adaptation in content and approach of the current strategies; that in turn sets the guidelines for continuing and future developments.
M37|Comparative Advertising in the Czech Republic: An Empirical Study|Comparative advertising had been traditionally banned in most EU countries and was allowed by the European law just relatively recently. That is why in the EU this form of advertising is relatively new, as opposed to the situation in the US, where comparative advertising has been widely used and well accepted by consumers for decades. The literature has been silent on the topic of the effectiveness of comparative advertising in the Czech Republic, as well as in other Central and Eastern European countries. The goal of this paper is to investigate the effectiveness of comparative advertising campaigns in the Czech Republic. Using an online survey with 160 Czech respondents, we found that the attitude towards comparative advertising is rather positive in the Czech Republic. We also identified that the gender of the recipient influences the general perception of comparative advertising. On the other hand, the age of the recipient does not seem to be a moderator of the attitude towards comparative advertising, in general. The results also do not signal any impact of the gender and the age of the recipient on the change of the perception of any of the brands involved in the campaign. Managerial implications target mainly marketing and advertising managers responsible for Central European markets.
M37|Comparison of indicators affecting satisfaction with online group-buying purchases of Generation Y customers in the Czech Republic and Canada|The topic of this paper is the comparison of the indicators that affect customer satisfaction with online group-buying purchases in the Czech Republic and Canada. This paper focuses on the consumer behaviour of Generation Y. Social exchange theory was adopted to identify these indicators. Reciprocity, reputation, trust and vendor’s creativity can be included among these indicators. The aim of this paper is to identify the indicators affecting customer satisfaction with online group-buying purchases of Generation Y in Canada and the Czech Republic and compare the results. The method of a structural equation modelling is used. The optimal models in Canada and in the Czech Republic are found. The results confirm that trust is the most important indicator for Canadian customers from Generation Y, the same for Czech customers from Generation Y.
M37|The Future of Marketing in 2016: Trends in the New Digital Age|There have been some significant changes in marketing in recent years. The share of digital/mobile in the overall media ad spending share is increasing year over year. The research firm eMarketer estimates that budgets for digital advertising will surpass in 2017 the budgets spent on any other traditional marketing initiatives (TV, print, radio, outdoor, and directories). Marketing is also moving away from a product orientation to a social / mobile orientation. Whereas marketing campaigns from even a decade ago were focused on loose metrics such as GRPs for TV audience measurement, or Arbitron numbers for radio, advertisers’ ability to track visitors’ movements across the web, and (with the growth in mobile device adoption) advertisers’ ability to use location data entail better tracking of responses to marketing messages and the ability to connect with the customer where they are.
M37|The 6C Model of Social Media and Developing a Viral Marketing Campaign|In the physical marketplace different communication tools are used in the buying process of customers. Traditional mass-communication tools (print advertising, TV and radio) can create awareness and this can result in consumers’ identification of new needs. From then on other elements of the communication mix take over, such as direct marketing (direct mail, personal selling) and in-store promotion. Unlike marketing in the physical marketplace, the Internet/e-commerce encompasses the entire ‘buying’ process. Of course, the online markets also make use of traditional mass advertising in order to get potential customers into the online buying process. Market communication strategies change dramatically in the online world. On the Internet it is easier than ever to actually communicate a message to large numbers of people. However, in many cases it is much harder for your message to be heard above the noise by your target audience.
M37|Advertising and Aggregate Consumption: A Bayesian DSGE Assessment|Aggregate data reveal that in the US, advertising absorbs 2% of GDP. Because the purpose of brand advertising is to foster sales, we ask whether such spending appreciably affects aggregate consumption and economic activity. This question is addressed by developing and estimating a dynamic general equilibrium model in which households’ preferences for differentiated goods depend on brand advertising. Estimated results for the US economy indicate that in the long‐run, the presence of advertising raises aggregate consumption, investment, and hours worked, eventually fostering overall economic activity. We also find that advertising has a relevant impact on fluctuations in consumption and investment.
M37|Nostalgia from the Younger Generation Perspective: The Impact of Nostalgia Advertising on Postmodern Individuals|Companies need to find new branding and marketing strategies to overcome the problems rising from the intense competition in every sector and increasing consumer expectations. While searching for new tactics to attract consumers’ attention and moreover position their brand in the mind and hearts of their target groups, nostalgia and retro marketing offers many advantages. The rising trend of nostalgia in advertisements revealed the necessity of investigating effectiveness. The aim of this study is to determine the nostalgia trend among postmodern individuals who are born between 1980-1985, and analyze their approach to nostalgia theme used in advertisements. Survey method is used to examine the nostalgia proneness and effectiveness of nostalgia advertisements. According to findings, personal and interpersonal nostalgia is more prominent among respondents and nostalgia ads are effective in triggering consumers emotions rather than directing their consumer behavior.
M37|Cultural Adaptation of Websites: A Comparative Study of Portuguese and Dutch Websites|In a globalized world cultural adaptation has become a vital strategy for companies that desire to succeed beyond borders. However, adapt a website is not only to translate the local content of a website to the native language. The content analysis methodology was used to study a sample of Portuguese and Dutch websites collected from the “list of Fortune 500 companies and their websites”. The objective was to evaluate the extent of cultural adaptation of websites to Portuguese and Dutch based on Hofstede and Hall frameworks. The results showed that only the masculinity/femininity dimension were supported meaning that the websites were culturally adapted for both Portuguese and Dutch websites. The high/low-context culture hypothesis, although statistical significant, show that only the Dutch websites were culturally adapted. The collectivistic/individualistic dimension, although statistical significant, showed that only Dutch websites has been culturally adapted. The hypotheses H2 and H3 are both not statistical significant.
M37|Free viewpoint real video streaming system for 360° three-dimensional viewing|The goal of this study was to develop a unique free viewpoint real video technology for 360° three-dimensional (3-D) viewing of photographic subjects and to utilize it in online video transmissions. In existing multi-angle video systems, the simultaneous synchronization and playback of large volumes of video images significantly burdens the central processing unit (CPU). Because repeated play and pause processing of multiple videos must be performed, a time lag occurs with every change in viewpoint. In this context, smooth transitions between videos of multiple viewpoints are challenged.In response to this situation, the author developed a method to create a single composite image of a subject photographed in 360° using multiple cameras and display the image during transmission by partially trimming it and sliding the display positioning under the direction of the user.This method resulted in a system that enables not only smooth viewpoint switching and 360° 3-D viewing of photographic subjects; it does so at a quality and size possible for online streaming. Therefore, in 2013, a Japanese patent was granted for this technology, it was used in an advertising promotion for Sharp?s 4K television, and it was used in the television Asahi web program ?Danceta!? Additional patents were granted in 2015 in Korea, China, and the United States. The European patent is pending.
M37|Cultural congruency and shocking buzz campaigns: contrasting the opinions of professionals and consumers|Buzz marketing in social networks is often seen by announcers as an opportunity to reach the biggest audience. However, the risk of failure of buzz campaigns proves not to be negligible and its consequences may be serious for the company. In order to succeed in such buzz campaigns, this research study focuses on cultural aspects, and more particularly on the central role of cultural congruency. To explore these aspects, a qualitative study, based on 36 face-to-face interviews with marketing professionals/advertisers and consumers, has been carried out. The results highlight the importance of cultural values for consumers in Arab-Muslim countries, especially when buzz marketing campaigns touch the taboos. Terms used in the advertisement are also decisive in the success of a buzz campaign.
M37|Electronic Trade in Foods from the Customer’s Perspective (Handel elektroniczny artykulami zywnosciowymi z perspektywy klienta)|Society is becoming an increasingly information society, and consumers are active and conscious buyers. Shopping in the electronic form is an interesting alternative to traditional shopping. Competition in the food market is growing and forcing companies to continuously fight for consumers. Entrepreneurs more often and more willingly choose to sell food on the Internet. The aim of the article was to identify determinants of consumer behavior in the use of e-commerce for purchases of food. The subject of research were customers of online food shops. Purchasers of food on the Internet are generally young, well-educated people in a good financial situation. The advantage of buying food online is convenience of the purchasing process and delivery of orders to the address indicated. Most purchased products are drinks, stimulants and sweets. The most popular online food stores are Alma delicatessen and Piotr i Pawe³. A single purchase value far exceeds PLN 100.
M37|The Development of Online Payment in Polish Retail E-Commerce (Rozwoj platnosci internetowych w polskim detalicznym handlu elektronicznym)|The dynamic development of e-commerce in Poland determines the increase in competitiveness of the e-commerce sector. Managers of e-stores are implementing many innovations as a result of customer expectations. One of the most significant barriers to the development of e-commerce is the lack of confidence, which is due to the concern about the security of transactions, especially in the payment stage. The evolution of payment is driven by the desire to increase safety and speed of execution venues that are considered important parameters of new innovations in the field of online payment. The main directions of the changes that can be identified based on recent years’ results include the increase in popularity of mobile payments and acceptance of high-speed internet money transfers as well as a significantly decreasing number of cash-on-delivery transactions.
M37|Message Strategy and Information Content of Advertising in Women’s Magazines in Poland (Strategia przekazu oraz tresc informacyjna reklam w czasopismach kobiecych w Polsce )|The primary purpose of this study is to answer the question of how companies construct their advertising message. Hence, in the article its authors attempt to analyze informative content and message strategies as they appear in advertisements posted in Women’s magazines in Poland. As a framework for the analysis the authors apply Resnik and Stern information content categories, Taylor’s Six–Segment Message Strategy Wheel, and the message strategies of Laskey, Day, and Crask. The study analyzes 311 advertisements across different segments of magazines published in October of 2015. The results show that the information content of advertising is related to the category of advertised product and target audience of the magazine. Similarly, message strategies applied differ depending on the products and are linked to the informative content of the advertisement.
M37|Identifying Key Drivers and Bottlenecks in the Adoption of E-Book Readers in Korea|This study seeks to describe the dynamic effects of innovation characteristics and consumer innovativeness as conditioned by consumer decision making in the Korean E-book reader market. Dedicated Korean E-book readers have received little research attention over the last few years, as consumers’ interest in E-book readers has not been as high as was expected. This study identifies the barriers and bottlenecks impacting Korean consumers’ adoption of dedicated E-book readers based on the theories of innovation adoption and consumer behavior. Our estimation results indicate that complexity was the main bottleneck blocking the adoption of dedicated E-book readers in every decision-making stage (cognitive-affective-behavioral), whereas observability was the driver stimulating adoption in every stage. Moreover, the relative advantage of dedicated E-book readers is significant only in the affective stage, while compatibility is meaningful only in the behavioral stage. The results of this study provide useful guidelines to help marketers and engineers design dedicated e-book readers and promote them in Korea.
M37|Fairness in Strategy: A Fair Process Evaluation of Strategy Schools|The ‘strategy creation’ process – the process of formulating and implementing strategy – has been under critical study for decades for not delivering the desired results. The discussion on how a strategy process should be run has resulted in a number of ‘strategy schools’.Procedural justice theory is relevant to this discussion. It states that when people impacted by a process consider the process as ‘fair’ they demonstrate a higher level of trust and commitment, and performance increases. This article evaluates the extent to which traditional ‘strategy schools’ comply with the tenets of procedural justice theory and highlight the non-compliance with these tenets for each of these schools. We then propose a new strategy process model which has a greater fair process dimension than any of the more traditional ‘strategy schools’ and as such offers the potential to bring greater effectiveness to the strategy process.
M37|Influence of print advertising layout complexity on visual attention|Abstract In the contemporary overcrowded market there is a high competition for capturing consumers’ attention. Few decades ago attracting consumers’ visual attention was easier; however, modern consumers become advertising-resistant. Moreover, people even tend to ignore ads before seeing them. Such advertising resistance leads to a situation when the creativity becomes important. As creativity in advertising has many aspects, we considered the advertising complexity as one of them. The aim of the research is to determine the influence of the complexity of print advertising on visual attention. Three objectives are set to reach the aim: (1) to determine the theoretical criteria of advertising complexity; (2) to select sample advertisements meeting each selected criterion; (3) to provide the eye-tracking experiment with the chosen advertisements. The research reveals that advertising complexity has a positive influence on consumers’ visual attention to the advertisement, but negative influence on consumers’ visual attention to the brand presented in the advertisement. The research enables the eye-tracking-based determination of the best suitable level of advertising complexity to attract visual attention. The analysis of experiment participants’ number of eye fixations and mean viewing time enables the determination of guidelines for advertising creation.
M37|Location-based advertising on mobile devices|Abstract Location-based advertising (LBA) allows the delivery of advertising messages to consumers in places that are known for their particular high and positive advertising effect. While LBA is recognized for static roadside billboards and the Web, LBA can now be found on mobile devices. This mobile advertising adds valuable opportunities for companies: it allows consumers to be addressed (i) individually, (ii) based on their current location, and (iii) dynamically in real-time; furthermore, (iv) content may be replaced quickly by remote access. Accordingly, within the mobile marketing domain, LBA on mobile devices turns over a new leaf. This young research field is interdisciplinary at its core and marketing and technical experts expect major impetus. To contribute to this growing field, we systematically analyze and evaluate existing literature in the field of LBA on mobile devices, and present the results of six analyses. By building bridges between the involved disciplines, we present existing research in a condensed, concise and evaluating form which will support researchers in orienting for future research in the field. Furthermore, we pinpoint selected “white spots” in research and draw attention to promising areas for future research and directions of future development trends.
M37|Efficient political contributions with conditional Coasian contracts| The externalities associated with political contributions imply agents choose a socially inefficient level. A typical market solution to these externalities would involve Coase bargaining where agents form contracts with payments conditional on the actions of others. These contracts, however, are hard to enforce because political contributions can be unobservable or unmeasurable. In this study, we modify these Coasian contracts, making the payments conditional on the outcome of the political election. We show the agents that form these contracts contribute the socially efficient amount.
M37|The relation between the effects of testimonials' sources and the cognitive, affective and behavioural changes|Purpose – Endorsement strategies have a well-known potential of generating good results and there are various studies which refer to the endorsement sources as either a contextually effective or ineffective strategy. The present study is a new approach on this topic and it aims at identifying whether there are significant attitude changes towards the service category after the exposure to different types of service brand testimonials or not. The service category is represented by cosmetic treatments. The attitude structure in this study specifies three distinct components: the affective, the behavioural and the cognitive one. Design/methodology/approach –The study was conducted on a sample of 426 males and females from Romania. Each subject was exposed to testimonials coming from experts, celebrities and satisfied customers who were endorsing a branded cosmetic treatment. Measurements included endorsers’ perceived credibility and changes in affective, cognitive and behavioural attitudes towards the service category. Findings – Credibility derived from brand testimonials has an impact on the service category, as all three changes have been significant. The change in behavioural attitude was the most affected by perceived credibility, closely followed by the change in affective attitude and the change in cognitive attitude. Gender differences were also discussed. Research limitations/implications – The measurement of the endorsement's effect was performed only through the instrumentality of credibility. Another limitation is the survey context in which subjects got in contact with testimonials. Originality/value – This research is useful for both academics and practitioners, offering insights for those who are interested in attitude research and for those activating in the field of beauty service industry.
M37|Investigating the impact of viral message appeal and message credibility on consumer attitude toward brand|Background - Due to the rapid growth of the Internet and use of e-commerce in recent years, viral marketing has drawn the attention of manufacturing and service organizations. However, no research has been conducted to examine the impact of message appeal and message source credibility on consumers' attitude with mediating role of intellectual involvement of consumers and their risk taking level. Purpose - The aim of this study was to examine the impact of appeal and message source credibility on consumers’ attitude with mediating role of consumers’ intellectual involvement and their risk taking level. Design/methodology/approach – The population of this study includes consumers of mobile phones (Samsung, Sony, Nokia, LG and iPhone) in Bushehr city (Iran). As the population of the study is unlimited, 430 questionnaires were distributed using available sampling method, and 391 questionnaires were collected and analyzed. Using structural equation modeling, data were analyzed through smart PLS software. Findings –The results show that the appeal and credibility of the message source have impact on consumer attitudes toward the brand. It was also found that intellectual involvement of consumers plays the mediating role in the relationship between message appeal and consumer attitudes toward brand. In the relationship between message source credibility and customer attitude towards the brand, the level of risk taking of people has no mediating role. Research limitations/implications – Data collection tool was questionnaire in this study, and questionnaire has some disadvantages that can affect the results. Additionally, this study was conducted in Bushehr city (Iran). Therefore, we should be cautious in generalizing the findings. Originality/value – In this study, the effect of message appeal and message source credibility on consumer attitude to brand was examined. The risk taking level of consumer and his involvement level were considered as mediating variables.
M37|The Effects of Banning Advertising in Junk Food Markets|There are growing calls to restrict advertising of junk foods. Whether such a move will improve diet quality will depend on how advertising shifts consumer demands and how firms respond. We study an important and typical junk food market—the potato chips market. We exploit consumer level exposure to adverts to estimate demand, allowing advertising to potentially shift the weight consumers place on product healthiness, tilt demand curves, have dynamic effects and spillover effects across brands. We simulate the impact of a ban and show that the potential health benefits are partially offset by firms lowering prices and by consumer switching to other junk foods.
M37|A Structural Model of Advertising Signaling and Social Learning: The Case of the Motion Picture Industry|This paper empirically studies how social learning among consumers shapes firms' optimal strategies of using advertising to signal product quality. I present an equilibrium model that describes both consumers and firms'learning and decision-making under quality uncertainty. My model allows me to distinguish between two roles of informative advertising reaching consumers and signaling product quality. I apply the model to the U.S. motion picture theatrical market where advertising and social learning are two main factors for a new movie's success. The structural estimates imply that movie studios signaling advertising only helps to reduce consumers' uncertainty by less than 10 percent. Word-of-mouth is a much more efficient learning channel for consumers, reducing their uncertainty by more than 90 percent. I also find that around 27 percent of advertising spending for movies in my sample is used for signaling product quality, while 73 percent is used for reaching consumers. Studios tendency to advertise more during the pre-release rather than the post-release weeks is explained to a large extent by the signaling purpose.
M37|Non-comparative and comparative advertising in oligopolistic markets|We study firms' advertising strategies in an oligopolistic market in which both non-comparative and comparative advertising are present. We show that in equilibrium firms mix over the two types of advertising, with the intensity of comparative advertising exceeding that of non-comparative advertising; moreover, that the intensity of comparative increases relatively to non-comparative advertising as market competition intensifies. Interestingly, the use of comparative advertising may lead to higher consumers' surplus and welfare in a mixed advertising market than in the absence of advertising or when either comparative or non-comparative advertising is not present.
M37|Kopieren, transformieren, kombinieren: Ideenklau und Plagiarismus in der Werbung|Die Allgemeinfreiheit und rechtliche Schutzunfähigkeit von Ideen - und somit gleichermaßen von Werbeideen - gilt als eiserne Regel unserer Gesellschaft. Die Möglichkeit, bereits bestehende Ideen als Basis freischaffender Kreativität zu nutzen, sie umzuformen, neu zu erfinden und mit eigenen Gedanken anzureichern, sichert den kulturellen, wirtschaftlichen und technischen Fortschritt. Und dies kommt schließlich allen zu Gute. Warum sollte sich eine wissenschaftliche Arbeit also mit dem Schutz von Werbeideen beschäftigen? Die Antwort ist so einfach, wie entscheidend: Ideen sind Kapital! Ideen sind die Existenzgrundlage aller kreativ Schaffenden - und so insbesondere auch der Kreativen in der Werbebranche. Herausragende Werbung ist heute, in Zeiten von Informationsüberlastung und Aufmerksamkeitsverknappung, sowohl für werbungtreibende Unternehmen als auch für Werbeagenturen von existentieller Bedeutung. Einzigartige Werbeideen erzeugen ihre Aufmerksamkeit jedoch nicht nur bei den Adressaten der Werbung, sie dienen gleichermaßen als Maßstab sowie als Inspiration für viele Werbeschöpfungen anderer Kreativer in der Werbebranche. Und so kommen immer wieder Fälle von Ideenübernahmen ans Licht, die in der Branche vielfach diskutiert und kritisch - meist jedoch ausschließlich subjektiv - reflektiert werden. So herrscht eine fatale Diskrepanz zwischen der einerseits alltäglichen Präsenz von Plagiarismus und Ideendiebstahl in der Werbebranche und der andererseits fehlenden objektiven Ursachenanalyse sowie des stark fragmentierten und äußerst komplexen Status Quo rechtlicher Schutzmöglichkeiten. [...]
M37|Mobile User Experience: Der Einfluss von kognitivem Entertainment auf die Nutzung mobiler Anwendungen|Die wachsende Verbreitung und Nutzung des Smartphones erhöht die Relevanz von mobilen Inhalten für Konsumenten und Unternehmen. Innerhalb der Markenkommunikation bietet das mobile Medium die Möglichkeit, den Kunden direkt, personalisiert, überall und zu jederzeit mit der jeweiligen Botschaft zu erreichen. Die Interaktionsmöglichkeiten und die multi-sensuelle Ansprache erhöhen zudem die Bedeutung von Mobile Marketing für die Erzeugung von Markenerlebnissen. Aktuelle Studien im Bereich Mobile Marketing bestätigen die generelle Akzeptanz von mobilen Inhalten und identifizieren den wahrgenommene Unterhaltungsnutzen und das wahrgenommene Vergnügen als die wichtigsten akzeptanzfördernden Faktoren. Basierend auf diesen Akzeptanzforschungsstudien und Erkenntnissen der Sozialpsychologie, vor allem des Flow Erlebens, untersucht diese empirische Studie die Relevanz von Vergnügen und Unterhaltung für das positive subjektive Gesamterlebnis bei mobilen Anwendungen und identifiziert wichtige Einflussfaktoren. Es wird zunächst ein übergeordnetes Flow Konstrukt als optimales Erlebnis definiert (Kognitives Entertainment). Das Flow-Erleben gilt als optimales Erlebnis und ist bereits mehrfach zur Erklärung der Mensch-Computer Interaktion angewendet und empirisch belegt worden. Anschließend werden Hypothesen formuliert und ein Strukturmodell definiert, welches mit Hilfe einer empirischen Online-Studie getestet und anschließend statistisch verifiziert wird. Die Ergebnisse bestätigen kognitives Entertainment als wichtige Bedingung für die kontinuierliche Nutzung von mobilen Anwendungen. Emotionale Nutzen wie Freude und visuelles Design, sowie kognitive, wie Kontrolle, beeinflussen das Kognitive Entertainment dabei positiv. Die Erkenntnisse ermöglichen theoretische und praktische Implikationen für die Gestaltung relevanter mobiler Markeninhalte, welche die kontinuierlichen Nutzung unterstützen und aufgrund der positiven Erlebniserfahrung zudem ermöglichen, Mobile Marketing verstärkt zur Markenbildung einzusetzen.
M37|Targeted information and limited attention|We examine the implications of limited consumer attention for the targeting decisions of competing firms. Limited attention alters the strategic role of information provision as firms may be incentivized to behave as mass advertisers, despite potentially perfect targeting abilities. We analyze the consequences of limited attention for market shares, information taxation, attention competition between firms, the value of marketing data to firms and strategic pricing. Accounting for limited attention in an otherwise standard targeting framework can explain several recent key issues from the advertising industry, such as increased consumer ad blocking, privacy concerns and information overload.
M37|Adverse Selection and Auction Design for Internet Display Advertising|"We model an online display advertising environment in which ""performance"" advertisers can measure the value of individual impressions, whereas ""brand"" advertisers cannot. If advertiser values for ad opportunities are positively correlated, second-price auctions for impressions can be inefficient and expose brand advertisers to adverse selection. Bayesian-optimal auctions have other drawbacks: they are complex, introduce incentives for false-name bidding, and do not resolve adverse selection. We introduce ""modified second bid"" auctions as the unique auctions that overcome these disadvantages. When advertiser match values are drawn independently from heavy-tailed distributions, a modified second bid auction captures at least 94.8 percent of the first-best expected value. In that setting and similar ones, the benefits of switching from an ordinary second-price auction to the modified second bid auction may be large, and the cost of defending against shill bidding and adverse selection may be low."
M37|Wintertime for Deceptive Advertising?|Casual empiricism suggests that deceptive advertising about product quality is prevalent, and several classes of theories explore its causes and consequences. We provide unusually sharp empirical evidence on its extent, mechanics, and dynamics. Ski resorts self-report substantially more natural snowfall than comparable government sources. The difference is more pronounced on weekends, despite third-party evidence that snowfall is uniform throughout the week—as one would expect given plausibly greater returns to exaggeration on weekends. Exaggeration is greater for resorts that plausibly reap greater benefits from it: those with expert terrain and those not offering money back guarantees. (JEL D83, L15, L83, M37, Z31)
M37|Intermediaries in Two-Sided Markets: An Empirical Analysis of the US Cable Television Industry|Local television stations are platforms in a two-sided market connecting advertisers and viewers. This paper explicitly examines the effect that important intermediaries (such as cable, telephone, and satellite distributors) may have on a platform's pricing behavior in a two-sided market. I find that stations raise their fees to cable distributors because stations prefer that viewers access their content through satellite distributors with whom they do not compete in the local advertising market, and that station mergers lower stations' fees to distributors by partially internalizing a pricing externality that results from the mandatory bundling of local content. (JEL C78, D12, G34, L11, L82, M37)
M37|Search Advertising|Search engines enable advertisers to target consumers based on the query they have entered. In a framework in which consumers search sequentially after having entered a query, I show that such targeting reduces search costs, improves matches and intensifies price competition. However, a profit-maximizing monopolistic search engine imposes a distortion by charging too high an advertising fee, which may negate the benefits of targeting. The search engine also has incentives to provide a suboptimal quality of sponsored links. Competition among search engines can increase or decrease welfare, depending on the extent of multi-homing by advertisers.
M37|"Either or Both Competition: A ""Two-Sided"" Theory of Advertising with Overlapping Viewerships"|In media markets, consumers spread their attention to several outlets, increasingly so as consumption migrates online. The traditional framework for competition among media outlets rules out this behavior by assumption. We propose a new model that allows consumers to choose multiple outlets and use it to study the effects on advertising levels and the impact of entry and mergers. We identify novel forces which reflect outlets' incentives to control the composition of their customer base. We link consumer preferences and advertising technologies to market outcomes. The model can explain several empirical regularities that are difficult to reconcile with existing models.
M37|The Economics of Privacy|This article summarizes and draws connections among diverse streams of theoretical and empirical research on the economics of privacy. We focus on the economic value and consequences of protecting and disclosing personal information, and on consumers' understanding and decisions regarding the trade-offs associated with the privacy and the sharing of personal data. We highlight how the economic analysis of privacy evolved over time, as advancements in information technology raised increasingly nuanced and complex issues. We find and highlight three themes that connect diverse insights from the literature. First, characterizing a single unifying economic theory of privacy is hard, because privacy issues of economic relevance arise in widely diverse contexts. Second, there are theoretical and empirical situations where the protection of privacy can both enhance and detract from individual and societal welfare. Third, in digital economies, consumers' ability to make informed decisions about their privacy is severely hindered because consumers are often in a position of imperfect or asymmetric information regarding when their data is collected, for what purposes, and with what consequences. We conclude the article by highlighting some of the ongoing issues in the privacy debate of interest to economists.
M37|The Influence of New Technologies on Tourism Consumption Behavior of the Millennials|The advent of new technologies has generated a series of mutations in the dynamics and structure of production and consumption at both global and tourism destinations level, increasing competition manifested on the tourist market, prompting efforts (concerns) from tourism service providers to diversify their offer, on the one hand, and to understand and investigate the needs, changing requirements of consumers (tourists), on the other hand. Studies of international tourist flows indicate that Millennials, also named the Y Generation ? young people between 18 and 30 years old ? will be the most dynamic component of the tourism market in the next decade. This article aims to analyze how new technologies influence the tourism consumption behavior of the members of the Millennials generation in Romania. Thus, a quantitative research, a survey, was conducted based on a questionnaire that had as objective the identification of electronic equipment, the applications, the ICT sources used by young people in the stages of planning, booking and development of the journey. The hypotheses tested the link between the importance given to technological resources and the extent to which young tourists are willing to share travel experiences later. Results of the research led to the development of a set of suggestions for key players in the tourism market.
M37|Do Firms Price and Advertise to Maximize Profits? Evidence from U.S. Food Industries| Based on a model that incorporates brand entry deterrence through advertising and pricing strategies, this paper investigates whether firms’ advertising and pricing policies deviate from their short-run profit maximization strategies and how advertising and pricing entry deterrence strategies vary with market conditions. We estimate the advertising and pricing response of incumbents to entrants in four food industries: beer, carbonated soft drinks, ready-to-eat cereal and yogurt, and find that incumbents deviate significantly from profit maximization advertising and pricing policies. There is a U-shaped relationship between the potential market share of an entrant and incumbents’ pricing but an inverse U-shape with respect to advertising level. This means that incumbents are more likely to price higher and advertise less to deter entry when potential entrants are more competitive in terms of potential market share. Empirically, we show this to be the case in the four food industries studied.
M37|Impact of Child-Directed TV Food Advertising Regulations on Pocket Money Allowances|No abstract is available for this item.
M37|Evaluating the Marketing Impact of a Regional Branding Program Using Contingent Valuation Methods: The Case of the Appalachian Grown™ Branding Program| The main objective of this study was to develop and test effective messaging and marketing efforts for the Appalachian Grown™ regional branding program. The evaluation of the impact of the marketing efforts utilizes contingent valuation (CV) methods. CV methods allowed us to elicit consumers’ preferences before and after the marketing campaign for Appalachian grown products and measure the change in consumer willingness to pay (WTP) for this attribute. We found evidence of a statically significant positive effect in one of the two stores where the campaign was implemented. In the store where the campaign was found to have a positive impact, the marketing campaign was found to increase consumers’ willingness to pay for locally grown products by about 4%. Our results indicate that consumers’ willingness to pay may be positively impacted by the implementation of in-store local food marketing campaigns.
M37|Communication campaigns: effects of different messages on the willingness to purchase organic olive oil| Given the imbalance between production and consumption of organic food in general and, particularly, organic olive oil, in Spain, the development of domestic demand has become a priority for both industry players and for public administrations. Marketing communication constitutes an useful tool for it. The main objective of this paper is to study the effect of different communication messages in purchase intention of organic olive oil, combining levels of three key variables, according to the literature. Through an experiment conducted in 800 urban consumers of olive oils, that the most effective messages are those that use the Public Administration or expert as a source and focus their argument on the environment, health or elitism, was concluded.
M37|Characteristic features in setting up the marketing mix, position and segments of the banking sector|This is a study of the TV advertising budgets of the banks in Bulgaria, highlighting the specific features of the promotional policy, the setup of the marketing mix, the position and the segments of the banking sector in Bulgaria. The results in groups of products - consumer credits, mortgage loans, deposits, cards and loans for small and medium enterprises are discussed here. The period between 2009 to 2012 is covered. The thesis is proven that in case of good planning management of TRP points the same result can be achieved with a smaller advertising budget.
M37|"Valuing ""Free"" Media in GDP: An Experimental Approach"|“Free” consumer entertainment and information from the Internet, largely supported by advertising revenues, has had a major impact on consumer behavior. Some economists believe that measured gross domestic product (GDP) growth is badly underestimated because GDP excludes online entertainment (Brynjolfsson and Oh 2012; Ito 2013; Aeppel 2015). This paper ntroduces an experimental GDP methodology that includes advertising-supported media in both final output and business inputs. For example, Google Maps would be counted as final output when it is used by a consumer to plan vacation driving routes. On the other hand, the same website would be counted as a business input when it is used by a pizza restaurant to plan delivery routes. Contrary to critics of the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), the process of including “free” media in the input-output accounts has little impact on either GDP or total factor productivity (TFP). Between 1998 and 2012, measured nominal GDP growth falls 0.005% per year, real GDP growth rises 0.009% per year and TFP growth rises 0.016% per year. Between 1929 and 1998, measured nominal GDP growth rises 0.002% per year, real GDP growth falls 0.002% per year, and TFP growth rises 0.004% per year. These changes are not nearly enough to reverse the recent slowdown in growth. Our method for accounting for free media is production oriented in the sense that it is a measure of the resource input into the entertainment (or other content) of the medium rather than a measure of the consumer surplus arising from the content. The BEA uses a similar productionoriented approach when measuring GDP. In contrast, other researchers use broader approaches to measure value. Brynjolfsson and Oh (2012) attempt to capture some consumer surplus by measuring the time expended on the Internet. Varian (2009) argues that much of the value of the Internet is in time saving, an additional metric for capturing consumer surplus. The McKinsey Institute (Bughin et al. 2011) attempts to measure the productivity gain from search directly. In particular, this production-oriented accounting has no method to account for instances in which the good or service precedes the revenue that it eventually generates. Over the past two decades, many Silicon Valley firms have followed the disruptive business model described as URL: ubiquity now, revenue later. Some firms have been creating proprietary software or research, which is already captured in the national accounts as investment. Other firms have been creating intangible investments in open source software, customer networks and other organizational capital. Despite their long-run value, none of these intangible assets are currently captured in the national accounts as investment. If we treat these asset categories as capital, then the productivity boom from 1995 to 2000 becomes even stronger and the weak productivity growth of the past decade may be ameliorated somewhat.
M37|Limited Consumer Attention in International Trade|This paper introduces a model of limited consumer attention into an otherwise standard new trade theory model with love-of-variety preferences and heterogeneous firms. In this setting, we show that trade liberalization needs not be welfare enhancing if the consumers’ capacity to gather and process information is limited. Rather, it intensifies competition for scarce consumer attention, thereby triggering wasteful advertising, and it may divert purchases to imported goods at an inefficient scale. Wasteful advertising provides scope for policy intervention in the form of an advertising tax. However, the tax instrument cannot eliminate inefficient diversion of consumer purchases to imports. Therefore, even under an optimal advertising tax, neither a fall in transport costs nor advancements in the global distribution of information need generate gains from trade in this framework.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M37|Influence of segmentation factors on leaflet distribution|In marketing communication it is important to know what and how to inform the customer, it means to know the target audience, where it is located and how it is possible to reach it. The most commonly used form of addressing the customer in the retail is a leaflet action. This article aims to highlight the use of segmentation aspects by retail in the selected region for the best implementation of selected communication mix - direct marketing. An analysis of secondary data - professional literature and studies dealing with the meaning of communication in the company, specifically marketing communication with a focus on direct marketing in the retail - was executed to fulfil the objectives of the article. Results from a questionnaire survey that examined the influence of spatial data on the purchasing behaviour of customers in Ústí nad Labem - City will be used as primary data. Survey results indicate the fact that it was necessary to collect spatial data on the segment. A selected market was examined in the questionnaire survey mainly in terms of geography and demography and impact of these criteria on the leaflet distribution process application. Geographical segmentation provided information on the spatial distribution of retail shops in the city. Socio-demographic segmentation offered information about age, gender, status, and education of customers who shop in the supermarkets.
M37|Consumers’ Misevaluation and Public Promotion|I analyze markets in which consumers may misestimate the true value of goods and the government can affect the valuation through public promotion. When entry of firms is not allowed, the government makes consumers overvalue the goods to mitigate welfare loss from underproduction in an oligopolistic market, provided that the promotion cost is sufficiently low. On the contrary, in a free-entry market, no matter how low the promotion cost is, the government may make consumers undervalue them in order not to induce wasteful entries despite the remaining underproduction problem. In addition, my result in a free-entry market suggests that the main finding of Glaeser and Ujhelyi (J Public Econ 94: 247-257, 2010)crucially depends on the barriers to entry and the opposite result may be obtained under free entry.
M37|Persuasion and Gender: Experimental Evidence from Two Political Campaigns|This paper investigates the differential response of male and female voters to competitive persuasion in political campaigns. We implemented a survey experiment during the (mixed gender) electoral race for mayor in Milan (2011), and a field experiment during the (same gender) electoral race for mayor in Cava de' Tirreni (2015). In both cases, a sample of eligible voters was randomly divided into three groups. Two were exposed to either a positive or a negative campaign by one of the opponents. The third (control) group received no electoral information. In Milan, the campaigns were administered online and consisted of a bundle of advertising tools (videos, texts, slogans). In Cava de' Tirreni, we implemented a large scale door-to-door campaign in collaboration with one of the candidates, randomizing positive vs. negative messages. In both experiments, stark gender differences emerge. Females vote more for the opponent and less for the incumbent when they are exposed to the opponent's positive campaign. Exactly the opposite occurs for males. These gender differences cannot be accounted for by gender identification with the candidate, ideology, or other observable attributes of the voters.
M37|Influence Of Advertising On The Way Of Action In The Acquisition Of Over-The-Counter Drugs|Advertising of the Over-the-counter drugs is a growing segment. Our research aims to identify the main factors involved in making decisions for the purchase of OTC drugs and to identify what are the ways of informing consumers for this process. To test the hypotheses, a number of statistical tools such as factor analysis, Shapiro-Wilk and Mann-Whitney U tests have been used. The analyzed factors were: (A) doctor’s choice , (b) former own experience, (c) pharmacist’s advice, (d) information stated on the prospectus, (e) opinion of people who bought that drug, (f) opinion of colleagues, friends, relatives, (g) price, (h) brand, manufacturer, (i) information from advertising, (j) quality of advertising. For our analysis, we focused on two main populations: students and employed educated people. The main conclusion of this paper is that recent exposure to OTC advertising is likely to change both related behaviors and decision grids.
M37|Determinants Of Brand Equity: An Empirical Study Of It Industry|The performance of any brand can be measured by many methods. One of the widely used ways to calculate brand performance is through brand equity. Brand equity can be observed by customer’s perspective as well as financial perspective. This research paper investigates the impact of advertising & promotion, research & development (R&D) and profitability (return on assets) on brand equity. In this research paper data is used from 20 international IT brands for a period of 5 years from 2011 to 2015. The results show that advertising & promotion and profitability have statistically significant impact on brand equity whereas R&D doesn’t make significant impact on brand equity. Based on the findings, it is observed that advertising is having the strongest impact on brand equity.
M37|The Formation of Consumer Brand Preferences|Brands and brand capital have long been theorized to play an important role in the formation of the industrial market structure of consumer goods industries. We summarize several striking empirical regularities in the concentration, magnitude and persistence of brand market shares in consumer goods categories. We then survey the theoretical and empirical literatures on the formation of brand preferences and how brand preferences contribute to our understanding of these empirical regularities. We also review the literature on how brand capital creates strategic advantages to firms that own established brands.
M37|Firm pricing with consumer search|Economists could not properly capture the impact of the Internet on markets without a proper theory of consumer search. As a result, this theory has been rediscovered and developed further since the early 2000s. It can address such critical questions as the impact of reduced search cost on prices, variety, and product choice as well as advertising practices (such as search advertising). This theoretical development has also fed into a rich empirical literature exploiting the wealth of data that is now available regarding both consumers’ and firms’ online activity. The goal of this chapter is to present the basic concepts underpinning the theory of imperfectly competitive markets with consumer search. We stress that appropriate theoretical frameworks should involve sufficient heterogeneity among agents on both sides of the market. We also explain why the analysis of ordered search constitutes an essential ingredient for modeling recent search environments.
M37|Advertising’s Long-Term Impact on Brand Price Elasticity Across Brands and Categories|Advertising often aims at creating and reinforcing brand differentiation, which should translate into reduced price competition. Currently unknown are the boundary conditions for long-term advertising benefits, the route through which advertising effects materialize, and the role of competitive advertising in the category. The authors develop a Hierarchical Dynamic Linear Model that links own and others’ advertising in the category to brand price elasticity directly and indirectly through their impact on own and competitive mindset metrics. The model accommodates dynamic dependencies in mindset metrics, controls for endogeneity in marketing, captures competitive reactions and performance feedback in marketing, and explains cross-sectional variation as a function of brand and category characteristics. Model estimation on seven years of data for 350 brands in 39 categories shows that both own and all competitive advertising in the category lower price sensitivity for the average brand, both directly and through advertising awareness. The attenuation of price sensitivity is more pronounced for niche brands in complex and more expensive categories, with higher concentration and purchase frequency. A financial simulation based on the estimates shows that while the price elasticity effect is positive and substantial for high-price brands, it hurts the advertising returns for low-price brands.
M37|Effect of Advertising on the Brand Loyalty of Cosmetic Products among College Students|This study explored the relationship between advertising and brand loyalty of cosmetic products. The multinomial logit model was used to ascertain the effect of advertising on different loyalty profiles for cosmetic products among college students. Based on a survey of 200 Ghanaian students drawn randomly, findings indicated that advertising plays no significant role on college students’ loyalty for cosmetic products. It can be argued, however, that the most promiscuous buyer is more amenable to price dispersion and friends’ recommendations.
M37|The Impact of Brand trust, Self-image Congruence and Usage Satisfaction toward Smartphone Repurchase Intention|The purpose of this study is to examine the subjective factors; brand trust, self-image congruence and usage satisfaction toward repeat purchase intention of smartphones among the Gen-Y consumers in Malaysia. A total of 182 respondents participated in this research. Most of the respondents purchased a smartphone within the last 12 months and a large number of the respondents are active users of text messaging and smartphone applications. Results indicate that self-image congruence is the main antecedents for repeat purchase of smartphones. This is the followed by usage satisfaction as the second predictor and lastly would be brand trust. This paper provides some discussion and recommendations for practitioners.
M37|Consumers’ Purchasing Decision towards Food Products of Small and Medium Enterprises|The gross domestic product (GDP) of Malaysia has continuously increased from year to year. All industry sectors are responsible for contributing to Malaysia’s GDP, including the food and beverage (F&B) industry. The sales within the Malaysian F&B retail industry were forecast to grow yearly. This study is to examine Malaysian consumers’ acceptance of F&B products of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). In depth, this study also tries to investigate whether consumers use experience when making a decision to buy SMEs’ F&B products in the hypermarket. Results from structural equation modeling shows that consumers are barely aware of the existence of SMEs’ F&B products and prefer to buy establish brands’ products in the hypermarket. Hence, we suggest SMEs be more prominent in marketing their products. This action will influence consumer decisions in choosing SMEs brands over established brands’ products
M37|Perceived Risk, Trust and Information Seeking Behavior as Antecedents of Online Apparel Buying Behavior in India: An Exploratory Study in Context of Rajasthan|The growing use of social media is changing the consumer buying behavior across countries and regions. However, consumers in a developing region like Rajasthan are generally described as risk reluctant and hence the impact of social media on consumer online buying behavior is a pertinent topic of interest to marketers and researchers. Evidence of empirical research in this area is very limited. This research paper attempts to study the purchase behavior of consumers who buy apparels through the e-commerce system of social media by examining a random sample of 404 consumers from Rajasthan. Factors driving consumers to purchase online apparels through e-commerce in social media included information seeking, perceived risk, and trust. The empirical research findings through an SPSS 22 analysis suggest that there is a moderate to significant effect of social media on online apparel buying behavior in Rajasthan, with trust being the most significantly affected element followed by perceived risk and information seeking behavior.
M37|The Evolution of the Institution of Divorce in Romania|Under civil law in Romania in force today, divorce is granted by the court only for good reasons, when relations between spouses are impossible and coexistence of them can no longer continue. The current Civil Code of Romania provides in addition to the dissolution of marriage by judicial and other forms of dissolution of marriage, administratively or by a notary (art. 375-378, CC), but only by agreement of spouses and if the marriage is not accompanied minors.
M37|About The Romanian Way of Branding|To build a brand in Romania is not an easy or accomplished task. All the attempts after 1990 failed as they offered too general and unspecific features conveying no meaning about the country and its people. The present contribution mainly comments upon the campaign for Sibiu as a cultural capital in 2007. Although quite a long period passed and another Romanian city will have another chance in 2021, nothing seems to be improved. In 2007, the strategy was not coherent in its readability, listenability and visual presentation as a persuasive presentation of Romania. Too many foreign themes, subjects and structures were mixed up neglecting Romanian specificity or imposing an external perspective in which the target market cannot be found. No matter how well is crafted or superbly presented your message/brand, its communication value is defined by its own unique context.
M37|Joint stochastic dynamic pricing and advertising with time-dependent demand|This paper examines the sale of a finite number of items in a class of stochastic dynamic pricing and advertising models with time-dependent demand elasticities. We prove structural properties of the optimal expected profits with respect to time, inventory level, price impact, advertising impact and different model parameters, such as discount rate, marginal unit costs, and holding costs. We find that the value of an additional item (opportunity costs) is decreasing in the unit costs, the discount rate, the holding cost rate and the number of items left to sell. We also derive structural properties of optimal joint pricing and advertising strategies. This way, we obtain general qualitative insights in the complex interplay and the mutual dependence of optimal pricing and advertising decisions. Among other properties, we show that a higher advertising impact leads to higher optimal prices and lower advertising rates, which in turn implies a lower speed of sale. The results obtained help practitioners to respond to changes in market conditions by adjusting price and advertising accordingly. Our results allow speeding up numerical computations of decisions as the set of possible actions can be reduced significantly. Our analysis implies general results for pure pricing as well as pure advertising models with time-dependent demand elasticities.
M37|Advertising intensity and welfare in an equilibrium search model|I analyze an equilibrium search model in a duopoly setting with bilateral heterogeneities in production and search costs in which firms can advertise by announcing price. I compare the market advertising level to the socially optimal level, where I find that costly search can improve welfare and that firms may under- or over-advertise relative to the social optimum depending on the costs of search. The results suggest that, in markets with sufficiently low search costs, firms are likely over-advertising relative to the socially optimal level, and vice versa for markets with sufficiently high search costs.
M37|Optimal provision of information about consumption choices in the presence of a cognitive constraint|This paper studies how to best inform a consumer about her valuations for multiple goods when the consumer can learn about fewer goods than she can consume. The consumer should learn about the worst and/or best consumption choices. If the number of different goods that the consumer can consume increases, the consumer should learn about a greater number of goods to avoid and fewer goods to select.
M37|Inter-firm price coordination in a two-sided market|In many two-sided markets we observe that there is a common distributor on one side of the market. One example is the TV industry, where TV channels choose advertising prices to maximize own profit and typically delegate determination of viewer prices to independent distributors. We show that in such a market structure the stronger the competition between the TV channels, the greater will joint profits in the TV industry be. We also show that joint profits may be higher if the wholesale contract between each TV channel and the distributor consists of a simple fixed fee rather than a two-part tariff.
M37|Competitive provision of tune-ins under common private information|Television (TV) stations forego millions of dollars of advertising revenues by airing tune-ins (preview advertisements) for their upcoming programs. In this paper, I analyze the equilibrium as well as welfare properties of tune-ins in a duopolistic TV market that lasts for two periods. Importantly, each TV station is fully informed about its own as well as its rival's program. Viewers receive information via tune-ins, if any, or alternatively by sampling a program for a few minutes (and switching across stations). I find that equilibrium tune-in decisions do not necessarily depend on TV stations' knowledge of their rival's program. In this case, the opportunity costs of tune-ins could be so high that a regime without any tune-ins may be socially better. However, when tune-ins depend on both of the upcoming programs, it is possible that they enhance welfare by helping viewers avoid some of the inefficient program sampling they would otherwise do in a regime without any tune-ins.
M37|Negative campaigning, fundraising, and voter turnout: A field experiment|Why do candidates risk alienating voters by engaging in negative campaigning? One answer may lie in the large empirical literature indicating that negative messages are more effective than positive messages in getting individuals to do many things, including voting and purchasing goods. Few contributions to this literature, however, gather data from a field environment with messages whose tone has been validated. We conduct field experiments in two elections for local office which test the effect of confirmed negative and positive letters sent to candidates’ partisans on two measurable activities: donating to the candidate and turning out to vote. We find that message tone increases partisan support in ways that may help explain the persistence of negative campaigning. Negative messages are no better than positive messages at earning the candidates donations, but negative messages yield significantly higher rates of voter turnout among the candidates’ partisans relative to positive messages. Positive messages, however, are not neutral relative to no message.
M37|Valuing Free Media in GDP: An Experimental Approach|“Free” consumer entertainment and information from the Internet, largely supported by advertising revenues, has had a major impact on consumer behavior. Some economists believe that measured gross domestic product (GDP) growth is badly underestimated because GDP excludes online entertainment (Brynjolfsson and Oh 2012; Ito 2013; Aeppel 2015). This paper ntroduces an experimental GDP methodology that includes advertising-supported media in both final output and business inputs. For example, Google Maps would be counted as final output when it is used by a consumer to plan vacation driving routes. On the other hand, the same website would be counted as a business input when it is used by a pizza restaurant to plan delivery routes. Contrary to critics of the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), the process of including “free” media in the input-output accounts has little impact on either GDP or total factor productivity (TFP). Between 1998 and 2012, measured nominal GDP growth falls 0.005% per year, real GDP growth rises 0.009% per year and TFP growth rises 0.016% per year. Between 1929 and 1998, measured nominal GDP growth rises 0.002% per year, real GDP growth falls 0.002% per year, and TFP growth rises 0.004% per year. These changes are not nearly enough to reverse the recent slowdown in growth. Our method for accounting for free media is production oriented in the sense that it is a measure of the resource input into the entertainment (or other content) of the medium rather than a measure of the consumer surplus arising from the content. The BEA uses a similar productionoriented approach when measuring GDP. In contrast, other researchers use broader approaches to measure value. Brynjolfsson and Oh (2012) attempt to capture some consumer surplus by measuring the time expended on the Internet. Varian (2009) argues that much of the value of the Internet is in time saving, an additional metric for capturing consumer surplus. The McKinsey Institute (Bughin et al. 2011<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M37|The Retailers’ Marketing Strategy: Adapting to the fast-evolving environment|Retail and modern commerce have been one of the interesting themes that I have addressed in the last years, in various articles and studies. It is relevant to mention that in 2005, under the coordination and guidance of Professor Theodor Purcarea, I worked with my colleagues at the Romanian-American University in the research group TOEMM, whose purpose was studying the retail market in Romania, which was at the beginning of its development at that time. Research carried out and the satisfaction of the obtained results determined me to continue my scientific work, but not limited to this area. If in previous papers or studies, found in connection with the retail market, I mainly wrote about quantitative aspects, such as those related to geographical expansion and concentration of modern commerce in Romania, in this article I will address some theoretical aspects of the retailers’ marketing strategy, opening the perspectives for what could be an interesting research, involving the analysis of some of the major supply chains on the Romanian market.
M37|An Empirical Examination Of Facebook Use By Hispanics And Non-Hispanics|Social media has become a communications platform for brands to interact with customers. Few studies have tested how more than 50 million US Hispanics use social media. This paper investigates how Hispanics interact with social media, such as Facebook, and examines how Hispanics spend more on products or services after seeing advertising. Using an exploratory survey to collect data from Facebook users, we consider consumer behaviors, including a comparison of those who say they bought more after seeing the ads with those who did not buy more after seeing the ads. The authors determine whether the use of the Facebook ads increases the propensity to purchase products. We compare those who self-select as Hispanic vs. non-Hispanic, and consider the language preferences. Lastly, we make recommendations after analyzing the findings and describe what marketers need to know about Hispanics and social media
M37|Do Consumers Recall Productsâ€™ Warning Labels? A Meta-Analysi|Meta-analysis is a statistical technique that allows one to combine the results from multiple studies to glean inferences on the overall importance of a certain phenomenon. This study employs a substantive metaanalysis approach to quantitatively summarize the results of empirical studies of the direct impact of productsâ€™ warning labels on consumersâ€™ recall. When all the available estimates are combined and averaged, there seems to be a genuine and positive effect of warning labels on consumersâ€™ recall (average effect size = 0.34, aggregate n = 1882). The findings of this study significantly refine the body of knowledge concerning the impact of productsâ€™ warning labels on consumersâ€™ recall, and thereby offer an improved conceptual framework for marketers and warning label designers.
M37|The Rise of Fringe Competitors in the Wake of an Emerging Middle Class: An Empirical Analysis|"The ""emerging middle class"" is a force of economic importance in many consumer markets around the globe. A striking phenomenon in some of these markets is the growth of ""generic,"" low-price brands. This paper examines these phenomena in Brazil's large soft drink market. Our study draws on data sources that capture both social mobility and market outcomes. Our analysis suggests that the emergence of a price-sensitive, new middle class aided the staggering growth of a fringe of generic producers. Our estimated demand model rationalizes a drastic price cut, led by Coca-Cola, that allowed it to contain the fringe's growth. (JEL D12, L11, L66, L81, M37, O12, O14)"
M37|What Makes Them Click: Empirical Analysis of Consumer Demand for Search Advertising|We study users' responses to sponsored-search advertising using consumer-level data from Microsoft Live. We document that users click ads in a nonsequential order and that the click through rates depend on the identity of competing ads. We estimate a dynamic model of utility-maximizing users that rationalizes these two facts and find that 51 percent more clicks would occur if ads faced no competition. We demonstrate that optimal matching of advertisements to positions raises welfare by 27 percent, and that individual-level targeting raises welfare by 69 percent. Revealing the quality of the advertiser prior to clicking on a sponsored link raises welfare by 1.6 percent. (JEL D12, L86, M37)
M37|Selling Cookies|We propose a model of data provision and data pricing. A single data provider controls a large database that contains information about the match value between individual consumers and individual firms (advertisers). Advertisers seek to tailor their spending to the individual match value. The data provider prices queries about individual consumers' characteristics (cookies). We determine the equilibrium data acquisition and pricing policies. Advertisers choose positive and/or negative targeting policies. The optimal query price influences the composition of the targeted set. The price of data decreases with the reach of the database and increases with the fragmentation of data sales. (JEL C78, D83, L11, L82, M37)
M37|Inferring Rationales from Choice: Identification for Rational Shortlist Methods|A wide variety of choice behavior inconsistent with preference maximization can be explained by Manzini and Mariotti's Rational Shortlist Methods. Choices are made by sequentially applying a pair of asymmetric binary relations (rationales) to eliminate inferior alternatives. Manzini and Mariotti's axiomatic treatment elegantly describes which behavior can be explained by this model. However, it leaves unanswered what can be inferred, from observed behavior, about the underlying rationales. Establishing this connection is fundamental not only for applied and empirical work but also for meaningful welfare analysis. Our results tightly characterize the surprisingly rich relationship between behavior and the underlying rationales. (JEL D11, D12, D83, M37)
M37|Direct Marketing Strategy for „Coradrive” Service, Promoted by Cora Company|"In this article, we aim to develop a theoretical presentation about the concept of direct marketing strategy in all its forms, tools and techniques used for the development and implementation of direct marketing strategies for ""Coradrive"" service, service promoted by Cora company - an international chain of hypermarkets. Through this service, customers can purchase products online and then they go to the store just to pick up the ordered package, which is already prepared. Also, customers can set the time they can come and pick up the purchases and will not pay any extra charge, as products have the same price as in the physical store. In this article, we shall propose an original strategy for this service of the company. Also, through our contribution on direct marketing strategy for ""Coradrive"" service, the service website will generate more direct orders. In addition, in the end, we shall present the context of expressing the direct marketing strategy by analyzing the internal and external environment influence on the activity of the company."
M37|Mobile Game Advertising Recall in Pre- and Post-Game Experience|The mobile channel is a prominent way to reach an ever-increasing number of customers, and games designed for mobile devices are the most prominent form of mobile entertainment. This research examines players’ attitudes, advertising recall and service quality in a pre- and post-game advertising context by extending and modifying Tsang, Ho, and Liang (2004) research framework to a new mobile service context. A real-life test followed by focus group discussions are used to evaluate players’ attitudes, explicit memory and experiences while they use the mobile game service. Additionally, six managers of mobile marketing companies were interviewed to increase managerial relevance. The results revealed that the attitudes toward pre- and post-game advertising are not only dependent upon message content and user demographics, as in text message advertising, but also the quality of the game service itself. An explicit memory test indicated that players can recall advertisement but struggle to memorize specific brands advertised. The research concludes by indicating future research avenues.
M37|Experiential Marketing: An Efficient Tool to Leverage Marketing Communication Impact on Consumer Behaviou|In a dynamic economic environment marked by rapid evolution of new technologies and communication, new challenges have appeared for marketers. Traditional marketing tools have partially lost their efficiency, therefore important changes are required, in order to reach and maintain an optimum level of consumer satisfaction. Experiential marketing, one of the relative new concept which reflects these changes, focuses on enhancing the consumer direct contact with a brand or product, sending the message to consumers by offering them a personal experience, rather than spreading it by non-personal mass-media channels. This paper aims to highlight the possibilities of increasing the impact of marketing communication on consumer behaviour, rethinking the marketing communication mix in terms of experiential marketing. As an explanatory study, it describes the influence of marketing communication tools, acting through the strategic experiential modules, on the motivation, perception, attitude, learning and effective consumer behaviour. The practical importance of this study lies on identifying which marketing communication tools could offer to consumers a valuable experience, so marketers to exert a more direct and powerful influence on consumer behaviour, creating and reinforcing a sustainable relationship between consumers and brand.
M37|The Impact of Music Pleasantness and Fit on Advertising Attitudes for Low and High Involvement Consumers|Research in advertising suggests that music produces a substantial impact on a consumer’s attitude (e.g. Alpert and Alpert, 1989; Kellaris and Cox, 1989; North, MacKenzie, Law & Hargreaves, 2004; and Zander, 2006). However, there has been relatively little work on the mechanisms affecting low vs high involvement consumers. This study applies two dominant models on the impact of music in persuasion, classical conditioning and musical fit, to investigate the influence on low and high involvement consumers. Classical conditioning theory suggests that when a positive stimulus (i.e., the music) is associated with a neutral stimulus (the advertised product), the positive reaction to the music becomes associated with the product, leading to a favourable attitude (Gorn, 1982). Musical fit theory suggests that music activates information and evoked associations based on previous knowledge/familiarity, and when these fit the advertised product, the message becomes more persuasive (MacInnis and Park, 1991). Using an experimental design, 188 respondents saw advertisements paired with music that was pre-tested to be either pleasant/unpleasant (classical conditioning context) or congruent/incongruent with the product category (musical fit). Respondent’s involvement with the product category was also measured. The study found that ‘pleasant’ music significantly increased attitudes/purchase intention for low-involvement respondents (regardless of fit), while congruent music positively affected attitudes under high involvement conditions. Managerial implications and future research are discussed.
M37|Substitution between Online and Offline Advertising: Evidence from the Carbonated Soft Drink Industry| As in previous studies on traditional media, previous work has assumed that online and offline advertising are substitutes. However, empirical evidence for this premise is lacking. This paper investigates the substitution between online advertising and offline advertising as well as the impact of the introduction of new media technology on the cost of advertising. Using a rich dataset of monthly observations for 52 carbonated soft drink brands between 2005 and 2011, we estimate a translog cost function that considers the mix of on/off line advertising and online advertising adoption at the brand level. As in previous work, we find that TV and print media are close substitutes. Surprisingly, however, we find that online advertising is a complement to rather than a substitute for both TV and print media advertising. This might be explained by online advertising’s targeting younger market segments and acting as a reinforcement of TV and print media advertising exposure. Further results show that the adoption of online advertising has lowered the cost of advertising for achieving a sales target but that its role as a complement rather than a substitute is weakening.
M37|Substitution between Online and Offline Advertising: Evidence from the Carbonated Soft Drink Industry| As in previous studies on traditional media, previous work has assumed that online and offline advertising are substitutes. However, empirical evidence for this premise is lacking. This paper investigates the substitution between online advertising and offline advertising as well as the impact of the introduction of new media technology on the cost of advertising. Using a rich dataset of monthly observations for 52 carbonated soft drink brands between 2005 and 2011, we estimate a translog cost function that considers the mix of on/off line advertising and online advertising adoption at the brand level. As in previous work, we find that TV and print media are close substitutes. Surprisingly, however, we find that online advertising is a complement to rather than a substitute for both TV and print media advertising. This might be explained by online advertising’s targeting younger market segments and acting as a reinforcement of TV and print media advertising exposure. Further results show that the adoption of online advertising has lowered the cost of advertising for achieving a sales target but that its role as a complement rather than a substitute is weakening.
M37|Search Engine Advertising: To Click Or Not To Click On Sponsored Ads|The search on the web is an important area of research which, among other aspects, approaches the improvement of pages with results on a search engine (search engine result pages - SERPs), improving both the user's interface and the results' relevance. In order to design the search engine algorithm, it is important to understand how people interact with SERP. To obtain such knowledge, the researchers used techniques such as direct observation, analyses and surveys applied on the users in order to make an analysis of how the user decides to click or not to click on a link.
M37|The pricing strategies of Hungarian food retail chains during the last recession|The paper seeks to explore the pricing strategies used by Hungarian food retail chains and how these strategies are related to the market and financial performance of the chains. A two-phase empirical research was carried out in 2011/2012. The research is based on 44 in-store observations, the analysis of price promotion leaflets and interviews with retail professionals. In-store observations focused on collecting data on baseline prices. The price promotion leaflets enabled the assessment of the promotional activity of the observed retailers. The interviews were used to check the validity of the research results. By grouping the analysed 11 retail chains along baseline price levels and price promotion activities, three different types of pricing strategies were identified. A relationship was found between the three pricing strategies and the performance indicators of the included chains. An important finding is that retail chains with a medium price level and low promotional activity were the least successful, while retailers with a low price level and high promotional activity achieved the best performance.
M37|Designing Email Marketing Campaigns - A Data Mining Approach Based On Consumer Preferences|The organizations should approach the consumers by using only the instruments accepted andtrusted by them and if the email is one of the instruments , companies must be able to design emailmarketing communication campaigns that would have a high response rate (either in what concerns theopen rate, click rate and / or conversion rate). By owning a database and by designing email marketingcampaigns, the organizations can send individually, personalized offers. The messages used for writingthe emails should be adapted to the requirements of the target, based on some common characteristicsand / or behaviors. These common characteristics can be found out by analyzing the interaction that thepotential client has with the companyâ€™s website, through personal designation of interests andpreferences, by analyzing the buying behavior of the products visualized and the time spent on the websitebefore / after the purchase was made. The present paper presents the results of a research among thefactors that influence the recipients to open direct emails and make an action desired by the company andalso studies whether and what elements in the email would influence them to buy the products / servicespromoted. The results are obtained based on a data mining analysis which includes clustering andclassification processes and offer a guide on how organizations should design their email marketingcommunications in order to have higher response rates.
M37|The Online Advertising Of Small And Medium Sized Businesses|The recent decades have brought a new concept, namely the digital communication, which allows information to travel at a much more rapid rate and promotional messages (video, audio or simple texts) to be perceived in real time in different parts of the world. In the online environment, interactivity is the key term, the user being the one who sets up an online profile according to which he gets personalized messages. Thus, the organizations can more easily interact with customers, allocating budgets much lower than those used for traditional media. Therefore, SMEs have a real opportunity to promote themselves in a more efficient manner, at low cost and globally, the Internet offering them the possibility of becoming known among consumers from other states than their home country. In this context, the paper's main objective was the analysis of online advertising market in Europe and also the identification of the main results arising from the implementation of the SMEs promotion campaigns in the virtual environment. The results showed the huge potential of the Internet in terms of online advertising and the main tools that can be used successfully in the efforts of attracting and making customers loyal.
M37|Building Brand Awareness In The Medical Travel Market|The research work has as objective to determine the factors that contribute to the construction of the e-Reputation of a medical tourism business. The research tries to propose to medical facilitators methods and in particular Web marketing strategies, to help improve the ergonomics and the effectiveness of their web sites in order to meet the expectations of potential patients (medical tourists). The first part of the thesis exposes fundamental theories on medical tourism, its history and the issues it represents, the segmentation of the world market and the flow of patients to different destinations, the role of the medical facilitator in the patient experience, the internet and e-Reputation. The second part is based on a research with a twofold objective: on the one hand determining the motivations of medical tourists and the information they need in order to be reassured to seek treatment abroad. On the other hand, to determine which is the best approach used by the medical facilitators to meet the needs of these tourists and understand how they can build their image on the Internet (e-Reputation). The results of the analysis will help formulate marketing messages to meet the needs of the new patterns of medical tourists, who are now Internet users.
M37|Philatelic Boosterism: Tourism Stamps Of Small Island States|Small island states, because of their small populations and/or territorial size, compete with larger states on the world political map for identity, investment, revenue and visibility. Tourism represents one economic sector where these island states compete for tourist revenues. How they promote themselves internationally can be measured by the images they present of their amenity environments and culture and their hosting of regional religious, sporting and heritage events. Stamps, along with official webpages, are both products the state can/may use to increase its visibility; philatelic boosterism describes this strategy. I investigate the content of tourist stamps of twenty-four island states in the Caribbean, the Pacific, Europe, Africa and Asia. The major images portrayed are colorful, scenic, natural landscapes, festivals and cultural heritage. Few stamps depict maps, colonial histories and environmental uncertainties, including natural hazards. Tourism stamps appeal to international tourist markets, portray positive gazes and provide income for many small states.
M37|Impacts Of Green Marketing Strategies On Benefits Of Hotels: The Case From Serbia|It is believed that tourism slowly and silently destroys environment, therefore implementing green technologies and responsible business behavior are among the most trending issues in contemporary tourism. Implementing Environmental Management System and quality standards ISO14000 and ISO14001 in hotels in Serbia are still at the early stage. The main goal of this study was to investigate the major obstacles for implementation of business based on ecological awareness and to assess to what extent the Green Marketing Strategies have influence on the image of the hotels, relations with the local community, competitiveness on the market, profitability and satisfaction of employees. The sample comprised 20% of the total number of hotels in Serbia which are known to use any form of â€˜greenâ€™ marketing. The results confirm that the process of implementation of sustainable marketing strategies is at a very low scale (M=2.89). The regression analysis shows that the most beneficial are the satisfaction of employees and profitability. Furthermore, the results show that there are no differences in the implementation of such strategies regarding the hotels location, categorization and capacity, whereas certain benefits of green marketing vary in relation to location and the capacity of the hotel.
M37|Product placement as a way of promoting on an international scale based on a series of films about James Bond|This article presents the characteristics of product placement as global promotion. The reader may refer to the types of product placement, its regulatory framework and its short genesis and evolution. The paper presents the results of a survey conducted on a group of 123 respondents. The survey results indicate that product placement in James Bond films is noticeable by more than 90% of respondents. The respondents have positive opinions on the use of product placement to promote the products. This may encourage potential investors to make more use of film as a medium of product placement.
M37|Dezinformacja spoleczenstwa realizowana przez media internetowe a jej spoleczna akceptacja/ Misinformation of the Society by Internet Media and the Social Acceptance of This Phenomenon|Online media misinforming society and the social acceptance of this phenomenon This article is an attempt to research the phenomenon of institutionalized lying, which in the author’s opinion is the practice of websites aiming to maximize the readership of their content to the detriment of the fairness and objectivity. First, an introduction to the basic concepts of media ethics and their source in general ethics will be presented. Then, a description of the changes which have taken place in the media over the past several years will be shown in order to identify potential sources of the problem and there is a review of opinions available on the Internet. The next step was to examine sample content published by selected websites, along with descriptions of the techniques and methods used by publishers that may be ethically questionable, and can be described as a lie. At the end there is an attempt to investigate the level of knowledge about this treatment and its acceptance by the Internet community as a process of institutionalized lying. The author also provides some ideas how to solve this problem.
M37|The Contribution Of Gestures To Personal Branding|A form of (self-)promotion but also an authentic strategic choice, the personal brand has become a topical preoccupation of marketing specialists. Personal branding or self-marketing represents an innovative concept that associates the efficiency of personal development with the effectiveness of communication and marketing techniques adapted to the individual and that comprises the entire collection of techniques allowing the identification and promotion of the self/individual. The main objective is a clear communication with regard to personal identity, no matter by means of which method, so that it gives uniqueness and offers a competitive advantage. Although online promotion is increasingly gaining ground for the creation of a personal brand, an individual’s verbal and nonverbal behaviour represent very important differentiating elements. Starting from the premise that gestures often complement, anticipate, substitute or contradict the verbal, we will endeavour to highlight a number of significations that can be attributed to the various body movements and that can successfully contribute to the creation of a powerful personal brand.
M37|Online Media Coverage Of Environmental Protest In Romania. Rosia Montana Case|Romania, the place where protests never take place, has been facing significant civil disobedience and street demonstrations in the last years. Of them, environmental protests present several particularities and do not convey social problems. The cyanide exploitation in Rosia Montana in Romania has been debated lately due to the fact that the place is part of the Romanian historical heritage and due to the negative environment impact. The project has been delayed several times being subject to political and public environment policies. Moreover, the cyanide exploitation generated protests and street demonstrations against the project. The present study reveals the media coverage of the protest and analyses the way Romanian media referred to the environmental protest related to Rosia Montana through messages. We investigate the media message and implicitly the representation comprised in it. Our analysis includes several predetermined indicators in order to evaluate the media impact regarding the case: environment, economics, and legislative framework, presence of protests, involvement of non-governmental organizations, civil society/community and politicians.
M37|Feminine Vs. Masculine Gestural Marketing. Case Study: The French Presidential Debate On May 2, 2007|The gestures of presidential candidates can have an important contribution to the shaping of their mediatized image, together with the other components of nonverbal communication as well as together with words. Even more, gestures can have an impact on the evaluation made by a part of the electorate concerning the candidates. Starting from the functions of gestures in which the raised index finger is involved, as established by Geneviève Calbris (1979), we will endeavour to conduct a comparative analysis of the co-verbal gestures made by the two candidates to the presidency of France, Ségolène Royal and Nicolas Sarkozy, during their debate on May 2 2007. The identification of these functions does not include the gestures made with the index finger in combination with other facial components, as well as the gestures where the index finger describes lines drawn in space. The article uses as a research method the contents analysis of these gestures and is based on a scheme of categories that comprises the following indicators: designation/localization, important declaration, (drawing) attention to oneself, uniqueness, reference, refusal/negation, opposition/objection, threat/warning, or accusation.
M37|Political Communication During The 2014 Presidential Campaign: Online Media Coverage|The election campaign has lately become a real challenge where all the political actors display their skills, the communication ones, but also those related to the electoral marketing and public relations which play a vital role in creating the image of a particular candidate. The interest that the public manifest towards the presidential debates, as well as towards all the means of political communication used by the actors involved represents a reference point in the construction of an election campaign. Our paper aims to achieve a quantitative analysis of the communicational messages sent during the 2014 presidential campaign in the online media. In this respect, we are going to conduct a media monitoring on two central newspapers, namely “Evenimentul Zilei” (“Daily Event”) and “Jurnalul Na?ional” (“National Journal”), to track the online media visibility of the political communication starting from several indicators predefined in order to measure the efficiency of the political communication. Thus, our approach considers the influence of political communication in the election campaign as it appears in the online press in Romania.
M37|Seasonality and the Effect of Advertising on Price|" type=""main""> Does advertising make markets more or less competitive? This paper lays out an econometric strategy for estimating the effect of advertising on prices that exploits seasonal demand and imperfect targeting of consumers. We find mostly negligible effects of advertising on prices at monthly frequency: among the 35 (of 131) product categories with sufficient advertising seasonality to justify second-stage estimation, only nine have a significant effect, and those are typically small. This finding is essentially the result of the much greater seasonality in advertising than price."
M37|Methods Used In Audience Measurement Of Mass Media Channels Types, Results And Impact|In the present research I will analyze the reactions and opinions of the interviewed persons regarding the main methods used in audience measurement of mass media channels and also it will be analyzed the types, the results and the impact. At the same time, it is aimed at bringing in a connection between the results of audience surveys and the communication strategies developed by public and private companies. Thereby, I will use the interview as a qualitative research method, to confirm or infirm the hypothesis of the present research.
M37|Push-me pull-you: comparative advertising in the OTC analgesics industry|We model comparative advertising as brands pushing up own brand perception and pulling down the brand image of targeted rivals. We watched all TV advertisements for OTC analgesics 2001-2005 to construct matrices of rival targeting and estimate the structural model. These attack matrices identify diversion ratios and hence comparative advertising damage measures. We find that outgoing comparative advertising attacks are half as powerful as self-promotion in raising own perceived quality and cause more damage to the targeted rival than benefit to the advertiser. Comparative advertising causes most damage through the pull-down effect and has substantial benefits to other rivals.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M37|Qualitative Research Among Experts Regarding The Frequency Of Exposure|In order to identify the differences between the theoretical approach related with the processes of media planning and the practical approach of experts from this field, a qualitative research has been done among experts. Besides that, the main purpose of this article is to determine the purpose and methods used by experts in order to establish the level of the effective frequency of exposure. There are several theoretical approaches related with this concept and many models have been carried out by theoreticians from this filed, but it's very important to find out how things are really going in practice: do the practitioners consider the frequency of exposure an important media objective and if so, what is their method for establishing the level of frequency of exposure for a particular media campaign? This subject and many others have been addressed to experts in this qualitative research.
M37|Promoting Traditional Food Products As Healthy Diet Products|The aim of this paper is to propose a brief introspection in the literature review in an attempt to highlight the peculiarities of traditional foodstuffs that enable them to be promoted as the primary food for a healthy diet. The trend of healthy eating is gaining ground not only for experts and researchers, but also for consumers on a daily basis. Traditional foodstuffs are brought back into the consumers’ attention in a market full of highly-processed foodstuffs. Marketing specialists noticed the link between the two concepts and they elaborated promotional strategies for traditional foodstuffs, having the ‘healthy diet’ as insight. Throughout the paper we will present theoretical considerations such as the concept of ‘traditional food product’, ‘promotion’, and ‘healthy diet’ from a marketing perspective followed by several examples of traditional food products perceived as healthy, and lastly, we will highlight the benefits of promoting a healthy diet by consuming traditional food products.
M37|La efectividad de la publicidad oposicional|El propósito de este estudio es analizar la viabilidad de la publicidad oposicional en Chile. Los datos fueron recolectados a través de experimentación controlada, a través del uso de un anuncio impreso para un nuevo automóvil en donde se manipularon los elementos visuales y verbales (oposicionales vs. no oposicionales). Los hallazgos sugieren que los anuncios oposicionales pueden ser menos eficaces en la recordación del anuncio, a pesar de ser percibidos menos complejos por los participantes. Mientras que una investigación experimental no es suficiente para establecer la no superioridad de la publicidad oposicional en Chile, los resultados apoyan la idea de que la publicidad oposicional podría no ser más eficaz que la publicidad no oposicional para muchas campañas de marketing en Chile.
M37|Directrices para la implementacio?n de un modelo de gestio?n de la relacio?n con el cliente en el sector industrial: caso DAMERA|En la presente investigacio?n se aplica el me?todo de caso para analizar la implementacio?n de un modelo de Customer Relationship Management en una empresa industrial. Para este fin se utiliza como base la propuesta de Peppers y Rogers, integra?ndola en las caracteri?sticas y los tipos de demanda propios del sector industrial. A esto se suma el desarrollo de un diagno?stico con miras a evaluar la potencialidad de la empresa para implementar el modelo y la elaboracio?n de una matriz de clasificacio?n del cliente. Finalmente, se aplico? una encuesta a partir de la cual se identificaron las variables para la segmentacio?n de clientes y los puntos de contacto, definie?ndose asi? los grupos de valor para la empresa.
M37|Personalidad de marca de las escuelas de negocios en Chile: Propuesta de modelo|En este artículo se propone el modelo “Business School Brand Personality” (BSBP), el cual cumple con todos los requisitos de la validez de contenido. Este modelo considera como base el modelo de personalidad de marca de Jennifer Aaker, pero se adapta a las características propias de las escuelas de negocios en Chile. Para detectar las dimensiones del modelo BSBP se realizó una exhaustiva revisión de la literatura, se aplicaron cuestionarios semiestructurados, entrevistas y focus groups a estudiantes (de pregrado y posgrado), y se solicitó la opinión de expertos. Se consideró la participación de los estudiantes de pregrado y posgrado, por cuanto el modelo propuesto es para las escuelas de negocios en su conjunto, y no para un tipo particular de estudiante. Como resultado, se concluye que el constructo BSBP es de naturaleza multidimensional y está compuesto por las dimensiones: a) competencia, b) innovación, c) sinceridad, d) entusiasmo, e) rudeza, f) elitistas, g) ambición, y h) social. Los resultados aportan a la literatura, ya que es el primer modelo que se presenta para las escuelas de negocios. Dado esto, el modelo propuesto se puede utilizar como una primera aproximación en investigaciones que se desarrollen en sectores de educación superior de otros países.
