M41|Loss aversion and the zero-earnings discontinuity|Prior literature suggests that the zero-earnings discontinuity is caused by earnings management. This makes sense if investors are naïve. We test for the possibility of investor naïveté and find that they are aware of firms performing earnings management around zero reported earnings and that there is no ob-vious gain of reaching zero reported earnings. We extend a signaling model to include loss-averse investors and we find that earnings management is not only rational, but in equilibrium, it is not possible for investors to deduce the correct value of firms’ earnings around the discontinuity. Assuming our model gen-erates the observed data, a loss-aversion coefficient of 1.2595 matches the discontinuity below zero reported earnings observed in the data simulated from the model and in the actual data. This loss-aversion coefficient is consistent with Tversky and Kahneman (1992), who find that losses are weighted roughly twice as heavily as gains.
M41|Business Groups and the Incorporation of Firm-specific Shocks into Stock Prices|In lower-income economies, stocks exhibit less idiosyncratic volatility and business groups are more prevalent. This study connects these two findings by showing that business group affiliated firms’ stock returns exhibit less idiosyncratic volatility than do the returns of otherwise similar unaffiliated firms. Global commodity price shocks are common shocks that contribute to firm-level idiosyncratic risk because they affect industries heterogeneously. Idiosyncratic components of commodity shocks are incorporated less into idiosyncratic returns of group affiliates than unaffiliated firms in the same industry and economy. Identification follows from difference-in-difference tests exploiting successful and matched-exogenously-failed control block transactions.
M41|Security Analysis: An Investment Perspective|The investment theory, in which the expected return varies cross-sectionally with investment, expected profitability, and expected growth, is a good start to understanding Graham and Dodd’s (1934) Security Analysis. Empirically, the q^5 model goes a long way toward explaining prominent equity strategies rooted in security analysis, including Frankel and Lee’s (1998) intrinsic-to-market value, Piotroski’s (2000) fundamental score, Greenblatt’s (2005) “magic formula,” Asness, Frazzini, and Pedersen’s (2019) quality-minus-junk, Buffett’s Berkshire, Bartram and Grinblatt’s (2018) agnostic analysis, as well as Penman and Zhu’s (2014, 2018) and Lewellen’s (2015) expected-return strategies.
M41|Adoption of CSR and Sustainability Reporting Standards: Economic Analysis and Review|This study provides an economic analysis of the determinants and consequences of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability reporting. To frame our analysis, we consider a widespread mandatory adoption of CSR reporting standards in the United States. The study focuses on the economic effects of standards for disclosure and reporting, not on the effects of CSR activities and policies themselves. It draws on an extensive review of the relevant academic (CSR and non-CSR) literatures in accounting, economics, finance, and management. Based on a discussion of the fundamental economic forces at play and the key features and determinants of (voluntary) CSR reporting, we derive and evaluate possible economic consequences, including capital-market effects for select stakeholders as well as potential firm responses and real effects in firm behavior. We also highlight issues related to the implementation and enforcement of CSR reporting standards. Our analysis yields a number of insights that are relevant to the current debate on CSR and sustainability reporting and provides scholars with avenues for future research.
M41|Mandated Financial Reporting and Corporate Innovation|We investigate the impact of reporting regulation on corporate innovation activity. Exploiting thresholds in Europe’s regulation and a major enforcement reform in Germany, we find that forcing a greater share of firms to publicly disclose their financial statements reduces firms’ innovative activities at the industry level. At the same time, it increases firms’ reliance on patenting to protect their innovations, to the extent they continue innovating. Our evidence is consistent with reporting mandates having significant real effects by imposing proprietary costs on innovative firms, which diminishes their incentives to engage in innovative activities. Importantly, we examine and find that this decline in innovative activity is not fully compensated by positive information spillovers (e.g., to competitors, suppliers, and customers) within industries. Thus, our evidence implies that proprietary costs induced by reporting mandates are important consideration for regulators and policy makers.
M41|An Analysis of Transfer Pricing Disputes in India|The transfer pricing regime in India, since its inception, has been criticised for pronounced and protracted litigation. In this context, this paper evaluates the transfer pricing regime over the span of a decade (2003-04 to 2013-14) using 6731 case orders. It presents the first evidence of the duration of transfer pricing cases, delineated into pre-ITAT and post-ITAT phases, and compares the performance of the two pre-ITAT forums - the CIT(A) and the DRP. Further, the paper presents evidence on issues such as repeated litigation on identical grounds and remand orders that place companies in cycles of litigation. We find that while the DRP, as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, may have led to a reduction in case duration in the initial years, this benefit may have now peaked leading to a convergence across forums. Further, we find that often grounds for litigation are similar across years, and therefore joint audits for multiple years may be a superior strategy for transfer pricing cases than the current one.
M41|Accounting profession by the view of School of Business Administration students| With the growing importance of accounting information for the accounting entity's management in connection with its financial decision-making, the role of a quality professional accountant is growing. The aim of the article is to evaluate the view of the students of the economic university at the accounting profession in the Czech Republic. It was determined by a questionnaire survey how students of both full-time and combined forms of study at the School of Business Administration perceive the accounting profession in the Czech Republic. Based on the acquired nominal data, the dependence of the perceptions of the accountant profession to form, degree and field of study was examined using the Pearson chi-quadrate test in the contingency table. In addition, the intensity of this dependence was examined using the Pearson coefficient of contingency. It was found that the perception of entrepreneurial risk associated with the selection of a professional accountant does not depend on the form of university studies. On the other hand, it has been shown that the form of university studies influences the perception whether the level of qualifications of professional accountants is reflected in their salary assessment and whether the impact of the economic decline of past years has increased the importance of professional accountants for entrepreneurs. The results also showed that the perception of the accounting profession in the Czech Republic is independent on the degree of university studies.
M41|Bank loan loss provisions, risk-taking and bank intangibles|This article investigates the relationship between discretionary loan loss provisions and bank intangibles among African banks. Prior studies have focused on how intangible assets affect firms’ profitability and valuation decisions with almost no focus on the role of loan loss provisions. We investigate whether banks increase (decrease) loan loss provisions in response to risks associated with investment in intangible assets. We find that discretionary loan loss provisions are inversely associated with bank intangible assets and change in intangible assets, but the inverse association is weakened in environments with strong investor protection. We observe that income smoothing is reduced among banks that have large intangible asset investment. Moreover, income smoothing is pronounced among banks that have few intangible asset investments but this behaviour is reduced for banks in environments with strong minority shareholders right protection.
M41|Impact of IAS 39 reclassification on Income Smoothing by European Banks|We examine the impact of the reclassification of IAS 39 on income smoothing using loan loss provisions among European banks. We predict that the strict recognition and re-classification requirements of IAS 139 reduced banks' ability to smooth income using bank securities and derivatives, motivating them to rely more on loan loss provisions to smooth income. Our findings do not support the prediction for income smoothing through loan loss provisions. Also, there is no evidence for income smoothing in the pre- and post-IAS 39 reclassification period. The implication of the findings is that: (i) European banks did not use loan loss provisions to smooth income during the period examined, and rather rely on other accounting numbers to smooth income; (ii) the IASB’s strict disclosure regulation improved the reliability and informativeness of loan loss provision estimates among European banks during the period of analysis.
M41|Regulatory Spillovers in Common Audit Markets|We find that Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) had two significant effects on the audit market for nonpublic entities. The first short-run effect stems from inelastic labor supply coupled with an audit demand shock from public companies. As a result, private companies reduced their use of attested financial reports in bank financing by 12%, and audit fee increases for nonprofit organizations (NPOs) more than doubled. The second long-run effect was a transformation in the audit supply structure. After SOX, NPOs were less likely to match with auditors most exposed to public companies, while auditors increasingly specialized their offices based on client type. Audit market concentration for NPOs dropped by more than half within five years of SOX and remained at this level through the end of our sample in 2013, while the number of suppliers increased by 26%. Our results demonstrate how regulation directed at public companies generates economically im-portant spillovers for nonpublic entities.
M41|The optimal choice of a relative performance indicator in product market competition|In this research, we analytically explore what performance indicator is optimal in a market competition when the firm’s owner compensates the CEO based on the relative performance evaluation. The relative performance evaluation considered in previous studies compares the firm’s profit with the competitor’s profit. However, when the firm evaluates the CEO’s performance, another performance indicator is often adopted instead of profit. As a result, we show that given specific economic conditions, the owners adopt sales as a relative performance indicator to evaluate the CEO’s performance. This result has some important implications for the research on relative performance evaluation. First, it will affect future studies showing that there are different possible choices of relative performance indicators in management accounting assuming product market competition. Second, our study has an important implication for empirical research on relative performance evaluation in management accounting, in which a relative performance indicator is adopted as an independent variable.
M41|The wage growth puzzle and the Philips Curve explained: recent developments|"Is the Philips Curve Still Applicable in Today’s Financial Environment? The relationship between wage inflation and unemployment, is not only considered by Gali and Gambetti (2018:2) to be a “a key link of the relation between prices and economic activity” but also regarded as the focus of Phillips (1958) original work, is widely perceived to be at the heart of the ""twin puzzle.” Further they add that, “the failure of wage inflation to respond sufficiently to the tightening of the labor market in recent years is generally viewed as one of the main factors behind the extremely accommodating monetary policies” at central banks like the Federal Reserve or the ECB.” Why can some economic indicators still be considered to be applicable and relevant – even in an environment where so many advancements and financial instruments have significantly altered the financial landscape which existed over the years? In particular, why can the Philips Curve still be considered applicable and relevant – with reference to wage inflation and productivity? More importantly, what economic indicators can serve to provide more reliable indicators of inflationary levels once more temporary elements, as induced by import prices, have diminished?"
M41|The Effect of Working Capital Management on Dividend Policy: An Empirical Analysis of Listed Firms in Ghana|Relying on more recent data spanning 2007-2016, this paper investigates the impact of working capital management (WCM) on dividend policy of listed non-financial firms in Ghana. Specifically, the study assesses the effect of cash conversion cycle (CCC), days inventory outstanding (DIO), profitability, and firm growth on dividend policy. Employing the ordinary least squares (OLS) analytical technique, the findings reported that working capital management (in terms of cash conversion cycle and days inventory outstanding) and dividend policy are positively related, with DIO having a significant effect on dividend policy. The results also established a positive association between the control variables (profitability and firm growth) and dividend policy albeit insignificantly. Based on the findings, the study concludes that working capital management in terms of days inventory outstanding (DIO) is a critical factor influencing firms’ dividend policy decisions. The study extends the inconclusive empirical evidence on the determinants of dividend policy and fills the lacuna in existing literature by focusing on how working capital management practices influence dividend policy of firms in Ghana. The findings are also useful to the board of directors of non-financial firms in deciding an appropriate dividend policy, and to the shareholders in making investment decisions.
M41|Последващо Оценяване На Репутацията – Преглед На Съществуващата Нормативна Уредба<BR>[Subsequent Evaluation Of Goodwill - Overview Of Existing Accounting Legislation]|The purpose of this article is to review and analyze existing practices in the accounting regulation of post-reputation accounting as one of the major problems in the field of accounting harmonization by not aiming to critically analyze individual regulations in terms of their relevance. The objective analysis of the reviewed regulations allows us to summarize that the existing order for carrying out the ex post evaluation of the reputation and the specified disclosure elements are very important in order to obtain real indications of the business situation and the need for impairment but on the other hand they are extremely sensitive and easy to manipulate, as they use internal assumptions and assessments of enterprise management that are extremely difficult to verify. We believe that this is one of the main prerequisites for changing the regime in subsequent accounting for goodwill.
M41|Финансово И Нефинансово Отчитане – Симбиоза Или Антагонизъм?<BR>[Financial And Non-Financial Reporting - Symbiosis Or Antagonism?]|Contemporary economic development leaves its distinctive trait and changes the way companies are perceived and valued in general. The purpose of this paper is to review the scope of the options for applying financial and nonfinancial reporting as well as to analyze and justify the need to introduce unified disclosure practices for non-financial information and how the management of the entity communicates this information with interested parties. We believe that the major part of the disclosures of non-financial information should be “structured” and appropriately linked to the entity's financial performance as part of a single integrated activity report.
M41|Clawback Provisions and Firm Risk|Panel OLS and GMM-IV estimates indicate that executives respond to the adoption of a compensation clawback provision by decreasing firm risk. The mechanisms that transmit incentives to decisions and decisions to risk appear to be more conservative investment and financial policies and preemptive management of ESG, legal, and cyberattack risks. The stock market reaction to the announcement of a clawback adoption, as well as post-adoption stock and accounting performance, are significantly and positively related to the actual and predicted reduction in firm risk. The reduction in firm risk, arising from adoption of a clawback policy, appears to benefit shareholders.
M41|Understanding Corporate Thailand I: Finance|"This study analyzes the entire universe of registered firms in Thailand. There are five main findings. First, firm size distribution is smooth, with a majority of firms in the middle of the distribution; the apparent ""missing middle? phenomenon is entirely driven by arbitrary categorization of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Second, the Thai corporate sector is very concentrated; the concentration has also risen over the past decade. Third, larger firms seem to have advantages over smaller firms regarding financing. Fourth, smaller firms tend to disproportionately invest less in fixed assets than larger firms. Finally, firms in the middle of the size distribution exhibit the highest return on asset (ROA) but have low leverage, consistent with the symptom of credit constraints. Large firms, in contrast, seem to have lower ROA but higher debt. Meanwhile, smaller firms seem to have both lower leverage and ROA. Overall, our results suggest that the Thai corporate sector exhibits both inefficient capital allocation and financial vulnerability. The paper has important policy implications on resource allocation in the economy, particularly, regarding appropriate assistance provided to small and medium enterprises."
M41|Evolution of financial information and management control over the last 150 years. The case of Bodegas Torres|This article describes the most relevant milestones in the development of both financial information and management control, from the inception of the business up to the present day but particularly over the last 150 years. As a case study, it sets out the development of the wine producing company Bodegas Torres, a family group with its headquarters in Vilafranca del Penedés (Barcelona). It is a company renowned for its innovation and excellence in the world of wine producing, but also in management, including its financial information and management control practices.
M41|Provable loss analysis - evaluation of financial health in public transportation from accounting viewpoint|The submitted paper analyses the financial health evaluation of the public transport company. The main goal of the paper is to analyse determining of the provable loss amount in the public line transport, track-based transport and municipal public transport pursuant to Government Decree No. 493/2004 Sb., Regulation No. 241/2005 Sb. and Regulation No. 296/2010 Sb. and the methods of payment of subsidies in the regional and long-distance transport. Basic characteristics or the explanatory power of individual legal regulations addressing the issue of economically substantiated costs and revenues and the payment of the relevant amount of compensation (subsidy) arising from the basic transport services prove that Regulation No. 296/2010 Sb. promotes higher financial drawing from public budgets for the needs of ensuring basic transport services and for the renewal of the fleet as compared with Government Decree No. 493/2004 Sb. in case of the public line transport and Regulation No. 241/2005 Sb. in case of the public track-based transport. The partial goal of the thesis is to classify the cost and revenue items affecting the amount of the subsidy and to propose effective classification in individual groups of economically substantiated costs on the basis of their explanatory power.
M41|Possibilities of identifying distortion of the calculation basis for the payment of dividend on the basis of accounting|Financial earning from dividends and profit shares are important income for the owners. From the business corporation perspective is the setting of dividend policy important for keeping the financial stability and solvency of the corporation. The most important indicator of the financial performance of the corporation is the profit reached. Czech accounting rules allow to account some revenue and expenses of on the basis of estimates so that all expenses and revenue are accounted in the period which is related in matter and time. These items are often a means for creative distortion of the economic result with the aim to reach the required level of covenants that lead to payment of benefits, directors rewards and annuals rewards for the management and also for the overvaluating of the economic result as one of the variables for the calculation base for the payment of dividends. Current legislation for setting the calculation base for the payment of dividends is not satisfactory and does not protect against disproportional outflow of financial means in the form of dividends for the owners. The paper concentrates on the possibility of identifying the distortion of the calculation base for the payment of dividends and on the proposal of a modification of the calculation base for the payment of dividends which would respect the legal right of the owners but also protect the financial stability of the business corporation and ensure its growth during its existence and to limit the outflow of money abroad. Key words: calculation base for the payment of dividends, net profit, payment ratio, modified reporting, NTEDP (net total earning for dividend payments), tests of profitability and own capital, accounting.
M41|Lured by the Consensus|We find that investors are fixated on analysts’ consensus outputs (earnings forecasts, recommendations, and forecast dispersion), which can be inferior signals compared to the corresponding outputs provided by high-quality analysts, especially when a large number of high-quality analysts follow the firm. This result, which holds at the firm and market level, implies inefficient use of the information contained in analysts’ outputs. Further, the post-earnings announcement drift (PEAD) phenomenon occurs only when high-quality analysts are more uncertain about the firm’s performance than all analysts following the firm. We conclude that the market’s fixation on consensus measures has significant negative economic implications.
M41|Strategic Trading As a Response to Short Sellers|We study empirically informed traders’ reaction to the presence of short sellers in the market. We find that investors with positive views on a stock strategically slow down their trades when short sellers are present in the same stock. Moreover, they purchase larger amounts to take advantage of the price decline induced by short sellers. Furthermore, they break up their buy trades across multiple brokers, suggesting that they wish to hide from the short sellers. This behavior may impact price discovery, as we find a sizeable reduction of positive information impounding for stocks more exposed to short selling during information sensitive periods. The evidence is confirmed exploiting exogenous variation in short interest provided by the Reg SHO Pilot Program. The findings have relevance for the regulatory debate on the market impact of short selling.
M41|Strategic Trading as a Response to Short Sellers|We study empirically informed traders' reaction to the presence of short sellers in the market. We find that investors with positive views on a stock strategically slow down their trades when short sellers are present in the same stock. Moreover, they purchase larger amounts to take advantage of the price decline induced by short sellers. Furthermore, they break up their buy trades across multiple brokers, suggesting that they wish to hide from the short sellers. This behavior may impact price discovery, as we find a sizeable reduction of positive information impounding for stocks more exposed to short selling during information sensitive periods. The evidence is confirmed exploiting exogenous variation in short interest provided by the Reg SHO Pilot Program. The findings have relevance for the regulatory debate on the market impact of short selling.
M41|Group affiliation and default prediction|Using a large sample of business groups from more than one hundred countries around the world, we show that group information matters for parent and subsidiary default prediction. Group firms may support each other when in financial distress. Potential group support represents an off-balance sheet asset for the receiving firm and an off-balance sheet liability for the firm offering support. We find that subsidiary information improves parent default prediction over and above group-level consolidated information possibly because intra-group exposures are netted out upon consolidation. Moreover, we document that the improvements in parent default prediction are decreasing in the extent of parent-country financial reporting transparency which suggests that within-group information matters most when consolidated financial statements are expected to be of lower quality. We also show that parent and other group-firms’ default risk exhibits predictive power for subsidiary default. Lastly, we find that within-group information explains cross-sectional variation in CDS spreads. Taken together, our findings contribute to prior literature on default prediction and have direct relevance to investors, credit-rating agencies and accounting regulators.
M41|Earnings Stability and Peer Company Selection for Multiple Based Indirect Valuation|We contribute to the development of indirect valuation method for publicly traded companies. We introduce relative earning stability as a new dimension of peer selection criteria for determination of appropriate comparable group of peer companies to the evaluated company. Based on large sample of all publicly traded companies in Thomson Reuters database over recent 35 years, we provide empirical evidence of significant improvement of indirect valuation accuracy and precision as a result of our relative earning stability approach. Peer selection based on the relative earnings stability takes account of some idiosyncrasies of companies, which remain uncaptured by traditional industrial classification based peer selection methods. We also empirically establish superiority of a within-company price to earnings (PE) valuation technique for the most stable companies. Our empirical results are robust against different means of operationalization of the stability criterion and indirect valuation methods.
M41|CECL and the Credit Cycle|We find that that the Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) standard would slightly dampen fluctuations in bank lending over the economic cycle. In particular, if the CECL standard had always been in place, we estimate that lending would have grown more slowly leading up to the financial crisis and more rapidly afterwards. We arrive at this conclusion by estimating historical allowances under CECL and modeling how the impact on accounting variables would have affected banks' lending and capital distributions. We consider a variety of approaches to address uncertainty regarding the management of bank capital and predictability of credit losses.
M41|From Incurred Loss to Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL): Forensic Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses in nconditionally Cancelable Credit Card Portfolios|The Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) framework represents a new approach for calculating the allowance for credit losses. Credit cards are the most common form of revolving consumer credit and are likely to present conceptual and modeling challenges during CECL implementation. We look back at nine years of account level credit card data, starting with 2008, over a time period encompassing the bulk of the Great Recession as well as several years of economic recovery. We analyze the performance of the CECL framework under plausible assumptions about allocations of future payments to existing credit card loans, a key implementation element. Our analysis focuses on three major themes: defaults, balances, and credit loss. Our analysis indicates that allowances are significantly impacted by specific payment allocation assumptions as well as downturn economic conditions. We also compare projected allowances with realized credit losses and observe a significant divergence resulting from the revolving nature of credit card portfolios. We extend our analysis across segments of the portfolio with different risk profiles. Interestingly, fewer risky segments of the portfolio are proportionally more impacted by specific payment assumptions and downturn economic conditions. Our findings suggest that the effect of the new allowance framework on a specific credit card portfolio will depend critically on its risk profile. Thus, our findings should be interpreted qualitatively, rather than quantitatively. Finally, the goal is to gain a better understanding of the sensitivity of allowances to plausible variations in assumptions about the allocation of future payments to present credit card loans. Thus, we do not offer specific best practice guidance.
M41|Corporate Governance disclosure and implication in the financial audit of banks in Romania|Thispaperaims topresents the relevant aspects regarding the implementation of principles and rulesof corporate governance in the Romanian banking system.The purpose of the articleis to investigate the theoretical and legislative basis whichcontrolsthis area, but also research practical cases on this subject. Based on the review of nationaland international literature, the case study was based on a sample of 17 commercial banks from Romania.Usingcollected data from the official banks' websites, it was analyzed the details of chosen corporate governance elements: the management system, the shareholder and organizational structure, the financial control and audit, as well as if the banks offer disclosure for theapplicable governance codes. The main conclusion which resultsfrom thisstudy case is that,the information available to public provides details about the management structure and the audit department, but this information is not very detailed, the information about the professional experience of the members or the benefits that these credit institutions obtained from the application of corporate governance codes are not described, in some cases even missing.
M41|The Determinants of Islamic Social Reporting Disclosure in Indonesia|Objective – The purpose of this research is to identify the relationship between corporate performance, Good Corporate Governance (GCG), and corporate characteristics on Islamic Social Reporting disclosure in Indonesia. Methodology/Technique – A quantitative approach is applied in this research. The sample of this study consists of companies that were consistently listed on the Jakarta Islamic Index (JII) from 2012 to 2017. A purposive sampling method with certain criteria was employed to produce a total of 72 samplings. Partial Least Square (PLS) was also used to analyse the data. Findings – The results of this research indicate that corporate performance has a positive and significant effect on ISR disclosure, GCG has a positive and significant effect on ISR disclosure, and corporate characteristics have a negative and insignificant effect on ISR disclosure. Novelty – Islamic Social Reporting is the answer and solution to the needs of the interested parties concerned with the company's financial statements. ISR becomes a very important thing for the reputation and performance of Islamic financial institutions. Islamic financial institutions that succeed in revealing their ISR value will be perceived as a reliable entity by the Muslim community in channelling their fund. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M41|The Influence of Dividend Policy and Income Tax on Income Smoothing|Objective – This research aims to obtain the empirical evidence on the influence of dividend policy, income tax, firm size, profitability, and leverage on income smoothing. Methodology/Technique – In this research, income smoothing is proxied with the Eckel index and logistic regression is used to test the hypothesis. The research population consists of non-financial companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange from 2013 to 2016. The sampling method used in this research is purposive sampling. The number of companies selected is 79 with 316 data. Findings – The results show that dividend policy, income tax, profitability, and leverage all have an influence on income smoothing. Meanwhile, firm size has no significant influence on income smoothing. Novelty – These findings are consistent with a firm's dividend policy and income tax having an incremental impact on income smoothing behavior. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M41|The Substitution Role of Audit Committee Effectiveness and Audit Quality in Explaining Audit Report Lag|Objective – This study aims to examine the relationship between audit committee effectiveness on Audit Report Lag (ARL), and the moderating effect of audit quality on the relationship between audit committee effectiveness and ARL. Methodology/Technique – 109 non-financial Indonesian listed companies are examined from 2012 to 2016. The data is analysed using multivariate regression analysis. Findings – The results show that audit committee effectiveness negatively affects ARL. This indicates that an effective audit committee can accelerate the delivery of audit reports. The results on the interaction between audit committee effectiveness and audit quality also negatively affects ARL. These results indicate that audit quality strengthens the influence of audit committees on the timeliness of financial reporting by reducing audit report lag. Novelty – The results show that there is a relationship of substitution between audit committee effectiveness and audit quality (Big-4) on ARL. The results of this study are consistent with agency theory which states that the implementation of corporate governance, such as an effective audit committee and audit quality, can improve the quality of financial reports. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M41|Company Characteristics, Corporate Governance, Audit Quality Impact on Earnings Management|Objective - The purpose of this research is to empirically examine how company characteristics, corporate governance and audit quality affect earnings management. Methodology/Technique - The population used for this research is manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2013 and 2015. The sampling method used in this research is purposive sampling. 64 companies are examined, with 192 items of data being obtained. Finding - This research also uses statistical testing through a multiple regression. The results show that return on assets, financial leverage, free cash flow, and sales growth all have an influence on earnings management. Meanwhile, other variables such as managerial ownership, institutional ownership, board size, the presence of an audit committee, firm size, and audit quality have no significant effect on earnings management. Novelty - In this research, company characteristics are proxied with the return on assets, financial leverage, firm size, free cash flow, and sales growth, while corporate governance is proxied with managerial ownership, institutional ownership, board size, and the presence of an audit committee. Type of Paper - Empirical.
M41|Determinants of Personal Financial Literacy among Young Adults in Malaysian Accounting Firms|Objective - In the twenty-first century, financial competencies are an essential tool in understanding the connection between financial behaviour and knowledge of individual financial problems. High financial knowledge may encourage young adults to carry less debt, increase their wealth and have a better financial retirement plan. According to Wolla (2017), less than one-third of youths have basic financial knowledge. This will have an impact to their lifelong financial well-being. Hence, this research intends to explore the personal financial literacy of young adults in Malaysian accounting firms. Methodology/Technique - The study examines 150 young working adults between the ages of 18-35 years old, working in accounting firms in Malacca, Malaysia. Stratified sampling and convenience sampling techniques were used to distribute questionnaires. Descriptive statistics, Pearson correlation coefficient and multiple regression analyses were also employed. Findings - The empirical findings show that geographical locations and family characteristics are significantly related to the personal financial literacy of young adults in accounting firms in Malacca. However, financial education and financial experience do not influence young adults in their financial decision making. Novelty - The results of this study suggest that the relevant authority should take an appropriate action to improve the financial well-being of young adults in Malacca, Malaysia.
M41|The Construction of Entrepreneurial Accounting: Evidence from Indonesia|Objective - This research aims to identify a cultural theme embedded in entrepreneurial accounting and construct the form of entrepreneurial accounting. Methodology/Technique - A cognitive anthropology method is employed in this research to investigate the cultural atmosphere of entrepreneurial accounting. This is achieved by conceiving the atmosphere into informants' (owner/entrepreneur-director) mind-set. The research was conducted at various Padang restaurants in Jakarta, Indonesia, that were classified into four groups based on their size and level of complexity. Finding and Novelty - Firstly, a number of cultural themes of entrepreneurial accounting are revealed among the four Padang restaurant groups. There are four similar cultural themes: (a) business process turbulence; (b) togetherness intensity; (c) informal control processes; and (d) formal control processes. Despite the fact that all of the restaurants have similar cultural themes, the elements embedded in each theme are different and require certain adjustments in the design of entrepreneurial accounting based on a profit sharing system. Secondly, a construction of entrepreneurial accounting coloured with a unique socio-cultural background was also discovered. This construction enables owner/entrepreneur-directors to execute work programs with a view to achieving the company's goal to enhance performance, either financially or non-financially.
M41|Firm Value, Firm Size and Income Smoothing|Objective – Income smoothing is a form of earnings manipulation to show that the company's performance is good. Income smoothing can be detrimental to investors, because investors do not know the real financial position and fluctuations of the company. Management of the company engage in income smoothing because investors tend to focus only on the amount of profit reported without regard to the process of generating profits. The purpose of this research is to obtain empirical evidence about the effect of firm value and size on income smoothing. Methodology/Technique – The sample of the research includes manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange from 2014-2016. The samples were determined using a purposive sampling method and there are 51 companies that meet the criteria used. This research uses a logistic regression method for data analysis. Findings – The results of the research show that the effect of firm value on income smoothing is positive and significant. Meanwhile, the effect of firm size on income smoothing is negative and significant. Companies that create value in the eyes of investors will try to retain their investors by engaging in income smoothing. Income smoothing will convince investors to invest in the company. Meanwhile, large companies that are convinced that investors will continue to invest do not typically engage in income smoothing. Novelty –This study proves that, in the context of agency theory, the principal's desires are not often aligned with the wishes of management which can give rise to agency costs, one of which occurs as a result of income smoothing. Further, firm size can minimize opportunist income smoothing actions. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M41|Calibration of DCF Valuation in Litigation: The case of HQ|HQ was a medium-sized Swedish banking group whose banking and fund management licenses were revoked in 2010, after losses in trading in equity derivatives for its own account. The parent company of the HQ group sued the board members and the audit firm and the responsible auditor for damages. NN was an expert witness for plaintiff and submitted a DCF valuation of HQ in a but-for scenario, where the banking group would have survived. This valuation is an interesting example of choice of valuation model assumptions to obtain a specific result, i. e., calibration. The nature of the calibration depends on the purpose of the model. Two possible purposes of a DCF model used by an expert for plaintiff are mentioned, maximizing the but-for value, and legitimizing a value that has been set in advance based on other considerations. From an analysis of unusual evidence that is contained in the DCF valuation model for HQ, it appears that the purpose of that model was to legitimize a value that had been set in advance. The author served as expert witness to defendant, with the task of rebutting NN. This paper is based on expert reports by NN and the author.
M41|Financial reporting frequency and external finance : Evidence from a quasi-natural experiment|Using a unique institutional background of Japan, this study first examines the effects of the increase in the reporting frequency on corporate financing. From Difference-in-Difference (DiD) analysis, I show that the increase in the reporting frequency increases external finance but not finance from bank. Next, I find that the positive effects of the increase in the reporting frequency are stronger in firms with a) financial constraints, b) ex-ante information asymmetry, and c) more external capital demand. I also find that the firms a) do not change the cash holding intensity, b) invest more, and c) payout more. Unlike prior literature, these findings suggest that the increase in the reporting frequency enhances firm activities.
M41|財務報告頻度のリアル・エフェクト：四半期開示の政策評価|本稿は日本の四半期開示の導入を利用して、高頻度の財務報告には企業の投資行動を促進する効果があることを実証的に示す。非上場の公開企業をコントロール・グループと設定し、報告頻度が企業の投資行動に与える影響を識別する。Difference-in-difference分析の結果、報告頻度の増加によって投資が増加しており、この効果は過小投資やquiet lifeに陥る可能性が高い企業で強いことを発見した。, Investigating the initiation of quarterly financial reporting to Japanese listed firms, this study finds that more frequent financial reporting increases corporate investment. To isolate the effects of quarterly financial reporting, I use Japanese quasi-private firms as the control sample. My Difference-in-Difference approach shows the positive effects of the frequent reporting on corporate investment. This study also finds that the effects are stronger for firms with the incentives of under-investment.
M41|What drives bank coverage ratios: Evidence from the euro area|We analyse micro and macro drivers of coverage ratios in a cross–country sample of euro area banks. Among the former, we find that coverage ratios increase with the reliance on deposit funding and when asset quality is very poor. Among the latter, coverage ratios increase with GDP growth and with more stringent supervision and macro–prudential policies, as well as with deeper NPL secondary markets. Finally, we find evidence of peer imitation behaviour, as banks with below country average coverage ratios increase coverage ratios to catch up with their peers. As for the prevalent mechanism, banks tend to enhance coverage ratios primarily by increasing loan loss reserves rather than by resolving NPLs.
M41|The Escalation of Lies: An Experimental Study of the Repeated Deception Game|Managers' window-dressing behavior is a major concern in accounting. To prevent window dressing, it is important to clarify what situations lead people to tell lies and whether they escalate lying behaviors. We develop a lying aversion hypothesis that people tend to avoid lying, particularly when others are likely to experience serious damage from the deception, and a lying escalation hypothesis that people tell a small lie initially and escalate lying behavior subsequently, even if such escalation would eventually cause serious damage to others. Both hypotheses are supported by laboratory experiments. Our study supports the view that building internal control accounting systems is essential to prevent managers from telling lies and to identify small lies, if any, in the early stage of lying.
M41|Behavioral Effects of Withholding Taxes on Labor Supply|Income tax collection in most advanced economies uses third-party reporting and withholding at the employer level before the employee receives her wage income. Since withholding taxes do not necessarily reflect the true effective tax burden, they may give false signals on the net-of-tax pay. We report results of laboratory experiments in which labor supply effects of such misperceptions are tested. Withholding taxes (and resulting tax refunds) should be behaviorally neutral in the experiment, but our results suggest that withholding taxes reduce effort and tax adjustments lead to adjustments of effort for our most relevant group of participants, those motivated by monetary incentives. This indicates that withholding taxes may be behaviorally relevant and deserve attention of policy-makers
M41|Management accountants? role in moving towards sustainability reporting system of Thai-listed companies|This study examines (1) management accountants? roles in driving sustainable success to create a corporate sustainability, (2) environmental information in annual reports based on the indicators of the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI), and (3) environmental information in the reports and the information identified by the environmental management accounting (EMA) practices. Management accountants drive as a collaborator with a company to provide environmental information incorporating in the reports for investment decisions. A set of survey is created to conduct environmental performance indicators in annual reports of 2011 and 2012 of two-hundred listed companies in Thailand. Regression analysis is considered appropriate for this study to analyse the relationship among variables. The results reveal that environmental information incorporated in annual reports is positively relevant to the indicators of the GRI guidelines. Environmental information in the reports is also significantly related to the data identified based on the EMA practices. Although management accountants are not fully involved in capturing data, they are intending to play an important role in creating sustainable value towards a corporate sustainability. Thus, management accountant?s roles in driving as a collaborator with a company are related to creating a corporate sustainability from promoting environmental sustainability significantly.
M41|Environmental sustainability report and its communicative values to stakeholders: Evidence of Thai-construction sector|This study evaluates the communicative value of environmental sustainability reports produced of Thai construction companies under the mandatory reporting regime and concerns about environmental impacts of the construction industry in Thailand, as it was necessitated emphasis on business practices and eco-efficiency. Data was collected through a review of annual reports of sixty-five construction companies listed on the Thailand Stock Exchange. Environmental improvement activities identified in the reports are analysed and the quality of the disclosures were evaluated against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework and qualitative characteristics used as a benchmark to assess traditional financial reports. The results indicate that while the mandatory reporting regime on the Thai construction sector has fostered the quantity of disclosures in annual reports, wide variations still exist in the information disclosed in the reports owing to management?s considerable reporting discretion. The reporting practices show room for improvement with respect to enhancing informativeness of environmental disclosures to users.
M41|Hiding the bankruptcy through creative accounting|Bankruptcy is one of the most important business externalities. Prediction of corporate failures has become a challenging and discussed issue over the years. However, there is no research dedicated to the opportunity to hide the possible bankruptcy of the company through the creative accounting. Therefore, the main goal of presented study is to identify the challenging scientific gap represented by Earnings management models, through which companies can legally modify, hide and play with their financial data. We focus on the proper literature review in selected issue emphasizing the need to concentrate on the creation of a quality model for the detection and quantification of Earnings Management, which will take into account the specificities of the national environment as well as of the global development trends in the area concerned.
M41|Marking to Market versus Taking to Market|Building on the idea that accounting matters for corporate governance, this paper studies the equilibrium interaction between the measurement rules that firms find privately optimal, firms' governance, and the liquidity in the secondary market for their assets. This equilibrium approach reveals an excessive use of market-value accounting: corporate performance measures rely excessively on the information generated by other firms' asset sales and insufficiently on the realization of a firm's own capital gains. This dries up market liquidity and reduces the informativeness of price signals, thereby making it more costly for firms to overcome their agency problems.
M41|Religiosity and Bank Asset Securitization|The global financial turmoil of 2007–2008 underlines the importance of understanding asset securitization, a process that allows banks to shed credit risk, fund their credit growth, and arbitrage capital requirements. Examining this ethically questionable activity has become crucial given its perceived long-term social impact. This paper examines the factors that motivate banks’ decisions to enter into asset securitization. In particular, we examine the influence of both organizational and geographic religiosity as important ethical parameters of economic choices on banks’ decisions to securitize their assets. We employ propensity scores using a unique database on asset securitization of banks in 22 countries during the period of 2003–2012. We find that both types of religiosity indicators are significantly associated with banks’ decisions to securitize. Banks located in countries with high religious importance scores show a lower likelihood to securitize. We also find that religiously adhered banks are likely to embark on a constrained model of securitization, which involves a high level of monitoring. In addition, our analysis suggests that religiously adhered banks are less likely to engage in asset securitization to reduce credit risk by shifting it to new investors. This conclusion is supported by their lower credit risk in the years before securitization. Alternatively, our results suggest that these banks embark on asset securitization to improve their financial and regulatory performance. Our study emphasizes the importance of considering religiosity as an important institutional factor and a monitoring mechanism in future global banking studies. Findings in this study are of importance to researchers, to local and international regulators, and to different stakeholders in the international banking sector.
M41|Asset Securitization and Risk: Does Bank Type Matter?|This study is among the first attempts to tests for the relative differences between Islamic and conventional asset securitizations on bases of bank’s capitalization and risk (credit risk and liquidity risk) during two evidential crises, financial crisis (2007-2009) and the political crisis (2011-2012). We employ GMM estimation for uniquely constructed data for global asset securitization of commercial banks in 22 countries in the years 2003 to 2012, data of 672 global banks (4889 year-observations). We find that on average, securitized banks are less capitalized but more liquid than non-securitized banks. Islamic banks (IBs) involved in securitization hold higher quality loan portfolios and are more prudent but less liquid than securitizing conventional banks (CBs). We find no relative differences between the two sectors with respect to capitalization. Results are robust during the financial crisis. Additional tests, distinguishes between retained and non-retained interests for asset securitizations to test whether the level of control of the securitizing assets affect banks’ risk and capital adequacy. We find that non-retain interests by banks over securitization indicate significantly high prudence by banks however; this is associated with lower liquidity Our results are of importance to both local and international regulators as well as different stakeholders in banks. The bank type does not matters but the relative size of retained interests to the total issuance is that matters because it shows that there is impact on credit risk. Constrained model of IBs do not improve their liquidity though but helped with loan portfolio.
M41|Asset Securitization and Bank risk: Do Religiosity or Ownership Structure Matter?|We test the impact of religiosity and ownership structure on the risk profile of banks, which issued securitisation. We employ GMM estimation using unique database on asset securitization of 672 commercial banks (4889 year-observations) in 22 countries (from 2003-2012), which have dual banking system. We find that banks with higher securitisation activity have consistently shown a riskier profile by being significantly less adequately capitalised and offering higher ratio of net loans to total assets. Controlling for bank type (Islamic and conventional banks), we find that although Islamic banks, in general, show a conservative approach towards risk by keeping higher reserves and more liquidity, banks involved in new issuance of asset securitization as still exposed to a higher risk profile . Controlling for a country religiosity shows different risk profile of banks in countries with different religiosity thresholds. Controlling for different types of bank ownership highlights an additional exposure to credit risk in addition to capital adequacy and liquidity risks. Our results emphasize the importance of identifying the impact of bank type and the religiosity / culture factors in global banking studies. Our results are of importance to both local and international regulators as well as different stakeholders in banks.
M41|"""Taking Diversity into Account"": Real Effects of Accounting Measurement on Asset Allocation"|Following a request made by the G20, the IASB begins to work in 2009 on a new accounting standard meant to replace IAS 39: IFRS 9. Among other things, IFRS 9 puts forward a new way of classifying financial instruments that rests on a two-step procedure: a business model assessment and a contractual cash flow characteristics test. We develop a theoretical model that assesses the relevance of this procedure, specifically that of the business model assessment. We show that a mixed accounting regime where financial institutions whose time horizon is short resort to fair value accounting while those whose time horizon is longer resort to historical cost accounting provides a better asset allocation than a pure accounting regime where all FIs resort to the same accounting rule. In other words, business models are worth being taken into consideration when deciding whether an asset should be evaluated at its fair value or at its historical cost, which is in line with the framework presented in IFRS 9.
M41|Valuation as Promise and Care: The Use of Accounting in the Entrepreneurial Economy|This is a study of analysts’ use of accounting information for valuation purposes in a venture capital setting. This setting is characterized in terms of the distinctive scouting and coaching work of venture capital funders, and the unproven and incomplete nature of the ventures and entrepreneurs, which seek funding to scale operations, pivot into new markets, internationalize, or undertake some other kind of fundamental change. Based on interviews with entrepreneurs (project-makers) and venture funders (analysts), a four phase model of valuation is proposed. The model illuminates that, in contrast with common assumptions in the existing literature, accounting is mobilized neither to reveal truth nor constitute knowledge about the objects of investment, but to promise and to care. This paper articulates these two concepts in the context of accounting. Promising is shown to be a means not to implement a predesigned business plan and a budgeted set of activities but to commit to a new and unclear future and agree high and sometimes unrealistic expectations. Caring is shown not to be a means to predict a final fate for the organization, but to give and take, interact and sometimes discipline in order to determine what is necessary to preserve and possible to change. Understanding that what is valued is not what exists but what is possible to create helps to resolve puzzles about accounting’s uncertain and ambiguous status and significance in the entrepreneurial economy. It also and more generally illustrates how accounting operates in relation to an unknowable object and future: not as a means to know or reveal but to write and rewrite a daring and ambitious narrative in which the protagonists (here the project-maker and venture) become something else (a manager and an organization).
M41|The expansion of non-financial reporting: an exploratory study| We investigate how non-financial reporting (NFR) is defined and has expanded in recent years. First, we explore the heterogeneity in definitions and current NFR practices. We find a lack of convergence between regulators and standard-setters, as well as leading sustainable firms. Second, we examine the changes in the extent and type of NFR reported by firms over the period 2006–2016. Based on a sample of firms in South Africa, we document a significant increase in the amount of NFR, particularly between 2006 and 2011. This change appears to be driven by new environmental, human capital, performance and strategic disclosures. The relative importance of financial information in corporate reporting decreased substantially over the same period. Third, we compare reporting practices for corporate social responsibility (CSR)/sustainability information between constituents of the S&P 500 index and the EuroStoxx 600 index. We find that overall, the percentage of firms issuing CSR/sustainability reports increased dramatically between 2002 and 2015. Constituents of the U.S. stock index and growth firms are less likely to report CSR/sustainability information, whereas firms in the European stock index in environmentally sensitive industries, with high capital intensity and good CSR performance, larger and with better financial performance, are more likely to report CSR/sustainability information.
M41|Moral Imaginaries of Performance Measurement Systems in the Pharmaceutical Industry: Struggles and Negotiations to Define What is an Agent and What is Not|This study explores how morality is constituted into accounting objects and how accounting becomes a moral mediator. We retrace the moral practices that subtend the field-level construction of a Principal-Agent incentive algorithm in a Big Pharma company, with particular focus on the inscribing work through which different communities of knowledge, internal and external to the organization, try to realize particular moral principles for the performance measurement system in the making. The study draws upon Science and Technology Studies (Latour, 1989; Jasanoff, 2015) to explore performance measurement systems as existing in Moral Imaginaries, ethical visions that positions accounting devices, and their material features and technical functionalities, as embedding and enacting ‘moral’ and ‘just’ viewpoints. We show how performance measurement systems emerge as moral calculating devices that are shaped by, and struggle with, the contrasting moralities of heterogeneous designers, but also act as moral mediators that reshape human actors’ moral imaginaries as their algorithmic constructions and data outputs perform. In so doing, we contribute to Science and Technology Studies by highlighting how the constitution of who / what is an “Agent”, and its actantiality, is embedded upon movements in which morality circulates, is claimed by actors and attributed to others, and finally objectified in material technologies.
M41|Accounting-Based Compensation and Debt Contracts|Adding accounting-based performance plans to management compensation packages influences borrowing costs and structure of corporate debt contracts. After granting long-term accounting-based incentive plans (LTAPs) to CEOs, firms pay lower spreads and have fewer restrictive covenants in new loans. Lenders impose fewer earnings-based covenants after firms adopt earnings-based LTAPs. Results are stronger for firms with high leverage or bankruptcy risk, and that are difficult for lenders to monitor. Results are robust to alternative borrowing cost measures, including new public bond spreads, credit ratings, and CDS spreads. Overall, evidence suggests that adding LTAPs to compensation packages helps align debtholder and shareholder interests.
M41|Long-Term Economic Consequences of Hedge Fund Activist Interventions|We examine the long-term effects of interventions by activist hedge funds. Prior papers document positive equal-weighted long-term returns and operating performance improvements following activist interventions, and typically conclude that activism is beneficial. We extend prior literature in two ways. First, we find that equal-weighted long-term returns are driven by the smallest 20% of firms with an average market value of $22 million. The larger 80% of firms experience insignificant negative long-term returns. On a value-weighted basis, which likely best gauges effects on shareholder wealth and the economy, we find that pre- to post-activism long-term returns are insignificantly different from zero. For operating performance, we find that prior results are a manifestation of abnormal trends in pre-activism performance. Using an appropriately matched sample, we find no evidence of abnormal post-activism performance improvements. Overall, our results do not strongly support the hypothesis that activist interventions drive long-term benefits for the typical shareholder, nor do we find evidence of shareholder harm.
M41|Expenditures and Food Consumption of a Patrician Family in Nineteenth-Century Trentino: the Bossi Fedrigotti|This paper aims to analyse the expenditure and consumption of a noble family from Trentino, the Bossi Fedrigotti, in the nineteenth century. The origin and evolution of the family assets are traced from the fifteenth to the nineteenth century as they shifted from transport to trade, from trade to finance, and finally from finance to agriculture. The research is based on the household budgets and investigates the type, composition and variations in expenditures during two benchmark decades, 1835-44 and 1855-64. The relatively small share of expenses for food as compared to leisure, cultural activities, charity and conspicuous consumption reflects the family’s quest for social status and reputation, leading to the obtainment of a noble title in the eighteenth century. The Bossi Fedrigotti represented a pillar in the economic system of Rovereto, which they actively supported through a variety of economic and non-economic actions, helping the city to prosper and advance.
M41|Bank Loan Loss Provisions, Investor Protection and the Macroeconomy|This study investigates the non-discretionary determinants of bank loan loss provisions in Africa after controlling for macroeconomic fluctuation, financial development and investor protection. We find that non-performing loans, loan-to-asset ratio and loan growth are significant non-discretionary drivers of bank provisions in the African region. We observe that bank provision is a positive function of non-performing loans up to a threshold beyond which bank provisions will no longer increase as non-performing loans increases. Also, bank loan-to-asset ratio is a significant driver of bank provisions when African banks have higher loan-to-asset ratios. Also, larger banks in financially developed African countries have fewer loan loss provisions while increase in bank lending leads to fewer bank provisions in countries with strong investor protection. Finally, higher bank lending is associated with higher bank provisions during economic boom. The findings have implications.
M41|Business Value Created By Management Accounting|Porter stated in his value chain concept that business support activities are contributing to the value creation process of a business organization. In the “classical view” business support activities are considered as indirect productive and not having a clear and direct contribution to the business organization value chain. The information age has enabled and leveraged business support activities to become decisive contributors to the value creation process of any business. Can this value contribution be somehow determined or quantified? Management accounting is a classical business support activity that contributes to the business organization value chain. Through usage of value management and value driven performance indicators, the value contribution can be determined and quantified. The present paper is highlighting one possible alternative to determine the value contribution by using indicators like economic value added and economic profit. The value-based approach is putting indirect productive business activities into a new position, the one of a clear and important business value creator that cannot be ignored in the 21st century, a century driven by data, a nd information and knowledge that can sustain a decisive sustainable competitive advantage.
M41|Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) and the Digital Economy: challenges and issues|The digital economy, undoubtedly, has contributed to the immense task of clearly identifying, ascertaining, and accounting for sources, rationales, and audit trails relating to tax transactions. This is not only evident owing to difficulties associated with cross-border transaction regulations which govern different jurisdictions as well as the enforcement of such regulations, but also in respect of risks associated with the present global financial environment – all having generated from the rise in automation, increased and improved sophisticated technologies, globalization, and conglomeration. This chapter not only seeks to highlight the extent, contribution, and significance of the digital economy in respect of those risks associated with base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) but also amongst other aims and objectives to recommend measures whereby regulations can be better enforced as a means of addressing practices associated with BEPS.
M41|Examining business performance of micro, small and medium scale enterprise through accounting records keeping; case study in Ghana|The research study, seek to critically examine and empirically justify the exact role and benefit, financial records keeping does to the performance of start-ups and management of micro, small and medium scale enterprises in Ghana.
M41|Advances and Issues in Fraud Research: A Commentary|This article discusses some observations in the forensic accounting-based fraud literature. We identify recent advances in the literature and highlight several important issues that are worth noting. The main message of this commentary article is that fraud is complicated, and fraud complexity can significantly impact the way we undertake forensic accounting-based fraud research. The practical implication is that forensic accountants and forensic accounting researchers should incorporate into their practice the complexity of fraud regardless of whether they follow an empirical, experimental, exploratory, analytical or critical approach to fraud investigation.
M41|Critical Factors Towards Philanthropic Dimension Of CSR in The Nigerian Financial Sector: The Mediating Effects Of Cultural Influence|The purpose of the study is to examine the leading factors towards philanthropic dimension of corporate social responsibility in the Nigerian financial sector. The need to build corporate image, prompt managers towards prioritizing the philanthropic dimension of CSR. Satisfaction of stakeholder needs to reduce the pressure exerted on managers’ leads also to the assumption of more philanthropic activities. Within these set of circumstances, the objective of the study is to explore the possible predictive factors leading towards prioritization of philanthropic dimension of CSR by managers of the Nigerian financial sector. This study examined the relationships between philanthropic dimension of CSR, corporate image, stakeholder pressure and cultural influence. A total of 173 managers from the Nigerian financial sector responded to the survey instruments administered which later on was analyzed using partial least squares-structural equation modeling. The results revealed that corporate image and stakeholder pressure are influencing factors towards prioritization of the the philanthropic dimension of CSR, and are mediated by the role of cultural influence in the Nigerian context. This study highlights the prioritization of philanthropic dimension of CSR by managers of the Nigerian financial sector with respect to cultural influence and predictive factors like building a corporate image and reducing pressures from stakeholders
M41|Фактори, Влияещи Върху Обезценката На Репутацията<BR>[Goodwill Impairment Factors]|Разбирането на концепцията за обезценка на репутацията и последните промени, свързани с нейното регламентиране, следва да бъде подчинено на изясняването на факторите (детер- минантите), които стоят в основата на концепцията за обезценка на репутацията. В статията са разгледани най-често посочваните фактори, влияещи върху признаването на счетоводни обезценки на репутацията, като са класифицирани според техния обхват и според характеристиките им. Счита се, че при извършване на анализ за наличие на обезценка, посочените индикатори имат съществено значе- ние, и следва да бъдат разглеждани по-скоро като базисни и да бъдат интерпретирани на база харак- терните особености на дейността на конкретното предприятие. Основният извод, който се налага е, че познаването на факторите (индикаторите) за обезценка и техния навременен анализ от страна на всички заинтересовани страни е от ключово значение при извършване на преценка относно признаване- то на счетоводна обезценка на репутацията.
M41|Insurance, A Guaranteed Risk Or A Risk Assumed?|In the context of various changes in the players' composition on the insurance market, along with the changes that take place in the legislative area of the insurance system, we ask ourselves whether insurance is a guaranteed risk or a risk assumed by secure? At national level, due to the fact that within the insurance companies the internal control is not well implemented, there is no staff to pursue this goal and no mitigating measures are taken so that the risks triggered by the human decision-making factor be decreased. Because of this fact, the insurance can become a lottery for the insuree at one point because either the insuree cannot cover the damage s/he has secured, or s/he can lose as a result of some decisions taken by a representative of the insurance company. Therefore, a well-implemented and managed internal control can save both the activity of an insurance company as well as its image. That will generate a profitability, a good reputation for the insurance company, as well as policy-holders’ satisfaction. In this paper we aim to highlight the importance of internal control within insurance companies, as well as the consequences arising from a lack of internal control or its existence at a declarative level only.
M41|Adapting Public Services to Citizen Requirements: Trend or Need?|Public services are the basic elements in the evolution of a local administration. They can be developed with the help of IT sector and received by the decision makers in due time, so that citizens can continue their life and evolution in relation to the new standard of living using computer technology. The technological level of a territorial administrative unit, as well as the opening to urban and computer technology, of the urban representatives, are directly proportional to the degree of the area development, either local or national. Thus, an adequate technological equipping of all public institutions can generate both information and a pool of information that will lead to a quicker, better justified and grounded decision that satisfies the needs of the citizen when requesting. Through this paper, the author aims to highlight the need to adapt new information technologies in public services, as well as the benefits of implementing and using them.
M41|Финансово - Счетоводни Аспекти На Търговската Репутация<BR>[Financial and Accounting Aspects of Goodwill]|Репутацията като обект на счетоводството винаги е била предмет на множество дискусии и така е придавала облик на цялата тема за бизнескомбинациите. Дебатът за същността й, започнал в публикациите на авторите от края на 19 век, преминава през нормативното й регламентиране и продължава с пълна сила до днес. Целта на дисертационния труд е да се извърши критичен преглед на теоретичните аспекти на търговската репутация и развитието на нормативното й регламентиране, както и да се разкрият съществени проблеми при признаването, оценяването и оповестяването на търговската репутация във финансовите отчети на българските публични предприятия, участващи при формирането на борсовия индекс BGBX 40 и на тази основа да се изведат насоки за подобряване на отчитането, представянето и оповестяването й. Като резултат от проведеното изследване е обобщено, че съществуващите правила, залегнали в МСС/МСФО, от една страна са свързани с изпълнението на прекалено сложни процедури при практическото им реализиране, а от друга – дават възможност за проява на относително високо ниво на субективност от страна на ръководствата на предприятията при оценяването на репутацията. Установените слабости по отношение на информацията относно репутацията във финансовите отчети, са основание да се застъпва тезата, че е необходима промяна в режима на последващо отчитане на репутацията. Формулирани са конкретни предложения за подобряване на оповестяванията и са разработени примерни модели за оповестяване при действащия режим на отчитане в приложимите МСС/МСФО. Те имат за цел подобряване на качествените характеристики и повишаване на информационната стойност за потребителите на финансовите отчети. Goodwill has been a central topic in accounting for many years. It has always been the subject of many discussions and thus has given the whole face of business combinations. The debate about its essence, which began in the publications of the authors of the late 19th century, goes through its normative regulation and continues to its full force today. The purpose of this dissertation is to make a critical review of the theoretical aspects of goodwill and the development of its normative regulation, as well as to reveal significant problems in the recognition, assessment and disclosure of goodwill in the financial statements of Bulgarian public enterprises involved in the formation of the BGBX 40 index and, on that basis, to provide guidance on how to improve its reporting, presentation and disclosure. As a result of the research, it is concluded that the existing rules set out in the IAS / IFRS, on the one hand, are related to the implementation of overly complex procedures in their practical implementation and, on the other hand, allow for a relatively high level of subjectivity of the management of the enterprises in the evaluation of goodwill. The weaknesses identified with regard to goodwill in the financial statements are grounds for arguing that there is a need to change the subsequent reporting regime of goodwill. Specific suggestions to improve disclosures have been formulated and exemplary disclosure models have been developed under the current reporting regime in the applicable IAS / IFRS. They aim to improve the quality characteristics and increase the information value for the users of the financial statements.
M41|Capitalization of tangible and intangible assets in non-profit organizations in Bulgaria|The report analyzes applicability of the equity capital approach for the acquisition of tangible and intangible assets by non-profit organizations in Bulgaria. Attention is also paid to the accounting of depreciation of the assets. Without any claims of comprehensiveness, the conclusions in the report are based on analysis of accounting and legal literature, Bulgarian national accounting standards, as well as data collected from individual interviews that the author conducted among accountants.
M41|The corporate governance of profit shifting|Tax-motivated profit shifting is an increasingly important element in the agenda of academics and policy-makers in the effort to understand tax-planning behavior and to promote tax fairness. In this research, we view profit shifting as the outcome of corporate governance characteristics of multinational enterprises (MNEs), ceteris paribus. Using a sample of 860 parent firms from 24 countries, 6,698 subsidiaries in 49 countries, we first measure profit shifting from the responses of subsidiary profits to parent earnings shocks. We draw on several agency theories of the firm and we show that elements of board structure, directors’ experience and networks, and CEO duality have an economically important influence on the aggressiveness of profit shifting. Using our baseline specification, a one-standard deviation change in these board characteristics implies an 11.06% total response in our measure of profit shifting.
M41|Съдържателни Аспекти На Счетоводната Политика На Сдружения В България От Гледна Точка На Ползвателите На Документа<BR>[Content of the accounting policies of Bulgarian non-profit associations from user's point of view]|According to data published in the Sustainability Index for Central and Eastern Europe and Eurasia, 1579 new associations and 370 foundations are registered in 2016 in Bulgaria. As a comparison in 2015 the newly registered associations are 1463, and the foundations - 306. Being active entities at the economic life of our country, not only the number of foundations and associations is increasing, but also the range of their business and non-profit activities are expanding. In this respect, non-profit organizations are involved in the political, economic, spiritual, cultural and social life of Bulgaria. Such an idea undoubtedly has a direct impact on the accountability of these activities. As an appendix to the financial statements, accounting policies provide information regarding the accounting methodology used for preparing the statements and hence are essential for the purposes of interpreting the data by the users. The accounting policies must ensure that the information they contain is cautious, reliable, neutral and impartial. Due to the possibility of certain conflicts of interest between the needs of different users, the data written inside the document is not as transparent and comprehensible as it should be. Based on that a main goal of the report is to present data analysis regarding the main content components of the document and their importance based on the user’s point of view. The subject of the study is the content of the accounting policy of Bulgarian associations. The methodology used for the analysis is a survey conducted among target groups related to the activities of the associations. The data collection period covers the months July 2018 - August 2018. For the analysis of the data, the programs SPSS, ver. 16.0/2007, as well as Microsoft Office Excel 2013 are used. The results from the questionnaire are based on the methods of mathematical statistics. The study of statistical relations and dependencies is done on the basis of a Chi square - analysis (χ2). Cramer’s (V) coefficient is used to measure the strength between the nominal variables. The author’s hypothesis is that users are not aware of the role, functions, and purposes of the accounting policies. In this respect the information they expect to find out in the document is irrelevant to the essence of the accounting policy. The results of the survey would help for better understanding of the accounting policy of associations, its structure and expected content components.
M41|Bank Earnings Smoothing During Mandatory IFRS adoption in Nigeria|We examine the extent of bank earnings smoothing during mandatory IFRS adoption in Nigeria, to determine whether mandatory IFRS adoption increased or decreased income smoothing among Nigerian banks. We find that the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is associated with lower earnings smoothing among Nigerian banks, which implies that Nigerian banks do not use loan loss provisions to smooth reported earnings during the mandatory IFRS adoption period. We find evidence for earnings smoothing via LLP during voluntary IFRS adoption. Earnings smoothing is not significantly associated with listed and non-listed Nigerian banks during voluntary and mandatory IFRS adoption. Overall, the findings indicate that mandatory IFRS adoption improves the informativeness and reliability of loan loss provisions estimate by discouraging Nigerian banks from influencing loan loss provisions for earnings smoothing purposes during the mandatory IFRS adoption. The findings of this paper are relevant to the debate on whether IFRS reporting improves the quality of financial reporting among firms in Nigeria. The implication of the study is that IFRS has higher accounting quality than local GAAP in Nigeria as it improves the quality and informativeness of accounting numbers (LLPs and earnings) reported by Nigerian banks during the period examined
M41|La convergence de la comptabilité de l’Etat avec les normes IPSAS. Le cas du Maroc<BR>[Convergence of state accounting with IPSAS standards. The case of Morocco]|The State's accounting system must have an accrual accounting system in order to prepare financial statements that record changes in the heritage value, explain and reflect the way in which the state budget is managed both in revenue and expenditure and thus reflect the exact financial situation of the state at a given time. Once the accounting system of the State reflects the exact financial situation it can serve as a source of reliable and transparent financial information addressed, published and accessible to any interested person (citizen, politician, international financial institution ...). This article proposes to examine the impact of the adoption of IPSAS on Moroccan public finances.
M41|Интелектуалният Капитал - Основа На Съвременния Бизнес И Предизвикателство Пред Финансовата Отчетност<BR>[Intellectual Capital - Basis Of Contemporary Business And Challenge For Financial Reporting]|Bulgarian: В настоящата публикация се споделя тезата, че в съвременните икономически условия ролята на капитала като основа за пазарните оценки на предприятието в неговия традиционен смисъл, т.е. под формата на финансов и материален капитал, постепенно намалява и се допълва и замества от нарастващата роля на нематериалните активи. Ето защо се счита, че съвременните корпоративни отчети трябва да осигуряват информация не само по отношение на финансовото състояние на предприятието, разглеждано в традиционния му смисъл, а и по отношение на стратегическите цели, използването на ресурсите, интелектуалния капитал, социално-отговорните практики и т.н., което става посредством прилагането на концепцията за интегрираното отчитане. По този начин ползвателите ще могат да обезпечат значително по-високите си информационни и комуникационни нужди, отколкото са имали преди години и това да им позволи в крайна сметка да си обяснят модела, по който предприятието създава стойност. Ключови думи: интелектуален капитал, счетоводна стойност, пазарна стойност, интегрирано отчитане Abstract This paper shares the view that in the current economic context, the role of capital as a basis for the company's market assessments in its traditional sense, in the form of financial and tangible capital, is gradually decreasing and supplemented and replaced by the growing role of intangible assets. That is why we believe that modern corporate reports should provide information not only about the financial situation of an enterprise in its traditional sense, but also about strategic goals, resource use, intellectual capital, socially responsible practices, and through the implementation of the concept of integrated reporting. In this way, users will be able to deliver significantly higher information and communication needs than they had years before, and ultimately allow them to explain the model in which the business generates value.
M41|Impact of a direct channel on the choice of absorption versus direct costing using cost-based transfer price|This study analytically investigates the choice of a cost accounting system based on the cost-based transfer price by a divisionalized firm that has a direct channel through electronic commerce (EC). The findings show that the optimal choice between direct and absorption costing affects the increase of overhead allocation for the retail division through the cost-based transfer price. While traditional strategic transfer pricing literature shows that absorption costing is optimal in specific economic environments, this study demonstrates that direct costing is also optimal in a specific economic environment by considering dual channel competition. This research thus contributes to the extant strategic transfer pricing literature, which considers the choice of a cost accounting system in management accounting.
M41|Evaluasi Potensi Penerimaan Pendapatan Asli Daerah Bidang Pariwisata di Indonesia<BR>[Evaluation of the Potential Revenues of Regional Original Revenue in Tourism in Indonesia]|Tujuan dari penelitian ini adalah mengevaluasi kegiatan promosi pariwisata diIndonesia khususnya Pemerintah Kota Pagaralam dan melihat implementasi kegiatan promosi dengan bantuan multimedia. Hasil dari penelitian ini diharapkan mampu meningkatkan perekonomian masyarakat dan peningkatan Pendapatan Asli Daerah (PAD) Kota Pagaralam. Jenis penelitian yang dilakukan adalah mix methode dengan metode studi kasus dengan menghitung rasio kemandirian daerah dan pendekatan logic model. Teknik pengumpulan data dengan wawancara, dokumentasi, dan observasi. Uji Keabsahan data mengunakan teknik triangulasi dan member checking. Berdasarkan hasil evaluasi terhadap kegiatan promosi pariwisata ditemukan beberapa kendala yaitu kurangnya anggaran, sumberdaya manusia ahli multimedia belum ada, dan belum memahami penggunaan multimedia seperti motion graphic untuk meningkatkan kunjungan wisata kota pagaralam.
M41|Cu privire la esenţa şi clasificarea capitalului<BR>[Concerning the essence and classification of capital]|Determining the capital requirement is a procedure for sizing it for a determined period of time in order to efficiently carry out the activity of the entity. An overvaluation of the requirement generates additional costs in interest, commissions, penalties, but also a slower circuit with negative influence on the final result. Underestimating the loss is due to loss of business due to lack of capital, as well as additional costs of emergency supplies. Based on this, the authors in this article emphasized the study of the capital essence as an economic category, the review of the different approaches and classifications exhibited in the works of the scholars from the country and abroad in order to establish correctly and reasonably the mechanism and the necessity to finance entities.
M41|Дълготрайните Материални И Нематериални Активи, И Стоково-Материалните Запаси Като Елементи На Счетоводната Политика На Хотели В България<BR>[Intangible and tangible assets, and inventories as elements of the accounting policies of hotels in Bulgaria]|A main goal of the report is to analyze disclosed data about intangible and tangible assets, and inventories in the accounting policies of 20 hotels, offering accommodation and food services at the territory of Republic of Bulgaria. Subjects of research are the accepted and applied accounting rules and practices regarding the analyzed assets. For the purposes of the analysis, data from officially published financial statements in the Commercial Register from 2014, 2015 and 2016 were used, as well as information from the official websites of the hotels.
M41|Impact of a direct channel on the choice of absorption versus direct costing using cost-based transfer price|This study analytically investigates the choice of a cost accounting system based on the cost-based transfer price by a divisionalized firm that has a direct channel through electronic commerce (EC). The findings show that the optimal choice between direct and absorption costing affects the increase of overhead allocation for the retail division through the cost-based transfer price. While traditional strategic transfer pricing literature shows that absorption costing is optimal in specific economic environments, this study demonstrates that direct costing is also optimal in a specific economic environment by considering dual channel competition. This research thus contributes to the extant strategic transfer pricing literature, which considers the choice of a cost accounting system in management accounting.
M41|Divulgações de informações e o efeito no retorno de ações da maior empresa de educação listada na B3 (Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão)<BR>[Information disclosures and the effect on the return of stocks of the largest education company listed on B3 (Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão)]|O mercado é eficiente se novas informações relevantes causarem variação no retorno das ações. As ações podem ser afetadas por eventos e isso pode causar oscilações. A pesquisa analisa a reação do mercado à divulgação de informações sobre a maior instituição de educação listada na B3. Foi utilizado o estudo de eventos para confrontar o comportamento do retorno das ações no período de 30 de setembro 2015 a 30 de setembro de 2017. A pesquisa parte da teoria de mercado eficiente. As informações selecionadas foram distribuídas em grupos, sendo: A - Divulgação dos resultados trimestrais; B - Operações de compra e venda de participações; C - Mudanças relacionadas ao Financiamento Estudantil. Os resultados evidenciaram que a reação que caracterizou o fator mercado eficiente foi identificada no Grupo C, em parte corroborada pelo comportamento do preço da ação.
M41|Does credit reporting lead to a decline in relationship lending? Evidence from information sharing technology|I examine how credit reporting affects where firms access credit and how lenders contract with them. I use within firm-time and lender-time tests that exploit lenders joining a credit bureau and sharing information in a staggered pattern. I find information sharing reduces relationship-switching costs, particularly for firms that are young, small, or have had no defaults. After sharing, lenders transition away from relationship contracting, in two ways: contract maturities in new relationships are shorter, and lenders are less willing to provide financing to their delinquent borrowers. My results highlight the mixed effects of transparency-improving financial technologies on credit availability.
M41|Модел На Счетоводна Политика На Юридическо Лице С Нестопанска Цел По Примера На Сдруженията<BR>[A model of accounting policy of non-profit organization: on the example of associations]|Основна авторова цел е да се направи изследване на разработени в счетоводната практика и оповестени значими счетоводни политики на сдружения, извършващи дейност на територията на Р България. На база проведено анкетно проучване са представени някои анализи относно вижданията на потребители на данни от счетоводната политика за основните съдържателни аспекти по конкретни елементи на документа. На тази основа е предложен модел на счетоводна политика на сдружение. Резултатите от проучването биха спомогнали за по-доброто разбиране на счетоводната политика, нейната структура и очаквани съдържателни компоненти от страна на ползвателите й.
M41|Earnings Stability and Peer Selection for Indirect Valuation|We contribute to the development of indirect valuation method for publicly traded companies. We introduce relative earning stability as a new dimension of peer selection criteria for determination of appropriate comparable group of peer companies to the evaluated company. Based on large sample of all publicly traded companies in Thomson Reuters database over 35 years, we provide empirical evidence of significant improvement of indirect valuation accuracy and precision as a result of our relative earning stability approach. Peer selection based on the relative earnings stability takes account of some idiosyncrasies of companies, which remain uncaptured by traditional industrial classification based peer selection methods. We also empirically establish superiority of a within-company price to earnings (PE) valuation technique for the most stable companies. Our empirical results are robust against different means of operationalization of the stability criterion and indirect valuation methods.
M41|Information Production, Misconduct Effort, and the Duration of Financial Misrepresentation|We examine the link between information produced by auditors and analysts and fraud duration. Using a hazard model, we analyze misstatement periods related to SEC accounting and auditing enforcement releases (AAERs) between 1982 and 2012. Results suggest that misconduct is more likely to end just after firms announce an auditor switch or issue audited financial statements, particularly when the audit report contains explanatory language. Analyst following increases the fraud termination hazard. However, increases (decreases) in analyst coverage have a negative (positive) marginal impact on the termination hazard, suggesting that analysts signal whistleblowers with their choice to add or drop coverage. Finally, our results suggest that misconduct lasts longer when it is well planned, more complex, or involves more accrual manipulation. Taken together, our findings are consistent with auditors and analysts playing a key informational role in fraud detection, while managerial effort to conceal misconduct significantly extends its duration.
M41|Do family firms contribute to job stability? Evidence from the great recession|This article analyzes if, on average, choices made by family businesses regarding job stability in bad times are different to those made by non-family firms. Moreover, we try to elucidate if this potential difference also depends on the family generation in charge. Our analysis relies upon a sample of 55,091 Spanish firms, Spain being one of the countries that suffered the greatest impact of the so-called “Great Recession”. We find that at times of crisis, family businesses do maintain jobs in a higher extent than non-family businesses, and that this effect is especially intense when the first generation is in charge.
M41|Internal and External Determinants of Audit Delay: Evidence from Indonesian Manufacturing Companies|Objective – This study aims to examine and explain the relationship between a company's internal factors such as profitability, solvency and audit committee, and external factors including complexity and size of public accounting firms, with audit delay. Methodology/Technique – The importance of financial information is, in part, due to its utility for assessment of company performance. Hence, financial information should be produced and reported as quickly as possible each year. Findings – This study finds that manufacturing companies with high debt levels and low profitability experience longer audit delay. Moreover, the results in this study show that debt level is the most influential and significant factor with a positive relationship to audit delay. Novelty – This study shows that profitability, the number of members on an audit committees and public accounting firm (KAP) size all have an insignificant negative relationship with audit delay. Further, complexity has an insignificant positive relationship with audit delay.
M41|An Analysis of the Implementation of PSAK 69 at PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero)|Objective - This study aims to identify the impact of the application of the PSAK 69 in plantation companies in Riau, particularly in PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero), and the impact of PSAK 69 to the profit gained by PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero). Methodology/ Technique - This research is a qualitative descriptive research. The approach used in this research is a case study. The object of this research is PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero). PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero) is a company engaged in the field of palm oil plantations. This study uses the data from PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero)'s annual report in 2016 and the data is collected using interviews and documentation techniques. Findings - The results of this study indicate that PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero) has not implemented the PSAK 69 in its agricultural business. In addition, there are differences in the measurement and recording of the biological assets applied by PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero) under the PSAK 69 (IAS 41). PT Perkebunan Nusantara V (Persero) measures and records its biological assets based on historical cost, so there is no gain or loss in the current period. In addition, the profit gained by PTPN V for the year ending on 31 December 2016 is too low. Novelty - The results of this study are expected to be used as a reference for other plantation companies in implementing the PSAK 69. In addition, the results of this study are also useful to regulating agencies in developing rules and policies in the field of accounting, including in re-evaluating the PSAK 69.
M41|Transformation of Accountability Values in Local Cultures: An Acculturative Ethnography Study on Catholic Churches in Tana Toraja|"Objective – This research aims to transform local values of accountability to religious organizations. Methodology/Technique – The research uses a deconstruction approach with acculturative critical ethnography. The research was conducted at the Catholic Church in Tana Toraja, South of Sulawesi Indonesia, using a in depth interview, observation, and artefact interpretation to determine accountability values. Findings – The results show identify three main dimensions of accountability; spiritual, leadership and finance. These dimensions are aligned with accountability in tongkonan values. A transformation is done by considering the Church as Christ's tongkonan and the spiritual accountability dimension binds all family members when participating in Church rituals. With respect to the leadership dimension, the leadership value of Panglaa Tondok encourage all Church members to be loyal to their leader and creates a concept of collegial collective leadership. Novelty – With respect to the financial dimension, the value of ""kombongan"" indicates that financial resources must be formulated together in a community of stakeholders. The transformation results of this research can be used to increase the accountability of church organizations and encourage the adoption of local cultural practices in the management of church organizations."
M41|The Accounting Conservatism of the Adoption of IFRS in Indonesia|Objective - The Indonesian Accounting Standard Authority has required companies to adopt the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) since its adoption in 2012. The new standard emphasizes relevance, while the previous standard focused on conservative issues. While the IFRS does not specifically aim to reduce conservatism, this aspect is no longer the emphasis of the new standard. There are concerns about whether the IFRS reduces conservatism and the research on this issue are still uncertain. Hence, this study aims to determine the level of conservatism in the period following the adoption of the IFRS. The study also aims to examine the outcome of the adoption of the IFRS since its adoption in Indonesia in 2012. Methodology/Technique - Using the accounting conservatism model developed by Basu (1997), the authors compare firm conservatism before and after the adoption of the IFRS. The sample includes companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2006 and 2016. There are 3.742 firm-years that consist of 394 companies from various industrial sectors. The data is analyzed using a Pooled Least Square method. Findings - The results show that conservatism was high prior to the adoption of the IFRS. Further, accounting earnings are more sensitive to the negative return than to the positive return before the adoption of the IFRS. However, in the post-adoption period, sensitivity to negative return has decreased. This means that the adoption of the IFRS has reduced levels of conservatism. The Indonesian Accounting Standard Authority may rely on these results to evaluate the mandatory policy of IFRS. Novelty - This study explores the prevalence of conservatism within firms prior to, and following, the adoption of the IFRS using longitudinal data.
M41|Analysis of Voluntary Disclosure Before and After the Establishment of the Integrated Reporting Framework|"Objective - The goal of integrated reporting is to enhance the cohesiveness and efficiency of corporate reporting. It encourages organizations to create greater value by identifying the factors that have a material impact on its operations. The Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework guides the overall content of an integrated report through the Guiding Principles and Content Elements. The Framework has eight elements. This study explores the level of voluntary disclosure of information related to these eight elements by companies listed on the Bursa Malaysia before and after the establishment of the Framework. Methodology/Technique - This study examines the annual reports of 603 Main Market listed companies of Bursa Malaysia between 2012 and 2015. The year 2012 is referred to as the ""pre-issuance period"" while 2015 is referred to as the ""post issuance period"". Findings - The findings of the study show that the companies that do disclose more information, do so in relation to three out of the eight elements only. These are: governance, strategy and resource allocation, and outlook. Overall, there is a lack of lineage among the information related to the IR elements presented in the annual reports. Novelty - The findings demonstrate the need for the full adoption of integrated reporting in Malaysia."
M41|Information Asymmetry in the Post-IFRS Adoption Period: Evidence from Developing Countries|Objective - The adoption of IFRS aims to reduce the level of information asymmetry. Prior studies conducted in developed countries prove that the adoption of IFRS enhances transparency and diminishes information asymmetry. However, in developing countries with a low level of openness, limited regulation, and more centralized ownership, the ability of IFRS to reduce information asymmetry remains unknown. To address this issue, this study aims to investigate whether IFRS adoption will reduce information asymmetry in some developing countries in South East Asia. Methodology/Technique - This research is applied in three developing countries: Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand. Information asymmetry is proxied by the cost of capital using the Easton model (2004) and a bid-ask spread. Listed firms from the three countries are selected as the research sample resulting in 5.313 firm-years for the period between 2007 and 2016. Findings - This study concludes that the adoption of the IFRS decreases information asymmetry in developing countries. These finding confirm that the benefit of the adoption is the same as in developed countries, despite the level of law enforcement in developing countries being lower. Managers, standard authorities and investors must note that the IFRS conveys benefits to the market, which increases transparency by asking lower returns and valuing company stocks appropriately. Novelty - This study examines the benefits of the adoption of the IFRS in reducing information asymmetry in some emerging countries to enhance the generalization of the results from prior studies that are mostly conducted in developed countries.
M41|Gender-Diversity, Financial Performance and Cash Holding in Family Firms|Objective - This research aims to determine the presence of partial effects on gender-diversity and financial performance variables on the cash holding of family firms on the Indonesian Stock Exchange included in the Kompas100 index. Methodology/Technique - The approach used in this research was causal associative testing using a panel data regression with a General Least Square (GLS) method using six independent variables: size, growth opportunity, dividend, return on assets, leverage, and gender diversity. Meanwhile, cash holding acts as a dependent variable. Findings - The results of the research show that the independent variables of leverage have significantly negative relationships on cash holding on the Kompas100 index of Indonesia in the period of 2013-2016. Contrary to this, return on asset has a significantly positive relationship with cash holding. Novelty - Gender diversity is an important variable of boardroom; this paper reveals the impact of gender diversity and performance on family holding firms. These results can be used to assess the performance and fundamentals of a firm.
M41|Capital Policy on Firm's Profitability: A Case of the Thai Agro and Food Industry|Objective - The objectives of this research include: (1) to identify working capital investment policy and working capital financing policy, (2) to study the effect of working capital investment policy on profitability, and (3) to study the effect of working capital financing policy on profitability. Methodology/Technique - 41 firms in the agro-food industry listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand are examined in this study. Secondary data was collected and analyzed within a 5-year period between 2013-2017. Findings - The results show that the most frequently employed working capital investment policy is the aggressive approach (46.30%), and the most frequently employed financial policy is the moderate approach (82.90%). According to the inferential statistics, it is concluded that: (1) profitability is significantly affected by the choice of working capital investment policy and a moderate investment policy results in the greatest profitability, and (2) profitability is not affected by the choice of working capital financing policy. Novelty - As a result, firms should focus on the selection of a moderate working capital investment policy when seeking to maximize profits. On the other hand, any type of working capital financing policy (aggressive, conservative, or moderate approach) is appropriate.
M41|Industry and Financial Crises in Fragile and Zombie Firms: Does Leverage Matter?|Objective - This paper shows how leverage affects firm's fragility and financial soundness during financial and industry crises. Methodology/Technique - Long term inefficient and zombie firms are explored through the effects of leverage in additional tests. Findings - There are two main results obtained from the sample of Indonesian non-financial firms from 2007 to 2016. First, leverage has a statistically significant correlation with firm's fragility. Second, leverage has an effect on firm's financial soundness during industry crisis. Novelty - Unlike the previous paper, this paper demonstrates a significant implication on the need to differentiate fragile firms and firms that are persistently inefficient, such as zombie firms.
M41|Internet Financial Reporting Of Public Institutions and E-Government as a Medium of Good Governance in Indonesia|Objective - Transparency of financial reporting can be achieved through various media including the internet and is an important factor of good governance. The use of internet in government has been regulated to encourage the government to build and develop websites to present information to the public. This research analyzes the factors that influence the government's internet financial reporting (IFR) through e-government. Methodology/Technique - The factors tested in this research are: size, leverage, capital expenditure, and audit opinion of the Republic Indonesia Audit Board (BPK). The population of this research is 25 ministries registered on the e-government ranking index (PeGI) between 2013 and 2015. Path analysis using the SPSS 21 application program is used. Findings - The results show that size, capital expenditure and audit opinion of BPK affected the use of IFR through e-government, whereas leverage did not affect the use of IFR through e-government. Novelty – These findings indicate that e-government is an important mediating factor in disclosing financial reports on the internet as a medium of good governance for public institutions in Indonesia.
M41|The Effect of Integrating Reporting on Earnings Quality: A Study of Family Firms in Indonesia|Objective - The implementation of integrated reporting (IR), which is a composite of financial and non-financial information, in one single report makes financial reporting more comprehensive and more transparent. Transparent information in IR gives annual reporting of family firms a higher earnings quality. Methodology/Technique - This research aims to examine the effect of IR on earnings quality of family firms in the mining industry on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2014 and 2017. Findings - The results of this study indicate that there is a positive and significant relationship between integrating reporting and earnings quality. These results confirm that firms that use integrated reporting tend to show higher earnings quality. The study also finds that larger sized companies and larger leverage amounts equals a higher volume of information disclosed. Novelty – The motivation of this research is to examine IR issues that are relatively new.
M41|Emotional Intelligence and Job Performance of Accounting Students Undertaking Internships|Objective – This paper investigates the influence of emotional intelligence on job performance among accounting students undertaking Student Internships. Methodology/Technique – This study adopts a quantitative research approach, using questionnaires to collect data. The study examines accounting students at Sebelas Maret University. The sample consists of 201 participants who were selected using a purposive method, from the final year students studying Accounting (Undergraduate and Diploma Programs) at Sebelas Maret University. Regression analysis is used to examine the relationship between emotional intelligence and job performance in accounting students. Findings – The results show that emotional intelligence has a positive influence on job performance among students undertaking internships. Further analysis suggests that the ability to motivate oneself and build meaningful relationships are the most important variables in explaining the relationship between emotional intelligence and job performance of students undertaking internships. Novelty – This research contributes to emotional intelligence literature by providing meaningful management implications to the university administrators in the Indonesian higher education system.
M41|Expenditures and food consumption of a patrician family in nineteenth-century Trentino: the Bossi Fedrigotti|This paper aims to analyse the expenditure and consumption of a noble family from Trentino, the Bossi Fedrigotti, in the nineteenth century. The origin and evolution of the family assets are traced from the fifteenth to the nineteenth century as they shifted from transport to trade, from trade to finance, and finally from finance to agriculture. The research is based on the household budgets and investigates the type, composition and variations in expenditures during two benchmark decades, 1835-44 and 1855-64. The relatively small share of expenses for food as compared to leisure, cultural activities, charity and conspicuous consumption reflects the family’s quest for social status and reputation, leading to the obtainment of a noble title in the eighteenth century. The Bossi Fedrigotti represented a pillar in the economic system of Rovereto, which they actively supported through a variety of economic and non-economic actions, helping the city to prosper and advance.
M41|Overhead Cost Allocation and Earnings Manipulation Between Quarters|Much as with annual earnings reports, the potential exists for management to manipulate quarterly earnings reports to improve certain metrics and increase bonuses and other rewards. This study examines the conditions in which applied overhead rates could be used to manipulate quarterly earnings reports and finds evidence that such manipulation could be occurring.
M41|Optimal vs satisfactory transparency: The impact of global macroeconomic fluctuations on corporate competitiveness|Being able to separate temporary global macroeconomic influences – caused by fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and inflation – from intrinsic performance – related to a superior product, production process or management – is crucial to assessing the development of a firm’s competiveness. Against that background, this paper analyzes institutions’ role in making firms supply outside shareholders with relevant information corresponding to satisfactory transparency from the shareholder perspective. Based on a sample of the 100 largest public European firms, it is found that no firm provided information to a level deemed satisfactory by the outside shareholder. One explanation may be that optimal transparency for the firm does not equal satisfactory transparency for the outside shareholder. However, the implementation of IFRS/IAS 1 in the EU as of 2005 and a company’s international cross-listing activities exhibit associations with a better supply of information and a narrowing of the gap. Shareholders in the Anglo-Saxon corporate governance system are provided with more relevant information than those in other corporate governance systems. The paper adds to the literature on the role of institutions in international corporate governance, with a particular focus on information asymmetries in an international business context.
M41|経営者能力と財務的意思決定―投資政策・株主還元政策・現金保有―|本論文の目的は，経営者能力の観点から財務的意思決定が企業の将来業績に及ぼす影響について実証的に検討することにある。とりわけ，本研究では，Demerjian et al.（2012）で提示された経営者能力の指標を援用し，能力の高い経営者が行う財務的意思決定が当該企業の将来業績とどのように結びつくかを分析する。主な検証結果は以下のように要約される。第 1 に，能力の高い経営者が行う投資政策は将来業績と正の関係性を持つことが示され，能力の高い経営者が行う投資政策とりわけ資本的支出は将来業績を向上させるものであることが分かった。第 2 に，能力の高い経営者が行う株主還元政策は将来業績と正の関係性を持つことが示され，当該株主還元政策は将来業績に対する信頼できるシグナルとなることが示された。最後に，追加分析からは経営者の能力が高いほど保有現金が株式市場で相対的に高く評価されることが明らかとなった。以上の発見事項は，能力の高い経営者は効果的に投資を行い， そして，将来業績に関する信頼できるシグナルを資本市場に発信する傾向にあることから， 当該経営者が保有する現金は高く評価されることを示唆している。, We examine whether and how financial policies by high-ability managers relate to future performance. Many finance theories have predicted that financial policies, such as corporate investments and dividends, are function of firm-specific characteristics and that the efficacy of these policies is less relevant to managers’ characteristics. Using a measurement of managerial ability, we extend the literature by providing evidence that the outcome of financial policies differs with managerial ability. We find that (1) investments by high-ability managers are more likely to improve future performance, (2) dividends by high-ability managers are positively related to future performance, and (3) the marginal value of cash is greater for firms with high-ability managers. Our evidence sheds a new light on the effect of managerial ability on organizational outcome and the linkage between financial policies and future performance.
M41|Intertemporal income shifting around a large tax cut: The case of depreciations|A corporate tax rate cut provides an incentive for corporations to shift taxable income from years before the tax rate cut to post-reform years. Our study analyzes whether depreciations and write-offs are used to achieve intertemporal income shifting. Using a panel of German manufacturing firms, we test in a difference-in-differences setting whether firms reacted to the announced 2008 corporate tax rate cut of 10 percentage points by accumulating depreciation expenses in the pre-reform year. Our results suggest that depreciation expenses in 2007 are on average about 2.5% higher than in the other observation years. Our analysis also sheds light on heterogeneity in intertemporal income shifting across firms. We provide evidence for a weaker reaction of loss firms resulting from a lower tax incentive. By contrast, we find stronger intertemporal income shifting of large firms and especially firms with a relatively high share of new investments in the capital stock. While the first result is consistent with a higher cost-efficiency of tax planning of large firms, the second finding suggests that investments in the current year provide more discretion for (tax-induced) earnings management.
M41|How do tax incentives affect business investment? Evidence from German bonus depreciation|"We analyse how tax incentives in the form of accelerated depreciations (""bonus depreciation"") affect business investment. By exploiting exogenous variation in tax regulation of a regional bonus depreciation program in the former East Germany, we identify and quantify the impact from bonus depreciation on building and equipment investments at the extensive and intensive margins in the German manufacturing industry. We observe a stronger response for building investments and from large firms. There is only weak evidence of subsidy shopping but stronger evidence of investment shifting to years with more generous bonus depreciation regulations."
M41|Corporate tax planning and firms' information environment|This study examines whether internal information quality (IIQ) is associated with firms' external information quality (EIQ) and whether tax planning moderates this association. Based on the argument that higher internal information quality allows managers to convey higher quality information to market participants, I hypothesize and find a positive association between IIQ and EIQ. I then examine if tax planning, which prior literature shows affects external information quality due to proprietary costs of disclosure, attenuates this association. I find that the association between IIQ and EIQ is fully attenuated for firms with a high level of tax planning. A structural equation model that allows different elements of IIQ to covary and robustness tests corroborate my findings. Overall, my results imply that increased IIQ spills over to EIQ because managers convey higher quality internal information to market participants. However, proprietary costs resulting from a high level of tax planning appear to moderate this effect.
M41|Comparability and predictive ability of loan loss allowances: The role of accounting regulation versus bank supervision|We investigate whether and how the shift from discretionary forward-looking provisioning to the restrictive incurred loss approach under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the European Union (EU) affects the cross-country comparability and predictive ability of loan loss allowances. Given bank supervisors' keen interest in comparable and adequate loan loss allowances, we also examine the role of supervisors in determining financial statement effects around IFRS adoption. We find that the application of the incurred loss approach has led to more comparable loan loss allowances. However, some differences persist in countries where supervisors were reluctant to enforce the incurred loss approach. Our results also suggest that the predictive ability of loan loss allowances improved following IFRS adoption. Finally, in supplemental analyses we document that increased comparability of loan loss allowances is associated with the cross-country convergence of the risk sensitivity of bank leverage indicating an improvement in the effectiveness of market discipline in the EU.
M41|The Death of a Regulator: Strict Supervision, Bank Lending and Business Activity|An important question in banking is how strict supervision affects bank lending and in turn local business activity. Forcing banks to recognize losses could choke off lending and amplify local economic woes. But stricter supervision could also change how banks assess and manage loans. Estimating such effects is challenging. We exploit the extinction of the thrift regulator (OTS) — a large change in prudential supervision — to analyze economic links between strict supervision, bank lending and business activity. We first show that the OTS replacement indeed resulted in stricter supervision of former OTS banks. Next, we analyze the ensuing lending effects. We show that former OTS banks increase small business lending by roughly 10 percent. This increase is not entirely accounted by a reallocation of mortgage lending and stems primarily from well-capitalized banks and those more affected by the new regime. These findings suggest that stricter supervision operates not only through capital but can also overcome frictions in bank management, leading to more lending and a reallocation of loans. Consistent with the latter, we find increases in business entry and exit in counties with greater expose to OTS banks.
M41|Financial realities for farms in the European Union: Relationships between farming and governmental interactions within the Triple Helix concept|The objective of this study is to analyse the financial realities for the farming sector in European Union countries and their relationships with agricultural investment and public structural subsidies, from a perspective of farming- and governmental relationships as part of the Triple Helix approach. Firstly, the statistical information available within the Farm Accountancy Data Network for the former twenty seven European Union countries, related with the main items of the accounting balance sheet was investigated. Secondly, various financial indicators were calculated to analyse the principal financial constraints in these farms and finally, these findings with the levels of investment and structural support were reported. As a main conclusion, more adjusted structural policies in the European Union will be needed, taking these microeconomic contexts into account.
M41|An elusive panacea? The impact of the regulatory valuation regime on insurers' investment behaviour|This paper examines how the interactions between the valuation regime and solvency requirements influence investment behaviour of long-term investors with stable liabilities, such as life insurers. Under limited liability, solvency requirements based on historical cost valuation encourage risk-shifting to the detriment of policyholders, while those based on fair value regime can induce procyclical asset sales. A hybrid valuation regime, intended to address these unfavourable outcomes, does not strictly dominate the other two regimes. But both fair value and hybrid regimes outperform the historical cost regime if the regulators can set the penalty imposed on insurers based on supervisory information about their asset quality, even if this information is imperfect.
M41|Deferred Taxation under Default Risk|In this article, we have used a continuous EBIT-based model to study deferred taxation under default risk. Quite surprisingly, default risk has been disregarded in research on deferred taxation. In order to underline its importance, we first calculated the probability of default, over a given time period, together with the contingent value of tax deferral. We then applied our theoretical model to a sample of 27,749 OECD companies. We showed that, when accounting for both firms with a negative EBIT and firms with a probability of default higher than 50% (over a 10-year period), a relevant percentage of firms were close enough to default. Hence, these taxpayers should not consider deferred taxation in their financial statements, for the sake of prudence. Moreover, under default, the expected present value of deferred taxes was much lower than that obtained in a deterministic context. Hence, if we look at deferred taxes from the Government’s point of view, we must consider them as being risk-free loans. However, only a portion are subsequently repaid, due to default. This implies that, when a Government allows accelerated tax depreciation it should be aware of future losses due to default. So far, these estimates have been missing, although techniques do exist and are quite practical.
M41|The Procyclicality of Expected Credit Loss Provisions|The Great Recession has pushed accounting standards for banks' loan loss provisioning to shift from an incurred loss approach to an expected credit loss approach. IFRS 9 and the incoming update of US GAAP imply a more timely recognition of credit losses but also greater responsiveness to changes in aggregate conditions, which raises procyclicality concerns. This paper develops and calibrates a recursive ratings-migration model to assess the impact of different provisioning approaches on the cyclicality of banks' profits and regulatory capital. The model is used to analyze the effectiveness of potential policy responses to the procyclicality problem.
M41|The Informational Effects of Tightening Oil and Gas Disclosure Rules|"We exploit two regulatory shocks to examine the informational effects of tightening pre-existing mandatory disclosure rules. Canadian Rule NI 51-101 and the US ""Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting"" introduced a quasi-identical tightening of the rules governing oil and gas reserve disclosures in Canada and the US at different times. Both in Canada and the US, we document significant changes in firms' reporting outcomes when the new regulation is introduced. We also find that the reserve disclosures filed under the new regulations are more closely associated with stock price changes and with decreases in bid-ask spreads. Our findings are robust to controlling for other confounding factors such as time trends, other information disclosed simultaneously, financial reporting incentives, mispricing and monitoring efforts."
M41|Myths and Numbers on Whistleblower Rewards|Whistleblower rewards have been used extensively in the US to limit procurement fraud and tax evasion, and their use has been extended to fight financial fraud after the recent financial crisis. In Europe there is currently a debate on their possible introduction, but authorities appear considerably less enthusiastic than their US counterparts. While it is important that these tools are scrutinized by a lively democratic debate, many things have been written, even by important institutional players, that have no empirical backing or that are in open contrast with the available evidence from independent research. In this paper we review some of the most debated issues regarding the potential benefits and costs of financial incentives whistleblowers trying to separate existing empirical evidence from conjectures with no empirical support, and myths in obvious contrast with available evidence.
M41|The Procyclicality of Expected Credit Loss Provisions|The Great Recession has pushed accounting standards for banks' loan loss provisioning to shift from an incurred loss approach to an expected credit loss approach. IFRS 9 and the incoming update of US GAAP imply a more timely recognition of credit losses but also greater responsiveness to changes in aggregate conditions, which raises procyclicality concerns. This paper develops and calibrates a recursive ratings-migration model to assess the impact of different provisioning approaches on the cyclicality of banks' profits and regulatory capital. The model is used to analyze the effectiveness of potential policy responses to the procyclicality problem.
M41|Impact Of Educational Csr On Regional Business|The research on business models that incorporates a variety of stakeholders is a recent trend in the field of management. This paper aims to add new insights to this research and analyses the implementation experience of two recent educational CSR projects facilitated by companies, business clubs and a university. This paper describes the underlying mechanisms during the layout phase of these projects and provides an implementation feedback based on a survey performed with executive managers of the regional business environment. Beyond regional considerations this paper is expected to have a general relevance for businesses and governmental institutions operating in regions transforming towards a knowledge driven economy.
M41|Secrecy, information shocks, and corporate investment: Evidence from European Union countries|This study examines how national culture affects corporate investment. We argue that national culture affects corporate investment efficiency through the level of secrecy that national culture exhibits. Using a sample of firms from eight culturally-diverse European Union countries, we find that the level of secrecy that national culture exhibits is negatively related to corporate investment efficiency after controlling for a number of firm- and country-level factors. We also find that the negative relation between national culture and corporate investment efficiency is mitigated by an exogenous shock to the information asymmetry problem between managers and investors. Our study highlights the importance of the cultural value of secrecy/transparency as a determinant of investment efficiency at the firm-level.
M41|Does Social Capital Matter in Corporate Decisions? Evidence from Corporate Tax Avoidance|We investigate whether the levels of social capital in U.S. counties, as captured by strength of civic norms and density of social networks in the counties, are systematically related to tax avoidance activities of corporations with headquarters located in the counties. We find strong negative associations between social capital and corporate tax avoidance, as captured by effective tax rates and book‐tax differences. These results are incremental to the effects of local religiosity and firm culture toward socially irresponsible activities. They are robust to using organ donation as an alternative social capital proxy and fixed effect regressions. They extend to aggressive tax avoidance practices. Additionally, we provide corroborating evidence using firms with headquarters relocation that changes the exposure to social capital. We conclude that social capital surrounding corporate headquarters provides environmental influences constraining corporate tax avoidance.
M41|Dividends from Unrealized Earnings and Default Risk|Using hand-collected data on Israeli firms’ unrealized earnings and debt restructurings following adoption of the IFRS, we investigate whether and how dividend payments based on unrealized revaluation earnings affect a firm’s default risk. Our results indicate that in the era of fair value accounting, the origin of the dividend payout—coming from unrealized versus realized earnings—has a significant effect on a firm’s default risk above and beyond the effect of the extent of the payment. Specifically, controlling for various determinants of financial risk, including the amount of the dividends paid (originating from either realized or unrealized earnings), companies are over three times more likely to subsequently require debt restructuring if they distribute dividends based on unrealized earnings. However, this enhanced risk seems to be mispriced by the market; firms that distribute dividends based on unrealized earnings exhibit an insignificantly different cost of debt than firms that never do so.
M41|How cultural and contextual variables affect the disclosure and transparency of pro-forma indicators|The paper analyses how company-specific financial factors and country-specific institutional and cultural factors affect the extent to which companies disclose Non-GAAP Financial Measures (NGFMs) in their financial communications. Our study is based on the analysis of 1,731 quarterly financial reports from 120 companies located in 23 countries and listed in Standard & Poor’s Global Oil Index. The results provide evidence that supports both the informative theory on NGFMs (asserting that NGFMs are disclosed to provide the investors with higher quality information) and the opportunistic theory (affirming that NGFMs are disclosed to mislead investors). On one side we see that highly indebted companies more frequently disclose NGFMs, but they are conservative in their adjustments, which is consistent with the informative theory. On the other side, low profitability is a driver of positive adjustments providing evidence of an opportunistic behaviour. The regulation on NGFMs has a positive effect on disclosure and does not increase conservatism. It increases the transparency of adjustments, but more in a formal way than substantially. Also the specific set of accounting standards adopted has a relevant effect on the disclosure of NGFMs. The cultural factors play a role partially consistent with this theory, but on average their impact is negligible. Our study was the first to analyse the use of NGFMs including companies from different continents and considering the impact of cultural variables. From a theoretical point of view, the results provide evidence that an informative and opportunistic use of NGFMs coexist and that different factors (mainly company-specific financial factors and institutional factors) lead to different practices. From a practical point of view the analysis provides interesting evidence for the evolution of regulations on NGFMs.
M41|Opportunism in disclosing pro-forma indicators: rationale and contextual drivers|The paper examines the impact of the institutional context and the regulation on the disclosure of non-GAAP indicators (NGIs), with a focus on the adoption of NGIs for opportunistic purposes. We firstly discuss the concept of opportunism and the approaches to discover opportunistic behaviours in the adjustment process. Then, we define a new procedure in three steps to highlight opportunistic behaviours. Based on a sample of 120 international listed companies, from 23 countries included in the S&P Global Oil Index, we employ logistic panel regression models to test our hypotheses about the role of the institutional context in affecting opportunism. First results suggest that while strong institutional contexts (developed market, high-quality legal system, protection for minority shareholders, common law system) reduce the disclosure of NGIs, they increase opportunistic behaviours. Moreover, the introduction of a regulation on NGIs increases the general disclosure of adjusted measures, but it does not moderate the opportunistic use of NGIs. Our research contributes to the non-GAAP literature providing a practical approach for measuring opportunism in NGIs disclosure. At the same time, the results provide useful insights to regulators and standard setters about the role and the effectiveness of regulations on NGIs in different institutional contexts.
M41|Tax Havens, Accounting Experts, and Fee-Setting Rules|Tax havens differ in the specific tax planning arrangements multinational firms can use to reduce their tax liabilities. Given the complexity and cost associated with identifying the most effective tax haven to use, an accounting firm can act as an intermediary between tax havens and multinational corporations. We analyze a model with horizontally differentiated multinationals and tax havens to study the role accounting firm intermediation has on tax haven prices, multinational tax planning choices, accounting firm profits, and tax revenues. In equilibrium, uniform accounting firm fees generate higher accounting firm profit, less tax avoidance, and higher tax revenues than either full price discrimination or haven-specific fees.
M41|Earning Investor Trust: The Role of Past Earnings Management|HDoes earnings management, even though legal, hamper investor trust in reported earnings? Or do investors regard earnings management as a way for firms to convey private information, or simply as a neutral feature of financial reporting? We find that past abstinence from earnings management increases investor responses to future earnings surprises. Importantly, this effect occurs where managers would in the past have had strong incentives and ample opportunities to misrepresent earnings. Overall, investors seem to interpret the extent to which management resists temptations for misreporting as a “litmus test” of trustworthiness.
M41|Short Selling and the Subsequent Performance of Initial Public Offerings|This paper examines short sales transaction volumes on the first trading day of 610 initial public offerings (IPOs) from 2011 to 2015. The tests provide evidence of informed trading immediately at the IPO. Results reveal that short selling volume on the first trading day of the IPO is significantly negatively linked to subsequent stock returns and accounting performance. Heavily-shorted IPOs underperform lightly-shorted IPOs by a risk-adjusted average of 22.68% annualized return. Heavily-shorted IPOs have the highest probability of analyst downgrades within the first year after the IPO. Short selling is higher in hot IPOs with higher demand and higher first-day return. These stocks are overpriced at the end of the first trading day, implying that short sellers are sophisticated investors taking advantage of the overpricing. Overall, the results indicate that short sellers are important contributors to efficient stock prices.
M41|Does the Public Disclosure of the SEC's Oversight Actions Matter?|This paper studies the effect of the public disclosure of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)'s oversight activity on firms' financial reporting. We exploit a major change in the SEC's disclosure policy: in 2004, the SEC decided to make its comment-letter reviews publicly available. Using a novel dataset of SEC comment letters (CLs), we analyze the capital-market responses to firms' quarterly earnings releases during SEC reviews conducted before and after the policy change. We find that these responses increase significantly following the policy change. Consistent with public disclosure of CLs increasing market discipline, we find that this relative increase is stronger among firms with higher percentages of dedicated institutional investors or independent directors. In contrast, we do not find conclusive evidence that public disclosure of CLs increases SEC oversight intensity. Corroborating these results, we also document a set of changes firms make to their accounting reports during these reviews. Our results indicate that the public disclosure of regulatory oversight activities can enhance the effect of these activities.
M41|Market-wide Effects of Off-Balance Sheet Disclosures:|This paper studies the spillover effects of firms' off-balance sheet disclosures. We focus our analysis on the mandatory disclosure of oil and gas (O&G) reserves, a setting in which off-balance sheet information is particularly important to understand industry competition. Using a comprehensive sample of Canadian and US O&G producers we document two novel results. First, in contrast to prior research on the informational effect of peers' earnings announcements, we find evidence that firms' exhibit lower stock returns when their peers announce more positive news about O&G reserves. Second, consistent with peers' disclosures affecting managerial decision making, we document that larger increases in peers' reserves are accompanied by an increase in firms' investment. We corroborate our results by exploiting three sources of institutional variation. First, the North-American pipeline infrastructure constrains the supply of natural gas, and thus competition in the gas market, but not the supply of oil. Second, the introduction of the fracking technology substantially altered the competition dynamics in the natural gas market. Third, mandatory O&G disclosure rules were modified in Canada and the US in a similar fashion, albeit at different points in time. Overall, our evidence suggests that off-balance sheet disclosures have substantial market-wide effects in the form of both financial and real externalities.
M41|Whistleblower Rewards, False Reports, and Corporate Fraud|It is often claimed that rewards for whistleblowers lead to fraudulent reports, but for several US programs this has not been a major problem. We model the interaction be- tween rewards for whistleblowers, sanctions against fraudulent reporting, judicial errors and standards of proof in the court case on a whistleblower.s allegations and the pos- sible follow-up for fraudulent allegations. Balancing whistleblower rewards, sanctions against fraudulent reports, and courts.standards of proof is essential for these policies to succeed. When the risk of retaliation is severe, larger rewards are needed and so are tougher sanctions against fraudulent reports. The precision of the legal system must be su¢ ciently high, hence these programs are not viable in weak institution environ- ments, where protection is imperfect and court precision low, or where sanctions against false reporting are mild. Internal reporting channels may interfere with external ones in unexpected ways.
M41|Changes in CEO Stock Option Grants: A Look at the Numbers|We study changes in CEO stock option grants. Unlike most of the literature, we focus on the number rather than the value of options granted. We first provide a detailed description of the main aggregate trends in CEO stock option grants. We then consider the cross-sectional heterogeneity in option-granting activity. We find that CEOs who either overinvest or underinvest subsequently receive fewer stock options as part of their compensation packages. CEOs who hold exercisable deeply-in-the-money options (overconfident CEOs) also receive fewer stock options in subsequent periods. Our findings provide insights into the dynamics of CEO compensation contracts.
M41|Identifying the provisioning policies of Belgian banks|"Loan loss reserves make up an essential part of a bank’s soundness and more generally its viability. An under-provisioned reserve account implies that capital ratios may overstate a bank’s ability to absorb future losses. For this reason, both supervisory authorities and investors regularly assess the adequacy of the loan loss provisions alongside the more popular capital ratios. The aim of the paper is to identify what motivates the loss provisioning policies employed by Belgian banks, especially whether banks use provisioning to inter-temporally smooth their earnings or capital positions. Owing to the relatively long data series, the paper also investigates whether the introduction of the IAS-39 ""incurred loss"" accounting standards or the onset of the financial crisis in 2008/9 had any impact on the provisioning decisions. The results show that provisioning practices of Belgian banks have been rather tightly linked to future losses, although the relationship has weakened considerably after the introduction of the IAS-39 standards and, to a lesser extent, after the financial crisis. There is also evidence that Belgian banks might have used provisioning decisions to manage their current earnings and to some extent to signal future profitability, although the latter motive also appears to have weakened after the introduction of IAS-39 standards."
M41|Econometric Evidence on the R&D Depreciation Rate|This paper presents estimates of the R&D depreciation rate using survey data on Australian inventions. Its novelty is twofold. First, it relies on direct observation of the revenue streams of inventions. This is in sharp contrast with previous studies, which all rely on models based on indirect observation and require strong identifying assumptions. Second, it presents estimates of the effect of patent protection on the depreciation rate. Results suggest that the yearly depreciation rate varies in a range of 1 to 5 per cent, although the depreciation rate is stronger in the first two years of inventions averaging 8–9 per cent. Patent protection slows down the erosion of profits by about 1–2 percentage points.
M41|On the Economics of Audit Partner Tenure and Rotation: Evidence from PCAOB Data|This paper provides the first partner tenure and rotation analysis for a large cross-section of U.S. publicly listed firms over an extended period. We analyze the effects on audit quality as well as economic tradeoffs related to partner tenure and rotation with respect to audit hours and fees. On average, we find no evidence for audit quality declines over the tenure cycle and little support for fresh-look benefits after rotations. Nevertheless, partner rotations have significant economic consequences. We find increases in audit fees and decreases in audit hours over the tenure cycle, which differ by partner experience, client size, and competitiveness of the local audit market. More generally, our findings are consistent with efforts by the audit firms to minimize disruptions and audit failures around mandatory rotations. We also analyze special circumstances, such as audit firm switches and early partner rotations, and show that they are more disruptive than mandatory rotations, and also more likely to exhibit audit quality effects.
M41|The Effect of Fair Disclosure Rule on Investment Efficiency|In this study, I examine the effect of the Fair Disclosure Rule (FD rule) on the firm fs investment efficiency. In recent studies, the real effect of dis- closure rules has attracted a great deal of attention. Therefore, this study focuses on the effect of the FD rule on the manager fs disclosure policy and firm fs investment efficiency. The results show the effect of firm fs investment efficiency is different based on how manager fs disclosure policy changed.
M41|"""Taking Diversity into Account"": the Diversity of Financial Institutions and Accounting Regulation"|The global financial crisis and what followed point out at least two major failures of the financial system: its inability to contain liquidity risk and its inability to fund long term investments. We think that these two problems come from the setting up of rules and practices that tend to homogenize market participantsâ€™ incentives and behaviors. Fair value accounting is one element of this set of practices and rules. If the rationale behind fair value accounting â€“ that is enhancing transparency in order to limit unreported losses and manipulations â€“ can justify its use in the case of short-term financial institutions (meaning institutions whose time horizon is short because of the maturity of their liabilities) that constantly face the risk of a sudden liquidity need, it seems totally irrelevant when it comes to long-term financial institutions that will not face liquidity needs before ten or twenty years. In this perspective, we develop a model that shows that an accounting regulation that takes the diversity of financial institutions into account offers better results both in terms of liquidity and in terms of efficiency than a regulation that ignores this diversity.
M41|Productive Processes, Costs And Competitiveness: The Case Of A Company Producer Of Tequila Artesanal, Procesos Productivos, Costos Y Competitividad: Caso Empresa Productora De Tequila Artesanal|This paper presents production processes used in a traditional company. Production processes are sequential, and apply to companies making mass production. This study refers to a company dedicated to the production of tequila a typical Mexican drink. We can perfectly identify the processes needed for the preparation. Many companies carry out their processes in a traditional way. However, these companies have had to adapt to technological changes to be competitive. Production processes applied to the production of tequila are well defined and allow the allocation of costs in each of the processes. The importance of this procedure has to do with training production, which makes a difference in quality, and is reflected in lower costs
M41|Ownerâ€™s financial expertise and Resubmitted Approved Loan Proposal in the Indian banks at the loan inception stage|We empirically evidenced that the ownerâ€™s financial expertise is different and comparatively less with respect to resubmitted approved loan proposal in the Indian banks at the loan inception stage, with proper control for resubmission and non-resubmission of loan proposals at the time of approval of these loans using primary data sample of 575 corporate accounts spread over a period of 15 years collected from Indian banks. The finding of this study implies that borrowers with comparatively less promoterâ€™s financial expertise in self-interest will avoid violating core covenants at the inception stage of a loan to get the loans approved. There is evidence of earnings management with respect to resubmitted loan proposal which are approved. Banks should take this information into account while disbursing loan and framing credit policies.
M41|The Effect of Bank Monitoring on the Demand for Earnings Quality in Bond Contracts|We investigate whether bank monitoring that relies on private information in private debt decreases the demand for earnings quality in public debt. In doing so, we focus on Japanese main banks that have high abilities to access the private information of borrowing firms. We find that under stable financial conditions in the bond-issuing firms, accruals quality is negatively associated with bond yield spreads, regardless of the existence of a main bank, suggesting that reporting higher quality earnings affects the reduction of the cost of debt in public debt. In contrast, we find that when the bond-issuing firms with a main bank have high default risk, there is no relationship between accruals quality and bond yield spread. The results suggest that when a main bank has a stronger incentive to monitor their borrowing firms due to the firm's poor financial performance, the increased bank monitoring using private information decreases the demand for earnings quality in bond contracts.
M41|Foreign ownership and financial reporting quality in private subsidiaries|In a sample of large private Spanish subsidiaries, we find that the magnitude ofdiscretionary accruals is significantly higher when the parent company is foreign thanwhen it is local. Our tests support the thesis of recent research on earnings management strategies within multinational corporations (MNCs), suggesting that the parent company’s incentives underlie the observed negative relation between foreignownership and financial reporting quality at the subsidiary level. In particular, weobserve that: (1) the tenure of the controlling shareholder has a negative incrementaleffect on financial reporting quality in firms under foreign control, but not insubsidiaries of local groups; and (2) the negative association between foreign ownershipand financial reporting quality is mainly driven by the subsample of subsidiaries withparent companies located in countries with higher institutional quality than Spain.
M41|Système d’information comptable : Un aperçu sur le système comptable financier algérien|L’usage de la comptabilité a évolué et son utilité devient essentielle, pour l’importance des services qu’elle peut rendre comme moyen de calcul économique et de gestion. Elle devient un moyen de collecte de l’information chiffrée, un instrument d’analyse et d’aide au contrôle de l’efficacité de la gestion, elle constitue donc « un système d’information » indispensable au pilotage de l’entreprise. Ce travail vise a exposé les principaux concepts du système d’information et de la comptabilité qui constitue un outil fondamental de ce système.
M41|Say it again Sam: the information content of corporate conference calls|Abstract This paper examines information-content of corporate conference calls. It studies the determinants, and the consequences, of information production. To facilitate this study, I develop a novel measure of information-content which analyzes every word choice made by management during both sessions of the call. In a sample of S&P 1500 firms from 2001 to 2012, this new measure of information-content explains cumulative abnormal returns. It shows how CEOs produce (suppress) information during the conference call. It shows how analyst participation in the call improves information production. It shows that a differential value is placed on information conditioned on the market segment of the firm. I contrast the effectiveness of this new measure to that of the conventional methodologies of tone and word-counting. I provide evidence that this new information-content measure is better suited to conference calls than are the other two.
M41|The return premiums to accruals quality|Abstract Using a battery of look-ahead-bias free measures of accruals quality (AQ), we find a strong and long-lasting negative relation between future returns and AQ. In decile portfolios that rank on AQ, a hedge portfolio that goes long in the lowest decile and short in the highest decile generates an annualized, risk-adjusted return of 4–12 % over 1-month to 5-year horizons, depending on the AQ measure and the portfolio weighting scheme. The return premiums associated with AQ are, (1) robust to a wide range of AQ measures, (2) robust to a battery of return-informative variables, and (3) not driven by low-priced or small stocks, earnings shocks, or the fourth-quarter effect. The documented premiums are consistent with the information uncertainty effect where firm uncertainty is negatively related to future returns .
M41|Recognized intangibles and the present value of growth options|Abstract We investigate the relation of recognized intangibles, defined as acquired intangibles net of goodwill, and the market’s perception of firm growth options (PVGO). We find that: (a) on average recognized intangibles are positively associated with PVGO after controlling for intangible expenditures immediately expensed, firm specific characteristics, industry membership and systematic risk (b) the said relation is highly non-linear (negatively skewed) and more strongly pronounced in companies with lower accumulation of R&D Capital; recognized intangibles are not that significant at higher levels of PVGO and whereas firms have committed to in-house technological development, and (c) while adjusted levels of recognized intangibles increase approximately tenfold over the last 35 years their explanatory power to PVGO over the period generally wanes. Our results are informative for the interpretation of recognized intangibles as a summary balance sheet item and therefore useful to users of financial statements forming investment and credit decisions, to policy makers aiming at stimulating firm growth and to standard setters aiming at improving value relevance.
M41|Corporate taxes, capital structure, and valuation: Combining Modigliani/Miller and Miles/Ezzell|Abstract The valuation of a firm with discounted cash flow (DCF) approaches requires assumptions about the firm’s financing strategy. The approaches of Modigliani and Miller and Miles and Ezzell assume that either a passive debt management with predetermined debt levels or active debt management with capital structure targets is applied. Over the last decades, various extensions of these approaches have been developed to allow for a more realistic depiction of financial decision making. However, recent empirical analyses indicate that current theories still have limited power to explain large variances in capital structure across time. We provide an alternative explanation for the empirical observation by assuming that firms combine both capital structure targets and predetermined debt within future periods, and we show how to value a firm given such a partially active debt management. The approaches of Modigliani and Miller and Miles and Ezzell are embedded into a common valuation framework, with the familiar valuation formulas shown as special cases. In a simulation analysis, we illustrate that the textbook valuation formulas may produce considerable valuation errors if a firm applies a partially active debt management.
M41|Do board interlocks motivate voluntary disclosure? Evidence from Taiwan|Abstract Conference calls have become a widely used medium for voluntary corporate disclosure, especially among firms associated with greater information asymmetry, intangible assets, and external competition. These features are common in high-tech sectors, which dominate the Taiwanese economy and render it a useful research setting for investigating whether board interlock, as a social network, affects corporate decisions to hold conference calls. We show that firms connected to conference-call-making firms through interlocked directors are more likely to hold conference calls and the frequency of holding conference calls increases with interlocking directors’ relevant experience. Moreover, such evidence is more pronounced if the connections are held through independent directors and among firms with greater information asymmetry. These results support the argument that the spread of corporate practices is positively associated with board interlock networks. Our findings have implications for the choice of board of director members, and can be generalized to other emerging economies characterized by weaker corporate information environments.
M41|Diversification by the audit offices in the US and its impact on audit quality|Abstract Audit offices in the US exhibit a wide variation in the number of industries they service. Strategic management theory suggests that diversification can affect the quality of output, depending on the nature and circumstances of diversification. This paper examines the effect of diversification at the audit office level on audit quality. Five proxies of audit quality are examined, mainly, absolute discretionary accruals, propensity to meet-or-beat earnings expectations by a cent, propensity to restate financial statements, propensity to receive a comment letter after an SEC review and propensity to issue a going concern opinion. Results suggest that diversification has detrimental effects on audit quality. On the other hand, when the diversification is part of the audit firm level strategy, the detrimental effects on audit quality are dampened. Moreover, when the diversification at the office level is part of a revenue expansion strategy, the audit quality is adversely affected. However, there is no detrimental effect on the audit quality when revenue expansion is not the objective. Also, diversification across dissimilar industries leads to more adverse effect on audit quality than diversification to similar industries. Results also suggest that when the audit office is located in a market with more (less) diversified client base, the adverse effects of diversification on audit quality are weaker (stronger). Finally, the offices of big-4 audit firms handle diversification better with less adverse effect on audit quality. The findings are important since they identify additional factors that explain audit quality at the audit office level.
M41|Management earnings forecasts and IPO performance: evidence of a regime change|Abstract Companies undertaking initial public offerings (IPOs) in Greece were obliged to include next-year profit forecast in their prospectuses, until the regulation changed in 2001 to voluntary forecasting. Drawing evidence from IPOs issued in the period 1993–2015, this is the first study to investigate the effect of disclosure regime on management earnings forecasts and IPO long-term performance. The findings show mainly positive forecast errors (forecasts are lower than actual earnings) and higher long-term returns during the mandatory period, suggesting that the mandatory disclosure requirement causes issuers to systematically bias profit forecasts downwards as they opt for the safety of accounting conservatism. The mandatory disclosure requirement artificially improves IPO share performance. Overall, our results show that mandatory disclosure of earnings forecasts can impede capital market efficiency once it goes beyond historical financial information to involve compulsory projections of future performance.
M41|Employee Downsizing and Accounting Choices: Evidence from Japan|While employee downsizing is an important economic phenomenon at least in countries with inflexible employment practices, little is known about accounting practices around downsizing. The literature proposes two competing hypotheses regarding accounting practices around labor negotiations: earnings management hypothesis and informative accounting practice hypothesis. This study investigates accounting choices around employee downsizing, using data from Japan, where employee downsizing is constrained by social norms and case laws. Specifically, it focuses on accounting conservatism, which informs employees of firms’ real economic conditions, and discretionary accruals, which represents opportunistic management behaviors. We find that downsizing firms report more conservative earnings in years during and after downsizing than non-downsizing firms do. However, we find no evidence suggesting that managers engage in income-decreasing earnings management around downsizing. These results are consistent with informative accounting practice hypothesis, in which managers make accounting choices to inform their employees of the firm’s real economic conditions.
M41|Effect of capitalizing operating leases on credit ratings: Evidence from Japan|The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of constructively capitalizing operating leases on credit ratings in Japan. In particular, this study investigates whether and how a credit rating agency considers operating lease information when determining credit ratings. First, this study shows that constructively capitalized operating leases are associated with credit ratings. Second, this study finds that the associations between operating leases versus finance leases and credit ratings are not substantially different. However, when operating lease disclosures are less reliable, this study finds that operating leases are not associated with credit ratings and that the risk relevance of operating leases is substantially different from that of finance leases. This study reports that the reliability of accounting information has significant effects on the risk relevance of operating leases. These results indicate that a credit rating agency considers operating lease information in determining credit ratings to the extent that this information is reliable. This study contributes to the literature on the usefulness of operating lease disclosures and to the discussions on the global convergence of accounting standards.
M41|Does Recognition versus Disclosure Affect Risk Relevance? Evidence from Finance Leases in Japan|This study examines the risk relevance of recognized versus disclosed finance leases in Japan. In particular, this study investigates whether and why equity investors treat recognized finance lease obligations differently from disclosed finance lease obligations when assessing firms’ equity risk. This study shows that recognized finance leases are associated with equity risk but that disclosed finance leases are not. Moreover, the relations between recognized versus disclosed finance leases and equity risk are substantially different. However, for firms with higher levels of institutional ownership, the risk relevance of disclosed finance leases is similar to the risk relevance of recognized finance leases. These results suggest that institutional investors are more sophisticated at processing disclosed finance leases and treat ing disclosed and recognized finance leases similarly when assessing firms’ equity risk. This study provides the evidence that investors’ information processing has significant effects on the risk relevan ce of lease arrangements. This study contributes to the accounting literature on recognition versus disclosure and to the discussions on the global convergence of accounting standards.
M41|Accounting for business combinations and takeover premiums: Pre- and post-IFRS|The adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in Australia in 2005 resulted in goodwill accounting shifting from systematic annual amortisation to impairment testing. We examine whether IFRS adoption changed the association between takeover premiums and the difference between a target firmâ€™s pre-acquisition market and book values (pre-acquisition step-up). Our results show a negative association between takeover premiums and the pre-acquisition step-up of the target firm. This association reduces however, after Australia adopted IFRS and no longer required goodwill amortisation. Consistent with the incentives arising from contracts written around accounting numbers, our results are strongest for bidding firms which compensate their CEO using an accounting-based bonus plan. These results are robust to a battery of sensitivity tests.
M41|Whistleblower Rewards, False Reports, and Corporate Fraud|It is often claimed that rewards for whistleblowers lead to fraudulent reports, but for several US programs this was not a major problem. We model the interaction between rewards for whistleblowers, sanctions against fraudulent reporting, judicial errors and standards of proof in the court case on the whistleblower's allegations and the possible follow-up for fraudulent allegations. Balancing whistleblower rewards, sanctions against fraudulent reports, and courts' standards of proof is essential for these policies to succeed. When the risk of retaliation is severe, larger rewards are needed and so are tougher sanctions against fraudulent reports. The precision of the legal system must be sufficiently high, hence these programs are not viable in weak institution environments, where protection is imperfect and court precision low, or where sanctions against false reporting are mild. Internal reporting channels may interfere with the external ones in unexpected ways.
M41|The effect of capital ratio on lending: Do loan-loss provisioning practices matter?|This paper examines the impact of bank capital ratios on bank lending by comparing differences in loan growth to differences in capital ratios at sets of banks that are clustered based on loan-loss provisioning practices. Applying fixed-effects estimator to sample of all commercial banks operating in Poland and using a unique quarterly dataset covering the period of 1999:4-2012:4 we find that loans growth is particularly capital constrained in poorly-capitalized banks, during both non-recessionary and recessionary periods. Lending of banks with low procyclicality of loan-loss provisions (LLP) is not affected by capital ratio in recessionary periods. Low-procyclicality of LLPs does not make poorly- capitalized banks’ lending immune to recessionary capital crunch. In contrast to common view, profit stabilizing practices achieved through income-smoothing do not make banks’ lending resilient to capital constraints during recession, as we find that high income-smoothing banks seem to suffer from increased capital pressures in their lending. This effect is also present in well-capitalized banks. The implication of our research is that decision-makers implementing new accounting standards for loan-loss allowance (the Expected Credit Loss approach) may not be effective in reducing procyclicality of capital regulation, if they will attempt to reduce recessionary capital constraints solely through profit-stabilizing income-smoothing.
M41|Military experience and corporate tax avoidance|Abstract We find that managers with military experience pursue less tax avoidance than other managers and pay an estimated $1–$2 million more in corporate taxes per firm-year. These managers also undertake less aggressive tax planning strategies with smaller tax reserves and fewer tax havens. Although they leave tax money on the table, boards hiring these managers benefit from reductions in other gray areas in corporate reporting. The broad implications are as follows: for employee selection, boards can consider employees’ personal characteristics as a control mechanism when outputs are difficult to contract ex ante or measure ex post.
M41|The changing relevance of accounting information to debt holders over time|Abstract A number of studies have examined the change over time in the information content of accounting numbers to stockholders. However, the stockholders’ perspective is not necessarily identical to that of debt holders. The two groups face different risks and rewards, and thus their informational needs are not the same. We examine the change in the information content of accounting numbers over time from the debt holders’ perspective and hypothesize about the economic and reporting factors likely to affect this change. Using the association between accounting numbers and bond valuation and returns, we find that the information content to debt holders has increased over time. In contrast, but consistent with prior studies, we find that the information content to equity holders has declined. The results suggest that the increased information content to debt holders is related to changes in credit risk and to reporting factors such as the increase in reporting conservatism, the shift towards fair value accounting, and the increase in the frequency of losses. The findings contribute to the scant literature on the use of accounting information by debt holders and the extent to which financial reporting meets their unique needs.
M41|Corporate investment and changes in GAAP|Abstract This paper investigates whether changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) affect corporate investment decisions. Using a sample containing forty nine changes in GAAP, I find that changes in accounting rules affect investment decisions. I then examine two mechanisms through which changes in GAAP affect investment. First, I find that changes in GAAP affect investment, particularly R&D expenditures, when firms have financial covenants that are affected by changes in GAAP. Second, I find evidence suggesting that the process of complying with some changes in GAAP alters managers’ information sets and consequently changes their investment decisions, particularly their capital and R&D expenditures and, to a weaker extent, their acquistion expenditures. This paper contributes to the literature on the real effects of accounting by providing evidence that accounting rules affect investment decisions even when the rule change does not concern the measurement and reporting of investment, and by documenting specific mechanisms through which the relation manifests.
M41|Go before the whistle blows: an empirical analysis of director turnover and financial fraud|Abstract This study investigates whether outside directors are aware of financial fraud. Our analysis focuses on the abnormal turnover of these directors during the fraud committing period, before fraud is discovered and before lawsuits are filed. Our empirical analysis shows that, during the fraud committing period, outside directors in fraud firms exhibit an abnormal level of turnover. Examining the characteristics of outside directors and boards at these fraud firms, we find strong evidence that female directors, directors who have greater stock ownership in the firm, and directors with multiple directorships at other firms are more likely to depart fraud firms. We also find some evidence that board size, number of meetings, and fraction of financial experts are related to abnormal turnover in fraud firms during the fraud committing period. We show that abnormal director turnover is significantly higher for fraud that is considered more egregious (i.e., involving fictitious transactions and disclosure problems). Lastly, directors are more likely to depart fraud firms with more serious fraud, as proxied by higher ex-post settlement amounts and longer fraud duration.
M41|Estimation risk and auditor conservatism|Abstract Estimation risk occurs when individuals form beliefs about parameters that are unknown. We examine how auditors respond to the estimation risk that arises when they form beliefs about the likelihood of client bankruptcy. We argue that auditors are likely to become more conservative when facing higher estimation risk because they are risk-averse. We find that estimation risk is of first-order importance in explaining auditor behavior. In particular, auditors are more likely to issue going-concern opinions, are more likely to resign, and charge higher audit fees when the standard errors surrounding the point estimates of bankruptcy are larger. To our knowledge, this is the first study to quantify estimation risk using the variance-covariance matrix of coefficient estimates taken from a statistical prediction model.
M41|The impact of corporate sustainability performance on information asymmetry: the role of institutional differences|Abstract This paper empirically investigates whether corporate sustainability performance (CSP) affects information asymmetry (IA) for European firms listed in the STOXX Europe 600 from 2002 to 2013. We find a significantly negative effect of CSP on IA. By exploiting institutional differences between the European countries, we determine that the negative effect of CSP on IA is more pronounced in liberal market economies compared to coordinated market economies, thus pointing to a substitutive effect of CSP and economic coordination. Further, the impact is greater in countries with stricter disclosure requirements. In such countries, there is generally a greater appetite for company-specific information. However, disclosure requirements fulfil this need only partially because they concentrate on the corporate governance dimension of corporate sustainability. Hence, information on the social pillar especially matters to investors in a complementary manner and drives the overall effect. Our study contributes to the literature on the positive capital market effects of CSP by showing the proposed effect in European capital markets and the institutional determinants of its strength.
M41|Managerial Risk Aversion and Accounting Conservatism|This paper investigates the link between one managerial characteristic, the degree of risk aversion, and accounting conservatism. Two models are analyzed, one where the degree of conservatism is chosen by the principal (Board) and accounting information is used for stewardship, and a second where the principal delegates the choice of the degree of conservatism to the manager and accounting information is primarily used for investment efficiency. We show in the first model that higher risk aversion reduces the demand for conservatism from a stewardship point of view. In the second model, we show that delegation is an optimal way for the principal of committing to conservative reporting. Hiring a more risk-averse manager lowers the cost of implementing this conservative reporting. The two models provide opposite predictions for the association between managerial risk aversion and the degree of conservatism. Empirical evidence favors the second model's prediction. The paper suggests that managers with specific characteristics and incentive contracts might be endogenously chosen by the firm to implement an ex-ante optimal degree of conservatism.
M41|Non‐additivity in Accounting Valuation: Theory and Applications|This paper has three objectives. First, to introduce a theoretical solution to the issue of non‐additivity between assets in place, relying on an accounting‐based valuation approach. Second, to explain how such an approach can be implemented empirically by measuring synergies between assets. Third, to present the properties of this non‐additive valuation technique. We use Choquet capacities, that is, non‐additive aggregation operators, to measure the interactions between assets and apply our methodology to a sample of US firms from the capital goods industry. To operationalize our approach we examine the relationships between synergies—captured by Choquet capacities—and the market‐to‐book ratio (proxying for growth options), and show how interactions between assets are consistently linked to a firm’s market‐to‐book ratio. We also measure firm‐specific productive efficiency relative to the industry and firm size. For large firms, efficiency, as defined by our approach, is positively associated with higher future operating cash flows. For small firms, efficiency is positively associated with higher future sales growth. We document that the non‐additive approach appears to be better able to identify expected relationships between efficiency and future performance than a simpler approach based on the market‐to‐book ratio.
M41|Evaluating Firm-Level Expected-Return Proxies|"We argue, from an extensive literature review, that in the vast majority of research settings, biases in alternative expected-return proxies (ERPs) are irrelevant. Therefore, in most settings, the choice between alternative ERPs should be based on an evaluation of their relative measurement-error variances. We develop a parsimonious evaluation framework that empirically estimates a given ERP's cross-sectional and time-series measurement-error variances. We then apply this framework to five classes of firm-level ERPs nominated by recent studies, including factor-based ERPs from finance and implied costs of capital (ICC) estimates from accounting. Our analyses show ICCs are particularly useful in tracking time-series variations in expected returns. We also find broad support for a ""fitted"" or ""characteristic-based"" approach to ERP estimation."
M41|Increased Information Content of Earnings Announcements in the 21st Century: An Empirical Investigation|This study examines the factors contributing to a striking increase in information content of quarterly earnings announcements, measured as the absolute magnitude of stock price revision at earnings announcements relative to price revision at other times from 1999 to 2012. We provide evidence that one-day announcement windows exhibit roughly twice the price response observed for three-day windows. Furthermore, we find that management guidance, analyst forecasts, and disaggregated financial statement line items are more frequently bundled with earnings announcements over our sample period, and these variables help to explain the increase in the information content of earnings announcements over time. However, after controlling for these concurrent disclosures, a striking increase in information content of earnings announcements remains. In addition, we compare the price response to earnings announcements without management guidance or analyst forecasts to the response to management guidance or analyst forecasts issued outside earnings announcements. We find that the relative return volatility on stand-alone earnings announcement dates is on average comparable to that on management guidance dates. However, management guidance exhibits a declining pattern of information content, whereas the information content of earnings is increasing and surpasses that of guidance in years 2007 to 2012. Abnormal return variability at stand-alone earnings announcements is more than twice that at analyst forecast dates. Our findings indicate that after controlling for the effects of concurrent disclosures by analysts and management guidance, earnings announcements are increasingly more informative to investors in the 21st century.
M41|Estimation Error of Earnings Information: A Test of Representativeness and Anchoring-adjustment Heuristic|The main objective of this research is to examine representativeness and anchoring-adjustment on investors’ over/under reaction to earnings information, and the consequence this has on earnings estimation and stock valuation. In particular, the over/under reaction creates an over response to the earnings information that is persistent in the long-term and an under reaction to the earnings information that changes extremely in the short-term. This research was designed with a 2 × 2 × 4, full factorial. Data was analyzed by repeated measures ANOVA within-subject. 20 post-graduate master students were participants in the experimental. The experimental revealed that investors relied heavily on previous earnings (PEs) and made the level and pattern of the PEs their initial belief (anchor). They overreact on the current earnings (CEs) information when confirming the fundamental beliefs, and they also overreacted toward persistent earnings. The results of the study confirmed that the overreaction behavior was due to of representativeness heuristic bias. On the contrary, the participant of the experiment underreacted towards the CEs information when disconfirming the fundamental beliefs, and also underreacted towards the pattern of earnings that show extreme change. The under reaction happens because of anchoring-adjustment heuristic bias. Consequently, when the previous and CEs have low (high) persistence earnings trend, they underestimated (overestimated) to the future earnings or made error in earnings estimation and underpriced (overpriced) to the securities accordingly or mispriced. It can also be concluded that the error of earnings estimation and stock mispricing is a consequence of the usage of representativeness or anchoring-adjustment heuristic, and indicates that psychological perspective can explain post earnings announcement drift in the capital market.
M41|Analysis of Operating Cash Flow to Detect Real Activity Manipulation and Its Effect on Market Performance|Deviating from normal business practices to manipulate reported income is defined as real earnings management (Roychowdhury, 2006). A firm can alter the level of accruals to obtain the desired level of a high stock price and/or earnings. The desire to achieve a high stock price and/or earnings to meet the earnings benchmark induces corporate managers to engage in earning management, inflating current earnings at the expense of the firms’ economic values. To meet a certain earnings target, managers can wait until the year-end to use discretionary accruals to manage reported earnings. However, this strategy runs the risk that the amount of earnings that needs to be manipulated is greater than the available discretionary accruals because the discretion on accruals is bounded by GAAP (Barton and Simko, 2002). Real activities manipulations are less subject to this constraint. The focus of this study is the real activities manipulations because the auditors and regulators are less likely to be concerned with such behaviors. The results suggest that firms are likely to engage in real activity manipulation through operating cash flow. Further analysis reveals that firms more likely to engage in real activity manipulation have higher market performance than do their counterpart.
M41|The Link between Information Technology, Activity-based Costing Implementation and Organizational Performance|Activity-based costing (ABC) is as a strategic tool that ensures accurate product costs as compared to traditional costing system. The implementation of ABC implementation offers useful information for performance measurement, cost control and strategic decision-making. Meanwhile, certain factors such as information technology (IT) determine the success of ABC implementation and its impact on organizational performance. However, past studies in this realm have neither been so emphatic in explaining the role of IT usage in implementing ABC in organizations nor examined the perception of employees and organizations’ decision makers towards the adoption of ABC. In addition, the government of Iraq and the Central Bank of Iraq has also issued strong recommendations to Iraqi banks to consider initiating ABC due to its influence of reduction cost. Thus, this study is motivated to examine the direct and the indirect relationships between IT, ABC implementation and organizational performance of banks in Iraq. This study surveyed 150 chief accountants of banks in the North region of Iraq. The data collected was analyzed using SPSS Version 21. The study revealed that there is a significant relationship between IT, ABC implementation and organizational performance. Also, the findings of this study demonstrated that, ABC implementation partially mediates the relationship between IT, ABC implementation and organization performance. Future researchers are recommended to consider other contingency factors and examine their effect on ABC implementation and organizational performance.
M41|Voluntary Disclosure of Internal Control Weakness and Earnings Quality: Evidence From China|Using a sample of 1059 listed firms that voluntarily provide internal control reports in the period 2010–2011, this paper investigates the relationship between voluntary disclosure of internal control weaknesses (ICWs) and earnings quality in China. Our results show that earnings quality, measured by absolute discretionary accruals, is significantly associated with voluntary disclosure of ICWs. Furthermore, our results demonstrate that both accounting-related and non-accounting-related ICWs affect earnings quality. This study contributes to the internal control literature by extending the evidence for ICW disclosure to an emerging economy and examining the impact of disclosure of different types of ICWs on earnings quality. This study demonstrates that the control of non-accounting-related ICWs is critical for enterprise risk management.
M41|Do operating leases expand credit capacity? Evidence from borrowing costs and credit ratings|We document that borrowing costs and credit ratings are less sensitive to off-balance sheet lease financing than to on-balance sheet debt financing, particularly for firms that are financially constrained and firms that have limited ability to use tax shields. This evidence is consistent with theoretical predictions based on tax benefits as well as bankruptcy costs. Our evidence on borrowing costs and credit ratings suggests that credit markets treat operating leases differently from balance sheet debt. Consistent with this interpretation, we document that firms closer to ratings borderlines lease more, particularly around the investment grade borderline.
M41|Dividend policy and earnings management across countries|This paper examines whether dividend policy is associated with earnings management and whether the relationship varies across countries with wide-ranging degrees of institutional strength and transparency. Based on a sample of 23,429 corporations from 29 countries, we show that dividend payers manage earnings less than dividend non-payers, and that this evidence is stronger in countries with weak investor protection and high opacity. Further, we find that dividend payers manage earnings less when they issue equity following dividend payments, and that this result is more pronounced in countries with weak institutions and low transparency. Overall, our evidence suggests that firms may employ dividend policies associated with less earnings manipulation to mitigate agency concerns and to establish credible reputation, thereby facilitating access to external funds.
M41|Earnings smoothing: Does it exacerbate or constrain stock price crash risk?|We examine the relation between earnings smoothing and stock price crash risk to evaluate the role of earnings smoothing on the downside risk of equity values. We find that, within firm, a higher degree of earnings smoothing is associated with greater crash risk; and this association, in the cross-section, is more pronounced for firms with fewer analysts following, smaller institutional holdings, and positive cumulative discretionary accruals. We also use stock returns to assess the economic significance of our results. We find that, controlling for firm fixed effects, earnings smoothing is associated with sizable negative returns in the quarter following the earnings announcement. Our findings caution investors about the downside risk of firms reporting smooth earnings, in contrast to the conventional belief that these firms are low in equity risk.
M41|Do busy directors influence the cost of debt? An examination through the lens of takeover vulnerability|We investigate the effects of board busyness on firms' cost of debt by analyzing the relationship through a hostile takeover framework. We initially establish an inverse relationship between board busyness and firms' hostile takeover vulnerability. Next, we test the relationship between board busyness and the cost of debt. Our results suggest that as the level of board busyness increases, the cost of debt decreases. Economically, the cost of debt for firms whose board is comprised of 40% busy directors is about 30bps lower, compared to those without busy directors. Our results survive extensive robustness checks and provide a positive counterpoint to the negative correlation between board busyness and firm performance.
M41|Comovement, financial reporting complexity, and information markets: Evidence from the effect of changes in 10-Q lengths on internet search volumes and peer correlations|We investigate the effect of financial reporting complexity on stock comovement. We hypothesize that investors deal with complexity increases by acquiring low cost information. This information is typically informative not just about the firm of interest but also about other firms with similar fundamentals, which generates excess comovement. We find that increases in 10-Q word counts, a complexity proxy, are consistently followed by increases in 1) internet searches about the firm and 2) R2s from regressions between the firm’s returns and its peers’. On a large scale, complexity-induced comovement might hinder investors’ ability to discriminate across stocks and identify business innovators.
M41|Gender-diverse board and the relevance of voluntary CSR reporting|In this paper, we focus on voluntary corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure, and we test the extent to which the value relevance of CSR reporting is affected by the appointment of female directors. Using a sample of French listed companies belonging to the SBF 120 index from 2001 to 2011, we control for differences in firm characteristics between firms with and without female board membership by using propensity score matching. Our results show that high CSR reporting is more relevant in terms of market value for firms with gender-diverse boards than for firms with completely male directors. This finding holds when we use the accounting-based performance measures, namely, return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE). We also highlight that engaging an external assurance provider for CSR reporting is value relevant for firms without female directors but not value relevant for firms with female directors, suggesting a substitute relationship between gender-diverse boards and CSR assurance. Our results are stable when we consider the presence of at least two and three female directors.
M41|Earnings comparability and informed trading|We investigate whether earnings comparability is associated with the probability of informed trading (PIN) as a proxy for information asymmetry in the equity market. We measure earnings comparability in three different ways to account for idiosyncratic variation in firm-specific components of earnings using GAAP earnings, special item-adjusted GAAP earnings, and Street earnings. We find that earnings comparability is inversely associated with PIN. The inverse relation between earnings comparability and information asymmetry is pronounced for large and high-analyst coverage firms. Overall, this paper adds to the literature by demonstrating economic benefits of cross-firm properties of accounting information.
M41|Earnings management and annual report readability|We explore how the readability of annual reports varies with earnings management. Using the Fog Index to measure readability (Li, 2008), and focusing on the management discussion and analysis section of the annual report (MD&A), we predict and find that firms most likely to have managed earnings to beat the prior year's earnings have MD&As that are more complex. This disruption of the overall pattern of readability increasing with the level of earnings found in Li (2008) challenges the ontological explanation that good news is inherently easier to communicate, and shows that obfuscation contributes to making disclosures more complex.
M41|Earnings expectations and employee safety|We examine the relation between workplace safety and managers’ attempts to meet earnings expectations. Using establishment-level data on workplace safety from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, we document significantly higher injury/illness rates in firms that meet or just beat analyst forecasts compared to firms that miss or comfortably beat analyst forecasts. The higher injury/illness rates in firms that meet or just beat analyst forecasts are associated with both increases in employee workloads and in abnormal reductions of discretionary expenses. The relation between benchmark beating and workplace safety is stronger when there is less union presence, when workers’ compensation premiums are less sensitive to injury claims, and among firms with less government business. Our findings highlight a specific consequence of managers’ attempts to meet earnings expectations through real activities management.
M41|Does managerial sentiment affect accrual estimates? Evidence from the banking industry|We examine whether managerial sentiment is associated with errors in accrual estimates. Using public banks we find (1) managerial sentiment is negatively associated with loan loss provision estimates, (2) future charge-offs per dollar of provision are positively associated with sentiment when the provision is estimated, and (3) the effects of sentiment are greater for firms with more uncertain charge-offs. Results are similar for private banks, suggesting accrual manipulation related to capital market incentives is unlikely to explain the results. Although economic fundamentals explain most of the variation in the provision, we find sentiment has an incremental and economically meaningful effect.
M41|The effect of voluntary disclosure on stock liquidity: New evidence from index funds|This study tests whether voluntary disclosure affects stock liquidity. I argue that index funds fit the profile of nonstrategic traders who, according to theory, are unambiguously more likely than managers and strategic investors to prefer high stock liquidity and thus high disclosure. This suggests that I can use index funds' disclosure preferences to construct an empirical model of voluntary disclosure that abstracts away from managers' strategic disclosure motives. Accordingly, I use an index-fund setting to construct a recursive structural equation model of voluntary disclosure, index fund ownership, and liquidity. I find that when a firm joins the S&P 500 index, voluntary disclosure increases with the level of ownership assumed by index funds, and this increase in disclosure is associated with increased stock liquidity. These results imply that voluntary disclosure increases stock liquidity.
M41|Conditionally conservative fair value measurements|Firms measure fair values using Level 2 or 3 inputs when items do not trade in liquid markets, limiting market discipline over the measurements. We provide evidence that firms holding higher proportions of financial instruments measured at Level 2 and 3 fair values report more conditionally conservative comprehensive income attributable to fair value measurements, consistent with firms trying to mitigate investors' discounting of the measurements. We further predict and find that this conditional conservatism (1) increases with governance mechanisms that increase the strength and persistence of firms' incentives to report conservatively and (2) decreases with firms’ earnings management incentives.
M41|Special purpose entities and bank loan contracting|In this study, we show that a firm's use of special purpose entities (SPEs) is associated with unfavorable loan contract terms, including higher loan rates, collateral requirements, and restrictive covenants. Further analyses suggest that the association between the use of SPEs and unfavorable loan contract terms is primarily due to the increase in the information risk faced by lenders, as firm managers can easily use SPEs to manipulate earnings and hide losses. Specifically, we find that the use of SPEs has a more pronounced effect on increasing the cost of loans and causing more stringent non-price loan terms when managers have a stronger incentive to manipulate earnings and when banks have less knowledge about the SPE sponsor firms due to the lack of prior lending relationship. In addition, we find that the use of SPEs is associated with a greater likelihood of accounting restatements and greater information asymmetry between inside managers and outside capital suppliers.
M41|Performance volatility, information availability, and disclosure reforms|Using the 2002 Sarbanes–Oxley reform as an exogenous disclosure shock, we find that high, relative to low, volatility firms opt for lower levels of information availability pre reform and experience increases in information availability, CEO turnover-to-performance sensitivity, myopic behavior, CEO compensation with a structure tilted towards more cash pay, and a reduction in firm value post the reform. Our findings suggest that mandating high levels of information availability across the board increases managerial evaluation risk and produces additional agency costs for firms with volatile performance.
M41|Aggregate earnings and stock market returns: The good, the bad, and the state-dependent|Prior research documents a negative aggregate earnings-returns relation. In contrast, we posit that the sign of the relation varies, depending upon the macroeconomic and financial market conditions that exist in the earnings announcement quarter. We argue that the existing macroeconomic and financial market conditions influence market participants’ frame of reference, which in turn affects whether they interpret aggregate earnings surprises to be informative about the expected inflation component of the discount rate, the market risk premium component of the discount rate, or aggregate future cash flows. Consistent with this, we find that the sign of the aggregate earnings-returns relation changes numerous times across our sample period. We also find that market participants interpret aggregate earnings to be informative about changes in expected inflation (market risk premium) when the sign of the aggregate earnings-returns relation is negative (positive). Finally, we identify macroeconomic and financial market conditions under which the aggregate earnings-returns relation is more (less) likely to be negative (positive).
M41|Does family involvement explain why corporate social responsibility affects earnings management?|We investigate how family involvement in the ownership, management, or governance of a business affects its engagement in earnings management both directly and indirectly through its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. Using a sample of S&P 500 companies, we find that family firms tend to have higher CSR performance, which can help them to maintain legitimacy and preserve socio-emotional wealth. Family firms also engage in less accrual-based earnings management, although they are indistinguishable from non-family firms in terms of real earnings management. In contrast to previous research, we find that CSR performance is not significantly associated with either accrual-based or real earnings management behavior after we account for the effect of family involvement. Our findings suggest that the association between CSR performance and family involvement is the primary driver of the relation between CSR performance and earnings management documented in previous research.
M41|The economics of advance pricing agreements|Advance pricing agreements (APAs) determine transfer prices for intra-firm transactions in advance of tax filing. This paper presents a model in which these contracts serve to overcome a hold-up problem that occurs because governments cannot commit to non-excessive future tax rates. We find that implemented APAs lead to a Pareto improvement even when all agents are risk neutral. Multilateral APAs are, in general, more efficient than unilateral ones. However, not all efficient APAs are concluded in equilibrium, due to asymmetric information problems. For the same reason, equilibrium APAs are highly complex, just as in practice. Surprisingly, APAs may lead to an increase in profit shifting to the low tax location and, in most cases, do not allow for a reduction in audit capacity.
M41|Information disclosure, firm growth, and the cost of capital|We study how information disclosure affects the cost of equity capital and investor welfare in a dynamic setting. We show that a firm’s cost of capital decreases (increases) in the precision of public disclosure if the firm’s growth rate is below (above) a certain threshold. The threshold growth rate is higher when the firm’s cash flows are more persistent, or when other firms in the economy are growing at low rates. While current shareholders always prefer maximum public disclosure, future shareholders’ welfare decreases (increases) in the precision of public disclosure if the firm’s growth rate is below (above) the threshold.
M41|Sunk-cost fallacy and cognitive ability in individual decision-making|This paper reports on a laboratory experiment aiming at documenting the sunk-cost fallacy in individual decision-making and at identifying the role of the cognitive ability in its manifestation. For this purpose, the design rules out loss aversion and cognitive dissonance, identified by the literature as being the main psychological drivers of the bias. The sunk-cost fallacy is identified by comparing a low and a high sunk-cost treatment, respectively, against a control group that does not incur a sunk cost. There is evidence of a weak manifestation of the sunk-cost fallacy, which is statistically significant only for the high sunk-cost treatment. However, strong evidence of the fallacy was found among the high-cognitive-ability subjects. Finally, although cognitive ability is predictive of status-quo bias, it was not found to reduce the sunk-cost bias.
M41|Adoption of IAS/IFRS, liquidity constraints, and credit rationing: The case of the European banking industry|With imperfections, theory suggests that banks dependent on external resources have greater difficulty refinancing their lending than banks with a lot of internal resources. Hence, there is an increased risk of credit rationing to these institutions. In this context, this empirical study tests the hypothesis that the adoption of the IAS/IFRS, deemed as of superior quality for economic decision-making, results in an increase in the amount of credit offered by banks with liquidity constraints. For a sample of European banks over the period of 2003–2008, we find that results are only partly consistent with this hypothesis. The results depend on the measure of the constraint, the bank size, and the enforcement regime. Our results show that the adoption (both voluntary and mandatory) of the IAS/IFRS lead to an increase in the credit supply only for small and constrained banks. These results are important with respect to the goal of banking stability and with the scarcity of credit observed in Europe since the financial crisis.
M41|How does managerial opportunism affect the cost of debt financing?|Using managerial entrenchment and earnings management activities to proxy for managers’ opportunism, this paper explores the effect of the managers’ behaviour on the cost of debt financing. The study shows that low levels of managerial opportunism result in firms enjoying lower corporate bond costs and higher credit ratings. Moreover, the findings suggest that higher bond costs and lower credit ratings are generally associated with income-increasing earnings management activities.
M41|The relation between auditor reputation, earnings and capital management in the banking sector: An international investigation|In this study we examine two types of manipulation: earnings and capital management (or capital adequacy management) in banks, using an international sample of banks from four countries (USA, UK, Germany and France), which in couples belong in common financial systems (two common – law countries and two code – law countries). In specific, we examine the implications of two aspects of auditor reputation, auditor type and auditor industry specialization, for earnings management via the manipulation of the earnings benchmark. We prove that different aspects of auditor reputation per financial system restrict the motivation of managers for earnings manipulation. Furthermore, we examine the levels of the earnings and capital management in banks by separating our research period in the pre – Basle II regime and the post – Basle II regime. We prove that in the post – Basle II period the banks per financial system limit earnings and capital adequacy management. Moreover, we examine the effects of auditor reputation both in earnings and capital management by using the same model taking into account the financial crisis of 2008 with the results of this (expanded) research to be highly interesting for each financial system.
M41|Earnings management to exceed thresholds in continental and Anglo-Saxon accounting models: The British and French cases|The purpose of this paper is to compare the extent to which French and British firms manage their earnings in order to avoid losses, decreases in earnings and earnings below the forecasts of analysts. Further, this study aims to investigate the factors that potentially influence earnings management to exceed thresholds with reference to the Anglo-Saxon and continental accounting models. Britain and France, correspondingly, belong to those different socio-economic environments. Based on a panel data of 1771 French and 2057 British firm-year observations during the period 2002–2012, we show that all firms considered manage earnings to beat zero and last year’s earnings. However, earnings management in order to meet analysts’ forecasts appears to be more prevalent in British firms. Considering earnings management incentives, we find that firm size has a positive effect for all thresholds considered. Similarly, the signaling hypothesis is more evident for British firms for all thresholds examined. The corporate governance structure is also found to impact the extent of earnings management.
M41|The procyclicality of loan loss provisions in Islamic banks|From a sample of Islamic banks around the world from 1997 to 2012, this paper examines whether loan loss provisioning in Islamic banks is procyclical. Our empirical findings highlight that loan loss provisioning in Islamic banks remains procyclical, although the ‘expected’ loan loss model (E-LLM) has been implemented for Islamic banks in several countries. A closer investigation further documents that Islamic banks also use loan loss provisions for discretionary managerial actions, especially related to capital management in which loan loss reserves and provisions are inflated when bank capitalization declines. Eventually, this paper highlights that higher capitalization can mitigate the procyclicality of loan loss provisions in Islamic banks. In other words, loan loss provisioning becomes countercyclical for Islamic banks with higher capitalization. This paper therefore casts doubts on the adoption of the E-LLM for Islamic banks to promote countercyclical effects, because the E-LLM may be influenced by managerial discretion, including opportunistic capital management using loan loss provisions that may undermine the importance of maintaining bank capitalization.
M41|Exploring the Impact of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Certification on Financial Performance: The Case of Companies listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the impact of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification on the financial performance of Romanian companies listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE). Based on audited financial statements of a population of 67 non-financial companies listed during 2013-2015 and using regression models, this paper shows, for the first time in Romania, that companies listed on BSE, implementing complex management systems (quality – environmental and/or occupational health and safety) perform better, and that their performance is directly linked to the complexity of the management systems implemented.
M41|Assessment of the State of Implementation of Excellence Model Common Assessment Framework (CAF) 2013 by the National Institutes of Research – Development – Innovation in Romania|The paper highlights the part of the results of a research based on a questionnaire conducted at the National Institutes for Research, Development and Innovation (NIRDI) of Romania, under the coordination, under the authority or the subordination of the National Agency for Scientific Research and Innovation (NASRI), goals being pursued: Assess the current status of implementation of the Common model of excellence Self-Assessment framework (CAF) in 2013 by NIRDI in Romania; Determining the impact that the implementation of one or more management systems has on achieving excellence in research and innovation; Capacity assessment CAF 2013 model of excellence to provide enlightening information on the most important risks and challenges facing the entity being (self-) evaluation. The research was conducted in July 2016 to a representative sample of 51 of the 53 INCDI, under the coordination, under the authority or subordinate NASRI. It appears that although there is a high degree of fulfillment of the 9 criteria of the excellence model CAF 2013 NIRDI have not assimilated the spirit and the purpose of the excellence model induced by the principles of total quality management by importance (percentage) given to each criterion and sub-criterion. It appears real progress criteria results on customers and processes, products and services. At the same time there are serious shortcomings in the criteria results on the organization and results on the staff. On the one hand, based on the results analyzed, it was determined that to achieve excellence in research is not sufficient to implement two or more management systems, on the other hand it was confirmed that the results of (self-) evaluation stage of implementation of the model of excellence CAF 2013 provides significant and enlightening information to identify the principal risks and deficiencies faced by the entity (self) assessed.
M41|From The Accounting of War to the Accounting of Peace: Putting Bricks for a New Environmental Accounting. A Critical Analysis|This paper critically examines the potential movement from accounting of war to accounting of peace. The 20th century capitalist economy developed in the war, and also stimulated the war. In contradiction with the current state of facts, some economists such as Vandana Shiva promote the idea of creating an earth democracy, which is intended to accept equality of rights between the humans and other species, and to organize life so that to protect the environment against any human aggression. Accounting, as a tool of evaluation and presentation of economic information, was involved directly in the manifestation of human aggression, under its various forms, in the capitalist society. By considering as main value the concept of profit, a whole range of issues related to the environmental preservation and the limitation of natural resource were neglected. Thus, the accounting presented the resources under the form of operating costs, and not as capital. Nature was considered as an unlimited resource, and not as a value that should be kept and maintained in the future. The new paradigm might be called accounting of peace. The paper discusses how accounting has to redefine its concepts to support earth democracy and the proposed natural sustainable economy. Accounting, as a tool of force for war, did nothing but stimulate the aggressive behaviour of the world leaders, and also of the multinational corporations.
M41|Offshoring Accounting Services: New Opportunities for Developing Countries|The aim of this paper is to explore the viability of off-shoring of accounting services to foreign companies by providers of such services located in Republic of Macedonia. We have assessed the potentials of accountants in Republic of Macedonian to offer off-shored accounting services by using the criteria for assessment of outsourcing destinations in general as established by the McKinsey Institute. We have founded that there is considerable potentials for off-shoring of accounting and related services. Exploitation of these potentials would result in significant contribution to the accounting profession development and the employment of young graduates in accounting. In these terms, we offer some practical recommendations to the profession and to the policy-makers for further promotion of this business opportunity.
M41|Solid Knowledge Management – The Ingredient Companies Need for Performance: A Romanian Insight|The paper explores knowledge management (KM) through the accounting and auditing field, emphasizing the authors’ research results designed to examine the Romanian firms’ perspective on KM. The authors strive to understand how the audit firms manage their knowledge aiming at providing quality services with added value. The important changes in auditing and accounting standards and national regulations and the dynamic of the profession in the Big Data era determine the need of a continuous process of information gathering and storage next to the increase of accountants and auditors’ expertise and skills. The investigation revealed an insufficient understanding of KM concept and lack of focus on KM process implementation, this being the consequence of the numerous small and medium accounting and auditing firms, limited investments in IT tools for audit and KM purposes and insufficient training on KM issues. The paper contributes to the KM and auditing literature by demonstrating the need to urgent the implementation of KM systems in Romanian audit firms and providing suggestions in this regard.
M41|The Legitimacy of the International Integrated Reporting Council|Our research is focused on the organizational legitimacy gained by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We analyze all the answers received by IIRC in response to its Consultation Draft (CD) and match the responses with the legitimacy types, explaining the reasons of the users for participating in the standard-setting process. Also, for certain types of legitimacy, we analyze the information provided by the IIRC on its website. A qualitative approach is presented in this paper. We conclude that different groups of stakeholders grant different types of legitimacy. Our research contributes to the body of knowledge on integrated reporting in several ways. First, few studies discuss the legitimacy of a standard-setter, especially in the area of non-financial reporting. Second, our study considers the legitimacy granted by all the categories of stakeholders. Also, we identify the threats to the IIRC’s legitimacy and provide guidance concerning sources of legitimacy that may be explored in the future.
M41|Analysis of the Impact of First-Time Mandatory IFRS Adoption on Financial Statements: The Case Study of the Listed Hotels in Turkey|This study aims to explore the impact of first-time IFRS adoption on the selected financial ratios of the hotels listed in ISE in Turkey. The selected liquidity, solvency, and profitability ratios were used. Both non-parametric Wilcoxon signed-rank test and paired-samples t-test have been applied to test the impact of IFRS adoption. The results show that the transition to IFRS does not influence the financial ratios of listed hotels in Turkey. Accordingly, it sheds light into whether or not transition to IFRS influences the financial performance of the hotel industry in an emerging country. In addition, this study provides better understanding of financial reporting theory and IFRS practices in hospitality sector. This study also provides useful information to the decision-makers such as hotel managers, accountants, investors from other emerging economies, and practitioners who are currently evaluating the merits of applying IFRS. To the best of our knowledge, there is no study investigating the quantitative impact IFRS transition in the hospitality industry in general and hotels in particular. Thus, the present study is expected to fill this gap.
M41|The Impact of Online Corporate Reporting Quality on Analyst Following and Properties of Their EPS Forecasts|This paper investigates the impact of the quality of online corporate reporting (OCR) by UK listed firms on analyst behavior. Using a proposed new OCR index, we find that higher quality of OCR is related to increased analyst following. Additionally, we find that the main OCR component that drives analyst following is financial information content. However, we find no association between the quality of OCR and properties of analyst EPS forecasts as proxied by error in analyst EPS forecasts, dispersion in analyst EPS forecasts and common uncertainty in analyst information environment. We also investigate the direction of causality between OCR quality and analyst following and find that the later has no impact on the first. Furthermore, we find no evidence that herding behavior by financial analysts in the UK has interrupted the association between the quality of OCR and forecast properties. Our results contribute to the understanding of the role of analysts as information intermediaries in providing information to investors.
M41|What Explains Changes In Accounting Divisional Performance Under Liquidity Shortage Conditions? Evidence from the Greek Banking|This is the first study which tests empirically to which extent the quality and the spread of consumer and small business loans are responsible for the increases or decreases in branch accounting performance, measured by the Residual Income (RI) performance indicator, over time. Moreover, given extreme liquidity shortage conditions the paper investigates to which extent the above factors are responsible for changes in RI. Unique accounting information derived from the Management Information System (MIS) of a Greek systemic commercial bank is utilized. The study finds that lending spreads for both types of loans are positively and statistically significant related to RI. The crisis increases the positive value effect of consumer lending spreads while reduces the value premium of small business lending spreads. The latter indicates that the upward repricing of small business credit lines during crisis years seems to destroy value due to the side effects that the repricing loan policy activates (i.e. reduces the repayment ability of borrowers). Moreover, the enormous increase of loan loss impairments during crisis exercises an extra negative impact on RI thus further accelerating shareholder value destruction, for both loan portfolios. The study provides useful information about the thorough understanding of the quality of banking performance at the retail level in bank-driven crisis economies.
M41|Implementation Of Management Accounting Tools – Solution To Enhance The Performance Of Public Capital Companies In Difficulty. Case Study: Romanian Television Company|The current legislative framework and the tools the Romanian Television Company (SRTv.) has at its disposal, outdated by the realities of the competitive market whereon it operates, brought the Romanian public television before a permanent financial risk. The absence of a coherent long-term operating strategy led to the lack of financial performance and serious situation SRTv. faces for several years. By means of this paper, the authors aim to guide the managers of SRTv. towards the implementation of the management accounting tools, providing several possible solutions by which the financial performance of SRTv. can be improved: budgeting the costs and changing the method of cost calculation.
M41|How To Use Financial Statements Within The Global Economic Analysis Trend|This article aims to put into the light the importance of the financial statements within our day’s financial analysis trend. Our research begins with a description of the importance gived to financial analyses as part of the global economic diagnose for any worldwide entity. The idea developed throughout is a better understanding of the financial indicators used in this area, even quantitative or qualitative, with a view from outside, as an investor interested to achieve one of the best choice in Romanian market, with a limited information at its disposal. Therefore, our article present a form of how to manage to analyze the economic situation for a company only by the public information gathered through the internet and is looking for a suitable answer on this making easier decision environment.
M41|Hedge accounting under IFRS 9: an analysis of reforms|Pronouncements of regulatory bodies on ‘hedge accounting’ are aimed at ensuring that impact of price changes of hedging relationships are accounted for concurrently. However, it sometimes happens that certain provisions of these standards result in the reporting of enhanced earnings volatility being attributed to hedging relationships which is not economically justified. It is often perceived to be the case by stakeholders that the provisions of IAS 39 on ‘hedge accounting’ do not appropriately reflect and are not aligned with the risk management strategies of entities that attempt to mitigate risk using various hedging relationships. This occasionally results in a reporting entity adopting either a suboptimal hedging strategy that gives it eligibility to account for it using ‘hedge accounting’ or vice versa. Thus entities may be faced with the tradeoff between the benefits of risk mitigation strategies and the benefits derived from adopting ‘hedge accounting’. This motivated the IASB to initiate action for the complete reformulation of the standard on ‘hedge accounting’. The revised standard was pronounced in November 2013 as IFRS 9. In this article, we attempt to evaluate the upgradations introduced by IFRS 9 over its predecessor, IAS 39, with particular reference to the reporting of risk management strategies of affected entities.
M41|IFRS 16 “Leases” – consequences on the financial statements and financial indicators|In January 2016, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued IFRS 16 “Leases”, which will replace the current standard IAS 17 “Leases”. IFRS 16, whose application is mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after January 2019, sets out new rules for the recognition and measurement of leases, leading to a change of value for the elements recognized in the financial statements, as well as for the financial indicators calculated based on these. The purpose of this article is to present, based on a comparative analysis of IFRS 16 and IAS 17, the main consequences that the application of IFRS 16 will arise, in respect of the financial statements and the financial indicators determined based on the information provided by these.
M41|The impact of conditional and unconditional conservatism on trade credit: evidence of Tehran Stock Exchange|The aim of this research is to examine the impact of conditional and unconditional conservatism on the trade credit of companies listed at the Tehran Stock Exchange. In this respect, using a systematic deletion sampling, 74 companies were chosen and studied during the period 2009 to 2013. The method of testing the research hypotheses was a multivariate regression using estimated generalized least square. The results of the research indicated that conditional and unconditional conservatism are positively and significantly related to the trade credit of the companies; in other words, if a higher level of conservatism is used and types of conservatism grow, more trade credit will accrue to companies.
M41|Islamic Banks Financial Performance and Implications of Basel III Standards in the GCC: An Empirical Analysis|This study empirically evaluates Islamic banks financial performance and implications of Basel III regulations in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region. We utilize bank-level data for 24 Islamic Banks based in six GCC countries (namely, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar, and Bahrain) for the period of 2006 to 2015. Financial performance is measured by using both Internal¨Cbased performance measure (Return on Assets) and Marketbased performance measure (Tobin¡¯s Q model). We employ regression analysis to capture the impact of bank size, credit risk, operational efficiency and asset management on performance measured by the two indicators. Moreover, to control for the implications of Basel III standards, we run our model with a dummy ¡®control¡¯ variable. The results reveal that the explanatory power of the internal¨Cbased performance model is higher than the market-based performance model. Not surprisingly, the results also indicate that financial performance of GCC Islamic banks is highly sensitive to Basel III regulations. We argue that findings of this study highly useful for capitalmarket participants who are interested in Islamic banking industry, in particular, GCC region.
M41|Risks and challenges of complex financial isntruments: an analysis of SSM banks|We investigate the valuation risk affecting financial instruments classified as L2 and L3 for accounting purposes. These are instruments that are not directly traded in active markets and are often relatively complex, opaque and illiquid. There is a huge volume of L2 and L3 instruments in the balance sheets of SSM banks (around €6.8 trillion worth, considering both assets and liabilities). We argue that the complexity and opacity of these instruments create substantial room for discretionary accounting and prudential choices by financial intermediaries, which have incentives to use this discretion to their advantage. The current regulatory reporting standard is not sufficient to make a comprehensive assessment of the overall risks stemming from L2 and L3 instruments. We highlight that these instruments share some characteristics with NPLs (illiquidity, opacity), and argue that the risk they pose might also be comparable.
