M42|Possibilities of identifying distortion of the calculation basis for the payment of dividend on the basis of accounting|Financial earning from dividends and profit shares are important income for the owners. From the business corporation perspective is the setting of dividend policy important for keeping the financial stability and solvency of the corporation. The most important indicator of the financial performance of the corporation is the profit reached. Czech accounting rules allow to account some revenue and expenses of on the basis of estimates so that all expenses and revenue are accounted in the period which is related in matter and time. These items are often a means for creative distortion of the economic result with the aim to reach the required level of covenants that lead to payment of benefits, directors rewards and annuals rewards for the management and also for the overvaluating of the economic result as one of the variables for the calculation base for the payment of dividends. Current legislation for setting the calculation base for the payment of dividends is not satisfactory and does not protect against disproportional outflow of financial means in the form of dividends for the owners. The paper concentrates on the possibility of identifying the distortion of the calculation base for the payment of dividends and on the proposal of a modification of the calculation base for the payment of dividends which would respect the legal right of the owners but also protect the financial stability of the business corporation and ensure its growth during its existence and to limit the outflow of money abroad. Key words: calculation base for the payment of dividends, net profit, payment ratio, modified reporting, NTEDP (net total earning for dividend payments), tests of profitability and own capital, accounting.
M42|Corporate Governance disclosure and implication in the financial audit of banks in Romania|Thispaperaims topresents the relevant aspects regarding the implementation of principles and rulesof corporate governance in the Romanian banking system.The purpose of the articleis to investigate the theoretical and legislative basis whichcontrolsthis area, but also research practical cases on this subject. Based on the review of nationaland international literature, the case study was based on a sample of 17 commercial banks from Romania.Usingcollected data from the official banks' websites, it was analyzed the details of chosen corporate governance elements: the management system, the shareholder and organizational structure, the financial control and audit, as well as if the banks offer disclosure for theapplicable governance codes. The main conclusion which resultsfrom thisstudy case is that,the information available to public provides details about the management structure and the audit department, but this information is not very detailed, the information about the professional experience of the members or the benefits that these credit institutions obtained from the application of corporate governance codes are not described, in some cases even missing.
M42|The Effect of Corporate Tax Planning On Firm Value|Objective – This research aims to empirically examine the effect of tax planning on firm value. The population of this research consists of manufacturing companies listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (IDX) from 2014 to 2016. Methodology/Technique – This research uses 3 recent years and uses variables not used in previous research. The 43 respondents were chosen using purposive sampling. The hypotheses were tested using multiple regressions with Eviews program to determine the relationship between each independent variable to firm value. Findings – The empirical results show that tax planning that is measured by the cash effective tax rate has a negative effect on firm value, while tax planning measured by effective cash rate and tax savings has no effect on firm value. Novelty – The study recommends the need for firms to institute more robust tax planning practices that will help reduce their effective tax liabilities and therefore improve their overall value. Firms that engage in better tax planning practices are likely to get higher firm value. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M42|The Substitution Role of Audit Committee Effectiveness and Audit Quality in Explaining Audit Report Lag|Objective – This study aims to examine the relationship between audit committee effectiveness on Audit Report Lag (ARL), and the moderating effect of audit quality on the relationship between audit committee effectiveness and ARL. Methodology/Technique – 109 non-financial Indonesian listed companies are examined from 2012 to 2016. The data is analysed using multivariate regression analysis. Findings – The results show that audit committee effectiveness negatively affects ARL. This indicates that an effective audit committee can accelerate the delivery of audit reports. The results on the interaction between audit committee effectiveness and audit quality also negatively affects ARL. These results indicate that audit quality strengthens the influence of audit committees on the timeliness of financial reporting by reducing audit report lag. Novelty – The results show that there is a relationship of substitution between audit committee effectiveness and audit quality (Big-4) on ARL. The results of this study are consistent with agency theory which states that the implementation of corporate governance, such as an effective audit committee and audit quality, can improve the quality of financial reports. Type of Paper: Empirical.
M42|An Analysis of Transfer Pricing Disputes in India|The transfer pricing regime in India, since its inception, has been criticised for pronounced and protracted litigation. In this context, this paper evaluates the transfer pricing regime over the span of a decade (2003-04 to 2013-14) using 6731 case orders. It presents the first evidence of the duration of transfer pricing cases, delineated into pre-ITAT and post-ITAT phases, and compares the performance of the two pre-ITAT forums - the CIT(A) and the DRP. Further, the paper presents evidence on issues such as repeated litigation on identical grounds and remand orders that place companies in cycles of litigation. We find that while the DRP, as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, may have led to a reduction in case duration in the initial years, this benefit may have now peaked leading to a convergence across forums. Further, we find that often grounds for litigation are similar across years, and therefore joint audits for multiple years may be a superior strategy for transfer pricing cases than the current one.
M42|Bank loan loss provisions, risk-taking and bank intangibles|This article investigates the relationship between discretionary loan loss provisions and bank intangibles among African banks. Prior studies have focused on how intangible assets affect firms’ profitability and valuation decisions with almost no focus on the role of loan loss provisions. We investigate whether banks increase (decrease) loan loss provisions in response to risks associated with investment in intangible assets. We find that discretionary loan loss provisions are inversely associated with bank intangible assets and change in intangible assets, but the inverse association is weakened in environments with strong investor protection. We observe that income smoothing is reduced among banks that have large intangible asset investment. Moreover, income smoothing is pronounced among banks that have few intangible asset investments but this behaviour is reduced for banks in environments with strong minority shareholders right protection.
M42|Impact of IAS 39 reclassification on Income Smoothing by European Banks|We examine the impact of the reclassification of IAS 39 on income smoothing using loan loss provisions among European banks. We predict that the strict recognition and re-classification requirements of IAS 139 reduced banks' ability to smooth income using bank securities and derivatives, motivating them to rely more on loan loss provisions to smooth income. Our findings do not support the prediction for income smoothing through loan loss provisions. Also, there is no evidence for income smoothing in the pre- and post-IAS 39 reclassification period. The implication of the findings is that: (i) European banks did not use loan loss provisions to smooth income during the period examined, and rather rely on other accounting numbers to smooth income; (ii) the IASB’s strict disclosure regulation improved the reliability and informativeness of loan loss provision estimates among European banks during the period of analysis.
M42|Regulatory Spillovers in Common Audit Markets|We find that Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) had two significant effects on the audit market for nonpublic entities. The first short-run effect stems from inelastic labor supply coupled with an audit demand shock from public companies. As a result, private companies reduced their use of attested financial reports in bank financing by 12%, and audit fee increases for nonprofit organizations (NPOs) more than doubled. The second long-run effect was a transformation in the audit supply structure. After SOX, NPOs were less likely to match with auditors most exposed to public companies, while auditors increasingly specialized their offices based on client type. Audit market concentration for NPOs dropped by more than half within five years of SOX and remained at this level through the end of our sample in 2013, while the number of suppliers increased by 26%. Our results demonstrate how regulation directed at public companies generates economically im-portant spillovers for nonpublic entities.
M42|Tax-Motivated Profit Shifting and Anti-Avoidance Stringency: Firm-Level Evidence from Developing Countries|This paper uses firm-level data from developing countries to examine the significance of tax-motivated profit shifting from high-tax to low-tax countries by multinational enterprises and to analyze the extent to which anti-avoidance measures mitigate the profit shifting. Focusing on firms in ASEAN5, this study shows that (1) tax-motivated profit shifting is statistically and economically significant, especially for manufacturing firms, (2) auditing and transfer-pricing scrutiny is more effective in reducing profit shifting than documentation requirement alone, and (3) tax-motivated profit shifting is prominent for large firms, while anti-tax avoidance measures result in the absence of profit shifting detected from small manufacturing firms. The findings have important policy implications regarding tax revenues in developing countries, especially those depending on multinational enterprises but having weak governance.
M42|What type of microfinance institutions comply with International Financial Reporting Standards?|What are the characteristics of microfinance institutions (MFIs) that choose to draft their financial statements according to international accounting standards? That is the question this article investigates. We study a pooled sample of 5,290 audited financial statements from 2007 to 2015 and find consistent evidence that the institutional framework, for-profit status, and maturity, are likely to drive the MFIs choice to comply with international financial reporting standards. Results are robust after controlling for whether MFIs operate in a country where IFRS are permitted or required.
M42|Evolution of financial information and management control over the last 150 years. The case of Bodegas Torres|This article describes the most relevant milestones in the development of both financial information and management control, from the inception of the business up to the present day but particularly over the last 150 years. As a case study, it sets out the development of the wine producing company Bodegas Torres, a family group with its headquarters in Vilafranca del Penedés (Barcelona). It is a company renowned for its innovation and excellence in the world of wine producing, but also in management, including its financial information and management control practices.
M42|IT-Compliance nach COBIT 2019|"Das Ende 2018 von der ISACA publizierte Framework ""COBIT® 2019"" knüpft in seinem Verständnis von IT-Compliance an die Vorgängerversionen 4.1 und 5 an. Trotzdem sind in der neuen COBIT®-Version zahlreiche Änderungen und Ergänzungen enthalten, die in diesem Arbeitspapier diskutiert werden sollen. Im Ergebnis umfasst das Compliance-Verständnis von COBIT® 2019 nach wie vor sowohl die IT-Compliance als auch die IT-gestützte Corporate Compliance. Die grundlegenden Compliance-Ziele bleiben genauso erhalten, wie die Governance- und Managementpraktiken mit ihren Aktivitäten zur Sicherstellung von Compliance. Die Enabler finden sich jetzt als ""Komponenten"" wieder, werden dafür aber systematisch und komplett abgehandelt. Die Änderungen der COBIT® 2019-Produktfamilie beinhalten Erweiterungen wie Streichungen gleichermaßen. Insgesamt fällt die Compliance-Thematik ähnlich umfangreich wie in COBIT® 5 aus. In COBIT® 5 beinhalteten 26 von 37 IT-Prozessen Compliance-Aufgaben, während in COBIT® 2019 15 von 40 IT-Governance- und IT-Managementzielen das Erreichen der compliance-bezogenen IT-Ziele unterstützen. Des Weiteren stellen Compliance-Anforderungen einen eigenständigen Designfaktor dar bzw. sind Teil weiterer Designfaktoren für die IT-Governance. Trotz aller Veränderungen und Anpassungen kann COBIT® 2019 nach wie vor den mit IT-Compliance betrauten Funktionen und Personen als Orientierung und Hilfsmittel für die praktische Arbeit dienen."
M42|The auditing expectation gap in Algeria: reasons and solutions|The objective of this paper, is to highlight the reality of the audit expectation gap between auditors and beneficiaries of the audit services, in Algeria, and determinate the reasons of this phenomenon and its effects, in order to provide possible solutions to narrow this gap, because it?s final elimination is impossible. To achieve the objective of this research we refer to the literature research realized in this subject in some developed and developing countries, Extracting and analyzing their results, for to develop an integrated theoretical framework to understand and address this phenomenon. We also distributed two questionnaires survey to the both ends of the gap (auditors and users of audit services) to gather data, the data collected were analyzed using the SPSS program. As a result, we concluded that audit expectation gap exist strongly by its two components (reasonableness gap, performance gap) in Algeria.
M42|The Valuation Of Human Capital The Case Study Of Company Listed On The Warsaw Stock Exchange|Nowadays, the valuation of human capital in listed companies is not only a choice within the framework https://www.ikea.com/gb/en/products/wardrobes/fitted-wardrobes/ of Human Resource strategies, but a business necessity. The aim of this paper is to analyse some aspects of valuation of human capital in energy company listed on GPW (The Warsaw Stock Exchange). Firstly the evaluation of the literature related to the valuation of human capital will be presented and this will be followed by empirical analysis of energy companies listed on GPW. The paper it trying to identify what are the needs in the area of valuation of human capital in management processes and what method of valuation of human capital companies use.
M42|Consequences Of Voluntary Disclosures In The Audit Committee Report|In recent years a variety of stakeholders request more disclosures of audit committees’activities. As a response, audit committees in many large companies have voluntarily enhanced the depth and scope of their disclosures in the proxy statements. However, controversy arises surrounding whether more disclosures of audit committees’ activities are beneficial to investors. In 2015 the SEC started to seek comments on this issue. In this study I find that larger companies with diligent, longer-tenure, younger and more diversified audit committee members in companies with longer auditor tenure and higher total auditor fees are likely to provide more voluntary disclosures of audit committees’ activities. I also find that audit committee voluntary disclosures are useful to shareholders when they vote on audit committee director elections. However, the significance and directions of the usefulness vary with the content of the disclosures. Moreover, I provide moderate evidence that shareholders are less likely to vote against auditor ratification when the audit committee provides an explanation for a change in fees paid to the independent auditor. Overall, this study provides implications for policy makers such as the SEC as they are deliberating on the revisions of audit committee reporting requirements.
M42|Ensemble Learning for Cross-Selling Using Multitype Multiway Data|Cross-selling is an integral component of customer relationship management. Using relevant information to improve customer response rate is a challenging task in cross-selling. Incorporating multitype multiway customer behavioral, including related product, similar customer and historical promotion, data into cross-selling models is helpful in improving the classification performance. Customer behavioral data can be represented by multiple high-order tensors. Most existing supervised tensor learning methods cannot directly deal with heterogeneous and sparse multiway data in cross selling. In this study, two novel ensemble learning methods, multiple kernel support tensor machine (MK-STM) and multiple support vector machine ensemble (M-SVM-E), are proposed for crossselling using multitype multiway data. The MK-STM and the M-SVM-E can also perform feature selections from large sparse multitype multiway data. Based on these two methods, collaborative and non-collaborative ensemble learning frameworks are developed. In these frameworks, many existing classification and ensemble methods can be combined for classification using multitype multiway data. Computational experiments are conducted on two databases extracted from open access databases. The experimental results show that the MK-STM exhibits the best performance and has better performance than existing supervised tensor learning methods.
M42|On the Economics of Audit Partner Tenure and Rotation: Evidence from PCAOB Data|This paper provides the first partner tenure and rotation analysis for a large cross-section of U.S. publicly listed firms over an extended period. We analyze the effects on audit quality as well as economic tradeoffs related to partner tenure and rotation with respect to audit hours and fees. On average, we find no evidence for audit quality declines over the tenure cycle and little support for fresh-look benefits after rotations. Nevertheless, partner rotations have significant economic consequences. We find increases in audit fees and decreases in audit hours over the tenure cycle, which differ by partner experience, client size, and competitiveness of the local audit market. More generally, our findings are consistent with efforts by the audit firms to minimize disruptions and audit failures around mandatory rotations. We also analyze special circumstances, such as audit firm switches and early partner rotations, and show that they are more disruptive than mandatory rotations, and also more likely to exhibit audit quality effects.
M42|Projektmanagement-Normen und -Standards|Dieses Arbeitspapier gibt einen Überblick über aktuelle Normen und Standards, die für das Projektmanagement (PM) von Bedeutung sind. Als relevante Normungsorganisationen werden die International Organization for Standardization (ISO), das Deutsche Institut für Normung (DIN) und das US-amerikanische American National Standards Institute (ANSI) bzw. das Project Management Institute (PMI®) berücksichtigt. Bei den Standards werden solche Organisationen als relevant erachtet, die in der Lage sind, den von ihnen publizierten Standard einem breiten, im Projektmanagement tätigen Adressatenkreis publik zu machen, Dienstleistungen, wie z. B. Schulungen anzubieten, und eine Weiterentwicklung des Standards sicherzustellen. Insgesamt werden 27 PM-Normen und 13 PM-Standards beschrieben. Die Darstellung umfasst beispielsweise die Normenreihen DIN 6990x und ISO 215xx, aber auch ANSI/PMI®-Normen, wie den in der Praxis weit verbreiteten PMBOK® Guide. Als Projektmanagement-Standards werden u. a. die IPMA Individual Competence Baseline (IPMA ICB), PRINCE2® oder OpenPM2 behandelt. Auch Standards für die Prüfung von Projekten finden Berücksichtigung, z. B. der Prüfungsstandard Nr. 4 des Deutschen Instituts für Interne Revision e. V. (DIIR) zur Prüfung von Projekten. Zudem werden drei Werke zu agilen Vorgehensweisen im Projektmanagement vorgestellt. Jede Beschreibung enthält eine prägnante Inhaltsangabe, den formellen Status der Norm bzw. des Standards und Links für die eigene Recherche. Insofern soll dieses Arbeitspapier nicht nur eine aktuelle, systematische Zusammenstellung bieten, sondern es stellt auch eine Hilfestellung für ein schnelles Orientieren und Nachschlagen dar.
M42|Preventing rather than Punishing: An Early Warning Model of Malfeasance in Public Procurement|Is it possible to predict corruption and public inefficiency in public procurement? With the proliferation of e-procurement in the public sector, anti-corruption agencies and watchdog organizations in many countries currently have access to powerful sources of information. These may help anticipate which transactions become faulty and why. In this paper, we discuss the promises and challenges of using machine learning models to predict inefficiency and corruption in public procurement, both from the perspective of researchers and practitioners. We exemplify this procedure using a unique dataset characterizing more than 2 million public contracts in Colombia, and training machine learning models to predict which of them face corruption investigations or implementation inefficiencies. We use different techniques to handle the problem of class imbalance typical of these applications, report the high accuracy of our models, simulate the trade-off between precision and recall in this context, and determine which features contribute the most to the prediction of malfeasance within contracts. Our approach is useful for governments interested in exploiting large administrative datasets to improve provision of public goods and highlights some of the tradeoffs and challenges that they might face throughout this process.
M42|Do family firms contribute to job stability? Evidence from the great recession|This article analyzes if, on average, choices made by family businesses regarding job stability in bad times are different to those made by non-family firms. Moreover, we try to elucidate if this potential difference also depends on the family generation in charge. Our analysis relies upon a sample of 55,091 Spanish firms, Spain being one of the countries that suffered the greatest impact of the so-called “Great Recession”. We find that at times of crisis, family businesses do maintain jobs in a higher extent than non-family businesses, and that this effect is especially intense when the first generation is in charge.
M42|Internal and External Determinants of Audit Delay: Evidence from Indonesian Manufacturing Companies|Objective – This study aims to examine and explain the relationship between a company's internal factors such as profitability, solvency and audit committee, and external factors including complexity and size of public accounting firms, with audit delay. Methodology/Technique – The importance of financial information is, in part, due to its utility for assessment of company performance. Hence, financial information should be produced and reported as quickly as possible each year. Findings – This study finds that manufacturing companies with high debt levels and low profitability experience longer audit delay. Moreover, the results in this study show that debt level is the most influential and significant factor with a positive relationship to audit delay. Novelty – This study shows that profitability, the number of members on an audit committees and public accounting firm (KAP) size all have an insignificant negative relationship with audit delay. Further, complexity has an insignificant positive relationship with audit delay.
M42|Deconstructed CSR and Social Audit Model: Postmodernist Paradigm Observations in Luwu Mining Areas, Indonesia|Objective - The research aims to decode the model of Social Audit on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and develop a new model for CSR. Methodology/Technique - The study uses qualitative research using Derrida's deconstructive postmodernism paradigm. This study scrutinises all models of CSR, distinguishing between capitalism and socialism in audit practices, and creates a new CSR model that integrates the local wisdom of indigenous peoples. Findings - The study observes several unfair practices without ensuring social and distributive justice to the indigenous community where mining activities are conducted. Several concepts linked to sustainable development were evolved during the data collection phase. By deconstructing the two major concepts of CSR and Social Audit, the research develops a new model of sustainable corporate responsibility which enables stakeholders to empower the Luwu community by ensuring cultural integration and social development. Novelty – By exploring CSR activities in the Luwu area, this study verifies all existing CSR practices and Social Audit models to generate a sustainable corporate social responsibility model for corporations, government and allied stakeholders. This research may be used to support policy agreements between governments, industry players and the corporations, towards effective SCSR implementation.
M42|Auditor Retention: Auditor and Auditee Factors|Objective - This study aims to examine the influence of auditor and auditee factors on auditor retention. Methodology/Technique - The analysis unit of this research is manufacturing firms that were listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange between 2010 and 2014. Using purposive sampling, 54 companies, or 270 observations, were obtained. This research uses a logistic regression; there are 12 outliers in the data that disturb the regression model, hence, the final research data set was 258. Findings - The result of the logistic regression analysis shows that auditee and auditor factors can simultaneously explain auditor retention by up to 4%. This partial effect shows that only audit quality affects auditor retention by 57.2%, at a level of significance of less than a = 5%. Meanwhile, firm size affects auditor retention by 14.8%, at a significance level of less than a = 10%. Novelty – This research is unique because auditor retention and proxy of audit quality has never been investigated in previous studies.
M42|Free to choose: Do voluntary audit reforms increase employment growth?|Many European countries have abolished mandatory audits for small firms to reduce the regulatory and administrative burden for these firms. However, we still lack knowledge on whether such legislative changes affect employment growth for those firms that become free to choose to have external audits. We investigate this question using a Swedish reform that made audits voluntary for small firms fulfilling certain requirements. The reform created an almost ideal natural experiment, which we use to evaluate the effects of voluntary audits on employment growth for small firms using a difference-in-difference estimator. We find that firms which fulfilled the requirements for voluntary auditing, compared to a control group of similar firms that did not, increased their employment growth rate by 0.39%. This corresponds to 1,830 jobs being created in the year following the reform, suggesting that mandatory audits act as a growth barrier for small firms.
M42|Do audited firms have lower cost of debt?|The purpose of this study is to investigate if audited financial statements add value for firms in the private debt market. Using an instrumental variable method, we find that firms with audited financial statements, on average, save 1.26 percentage points on cost of debt compared to firms with unaudited financial statements. We also find that using the big, well-known auditing firms does not yield additional cost of debt benefits. Lastly, we find that the effect of audit on cost of debt varies between industries. As such, we find that firms in industries that have been identified in previous studies to have a more complex information structure, and therefore more complex auditing process, also save more on cost of debt relative to other industries when audited.
M42|Advances and Issues in Fraud Research: A Commentary|This article discusses some observations in the forensic accounting-based fraud literature. We identify recent advances in the literature and highlight several important issues that are worth noting. The main message of this commentary article is that fraud is complicated, and fraud complexity can significantly impact the way we undertake forensic accounting-based fraud research. The practical implication is that forensic accountants and forensic accounting researchers should incorporate into their practice the complexity of fraud regardless of whether they follow an empirical, experimental, exploratory, analytical or critical approach to fraud investigation.
M42|Bank Earnings Smoothing During Mandatory IFRS adoption in Nigeria|We examine the extent of bank earnings smoothing during mandatory IFRS adoption in Nigeria, to determine whether mandatory IFRS adoption increased or decreased income smoothing among Nigerian banks. We find that the mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is associated with lower earnings smoothing among Nigerian banks, which implies that Nigerian banks do not use loan loss provisions to smooth reported earnings during the mandatory IFRS adoption period. We find evidence for earnings smoothing via LLP during voluntary IFRS adoption. Earnings smoothing is not significantly associated with listed and non-listed Nigerian banks during voluntary and mandatory IFRS adoption. Overall, the findings indicate that mandatory IFRS adoption improves the informativeness and reliability of loan loss provisions estimate by discouraging Nigerian banks from influencing loan loss provisions for earnings smoothing purposes during the mandatory IFRS adoption. The findings of this paper are relevant to the debate on whether IFRS reporting improves the quality of financial reporting among firms in Nigeria. The implication of the study is that IFRS has higher accounting quality than local GAAP in Nigeria as it improves the quality and informativeness of accounting numbers (LLPs and earnings) reported by Nigerian banks during the period examined
M42|Pengaruh Pengalaman Terhadap Peningkatan Keahlian Auditor Sektor Publik Dalam Bidang Auditing<BR>[Effect Of Experience On Increasing The Expertise Of Public Sector Auditors In Auditing Fields]|This study aims to investigate the extent to which the experience of the Auditor obtained from the length of work, from the number of audit assignments, and from the number of types of audited regional work unit related to increasing auditor expertise in the auditing field. Expertise (expertise) is the skill of an expert. Experts (experts) are defined as someone who has a certain level of skill or high knowledge in a particular subject obtained from experience or training. By taking a sample of 71 auditors or government internal control apparatus (APIP) at the Inspectorate of Bangka Belitung Islands Province, Bangka Regency Inspectorate and Pangkalpinang City who had carried out inspection assignments. The sampling method in this study uses a non-probability method with purposive sampling with the criteria that some employees in the Provincial Inspectorate, Pangkalpinang City and Bangka Regency who have carried out inspection tasks with auditor reasons will gain experience that has an influence on increasing expertise in the audit field. and using quantitative descriptive analysis by testing the validity, reliability of the classical assumption test (multicollinearity test, heteroscedasticity test, autocorrelation test) and multiple linear regression. The test results show that the experience of the length of work, the amount of training followed, the number of audit assignments and the number of types of Regional Units audited as auditors have a positive and significant influence on expertise.
M42|External monitoring of private firms: A cross-country empirical analysis|There is limited research which focuses on the use of external monitoring by private companies, domestic or international. We use World Bank data to explore the factors that are associated with the probability of using external monitoring by private firms in emerging and developing countries. In this research, the service of external auditors is considered as a proxy for external monitoring. We tested our results both on the full sample (114 countries) and on 5 different income clusters based on World Bank economic development categorization. From our results, we conclude that there is not a single set of “universal” factors associated with firms' decision to engage external auditors. We observe that factors associated with external auditors, a proxy for monitoring, differ across the various categories of economic development. As a policy implication, there is a need for a voluntary adoption of a uniform set of standards for external monitoring and auditing in this area.
M42|The relation between auditor reputation, earnings and capital management in the banking sector: An international investigation|In this study we examine two types of manipulation: earnings and capital management (or capital adequacy management) in banks, using an international sample of banks from four countries (USA, UK, Germany and France), which in couples belong in common financial systems (two common – law countries and two code – law countries). In specific, we examine the implications of two aspects of auditor reputation, auditor type and auditor industry specialization, for earnings management via the manipulation of the earnings benchmark. We prove that different aspects of auditor reputation per financial system restrict the motivation of managers for earnings manipulation. Furthermore, we examine the levels of the earnings and capital management in banks by separating our research period in the pre – Basle II regime and the post – Basle II regime. We prove that in the post – Basle II period the banks per financial system limit earnings and capital adequacy management. Moreover, we examine the effects of auditor reputation both in earnings and capital management by using the same model taking into account the financial crisis of 2008 with the results of this (expanded) research to be highly interesting for each financial system.
M42|Methodology of Building up the Accounting and Analytical Management Support for Organizations in Russia|This article deals with the issues, concerning methods of providing accounting and analytical support for the management of organizations with various patterns of ownership in Russia, related to national mentality and caused by the lack of uniform terminology, the need for a systematic approach to the formation and interaction of accounting, analytical and control subsystems, the influence of international practices in the context of harmonization of world economy. The ways of solving the problems have been identified. The original classification of the principles of the accounting and analytical support buildup for the organization man-agement has been compiled. We have analyzed the existing approaches and individual points of view to determine the content of this concept, and put forward our individual interpreta-tion. The authors explain the purpose of the effective functioning of the accounting and ana-lytical support of management and offer a system of fundamental principles of its organiza-tion. The main advantage of the authors' interpretation of accounting and analytical support is in the improvement of general methodology as well as creating the ground for developing techniques of record keeping, analysis and control on the basis of international experience, which ensures the continuity of the process of tactical and strategic decision making, well-timed adjustments of the development strategy of the organization in the long term, contrib-uting to the efficiency of administrative decisions taken by the management.
M42|Determining factors for audit opinion in private family and non-family firms. Evidence from Spain|This paper analyzes the determining factors for audit opinion in private firms, and whether such factors differ between family and non-family firms. With a sample of 9,873 Spanish firms for the period 2011-2015, the empirical results suggest that auditor tenure and ROA raise the probability of receiving a favorable opinion; and that losses during the previous year, high financial leverage, and hiring one of the so-called “Big 4” auditing firms increase the probability of receiving an unfavorable opinion. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the size of such effects differs between family and non-family firms.
M42|The Influence of Ethics and Locus of Control to Do Whistleblowing Intention with Profession of Auditor and Non-Auditor as a Moderating Variable|"""Objective – The purpose of this study is to know the influence of ethics and locus of control toward do whistleblowing intention with auditor and non-auditor profession as a moderating variable. Methodology/Technique – Model analysis used in this study is multiple linear regressions and based on the results of the questionnaire of 123 respondents; consist of 52 auditor respondents and 71 non auditor respondents. Findings – This study proves that ethics significantly give positive effect on the intention of doing whistleblowing, whereas locus of control significantly gives negative effect to the intention no whistleblowing. This study also proves that auditor and non-auditor profession can moderate the influence of ethics and locus of control to do whistleblowing intentions. Novelty – The study contribute literature with its original data."""
M42|Impact of Companies' Financial Condition and Growth toward Acceptance of Going Concern Audit Opinion: Empirical Study at Company Listed in the Jakarta Islamic Index (JII)|"""Objective – This study aims to explain the companies' financial condition and growth which is affecting going concern audit opinion of the companies listed in the Jakarta Islamic Index (JII). Financial condition is examined through the information changes in working capital to total assets, retained earnings to total assets, earnings before interest and taxes to total assets, book value of equity to book value of total liabilities, sales to total assets. Methodology/Technique – This study applies qualitative research with a description method and the populations used are all companies listed in JII period 2014-2015. Findings – The results of the study explained that the companies' financial conditions affect going concern audit opinion. The worse the financial condition of the company, the greater the probability of companies to receive going concern audit opinion, and vice versa. An auditor will give a going concern audit opinion on companies that are experiencing financial difficulties. The growth of the companies affects going concern audit opinion. If the sales growth is negative, the continuity of the company will be unstable, because the company will be difficult to make profits. It can cause the financial conditions of the company experience difficulties, so that the company will receive going concern audit opinion. Novelty – The study contributes literature with its empirical findings in the context of Indonesia."""
M42|Value Relevance of Firms’ Reportable Segment Profit or Loss Reconciliation|"""Objective – The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) No.8 adopted in Indonesian GAAP (Statement No. 5, 2012) requires a company to provide a reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments’ profit or loss of the firm’s profit or loss. The objective of this standard is to improve the value relevance of information in the financial statement. This study aims to investigate the value relevance of the segment reconciliation and the determinants of segment income dissimilarity, i.e. agency cost, proprietary cost, and audit quality. Methodology/Technique – Data used in this study was a secondary data obtained from 142 manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) for the period 2009 to 2013. Purposive sampling method yielded 59 firms. Two research models were used to test proposed hypotheses. Findings – The results show reconciliation of total of segments’ profit or loss of the firms’ profit or loss positively affects the market value of equity; this means segments’ reconciliation disclosure has value relevance for the investment decisions. In addition, this paper provides evidence that audit quality negatively affects the segment income dissimilarity, while agency cost and proprietary cost have no effect. This is consistent with hypothesis that firms audited by the Big Four tend to avoid disclosure of dissimilarity between firms profit or loss and segment profit or loss. Novelty – Our findings show that audit quality (Big 4 accounting firms) plays an important role in reducing dissimilarity between the sum of segment profit and firm profit (segment profit dissimilarity)"""
M42|Audit Firm Reputation versus Auditor Capability: Their Effect on Audit Quality in Indonesia|Objective –The emergence of the ASEAN Single Window has triggered the need for higher audit quality in ASEAN countries, including Indonesia. A recent study conducted in Indonesia reveals that the reputation of auditing firms, as rated by clients and users, and auditor's competence, as rated by the auditor, are the primary determinants of audit quality. The purpose of this study is to analyze whether the reputation or competence of an auditor affects audit quality, within manufacturing companies in Indonesia. Methodology/Technique –This paper contributes to the creation of new measurements for auditor capability, by highlighting empirical evidence concerning the determinants of audit quality in Indonesia. Findings – By using discretionary accrual as the inverse determinant of audit quality, the result show that financial statements audited by reputable auditing firms contain the same discretionary accruals as those audited by other firms. The results further demonstrate that auditor capability does not affect audit quality. Audit quality in Indonesia is therefore not determined by firm reputation or auditor capability. Hence, it is important to search for new determinants of audit quality. Research Limitations/Implications – The limitation of this research is the low number of reputable audit firms and specialized auditors used by the sample firms, which lead to the exclusion of numerous controlled variables that may be integral when explaining audit quality. Future studies may use other sample firms and use additional controlled variables, to further explain audit quality.
M42|The Influence of the Quality of an Audit to Relationship Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) And Relevance of Value Accounting Information, And Asymmetry of Information (Study on Companies in Indonesia)|"""Objective – This study examines the influence of the quality of an audit to the relationship of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and Relevance of Value Accounting Information, and Asymmetry of Information in Indonesia’s companies. Methodology/Technique – This research uses secondary data obtained from the company's annual report in 2012 - 2014. A purposive sampling method is used to collect data and the analysis of the hypothesis was conducted using multiple linear regression analysis. Findings – The research has shown that Quality of Audit has a significant influence to the relationship of the OCI disclosure and Relevance of Value Accounting Information has a value of sig. 0.000, F calculate is 26.816 larger than F table 2.396 and adjusted R square 0.241. Novelty – The study looks at the disclosures of OCI component’s role in the investors decision making and it increases value relevance of accounting information and reducing information asymmetry."""
M42|Auditor Characteristics, Audit Tenure, Audit Fee and Audit Quality|"""Objective – The purpose of this research is to obtain empirical evidence about the factors that affect audit quality for auditors working in Public Accounting Firms in DKI Jakarta. Methodology/Technique – The independent variables used in this research are: independence, work experience, competency, accountability, audit tenure, and audit fee. The object of this research consists of 25 Public Accounting Firms located in DKI Jakarta. There are 164 respondents used as samples in this study. The sample was selected based on a convenience sampling method with criteria including auditors working at public accounting firms located in DKI Jakarta, with a minimum of one year work duration. This research used statistical tests of multiple regression. Findings – The result shows that independence, accountability, and audit tenure have an effect on audit quality. Meanwhile, work experience, competency, and audit fees have no influence on audit quality. Novelty – The study suggests that to improve audit quality, Public Accounting Firms should pay attention to the independence and accountability of its auditors."""
M42|Antecedent Factors on an Auditors' Attitude Towards Conducting an Intended Qualified Audit|Objective – This study proposes to investigate an auditor's works by usingthe model on the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA), with the inducement of intervention by a supervisor, that influences an auditor's aattitudes. The study uses the TRA proposed by Fishben and Ajzen (1975) to predict and explain the behaviors of Indonesian auditors. The results reveal those factors influencing an auditor's intention to provide qualified and reliable audit reports. Methodology/Technique – The study focuses on audit implementation in the public sector, specifically the auditing of financial statements in regional administrations. The study examined a total of 53 governmental auditors from the Audit Board of the Indonesian Republic (BPK-RI). A Structural Equation Model (SEM) was used for the analysis. Findings – The results of the study show that perceived audit risk, moral norms, and incentives have a positive and statistically significant impact on an auditor's attitude when performing an audit. Meanwhile, intervention by a supervisor has a negative impact, and is not statistically significant towards the auditor's attitude and behavior. This means that the auditor's attitude and behavior implies that there is no intervention from their supervisor when performing an audit. Furthermore, an auditor's attitude influences their intention to perform qualified and credible audits. Novelty – This study infers that The Indonesian Republic Decree No. 188 of the Year 2014 regarding Personel Performance Benefit in the Audit Boards of Indonesia Republic (BPK-RI) is achieving its intended purpose.
M42|Corporate Governance System and Regional Heterogeneity: Evidence from East and West Russia|Using a unique firm-level dataset obtained from a large-scale questionnaire survey conducted in late 2015, we examined the generality and heterogeneity of corporate governance systems between the eastern and western regions of Russia. The survey results strongly suggest that various characteristics of corporate governance systems observed in industrial firms and listed companies are, in fact, common and long-term trends that are seen across all Russian business sectors. At the same time, however, we also found pronounced regional heterogeneity between the eastern and western regions, with companies in the east being more reluctant than those in the west to introduce a governance system to monitor and supervise top management. Regression analysis shows that this finding is robust, even after a series of firm-level attributes are simultaneously controlled for.
M42|Incentives for dishonesty: An experimental study with internal auditors|This study examines experimentally how dishonest behavior in the form of misreporting others' performance depends on the nature of provided incentives. We conduct a 'lab in the field' experiment with internal auditors during two large conferences in Germany and evaluate their performance and objectivity, measured as the extent to which they truthfully report the performance of other participants a real-effort task. It has been suggested in the literature that incentive-pay compensation for auditors has the potential to lead to dishonest behavior on their part, for instance when their payoff depends on the performance of the unit that they are auditing. We vary incentives in the experiment from individual (piece rate) to competitive (tournament against another auditor) and collective (based on performance within a team). In line with our hypotheses, we find that incentive-based compensation increases dishonest behavior among internal auditors: competitive incentives lead to under-reporting of other participants' performance, while collective incentives lead to over-reporting of performance.
M42|Using machine learning for financial fraud detection in the accounts of companies investigated for money laundering|Benford’s Law is a well-known system use in accountancy for the analysis and detection of anomalies relating to money laundering and fraud. On that basis, and using real data from transactions undertaken by more than 600 companies from a particular sector, behavioral patterns can be analyzed using the latest machine learning procedures. The dataset is clearly unbalanced, for this reason we will apply cost matrix and SMOTE to different detecting patters methodologies: logistic regression, decision trees, neural networks and random forests. The objective of the cost matrix and SMOTE is to improve the forecasting capabilities of the models to easily identify those companies committing some kind of fraud. The results obtained show that the SMOTE algorithm gets better true positive results, outperforming the cost matrix implementation. However, the general accuracy of the model is very similar, so the amount of a false positive result will increase with SMOTE methodology. The aim is to detect the largest number of fraudulent companies, reducing, as far as possible, the number of false positives on companies operating correctly. The results obtained are quite revealing: Random forest gets better results with SMOTE transformation. It obtains 96.15% of true negative results and 94,98% of true positive results. Without any doubt, the listing ability of this methodology is very high. This study has been developed from the investigation of a real Spanish money laundering case in which this expert team have been collaborating. This study is the first step to use machine learning to detect financial crime in Spanish judicial process cases.
M42|Relative Importance of the Factors under the ISO-10015 Quality Management Guidelines that Influence the Service Quality of Certification Bodies|This study presents a suitable methodology for evaluating the relative importance of factors under the ISO-10015 standard that influence the service quality of certification bodies. Specifically, this study applied the fuzzy analytic hierarchy process (FAHP) method to select the most appropriate factors influencing the service quality of certification bodies. The key research approaches involved the FAHP method and corresponding questionnaires distributed to experts on the Taiwan Training Quality System. In the evaluation process, a consistency index (C.I) and consistency ratio (C.R) are used to evaluate the consistency of the assessment process. The C.I and C.R values for both objects and criteria were lower than 0.1, indicating satisfactory consistency. According to the overall weights assigned to the objects and criteria, the following three factors most strongly indicated improvement directions for the service quality of certification bodies: customer relationship management processes (weight: 33.18%), human resource quality (weight: 17.00%), and financial performance (weight: 14.88%). According to the results, the FAHP method facilitates evaluating, determining, and ranking factors influencing the service quality of certification bodies according to their weights. This study provides practical findings regarding the provision of service by certification bodies. Furthermore, the current findings can serve as a reference for future research.
M42|Diversification by the audit offices in the US and its impact on audit quality|Abstract Audit offices in the US exhibit a wide variation in the number of industries they service. Strategic management theory suggests that diversification can affect the quality of output, depending on the nature and circumstances of diversification. This paper examines the effect of diversification at the audit office level on audit quality. Five proxies of audit quality are examined, mainly, absolute discretionary accruals, propensity to meet-or-beat earnings expectations by a cent, propensity to restate financial statements, propensity to receive a comment letter after an SEC review and propensity to issue a going concern opinion. Results suggest that diversification has detrimental effects on audit quality. On the other hand, when the diversification is part of the audit firm level strategy, the detrimental effects on audit quality are dampened. Moreover, when the diversification at the office level is part of a revenue expansion strategy, the audit quality is adversely affected. However, there is no detrimental effect on the audit quality when revenue expansion is not the objective. Also, diversification across dissimilar industries leads to more adverse effect on audit quality than diversification to similar industries. Results also suggest that when the audit office is located in a market with more (less) diversified client base, the adverse effects of diversification on audit quality are weaker (stronger). Finally, the offices of big-4 audit firms handle diversification better with less adverse effect on audit quality. The findings are important since they identify additional factors that explain audit quality at the audit office level.
M42|On the Economics of Audit Partner Tenure and Rotation: Evidence from PCAOB Data|This paper provides the first partner tenure and rotation analysis for a large cross-section of U.S. publicly listed firms over an extended period. We analyze the effects on audit quality as well as economic tradeoffs related to partner tenure and rotation with respect to audit hours and fees. On average, we find no evidence for audit quality declines over the tenure cycle and little support for fresh-look benefits after rotations. Nevertheless, partner rotations have significant economic consequences. We find increases in audit fees and decreases in audit hours over the tenure cycle, which differ by partner experience, client size, and competitiveness of the local audit market. More generally, our findings are consistent with efforts by the audit firms to minimize disruptions and audit failures around mandatory rotations. We also analyze special circumstances, such as audit firm switches and early partner rotations, and show that they are more disruptive than mandatory rotations, and also more likely to exhibit audit quality effects.
M42|The Influence of Corporate Governance on Changes In Risk Following The Plantation Industry: Evidence From Chin Teck Plantation Bhd|The purpose of this study sought to examine the overall performance of Chin Teck Plantation Bhd with explicit risk factors and macroeconomic factor on profitability performance. The data obtained from annual report of Chin Teck Plantation Bhd. Starting from 2011-2015. The measurement of index for corporate governance, return on asset, few risk assessment and used to see the overall performance of Chin Teck Plantation Bhd. The further measurement is the asset size, this variable has a negative and no significant relationship with return on asset. To see the relationship of risks factors to the profitability, this paper is utilizing liquidity, inflation ratio, GDP and operating ratio. Data was analyzed by utilizing regression. The regression analysis shows factor of profitability is significant to liquidity and leverage ratio which is ROA with the highest impact to the profitability. However, the liquidity and GDP is not significant to profitability with low impact to the profitability.
M42|What You See Is Not What You Get, Always! A Distorted but True View of Company Financials when Distressed|Corporate failures and dismantling have become more and more widespread after the late 2007-2008 global crisis and individual as well as bulk numbers of cases are almost many as since the Great Depression. In another study , I had discussed the importance of the roles of non-financial firms in concert with the households in this crisis. The liquidation value of “the distressed firm”, as the case may be, depending on what type, as well as the determination of financial and operational distresses, becomes a crucial part of the supervisory process, if the firm does not recover from any of those. Therefore, going back to good old college days, to refresh our memories of what the value of a firm if distressed was, deemed necessary and I have devised this exercise to show what I understand of the liquidation value of a firm as such.
M42|Qual a importância da Auditoria Operacional nas PME Portuguesas?<BR>[The importance of the operational audit of Portuguese SMEs]|Atualmente, as organizações enfrentam vários desafios, por exemplo, as suas transações organizacionais crescem em volume e complexidade e estão a viver em ambientes de negócios altamente regulamentados. Portanto, os mecanismos de controlo e monitorização são necessários para avaliar e validar todas as transações, de forma abrangente, para atender aos controlos e regulamentos. Contudo, o processo de auditoria tradicional ocorre principalmente após a conclusão das transações, uma vez que não é viável auditá-las a tempo. Assim, torna possível inibir o risco associado à sua execução. Para muitas organizações existe um conjunto de riscos significativos de erros e fraudes e estes não são detetados atempadamente, resultando num impacto bastante nefasto para as organizações. A atual crise financeira global e os sucessivos e conhecidos escândalos de algumas organizações, como Lehman Brothers, A-Tec, Madoff, Kaupthing Bank, WorldCom, Enron, Parmalat, e muitos outros, levaram a que exista uma forma de prever esses erros e fraudes. Assim, qualquer organização deve estar suficientemente preparada para sobreviver, independentemente do número de riscos a que está sujeito, mediante a implementação de um sistema adequado de Garantia Contínua, com o quadro legislativo e regulamentar aplicável. Esta garantia contínua poderá ser efetuada através da auditoria operacional. O presente artigo tem como objetivo a análise da importância da auditoria operacional das PME’s portuguesas. Através da aplicação de um questionário semiestruturado, e da análise de um caso prático, identificam-se o tipo de erros que podem ocorrer afetando de forma significativa as Demostrações Financeiras.
M42|Analyzing the critical effects of creative accounting practices in the corporate sector of Ghana|The studies strive to empirically examine, the adoption of creative accounting methods in financial reporting structures, in the corporate sector of Ghana and it ramification on the financial system.
M42|Discretionary Provisioning Practices among Western European Banks|The purpose of this study is to investigate whether discretionary provisioning by Western European banks is driven by income smoothing or credit risk considerations. We find evidence that discretionary provisioning by Western European banks is driven by income smoothing incentives in the post-financial crisis period, particularly, among listed banks. Also, we observe that discretionary provisioning is significantly influenced by credit risk factors, mainly, non-performing loans and loan growth. Also, we find that discretionary provisioning by Western European banks is procyclical with fluctuations in the economic cycle. Overall, the implication of the findings is that discretionary provisioning among Western European banks is driven by both income smoothing and credit risk considerations.
M42|Bank Earnings Smoothing, Audit Quality and Procyclicality in Africa: The Case of Loan Loss Provisions|This paper empirically examine whether the way African banks use loan loss provisions to smooth earnings is influenced by capital market motivations and the type of auditor after controlling for non-discretionary determinants of loan loss provisions and fluctuations in the business cycle. The findings support the income smoothing hypothesis and indicate that (i) African banks use loan loss provisions to smooth reported earnings; (ii) listed African banks use loan loss provisions to smooth earnings to a greater extent than non-listed African banks possibly for capital market reasons; (iii) income smoothing via loan loss provisions is not reduced among African banks with Big 4 auditor; and (iv) bank provisioning in Africa is procyclical with fluctuations in the business cycle. The findings have three implications. One, listed African banks smooth income because they are more visible to investors and investors do not view stock price fluctuation as a good signal. Securities market regulators in African countries should enforce strict disclosure rules that reduce earnings smoothing practices in order to improve the transparency of banks’ reported earnings in the region. Two, the presence of Big 4 auditor did not improve the informativeness of loan loss provisions estimates among African banks. Three, the evidence for procyclical provisioning suggest the need for dynamic loan loss provisioning system in Africa.
M42|The Effectiveness of Internal Control System in Safeguarding Assets in the Ghanaian Banking Industry|The study assessed the effectiveness of internal control system in safeguarding assets against fraud in Agricultural Development Bank Ghana Limited (ADB). The study specifically highlighted the major causes of fraud; determined the extent of implementation of internal control systems; assessed the effectiveness of internal control system on fraud detection and prevention; and ascertained the effect of fraud on the bank in terms of its profitability, liquidity and operational efficiency. A structured questionnaire was used as a primary data collection instrument to select employees of ADB by purposive and convenient means. Items of the questionnaire were measured on the ranking scale. 37 employees from five branches of the bank were sampled. Data analysis was done using descriptive statistics. The study found that employees of the bank perceived that; poor internal control system, presence of unqualified staff, inadequate staffing, poor record-keeping practices, and inadequate training and re-training of staff among others were the main causes of fraud. All aspects of internal control system were strongly implemented and practiced by the bank. Internal control system was effective in controlling fraud in the bank in various forms. Fraud had negative and insignificant effect on the performance of the bank. The study recommends the continuous practice of the internal control system to ensure that fraud of any form is reduced to the barest minimum.
M42|Whatâ€™s in a Name? Reputation and Monitoring in the Audit Market|We demonstrate a tension between monitoring and reputation incentives when moving from collective reputation environments to individual reputation environments by analyzing a new rule. After January 2017, the name of the engagement partner has to be disclosed in all audit reports issued in the USA. We study the resulting change in auditor incentives and show that while the consequent higher reputation incentives can improve audit quality, partners have a lower incentive to monitor other partners when names are disclosed. This may lead to a fall in audit quality when the rule is implemented. We present several solutions to this problem.
M42|"Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) für die aus dem Gastgewerbe stammenden Projektteilnehmer von ""Sustainable Bonn – Konferenzort der Nachhaltigkeit"""|"Als weltweit anspruchsvollstes Umweltmanagementsystem trägt EMAS auf Unternehmensebene als Baustein zur Nachhaltigen Entwicklung bei. EMAS ist ein Instrument der Europäischen Union, an dem Organisationen, unabhängig von ihrer Größe und Branche, weltweit auf freiwilliger Basis teilnehmen können. Die geplante EMAS-Validierung der UN-Klimakonferenz (COP 23) in Bonn (06. – 17.11.2017), hat das Interesse der Projektkoordination von ""Sustainable Bonn - Konferenzort der Nachhaltigkeit"" geweckt, die EMAS-Einführung bei deren Projektteilnehmern zu untersuchen zu lassen. Daher liegt der Branchenfokus auf dem Gastgewerbe, aus denen die derzeitigen Teilnehmer des Bonner Projekts überwiegend stammen. Um Branchenspezifika bei EMAS besser zu berücksichtigen hat die Europäische Kommission im April 2016 hat ein Referenzdokument über bewährte Umweltmanagementpraktiken zur Steigerung der Öko-Effektivität mit einschlägigen Indikatoren zur Messung der Umweltleistung mit Richtwerten für die Tourismusbranche veröffentlicht, die im Rahmen einer EMAS-Einführung unter anderem von Gastgewerbebetrieben berücksichtigt werden müssen."
M42|The Internal Control Management Development Strategy in Romania|The internal control management means all the forms of control exercised at the public entity, including internal audit, established by the management in accordance with its objectives and legal regulations in order to provide fund administration economically, efficiently and effectively; it also includes the organizational structures, methods, and procedures. The phrase, â€œinternal control managementâ€ emphasizes the responsibility of all hierarchical levels for controlling all internal processes undertaken in order to achieve its general and specific objectives. The internal control management development strategy prioritizes managerial responsibility and ensures that the implemented internal control management systems are adequate and prevent or limit errors and fraud.
M42|Estimation risk and auditor conservatism|Abstract Estimation risk occurs when individuals form beliefs about parameters that are unknown. We examine how auditors respond to the estimation risk that arises when they form beliefs about the likelihood of client bankruptcy. We argue that auditors are likely to become more conservative when facing higher estimation risk because they are risk-averse. We find that estimation risk is of first-order importance in explaining auditor behavior. In particular, auditors are more likely to issue going-concern opinions, are more likely to resign, and charge higher audit fees when the standard errors surrounding the point estimates of bankruptcy are larger. To our knowledge, this is the first study to quantify estimation risk using the variance-covariance matrix of coefficient estimates taken from a statistical prediction model.
M42|Determinants and Economic Consequences of Signing Auditor Turnover: A Large-Scale Study from China REPORT|This study investigates why auditors leave one audit firm (and bring their clients) to another and the consequences of such turnover. Using a Chinese sample of 470 auditor-years with turnovers and 7,485 auditor-years without such turnovers from 2001 to 2014, we find that auditors’ professional competency is positively associated with a departure decision in additional to their demographics. Specifically, younger auditors, auditors who are industry specialists, and auditors who audit more clients and have better education background, are more likely to move, suggesting that “rising stars” in the accounting industry are more likely to move from one audit firm to another. However, female auditors, older auditors, and auditors with established status in the current audit firm are less likely to do so. Interestingly, Big 4 signing auditors in China are less likely to move relative to non-Big 4 auditors. We also find that auditors with lower audit quality are less likely to move from one audit firm to another, suggesting that the job market is penalizing auditors for bad quality audits. In terms of consequences, we find that the audit firm is more likely to lose clients whose incumbent auditor moves to another audit firm and it tends to lower audit fees for clients that stay with the audit firm, assign better auditors to them, and treat them more leniently. Our study provides insights that should be of interest to the audit profession, audit firms, and regulators.
M42|Potentielle Risikofaktoren für die Erhöhung der Betriebsprüfungswahrscheinlichkeit - Eine analytische und empirische Untersuchung auf Basis der E-Bilanz-Taxonomie 6.0 -|Das Gesetz zur Modernisierung des Besteuerungsverfahrens (StModernG) gestattet es der deutschen Finanzverwaltung die Daten der sog. E-Bilanz (§ 5b EStG) in ihrem fiskalischen Risikomanagement-System auszuwerten. Dies kann zur gezielten Auswahl von Unternehmen für eine spätere Betriebsprüfung genutzt werden. Details zur Ausgestaltung des Risikomanagement-Systems auf Basis der E-Bilanz-Datensätze sind bislang nicht bekannt. Der Beitrag identifiziert mögliche Risikofaktoren, deren Auftreten in einer vom Steuerpflichtigen einge¬reichten E-Bilanz dazu führen könnte, dass sein Unternehmen im Risikomanagement-System der Finanzverwaltung als risikoreich eingestuft wird. Als Risikofaktoren gelten dabei Sachverhalte oder Umstände, die Indizien für eine erhöhte Fehleranfälligkeit oder für aggressive Steuervermeidungsstrategien sind. Alle XBRL-Tags der E-Bilanz Taxonomie 6.0 werden in Hinblick auf solche Risiken analysiert und klassifiziert. Die Ergebnisse werden durch strukturierte Expertenbefragungen auf ihre Relevanz für die Praxis der Betriebsprüfung hin validiert.
M42|Assessment of the State of Implementation of Excellence Model Common Assessment Framework (CAF) 2013 by the National Institutes of Research – Development – Innovation in Romania|The paper highlights the part of the results of a research based on a questionnaire conducted at the National Institutes for Research, Development and Innovation (NIRDI) of Romania, under the coordination, under the authority or the subordination of the National Agency for Scientific Research and Innovation (NASRI), goals being pursued: Assess the current status of implementation of the Common model of excellence Self-Assessment framework (CAF) in 2013 by NIRDI in Romania; Determining the impact that the implementation of one or more management systems has on achieving excellence in research and innovation; Capacity assessment CAF 2013 model of excellence to provide enlightening information on the most important risks and challenges facing the entity being (self-) evaluation. The research was conducted in July 2016 to a representative sample of 51 of the 53 INCDI, under the coordination, under the authority or subordinate NASRI. It appears that although there is a high degree of fulfillment of the 9 criteria of the excellence model CAF 2013 NIRDI have not assimilated the spirit and the purpose of the excellence model induced by the principles of total quality management by importance (percentage) given to each criterion and sub-criterion. It appears real progress criteria results on customers and processes, products and services. At the same time there are serious shortcomings in the criteria results on the organization and results on the staff. On the one hand, based on the results analyzed, it was determined that to achieve excellence in research is not sufficient to implement two or more management systems, on the other hand it was confirmed that the results of (self-) evaluation stage of implementation of the model of excellence CAF 2013 provides significant and enlightening information to identify the principal risks and deficiencies faced by the entity (self) assessed.
M42|Solid Knowledge Management – The Ingredient Companies Need for Performance: A Romanian Insight|The paper explores knowledge management (KM) through the accounting and auditing field, emphasizing the authors’ research results designed to examine the Romanian firms’ perspective on KM. The authors strive to understand how the audit firms manage their knowledge aiming at providing quality services with added value. The important changes in auditing and accounting standards and national regulations and the dynamic of the profession in the Big Data era determine the need of a continuous process of information gathering and storage next to the increase of accountants and auditors’ expertise and skills. The investigation revealed an insufficient understanding of KM concept and lack of focus on KM process implementation, this being the consequence of the numerous small and medium accounting and auditing firms, limited investments in IT tools for audit and KM purposes and insufficient training on KM issues. The paper contributes to the KM and auditing literature by demonstrating the need to urgent the implementation of KM systems in Romanian audit firms and providing suggestions in this regard.
M42|Implementation Of Management Accounting Tools – Solution To Enhance The Performance Of Public Capital Companies In Difficulty. Case Study: Romanian Television Company|The current legislative framework and the tools the Romanian Television Company (SRTv.) has at its disposal, outdated by the realities of the competitive market whereon it operates, brought the Romanian public television before a permanent financial risk. The absence of a coherent long-term operating strategy led to the lack of financial performance and serious situation SRTv. faces for several years. By means of this paper, the authors aim to guide the managers of SRTv. towards the implementation of the management accounting tools, providing several possible solutions by which the financial performance of SRTv. can be improved: budgeting the costs and changing the method of cost calculation.
M42|The Impact of Enterprise Risk Management, Strategic Agility, and Quality of Internal Audit Function on Firm Performance|This paper examines the relationship of enterprise risk management (ERM) implementation to firm performance, the mediating role of strategic agility and moderating role of quality of internal audit function (QIAF) in this relationship among Malaysian public listed companies (PLCs). ERM implementation was conceptualized with the elements in COSO (2004) ERM integrated framework, and firm performance was measured by financial and non-financial indicators. Atotal of 137 responses were obtained through questionnaire from PLCs in main market of Bursa Malaysia. The empirical findings of the study suggest that ERM implementation has a significant relationship to firm performance and strategic agility significantly mediate the relationship. However, QIAF does not significantly moderate the relationship between ERM implementation and firm performance. Low response rate presents a challenge to generalize the content to all PLCs in Malaysia. Due to time and cost constraints this study did not acquire any secondary data and interviews which may provide further in-depth findings related to the research. In this study ERM framework as an integrative risk management has been recognized as the contributor to the firm performance of sample companies. PLCs, securities commission and institute of internal auditors Malaysia will benefit from the findings of this study
M42|Performance Management and Monitoring of Internal Audit for the Public Sector in Romania|Performance management is an on-going process, which has an essential component part, performance measurement, which involves the identification, supervision and communication of performance results, through the relation to a set of performance indicators. Based on the assessment results, corrective measures are established to ensure attainment of targeted results, offering a feedback, essential for the decision grounding enhancement, at all levels: strategic, operational or individual. As concerns performance management in public institutions in Romania, The Code on managerial internal control provides a hierarchy type model, in the framework of which, the head of the public entity, which is on the first level, needs to provide for performance monitoring for each objective and activity, through the intermediary of relevant quantitative and qualitative indicators, including referring to economy, efficiency, and effectiveness. Given the importance of the internal audit in the process of performance management, identifying solutions for continuous improvement of the public internal audit was subject to a study that was based on questioning public sector auditors on how to monitor the performance of public internal audit activity. Considering issues arising, the article proposes a series of directions for improving the monitoring of the performance of public internal audit activity in the public sector.
M42|Conceptual Nuances Of Amortization Process Terminology|Often, both in literature and practice in economics, it is found that a number of terms related to the amortization process, such as wear, depreciation, physical lifetime, economic lifetime, useful lifetime, normal operation lifetime are used a manner that distorts their content and, therefore, affect the quality of information provided through them. In this article we intend to give opinion to contribute to clarifying the meaning of the terms mentioned, including the relationships between them, in order to provide a more rigorous conceptual base regarding the professional reasoning applicable to amortization. Given that this topic is a focal point of the spheres of interest of several categories of specialists, we will expose our work by comparing the national tax accounting regulations and, international accounting standards and international valuation standards.
M42|Title Compliance Function Audit In Commercial Banks|The goal of this paper is to investigate the mechanisms implemented by the banking system to combat money laundering and terrorism, on the background of the increase in the volume of financial transactions. Starting from the variety of mechanisms and forms of money laundering and from the increase interest of the states in combating related crimes, institutions specializing in combating this phenomenon were created at intergovernmental level. The banking system as a whole is interested in combating the phenomenon given the distortions that can be generated by a generalized context of fraud, corruption and money laundering, substantiated in damaging the credibility of the financial institutions with which it enters a business relationship, to the extent where it is impossible to determine the currency necessary based on the demand of the real economy. In this context, the investigation of the mechanisms implemented by banking institutions with the purpose of identifying and blocking suspicions transactions is of special interest.
M42|The Restatements Impact Of The Real Estate On The Inheritance Structure|The modification of the recognition and consideration rules of the real estate in the patrimony of a company (beginning with 1st January 2015) leaded to new practices under the accounting aspect and under the analysis of the rates of structure. In the work, there are presented and explained the implications of accounting nature, in the first step and they are followed in a rational way by the modifications caused in the structure of the tangible elements. The practical aspects were followed and analyzed over a period of 3 years: between 2014 and 2016 being split pertinent conclusions. The decision of enclosing a real estate in one of the categories “Lands”, “Buildings” or “Investment property” is grounded in a big measure on the own accounting politics and on the professional reasoning. But, in report with this retreatment, notable modifications are registered in the tangible elements. These modifications appear in the size of the weight and also in the number of the structure rates for being calculated (determined by the introduction of new balance sheet to tangible).
M42|The potential of tourism in the Region of Southwest Oltenia|This study is based on cultural and historical importance of Southwest Oltenia. The region has an attractive potential for tourism development, turning to its advantage both the strategic geographic location and the natural wealth of the Carpathians and the Danube River. Identifying products and services that make up the composition of tourism as a brand is a priority to create an image that can capture the attention of potential investors, travelers and tourists. Analyzing the profile of Oltenia’s tourism offer, we can say that the region provides the most varied forms of tourism
M42|Evaluating The Role Of The Regulators Of The External Audit Profession In Achieving The Audit Quality In Iraq|The profession of quality auditing can have direct or indirect effects on the performance of accountants and auditors. Both particular research and professional recommendations provided evidence on measuring and evaluating service performance of audit profession by taking into account the relationship between quality and accountant performance. Applied research was developed in Republic of Iraq to reveal the function of bodies that regulate external audit for achieving the required level of audit quality and for identifying the obstacles that prevent the compliance with International Auditing Standards. Research focuses on the role of these bodies in order to achieve the quality of audit by implementing a quality control system. Its benefits reduce chances of criticisms and weaknesses, improving the auditing environment in Iraq.
M42|Views on the Credibility of the Nonfinancial Information – New approaches|The purpose of the study is the method of presentation of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain businesses and large groups, in accordance with amendments made by Directive 2014/95/EU. The study was carried out under public poll organized by U.E. (DIGIT-EUSURVEY@NOMAIL.EC. EUROPA. EU) in relation to the guide of presentation of financial information currently under development at EU. The result is represented by the test the usefulness of non-financial information depending on a number of qualitative characteristics such as: avoid undue administrative tasks, comprehensiveness, fairness and balance, comparability, understandability, reliability, usefulness and materiality or relevance of the information. This test was to identify those characteristics and results of non-financial information that are most significant for different users of financial and non-financial information, depending on the type and issuer of such information. The study will be continued by developing, based on testing, of a standard model report including non-financial information, as well as models of such reports specific to different types of issuers and / or users, depending of the area of specific interest.
M42|Banking Audit - Towards a Higher Degree of Harmonization|TIn the last decade, the role and nature of the statutory audit of credit institutions have became controversial, on the base of reconsidering the importance of audit of credit institutions in prevention, detection and managing of the financial crisis. The aim of the study is critical analysis of key aspects regarding the contemporary banking audit, with an emphasis on aspects that affect the quality of banking audit (normative, procedural and organisational aspects of banking audit, the “auditable” character of some banking elements etc.) and on the tipology of audit reports of credit institutions (Audit Report to the General Meeting of Shareholders, Additional Report to the Audit Committee of the credit institution, Reports to banking supervisors and Transparency report of auditor). The paper analyses for 27 European states the way in which banking auditors report on the conformity of the credit institution with organisational regulatory rules, regulatory requirements, financial reports to supervisors or special reports to supervisors. The conclusions bring to the foreground major normative changes in the area of the European credit institutions, through reforming strategies of banking audit, through a gradual and an inscreasingly restrictive progress of audit activities and of independence requirements, rotation of auditors, reporting and transparency of credit institutions.
M42|An Empä°Rä°Cal Analysä°S Of Audä°T Delay Ä°N Turkey|The main purpose of this study is to examine the factors that affect delaysin the signing of audit reports in Turkey. The audit delay is measured as a function of the numberof days that elapse from the accounting period until the date when the audit report is signed.This study utilizes a sample of 508 firms listed on the Borsa Istanbul in 2013. The findingsindicate that the companies that report net income, that have standard audit opinion releasetheir audited financial statements earlier. Variables such as auditor firm and leverage show nosignificant relationship with audit delay.
M42|Effects of Turkish Accounting Standards Application on Independent Audit Procedures|The main purpose of this study is to determine the effects of Turkish Accounting Standards, which are compatible with International Financial Reporting Standards composed by the International Accounting Standards Board and providing to eliminate the differences among the accounting practices of the countries and to compare companies’ accounting information, on independent audit procedures. Independent audits are essential to verify the accuracy and reliability of the financial statements belonging to companies. In this study, first of all, a number of examinations on the Turkish Accounting Standards applications have been carried out. Then, the information about the independent audits have been submitted. Finally, whether Turkish Accounting Standards Applications have positive or negative effects on independent audit firms and on independent auditors was searched through the questionnaire technique conducted among the independent auditing firms affiliated to the Free Market Board. Ultimately, it was concluded that the auditors consider International Accounting Standards as modern, reliable and sufficient to answer the purpose. In addition to this, Turkish Accounting Standards must be absolutely performed by companies, but it makes audit procedures difficult for audit firms and for independent auditors.
M42|Finansal Sikinti Surecinde Sirketlerin Etkinlik Duzeylerinin Belirlenmesi|Finansal sikinti yasanmasi veya finansal sikintiya dusme olasiligi; hem sirketin, hem de sirketle ilgili cikar gruplarinin cesitli maliyetlerle karsilasma olasiligini artirmaktadir. Finansal sikinti surecinin ortaya cikarabilecegi maliyetler ve bu maliyetlerin buyuklugu, finans literaturunde tartisilan konulardan biridir. Finansal sikinti maliyetleri ve yeniden yapilandirma surecinin isletmeler ve isletmelerle ilgili cikar gruplari uzerine etkisini inceleyen calismalar gun gectikce artmaktadir. Bu calismada da sirketlerin finansal sikinti surecinde ve yeniden yapilandirma sonrasi sirket performansindaki degisimin incelenmistir. Bu amacla Operational Competitional Rating Analysis (OCRA) yontemi kullanilarak sirketlerin etkinlikleri tespit edilmistir. Elde edilen sonuclara gore finansal sikinti surecinde firmanin etkinligi azalmaktadir. Ancak finansal sikintidan kurtulmayi basaran sirketlerde etkinlik duzelmektedir. Finansal sikintidan kurtulamayan sirketlerde ise etkinlik iyice dusmekte ve sonucta bu sirketler iflas etmektedir.
M42|Transposition of the new European Union audit regulation into the Croatian national law|The audit reform in the EU had as a consequence the adoption of the new regulatory framework. The European Parliament adopted Directive 2014/56/EU amending the Directive 2006/43/EC on statutory audit in the EU and the EU Regulation No. 537/2014 containing requirements that relate specifically to the statutory audit of public interest entities. Each Member State needs to transpose the Directive into its national legislation and also ensure its implementation. Within the framework of transposing the Directive into the national regulation, each Member State had many options that allows them to tailor the provisions of the national law according to their needs and specific aspects of the national audit markets. However, the number of options brings risks that are connected to additional audit procedures and inefficiencies in the process of performing audit with the potential effects on the quality and cost of audits. The aim of this article is to analyse the most important (not) used options of the Directive and Regulation according to the Croatian national legislation. In that sense, the article provides information about the definition of statutory audit and the subjects of statutory audit as well as the definition of public interest entities in Croatia. In addition, the audit profession in Croatia is analysed in the context of the “European audit passport”. The results of this research can be a base for future comparisons between Croatia and the other EU Member States. Finally, the implementation of this provisions will answer the question: Does the implementation of different options bring convergence or divergence within the single EU audit services market?
M42|The profile of the internal auditor in the Romanian banking sector|Internal audit in the banking industry is one of the most debated topics nowadays. The paper’s objective is to examine the profile of the internal auditor in the banking industry of Romania. The research design is empirical in nature. The researchers use the development of job announcements for the position of internal auditor in the Romanian banking industry. The announcements are classified according to: language of the job announcement; geographical area of the employer; the internal auditor’s tasks; the internal auditor’s professional requirements; education and qualification; practical experience; personal attributes; age; salary etc. The results of the research consist in the current profile of an internal auditor in a Romanian bank. The research fills in an important gap in the Romanian academic literature, which lacks studies regarding the internal audit in the banking industry.
M42|Auditors’ and auditees’ perception on the internal audit quality|The purpose of this study is to examine the influence of audit planning, fieldwork audit, audit reporting, follow-up action of the audit results, the auditor team competence, and independence of the auditor team on the internal audit quality at the General inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance, Indonesia. The study uses a research instrument in the form of a questionnaire which is submitted to the auditor team of the Inspector General and the head of office as the auditee in the Ministry of Finance. We also conducted interviews with senior auditors at the General Inspectorate and officials as the auditee at the Ministry of Finance. The sample is analysed by multiple regression analysis. The results show that the internal audit quality according to the auditor team perception is affected by audit planning, audit reporting, and auditor team competence. Fieldwork audit, follow-up action of the audit results, and the independence of the auditor team do not affect the internal audit quality. From the auditee’s perception, the internal audit quality is affected by audit planning, fieldwork audit, and the competence of the auditor team. Meanwhile, the reporting of audit results, the follow-up action of the audit results, and the independence of the auditor team do not affect the internal audit quality at the General inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance.
M42|The Effect of the Auditors’ Rotation on the Accounting Quality in the Case of Romanian Listed Companies under the Transition to IFRS|In assuring the quality of the financial information issued by the listed companies, the role of the financial auditor is to express his own opinion regarding the compliance of the financial statements with a financial reporting framework. In order for this opinion to be a reliable one, the auditor has to develop it considering the specific requirements of competence, ethic judgment and professional ethics. Meeting these requirements supposes significant efforts from the auditors, and also from the professional organization they are affiliated to, as well as the audited companies. We appreciate that the financial auditors’ financial independence and objectivity are also assured by their periodical rotation. The scope of this study is to analyze and evaluate the influence of the auditor’s rotation on the information value relevance from the individual financial statements and from the consolidated statements that make the subject of financial auditing. The study was carried out on a number of 64 Romanian companies, listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange, between 2006 and 2014. The research objectives considered the estimation of the auditor’s rotation influence on the value relevance of the reported information of the Romanian BSE listed companies. The results of the study show the fact that the auditor’s rotation significantly contributes to the change of the value relevance degree.
M42|Research Regarding the Use of IT Instruments in Financial Audit|Having in mind the signals from the financial auditing services market, at both national and international level, the author intended to find out which are the applications used by auditing firms in Romania and the strengths of these tools for each stage of the audit engagement, a key analysis in the context of adopting software solutions in the audit engagements. The research was conducted through a questionnaire addressed in 2015 to the financial auditors in Romania and sought their response about the benefits of using a software tool in each stage of the audit engagement. The result of the research revealed the tendency for users to use software tools also in the special audit assignments.
M42|Interdependencies between corporate governance and financial audit: evidence from the Romanian Stock Exchange|The purpose of this research is to provide evidence about the relationship between the financial audit and corporate governance indicators. The study uses data from entities listed on the Bucharest Stock Exchange in Romania, which have both a one-tier system and a two-tier system management. The study aims to detect the interdependencies between financial audit (measured through the audit fees) and specific corporate governance indicators, such as the CEO/chair duality, the existence of the audit committee, the number of executive members from the board of directors or other characteristics of the board that are part of the corporate governance process. As there is a correlation between audit and corporate governance indicators, the research is conducted using a simultaneous equation model for the listed entities that have an obligation to report their individual financial statements using the IFRS approach. The data is manually collected from both the entity’s individual financial statements and corporate governance statement. The results showed mixt evidence. While there is a negative relationship between the audit fees and the number of executive board members, ambiguous results are found for the other board characteristics. The explanation can be attributed to the fact that there is an important problem regarding data availability on the Romanian market and to a lack of transparency in the reporting process.
M42|The impact of auditing on green information and communication technologies|The main purpose of this paper is to identify how auditors can contribute to supporting the protection of natural environment, without this being subject to their engagement. The interest in the topic was determined, on the one hand, by the infiltration of the information and communication technologies (ICT) in the auditors’ work and, on the other hand, by the significant increase of the concerns for environmental protection. The intersection of the two areas has led to the concept of green ICT auditing, approached by the present study. Within it, we argued the importance of establishing positive connections between auditing, environment and ICT for the society. We provided a brief presentation of the green ICT concept, as a result of the selection and study of the most relevant opinions from the specific literature. Next, in the most important part of the paper, we presented in detail how auditing can contribute to augmenting the favourable influences of green ICT on the environment, the latter being regarded both as a subject and as an object of auditing. Based on the information collected while performing the study, we concluded that auditors can have a significant role in decreasing the influence of ICT on the environment, but only if their endeavours are supported and sustained by the companies subject to audit engagements.
M42|Boardroom diversity and audit fees: director ethnicity, independence and nationality|This paper investigated the effect of boardroom diversity (herein a composite measure of boardroom ethnic composition, independent and foreign directors) on audit fees in the Nigerian context. A sample of companies listed on the Nigerian stock exchange between 2010 and 2011 was used. The study found that 51% of the sampled companies were ethnically diverse, with about 21% and 49% having foreign directors and independent directors respectively. Further, the results of the panel regression revealed that boardroom diversity had a positive relationship with audit fees. The findings indicate that boardroom diversity enhances board monitoring responsibility and therefore results in an increase in demand for auditors’ effort. The findings of this study have implications for future policy recommendations and formulation because they indicate that boardroom diversity could be a desirable board characteristic that can strengthen the monitoring role of the board.
M42|The relationship between the audit committee|Audit committees, governance type or otherwise, are a less common feature in EU Member States, where only few countries have extended audit committees or “governance” or similar such committees . Audit committees in the private sector focus on ensuring the reliability and the internal and external reporting, and therefore on the internal and external audit, the quality of internal control systems and risk management processes. For many countries applying this type of public sector audit committee may be too sophisticated, because there are no preconditions for its existence. The existence of audit committees does not automatically mean that organizations function properly and have no governance, internal control and external reporting problems. Because of the importance of communication between the internal auditors and the audit committee, the paper addresses issues such as planning discussions with internal auditors, analysis and conclusions as a result of communication, questionnaire models for the addressed areas and planning the meetings with external auditors.
M42|Factors supporting an adequate sizing of internal audit departments in the public sector|This article addresses the issue of determining the appropriate size for the internal audit compartments in the public sector. Public internal control in Romania in undergoing a broad transformation: moving from a standardized management and control (usually through regulations) to an objectives-based management and to a dual control, based on self-management (managerial control), as well as on separate evaluations by independent bodies (public external audit and public internal audit). Within the article default factors are identified for sizing the audit structures: the risks of the organization and the expectations regarding the manner in which the activity can bring value, which is the basis for the allocation of resources. The dimensioning of the internal audit compartment is analysed in terms of seven critical factors, and a comparative analysis of the proposed models (determinants, strengths/weaknesses, applicability criteria) is presented. For the improvement of the internal audit in the public sector, the Model of the Internal Audit Capacity in the Public sector is proposed, advanced by The Institute of Internal Auditors, according to which the evolution of the internal audit activity is structured around a number of levels to be attained in succession. By identifying the factors considered critical for the sizing of the internal audit departments, which have no equivalent (counterpart) in the factors provided for in the current normative framework in Romania, the article contributes to the clarification of issues related to sizing models and procedures in the field.
M42|History of auditing in Russia. Periodization and challenges of development|This paper discusses the recent history of auditing in Russia from 1987 to the present time. This kind of research, such as any inquiry into history, calls for a well-grounded periodization. For the purposes of this study, factors were determined which influence the regulatory and methodological support of auditing; in accordance with the results of the analysis of their time intersections – the logical addition – qualitative leaps in the development of auditing in Russia were identified, which are represented as stages of its evolution. Through the application of this method, four stages in the recent history of auditing in Russia were identified: pre-history (the birth of the Russian auditing, the “wild” auditing); establishment of auditing in Russia; government regulation and licensing; self-regulation of audit activity.
M42|Financial and non-financial reporting in Romanian entities operating in agriculture, forestry, and fishery|Due to the increased interest for sustainability issues, entities that operate in the areas agriculture, forestry and fishery are exposed to a variety of ecological challenges. Moreover, such fields are generally of strategic importance for a country’s economy, which also increases their exposure to public debate. The present study aims to provide a detailed and accurate description of the financial and non-financial information made available by listed Romanian entities operating in agriculture, forestry and fishery. The research goes beyond the mere description of the content of shareholders’ reports. Its purpose is to assess the financial performance and stability of selected companies and to investigate the relationships between the financial well-being of such companies and the extent to which they disclose non-financial information. The sample consists of companies which operate in the business of fields agriculture, forestry or fishery and are listed at the Bucharest Stock Exchange in Romania.
M42|Information security – a new challenge for the young and future financial auditors|The purpose of this paper is to inquire if the young and future financial auditors are fully aware of the impact that information security has on audit missions, focusing also on the responsibilities of the participants in financial audit missions, regarding the assessment of the risks derived from information security. To determine the extent to which audit risk might be influenced by information security, a literature review was conducted, that has focused on this current concern, as expressed by different researchers, professional bodies, Big Four companies and the regulators. In order to assess the current level of awareness regarding the impact of information security on the audit risk, 25 young professionals have participated to a survey and with their answers have proven that they realize the impact of information securing on audit missions and the necessity of having sufficient knowledge regarding information technology in order to identify the risk from the information security area which might affect the financial statements and the activity of the organization. Moreover, young and future financial auditors are aware of the fact that the audit profession will suffer modifications due to the changes in the information technology field, which will affect the approaches in audit missions and in this regards the financial auditors must develop new working skills such as understanding information systems and information security and possessing skills in analysis and data modelling. Besides the survey used, five auditors who work in Big Four companies were interviewed, in order to highlight the way in which the profession is adapting to technological changes, especially in the case of assessing controls of information technology systems and information security. From the results of the interview it can be concluded that within the Big Four companies, there is a high level of awareness regarding the necessity of solid knowledge in the information technology field. The paper is the first to examine the perception of young and future financial auditors from Romania, regarding the impact that the information security has on audit missions.
M42|Considerations regarding the regulation, accounting and audit of bank deposits|Bank deposits have been known even since the Antiquity. From the legal perspective, the bank deposit was always covered with due care and received the deserved attention, while regulations generally reflected the current views, from the legal, economic, social, cultural and religious perspectives. The new Civil Code, applicable in Romania starting from October 1st 2011, brings a new element within article 2191. The fund deposit, a change that is situated against the millennial regulations of the deposit contract, when it specifies that “Subsequent to the constitution of a fund deposit at a credit institution, it gains propriety over the deposited amounts of money”. Even since the Antiquity, the Roman jurists have caught the economic and judicial nature of the unregulated deposit contracts that emphasized the depository’s obligations. The religious obscurantism of the Middle Ages did not allow the differentiation between the deposit contract and the loan contract as passive operations meant to attract the financial resources of the bank. Nowadays, the confusion still exists and fuels the financial instability. Even since the emergence of accounting as a science, the bank deposit has been seen as a financial asset for the depositor and a debt for the banker. The accuracy of the accounting information regarding the bank deposits is validated and confirmed through the internal and/or external auditing procedures.
M42|Model for dimensioning the audit structures in the public sector|This article proposes a solution to determine the size of the internal audit departments in public sector organisations. The conceptual model for determining the actual size of an internal audit department, as adopted by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), is presented and the various factors used in dimensioning are analysed. The article also presents a computational model for the public sector, illustrated by means of a procedure which is based on the size of the organization and uses specific calculation variables and explicit (clearly defined) correction coefficients to determine the final number of internal auditors. The variables and the coefficients of the described model cover the significant factors that might influence the size of the internal audit department. At the same time, the requirements of adequacy and usefulness of the model for the various entities of the public sector are insured. The model proposed for the public sector entities constitutes also a supporting tool for the practical implementation of the legal, regulatory and normative requirements with regard to the sizing of the internal audit departments.
M42|Trends and priorities in internal audit|The status of the internal audit as an important pillar for corporate governance is recognized unanimously; however, this status is gained through a continuous and joined effort of all internal auditors and by a clear and solid vision of the internal audit function’s development, designed by the chief of internal audit. This status recognizes the internal audit’s support for the achievement of company objectives and the improvement of risk management and it also requires continuous quantitative accumulations in the work of internal auditors. From this perspective, the author’s attention focused on the main risks and priorities that the internal audit is facing as they are reflected by international studies and surveys. The conclusions emphasized by the author’s research may be considered important milestones for the improvement of the internal audit function in Romania and for its solid connection to the realities and problems the companies are confronting with.
M42|Measuring the value of internal audit in the banking industry|The importance of the audit function in banking institutions has considerably increased during the financial crisis, the focus of the management moving to risk management and control processes. The role of internal audit is to help management in protecting the bank’s patrimony, reputation and ensuring the sustainable development of the organization, by providing an extensive analysis and a comprehensive insight on activities. Furthermore, just as each department must achieve the set objectives and add value to the organization, the same is true for the internal audit department. This study aims to examine the methods used to measure the value of internal audit in the banking industry and to identify the most significant methods that consider the effect of the internal audit results on the organization. We propose answers to questions such as: “Do audit functions in banking institutions confirm their value?” and “How can internal audit demonstrate its contribution to adding value to the organization?” In this regard, we approached the measuring the internal audit value from a theoretical point of view. Further, we investigated which are metrics (KPIs) and practices used to measure the value of internal audit and analysed the extent to which these metrics are likely to highlight the value added to the organization by the internal audit activity. The results of the study suggest that most organizations use methods that contain mainly quantitative and less qualitative elements. There are differences between banks and other types of organizations in terms of the methods and practices used, but also on the importance showed to measurement of internal audit value. In addition, the findings confirm that there is room for improving the methods and practices used, so that the audit function gains value and credibility.
M42|Internal audit practices and trends in Romania and worldwide|For a long time, internal audit has been seen mainly as an activity of providing assistance to external auditors, especially by checking up accounting procedures as part of the internal control evaluation process. At present, while this role of the internal auditor has not disappeared, the role of consultant manager has gained primary importance. In this context, it is increasingly obvious that the professional profile of the internal auditor will undergo changes generated not only by the changes in the role that he or she fulfils, but also by the challenges that the business world needs to deal with: risk management, increasingly sophisticated information technology, data mining etc. This study relies on the information provided by The Institute of Internal Auditors Research Foundation – IIARF which includes data extracted from The Global Internal Audit Common Body of Knowledge – CBOK database, and it aims to point out the practices and trends regarding internal audit in Romania and worldwide, and, respectively, the competencies traditionally required from internal auditors, their views on the skills they master and on the scope of their further skill development.
M42|The development of the social audit concept in Romania|The paper mainly approaches the social audit, an insufficiently developed field in our country. The social audit concept is defined in Romania by the Social Assistance Law no. 292/2011 and its application is limited to this scope. At international level, the concept has a much wider application area. The research methodology is a qualitative one. The objectives of the paper consist in the theoretical development of the social audit concept: the definition of the social audit, the description of the stages and the goals of this process, the identification of the connections between sustainable development, corporate social responsibility and social audit, the performance of a comparative analysis between the social audit, the financial audit and the internal audit, the explanation of the advantages of applying the social audit in the business environment, in social institutions and in the public administration, the illustration of qualitative and quantitative indicators that can be employed in social audit engagements, as well as the proposal of an application model of the social audit in Romania.
M42|A comprehensive conceptual profile on control|The paper starts from the persisting uncertainties regarding the use of the term “control”. In order to mitigate such ambiguities, after a brief subject exposure, a range of questions are proposed, whose adapted answers may help us to refine a correct understanding and perception of control, of course in relation with a plethora of similar concepts. Our argumentation includes the elaboration and presentation of a range of conceptual pillars or vectors regarding the control in its widest meaning, in contrast with other more restricted forms, equivocal or even altered explanations. The text is enriched with some assertions of the authors regarding the assurance of the appropriate control, with its meaning of a state of harmony, which can successfully meet honest expectations. At the end, we conclude that, in the current conditions, control can only be defined in a holistic style and we proposed a conceptual profile, through which we can easily explain what the control actually includes.
M42|The importance of professional judgement applied in the context of the International Financial Reporting Standards|Guidance has always been welcome in terms of applying professional judgement in the context of the principles-based accounting standards – International Financial Reporting Standards. This fact is the result of the complexity and diversity of some situations, which might give rise to difficulties in terms of choosing the appropriate accounting policies and methods (depreciation, inventory valuation on hand at the end of an accounting period, the recognition of revenues and expenses from a construction contract, accounting for lease contracts by the proper determination of the type of lease: financing or operating), and respectively the need to verify if the criteria set by the principles-based accounting standards are met. This “freedom” of choice and disclosure might create problems in terms of accounting information quality. The possibility to select accounting methods based on the Standards’ provisions is meant to generate a true and fair view of the company’s financial position and financial performance. In these cases it is recommended to use professional judgement in order to reach a conclusion which is in accordance with the accounting principles and is not enforced by any accounting rules, since the exercise of individual professional judgement is preferred against the “pure” compliance with prescriptive legal requirements.
M42|Internal control and auditing – a necessity for responsible reporting and managerial usefulness of accounting information|It is well known that not only in Romania, internal control and auditing are subject to legal regulations. Often, the two forms of ensuring the quality of accounting information are particularly perceived as mandatory requirement instead of as a necessity for certifying the information travelling between producer and user. The paper addresses issues which aim to highlight the need to organize the internal control and auditing of the accounting information from the perspective of the need to certify the accounting information for a responsible reporting. Moreover, through a study conducted on a sample of 301 companies in the Central Region of Romania, we also captured the managers’/directors’ opinion regarding the internal control and audit in terms of confidence, ensuring opportunities to valorise the accounting information and its usefulness for management.
M42|Corporate Governance And Strength Of Auditing And Reporting Standards: A Cross-Country Survey| The purpose of this cross-country empirical survey is to investigate the relationship between the strength of auditing and reporting standards and some corporate governance characteristics such as efficacy of corporate boards and ethical behaviour of firms. All three variables were captured through the indicators included in the report of World Economic Forum entitled “The Global Competitiveness Report 2012-2013” selected for 144 countries from all over the world. The findings validate the research hypothesis concerning the significant influence of some of the corporate governance dimensions on the strength of auditing and reporting standards, from a cross-country perspective.
M42|Economic Performance Forecasting According To The Type Of Management| Forecasting the audited entities’ performances in correlation with management typology (local or foreign) proves to be useful in terms of estimating the impact of a particular type of management of the audited entities upon indebtedness policies, the efficiency of using the shareholders’ assets and capitals, and upon the contribution of revenues to strengthen the self-financing capacity. Establishing a mathematical model, tested on a stratified sample within a representative county at national level, provide relevance to the present research results. The study found a positive linear correlation between the performance of audited entities from Cluj County regardless of the type of management and the financial years.
M42|Internal controls in the Public Administration: current problems and future challenges|At the beginning of the 1990s, in line with trends in other European countries, the need to increase the efficiency of administrative activity resulted in legislative initiatives to extend some of the management tools developed in the private sector to the Public Administration. Among these instruments, an important role was assigned to internal controls. Over twenty years since their introduction, the functioning of public internal controls still displays several critical aspects. Through a comparative assessment with other European models, this paper highlights the problems affecting the legal framework of Italian public internal controls, such as the lack of a clearly identified internal audit structure; the paper also points out that controls focus almost exclusively on formal rather than substantive aspects. Moreover, the results of past performance appraisal activities show that the principles of ï¿½accountabilityï¿½ and ï¿½transparencyï¿½ are not widely applied within the Public Administration, thus undermining the effectiveness and usefulness of internal controls.
M42|Pojam I Vrste Zadružne Revizije (Pravni Aspekti) (Concept And Types Of Cooperative Audit (Legal Aspects)|U ovom radu autor istražuje tri pitanja od značaja za zadružnu reviziju, i to: pojmovno određenje, odnosno definisanje zadružne revizije u zakonodavstvu, ekonomskoj i pravnoj teoriji; vršenje nadzora i kontrole nad zadrugom – unutrašnji nadzor i kontrola, kontrola poslovanja, finansijska kontrola i nadzor i kontrola nad zadrugom od strane državnih organa uprave i inspekcijskih organa; vrste zadružne revizije u zakonodavstvu i teoriji polazeći od različitih kriterijuma – formalna i materijalna, opšta i delimična, revizija finansijskih izveštaja i revizija poslovanja, redovna i vanredna, obavezna i fakultativna (dobrovoljna),najavljena i nenajavljena, superrevizija.
M42|Auditor`S Requirements And European Funds|"European funds are an important source of financing both the private and public institutions that make capital investments of national interest. After accessing some European projects, auditing is mandatory and is performed by auditors authorized by the Chamber of Financial Auditors of Romania. The reference framework which underpins the auditing of European projects is ISRS 4400 ""Missions on agreed upon procedures regarding financial information"" and The Code of Ethics emitted by the International Federation of Accountants. The Code of Ethics presents the fundamental ethical principles that a professional must comply when offering his services and these are: integrity, objectivity, professional competence, confidentiality, professional behavior."
M42|The Role Of The Accounting Profession Ethics Code|The present article highlights the particular importance that should be given to ethical principles in the accounting profession and the increasing interest of promoting them in our country as a consequence of numerous international financial scandals and the worldwide crisis that we still live. In their analysis, the authors have made a qualitative study which focuses on the issue of the code of ethics of the accounting profession. The research results show that although respecting the ethical code should remove conflicts of interest, they still occur. Following this study, the authors concluded that the role of compliance with the code of ethics of the professional accountant is essential.
M42|Financial Reporting In The Tourism Industry|In recent years the tourism industry has seen a rise in scope and influences both in the political and economic arenas. The industry has become exposed to risks such as money laundering and fraudulent reporting, demanding the use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to reduce differences in financial reporting and increase the attractiveness of the sector for investors. For the purpose of this paper, a sample of 611 equities in the tourism and hospitality business was used in order to understand the state of financial reporting in the sector with an emphasis on the relevance of financial information and other issues such as timeliness and the adherence to a true and fair presentation. The research reveals the enhanced relevance obtained from the use of the IFRS as well as risks for the financial management of the companies.
M42|Agreed-Upon Procedures, Procedures For Auditing European Grants|"To enhance the credibility of the information provided to different categories of users, entities make use of services provided by a financial auditor. Thus, auditing also applies to EU-funded projects, being an obligation of the Beneficiary of the project, and it is performed in accordance with ISRS 4400 “Engagements to perform agreed-upon procedures regarding financial information"". This standard has a wide scope including, besides the audit of EU-funded projects, the verification of accounts receivable, accounts payable, a financial statement or even a complete set of financial statements. The audit of EU-funded projects is an audit based on agreed-upon procedures, which are established by the Managing Authority or the Intermediate Body. Agreed-upon procedures can be defined as engagements made in accordance with ISRS 4400, applicable to agreed-upon procedures, where the auditor undertakes to carry out the agreed-upon procedures and issue a report on factual findings. The report provided by the auditor does not express any assurance. It allows users to form their own opinions about the conformity of the expenses with the project budget as well as the eligibility of the expenses."
M42|Prestação de contas no setor público: qual é o alcance da difusão dos resultados da organização?|Resumo O objetivo desta pesquisa é estudar como os Tribunais de Contas brasileiros fazem a prestação de contas dos resultados conseguidos por essas instituições por meio do planejamento estratégico. A metodologia tem como base uma busca documental nos planos estratégicos e nos relatórios de resultados com informação sobre o alcance dos objetivos, indicadores e metas. Também se fez uma comparação destes relatórios com o relatório de resultados do TCU, órgão de controle externo com jurisdição nacional. Encontrou-se que, ainda que um forte discurso de transparência esteja presente aos planos estratégicos das instituições, seja nos valores ou nos objetivos estratégicos, a divulgação de informações ao usuário externo é uma iniciativa executada por poucos tribunais. Em conclusão, este estudo demonstrou que a prestação de contas deve ser fortalecida nestas instituições, um fato já reconhecido pela maioria dos representantes das unidades de planejamento destes tribunais.
M42|Sistemas de gestión de la calidad: una herramienta imprescindible en la auditoría financiera|Los sistemas de gestión de la calidad bajo los elementos de la ética, la incertidumbre y la confianza, permiten asegurar la pertinencia del sistema de control de calidad en la actividad de la auditoría financiera mediante una relación de confianza pública y función social de las organizaciones y de los sujetos que las operan. Por tanto, este artículo tiene como propósito proponer un sistema de gestión de la calidad para la actividad de auditoría financiera, basado en el funcionamiento de un sistema de control de calidad, bajo los parámetros de la ética, la incertidumbre y la confianza.
M42|The Effect of Audit Quality on Stock Crash Risk in Tehran Stock Exchange|This paper aims to examine the impact of audit quality on stock crash risk in Tehran Stock Exchange. Down-to-up volatility (DUVOL) and whether or not experience crash month (CRASH) have been used as two criteria to measure stock crash risk. In addition, auditor industry specialization has been considered as an indicator of audit quality. The hypotheses are tested by using data from 74 firms listed in the Tehran stock exchange from the year 2003-2013, multivariate linear regression, and logistic regression method. The results indicate that there is a negative and significant relationship between audit quality and DUVOL. On the other hand, there is an insignificant negative relationship between audit quality and crash. Recent scandals in Iran show that the audit quality level in Iran is very low. On the other side, the Stock Exchange does not have a long history and stock market is not efficient either. As such, the stock crash risk is significant for current and potential investors. However, stock crash risk has not been examined in Iran as it should be. So this article tries to cover this phenomenon.
M42|Audit Selection in the European Football Industry under Union of European Football Associations Financial Fair Play|The scope of this study is to examine the characteristics of football clubs that choose a high quality auditor and whether this audit selection process was different before and after the implementation of Union of European Football Associations (UEFA’s) financial fair play regulation. The study employs a sample of 109 European football clubs for a 7-year period, 2008-2014 (3 years before and 4 years after regulatory intervention), to investigate the impact of this regulatory intervention upon the decision of clubs to hire a big-4 audit firm. The study demonstrates that after FFP implementation, profitability and cash flows became highly significant factors urging clubs to select a big-4 audit firm in order to signal to the market and the regulators that they are able to achieve the regulatory requirements. UEFA should take into consideration that, the imposition of regulatory monitoring tied to accounting data may lead to adverse behavior on behalf of the clubs, thus reducing the effectiveness of the new regulation.
M42|Application of Basel Committee’s New Standards of Internal Audit Function: A Road Map towards Banks’ Performance|The high level of completion along with deceitful financial reporting has recently pointed the increasing consideration of researchers and academicians on the internal controls and internal audit functions (IAF). IAF in banks has several principles that are essential to be adhered. The bank’s management bears the final responsibility to apply these principles properly and effectively to avoid such corporate scandals that would shake the confidence of investors and make it hard for organizations to enhance equity within the stock market. Thereby, they would need to understand the internal factors which influence their profitability performance. The main purpose of this paper is to develop the relationship between new standards of IAF issued by Basel Committee (2012) and banks’ performance. In addition, it presents a theoretical research framework to understand this relationship supported by literature review from recent studies. The literature review indicates that practicing IAF creates discipline and enhances effectiveness of control and governance practices which are necessary to promote performance in the banks. Due to limitations of literature in bank sector, future studies are suggested to broaden the research empirically and highlight more on the effective IAF that can lead to better banks’ performance.
M42|Customer Accounting and Environmental Uncertainty: Sequential Explanatory Study|This study seeks to substantiate its proposition through two research objectives: (1) To investigate the impact of customer accounting (CA) information usage on companies’ performance; and (2) to determine the moderating effect of perceived environmental uncertainty (PEU) on the relationship between CA information and companies’ performance. This study develops a theoretical framework by applying interaction fit. To answer the research questions, the study follows a sequential explanatory design and the data is collected in two phases. In the first phase, 172 questionnaires are distributed to managers, of which 97 questionnaires are deemed usable. The results of this stage indicate that CA information usage significantly influences organizational performance, and that there is a moderating effect of PEU on the relationship between CA information and organizational performance. The second phase aims to validate the quantitative results via seven semi-structured interviews. The results of the interviews confirm and explain those obtained from the first phase.
M42|Client Following Former Audit Partners and Audit Quality: Evidence from Unforced Audit Firm Changes in China|In China's audit market, audit clients occasionally follow an audit partner who moves to another audit firm in an unforced setting (i.e., not due to the predecessor audit firm suffering regulatory sanctions). By examining a sample of Chinese listed companies during 2001–2013, we find that turnover audit partners are significantly less likely to issue a modified audit report to their unforced follower clients, as compared either with all other audits in the same successor audit firm in the same year, or with post-follow audits of forced follower clients (where the predecessor audit firm suffers regulatory sanctions). We also document evidence of turnover partners treating unforced follower clients favorably prior to the partner turnover event. Our evidence suggests that a close audit partner–client bonding impairs audit quality when lacking regulatory and public attention, and has implications for regulators, investors, and audit firms' quality control in emerging markets where clients are usually closely tied to audit partners rather than to the audit firm, and where a non-compete agreement between an audit partner and the audit firm is unavailable or weakly enforced.
M42|Time-varying risk, mispricing attributes, and the accrual premium|We examine the mispricing attributes of the accrual effect in the presence of time-varying common risk factors, which are not independent of aggregate economic conditions. We find that the persistence of unconditional abnormal returns for accrual-based portfolios is not independent of firm-level characteristics such as size and book-to-market ratio (BE/ME). However, after adjusting for time-varying risk measures, the premiums associated with accruals and firm fundamentals are distinct from one another. The empirical evidence shows that a long-short hedge portfolio based on accruals and BE/ME generates significant abnormal returns even in the presence of time-varying risk. Taken together, our time-series and cross-sectional evidence strengthens the assertion that the well-known accrual effect is significantly associated with high-BE/ME value firms that tend to be low-investment firms. The fact that time-varying risk adds to the description of average returns of accrual-sorted portfolios and corroborates the presence of the accrual premium contributes significantly to the literature.
M42|The effect of audit adjustments on earnings quality: Evidence from China|We examine how adjustments to earnings during year-end audits affect measures of earnings quality. There are four key findings. First, audit adjustments cause earnings to become smoother and more persistent. Second, the adjustments result in higher accrual quality. Third, audit adjustments have a larger negative effect on signed accruals than absolute accruals. Fourth, the adjustments do not reduce the discontinuity in the earnings distribution around zero. These findings are of interest to researchers who use earnings properties as proxies for earnings quality and audit quality. However, we caution that our findings for China may not generalize to other countries.
M42|Real effects of the audit choice|We hypothesize that the choice to obtain a financial statement audit provides external financiers with incremental information about the firm, which helps reduce information asymmetry and financing frictions. Using a natural experiment, we show that when external financiers observe a firm׳s choice to voluntarily obtain an audit, the firms obtaining an audit significantly increase their debt, investment, and operating performance, and become more responsive to their investment opportunities. Further, we find that these effects are stronger for firms that are financially constrained and weaker for firms with other means to reduce financing frictions. Overall, our evidence suggests that the audit choice conveys information to capital providers, which reduces financing frictions and improves performance.
M42|Considerations regarding the design of an online collaborative audit system|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to introduce a new concept: the online collaborative audit system, and to design a prototype system at the national level for financial auditors, members of a supervisory body. Design/methodology/approach - – Conceptualization, modelling, analysis, imagination, scientific abstraction and review of legislation are the research methods used. Findings - – An online collaborative audit system is defined as an interorganizational system which uses the methods of collaborative intelligence among the stakeholders of the audit process (audit firms, auditees, supervision bodies) in a given geographical area (e.g. country) and which is based on the Internet. By assessing the design of the system, we could anticipate that an online collaborative system is feasible to implement. The main characteristics of an online collaborative audit system are geographical dispersion, collaboration between the stakeholders of the audit process, electronic management of the audit documents, online/continuous auditing and dynamic virtual teams, etc. Practical implications - – The system presented in this paper aims to cover the research gap which exists in this area and also to produce a change of paradigm in the sense that nowadays the technology allows us to move the audit results to an integrated national platform for audit stakeholders. In this way, the transparency of audit results increases and the role of audit becomes more predictive compared with the traditional way of performing an audit. Compared with the research in the field, the system presented in this paper is innovative in the sense that it not only allows online auditing but also gathers the national audit community in a virtual environment, which allows information sharing and improvement of information access. Social implications - – The online collaborative system for audit, which promotes collaboration between a large number of auditors and which is based on the networks of the supervision bodies, could be implemented not only by Romania, on which this research is based, but also by other countries. Originality/value - – The online collaborative systems for audit, which promotes collaboration between a large number of auditors and which is based on the networks of the supervision bodies, could be implemented not only by Romania but also by other countries.
M42|Auditor choice in Italian non-listed firms|Purpose - This paper aims to investigate auditor choice in those Italian non-listed firms adopting the “traditional” model of corporate governance. In Italy, non-listed firms can choose between two types of auditor: the Board of Statutory Auditors (BSA), that is the statutory auditors, or an “external” auditor. At the same time, a BSA conducts the administrative auditing for all companies with equity exceeding €120,000. Design/methodology/approach - The paper estimates a logistic regression model of firm auditor choice between an external auditor and the BSA, which incorporates variables proxying for both agency conflict and organizational complexity effects. Findings - The results show that of the potential agency factors, only board independence drives auditor choice, whereas organizational complexity and risk factors including firm size, investment in inventories, subsidiary status and complexity drive auditor choice. These results may be explained in the administrative audit role of the BSA, which monitors both day-by-day firm operations and the financial statements preparation “project”. Stakeholders as a result are reassured that, in general, their interests are protected. Finally, it was found that legal form and voluntary International Financial Reporting Standards compliance exert an impact on auditor choice. Originality/value - The paper provides support for an internal yet independent auditing body such as the Italian BSA as a wider model for corporate governance in European non-listed firms (OECD, 2004 and 2015). The BSA as an administrative and financial auditing body made up solely of independent highly qualified professionals can work within the firm on an operational basis, and in so doing can increase stakeholder protection.
M42|The joint impact of management expressed confidence and response timing on auditor professional skepticism in client email inquiries|Purpose - While academic research has been conducted on auditors’ ability to exercise professional skepticism in face-to-face client interviews, little is known about auditors’ application of professional skepticism in email communication with the client. The purpose of this paper is to examine the factors that impact auditor professional skepticism during client inquiries conducted through email. Design/methodology/approach - A 2 × 2 between-subjects experiment was conducted with 69 undergraduate and graduate auditing students as surrogates for auditors. The experimental design crossed two levels of client expressed confidence (high and low) and two levels of client response timing to the auditor’s email inquiry (earlier than expected and later than expected). Findings - Results indicate that management expressed confidence moderates the influence of management response timing on auditor professional skepticism and that auditor perceptions of client credibility mediate this interactive effect. When the client’s response is low in confidence, auditors perceive a later-than-expected response from the manager as less credible than an earlier-than-expected response, which leads to less reliance on management explanations, which signifies more skepticism. However, when confidence is high, response timing does not impact perceptions of the client’s credibility. Practical implications - The results imply that junior auditors should be vigilant of how communication cues in client emails may impact their judgments. Even though management response timing and expressed confidence should not influence auditor skepticism Originality/value - This study contributes to the literature on professional skepticism by addressing the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s concerns about the need for auditors to exercise more professional skepticism in practice, particularly in an environment in which computer-mediated communication is increasing at a fast pace; and assists practitioners in better understanding the factors that influence the degree of skepticism auditors exercise when collecting audit evidence through email. The study should be of interest to audit firms, as it provides evidence on whether auditors use nonverbal cues such as chronemics, or time-related messages, in email communication to judge management and evidence reliability and credibility.
M42|Characteristics of the internal audit and external audit hours: evidence from S. Korea|Purpose - Using 5,055 sample firm-years in Korea between 2009 and 2013, this paper aims to examine the association between the characteristics of the internal audit and the number of external audit hours as a proxy for audit efficiency. Design/methodology/approach - This study is motivated by the International Standard on Auditing No. 610: “Using the work of internal auditors”. This auditing standard guides external auditors in using the work of internal auditors to obtain audit evidence and consult internal auditors for direct assistance. The authors expect that external audit efficiency will increase when the work of competent internal auditors is used. Findings - The authors find that the number of internal auditors relative to the number of employees is associated with the number of external audit hours. This result suggests that the greater the availability of internal auditors, the greater their contribution will be to the financial statement audit and the more efficient the audit. The authors find evidence that external auditors use the work of internal auditors with accounting and legal expertise to improve audit efficiency. They also find some evidence that the work of internal auditors with greater availability is more effective during initial external audit engagements. Originality/value - This study adds to the extant literature on the contributions of internal auditors to external audits by using archival data and by measuring audit effort using a large database of audit hours. In addition, our findings have practical implications for firms and external auditors who are evaluating the role and value of using the work of internal auditors. The authors also believe that the findings will be of interest to regulators or auditing standards boards.
M42|Is the Control Environment a Basis for Customised Risk Management Initiatives in South African Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises?|Before the official recognition of Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises (SMMEs) in South Africa during the mid-1990s, these business entities have been key players in the stimulation of the national economy. Albeit their socio-economic value added, prior research shows that the sustainability of these business are among the worst in the world, since approximately 70% of South African SMMEs fail within their first three years of existence. This dispensation is often blamed on inter alia, their inadequate management of economic factors which, in turn, cultivates risks. Notwithstanding the fact that most South African SMMEs make use of customised risk management initiatives, previous research shows that these initiatives are not deemed as adequate and/or effective to mitigate risks. Since the manner in which risks are managed are strongly dependent on the attitude and awareness of its management surrounding internal control (control environment), this study focused on investigating whether the control environment was used as foundation to implement their customised risk management initiatives. Empirical research was conducted whereby primary quantitative data were collected from respondents through the deployment of a questionnaire, through means of non-probability sampling methods. The results showed that though the control environments of South African SMMEs were regarded as good, they were not used as foundation by South African SMMEs to implement their customised risk management initiatives.
M42|The role of financial reporting and transparency in corporate governance|The authors review recent literature on the role of corporate financial reporting and transparency in reducing governance-related agency conflicts between managers, directors, shareholders, and other stakeholders—most notably financial regulators—and suggest some avenues for future research. Key themes include the endogenous nature of governance mechanisms with respect to information asymmetry between contracting parties, the heterogeneous nature of the informational demands of contracting parties, and the corresponding heterogeneity of the associated governance mechanisms. The authors also emphasize the role of credible commitment to financial reporting transparency in facilitating informal multiperiod contracts among managers, directors, shareholders, and other stakeholders. Finally, they discuss the importance of regulatory supervision and oversight as a class of governance mechanisms that is particularly important for banks and financial institutions.
M42|The Impact of Bankruptcy Prediction, Company’s Financial Condition, Previous Year Audit Opinion, Firm Size and Audit Tenure Towards Auditor’s Going Concern Opinion|"""Objective – The auditor is responsible for obtaining sufficient audit evidence about the accuracy and proper use of the going concern assumption from the company’s management through its financial statements. These evidence are used for the purpose of deciding whether there are material uncertainties about the entity's ability to maintain the continuity of its business. Thus, the objective of this paper is to examine the impact of bankruptcy prediction, company’s financial condition, previous year audit opinion, firm size and audit tenure towards Auditor’s going concern opinion. Methodology/Technique – The object of this paper is the service companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange for the period of 2011-2014. This paper uses secondary data and samples taken were determined based on the purposive sampling method. The regression logistic is used to analyse data. Findings – The results of this research show that bankruptcy prediction, company’s financial condition, previous year audit opinion, firm size, and audit tenure all simultaneously, have a significant impact towards Auditor’s going concern opinion, particularly Previous Year Audit Opinion. Novelty – This paper provides insights into the factors affecting auditors in providing a going concern opinion in the case of Indonesian companies."""
M42|Blockchains, Real-Time Accounting and the Future of Credit Risk Modeling|In this paper (letter) I discuss how blockchains potentially could affect the way credit risk is modeled, and how the improved trust and timing associated with blockchain-enabled real-time accounting could improve default prediction. To demonstrate the (quite substantial) effect the change would have on well-known credit risk measures, a simple case-study compares Z-scores and Merton distances to default computed using typical accounting data of today to the same risk measures computed under a hypothetical future blockchain regime.
M42|The Evolution of Corporate Governance in the Global Financial Crisis : The Case of Russian Industrial Firms|In this paper, using a unique dataset of industrial firms obtained from enterprise surveys conducted across the Russian Federation in 2005 and 2009, we trace back structural changes in the corporate governance system before and after the global financial crisis. We also empirically examine the impacts of the crisis on the organization of boards of directors and audit systems. Our survey results reveal that, in the Russian industrial sector, the quality of corporate governance has been improved through the crisis. Furthermore, we found that, corresponding to the alignment hypothesis, in firms that decisively reformed their management and supervisory bodies in response to the 2008 financial shock, the total number of worker representative directors significantly declined, as did their proportion to all board members. On the other hand, we also found that, in firms that substantially reorganized their audit system to cope with the crisis, the independence of the audit system was undermined remarkably, corresponding to the expropriation hypothesis. Findings that management behaviors predicted by the two conflicting hypotheses are simultaneously detected—and that their targets are significantly different—deserve special mention.
M42|How Does Corporate Governance Structure Affect Risk-Taking Activities In Japanese Firms?|This paper examines whether changes in corporate governance structure affect risk-taking activities in Japanese firms. New corporate governance systems have been imported into Japanese firms from the US since the late 1990s. However, Japanese firms have not necessarily been able to improve their financial performance. We analyze the effects of reforms of boards of directors on risk-taking activities because Japanese firms are too risk averse and this may lead to lower firm performance. Firstly, we analyze whether outside directors and nonexecutive directors affect risk-taking activities in Japanese firms. The results show that firms with more outside or non-executive directors promote risk-taking activities more aggressively. Secondly, we examine the differences in the effects on risk-taking activities between firms with outside directors and those with more than one outside director. The result shows that firms with more than one outside director invest in long-term capital more actively, while those with one outside director invest in more passively. Thirdly, we focus on two situations in which firms need to undertake riskier projects. The first is firms with business opportunities and the second is older firms. The result shows that firms with higher potential for growth and more than one outside director promote risk-taking activities, but that firms with higher potential for growth and only one outside director do not. Then, focusing on firm age, the result shows that older firms with one outside director undertake relatively less risky activities. Finally, we calculate the trends of sales and operating income after investment. The results show that firms with more than one outside director have a higher sales growth ratio than those with no outside directors or only one outside director. The facts suggest that risk-taking activities have economic effects on firms.
M42|Materiality of Established Errors in the Audit of Agricultural Business and Its Relationship with Documenting of Audit Procedures|Article seeks to substantiate the idea of documenting the materiality of established errors in the audit of the agricultural business in the context of typical operations of agricultural enterprises to determine on this basis the average indicators of the materiality of these errors and their level of influence on the activities of these entities. Disclosed the question of convention of the concepts of 'materiality' and 'risk' in the audit as set out in the International Auditing Standards and scientific works. Proved the necessity of determining the materiality of insufficiencies and irregularities identified during the audits and the implementation of the comparative assessment of its level. Such comparative assessment should take into account: the aspect of sectoral focus of client companies; aspect of the typical operations of client companies; aspect of the volumes of operations of client companies. Proposed the form of the auditor's working document on the establishment of the materiality of errors in view of major groups of operations of agricultural enterprises. Developed the working document of auditor on the comparative assessment of materiality for a particular company, and the average level of materiality for the inspections of audit firm. Identified benefits of comparative assessment of the materiality of errors set to improve the work of audit firms and their clients.
M42|Theory and Practice of Applying Audit Procedures to Input Balance in Performing the First Tasks of the Audit|The article is devoted to the problems of performing the first tasks of the audit in the context of applying audit procedures to balances at beginning of the period stipulated by the international auditing standards, and developing a system of their documentary and informational support. The importance of working papers of the previous auditor to the detection of deviations in the formation of balances at the beginning of the period, and assessment of the flaws of the accounting and internal control of the client is substantiated. The program for checking balance at the beginning of the period and other forms of working papers for documentary support of the audit process is developed. This provides for the optimization of audit resources to obtain audit evidence and allows for the supervision of the task performance and quality control of completed tasks. It is proved that the review of the working papers of the previous auditor should be used for understanding management's attitude to the need in making adjustments in the financial statements based on the audit results. This approach helps to avoid threats to the independence of the auditor, reduces the risk of not detecting a material misstatement, and allows the auditor to determine the degree of confidence in the existing input balance.
M42|Theoretical Aspects of Deepening of the Internal Audit Essence|The article is devoted to the analysis of scientific approaches to the understanding of internal audit and the deepening of the content of the concept 'internal audit'. Analysis of scientific approaches of the domestic scientists to the interpretation of the internal audit nature was held. It was revealed that our scientists are paying great attention to the interpretation of the concept of internal audit, but not sufficiently highlight its role and functional tasks of enterprise management in their studies. Review and the distinction between internal control and internal audit were held. It was outlined the scope of the internal audit functioning in view of the provisions of the international regulations, that govern the professional activities of auditors. It was proved that the internal audit and internal control are related. The high level of control system minimizes errors and disadvantages of in the enterprise activity, that is positively affects the quality of indicators identified by the internal audit. The concept of internal audit was deepened by analyzing the provisions of the International Standards on Auditing and maximum consideration of its functions and objectives.
M42|Formalization of User's Confidence of Financial Information in the Audit Report|This article is devoted to solving of confidence formalization problems, provided to users of financial information in the audit report. Complex nature of confidence that is formalized in the audit report was specified. Therefore, elements of user's confidence of financial information were pointed out. Availability of content's influence and influence of results of each audit stage according to the professional opinion of the auditor, that is the basis of confidence, was discovered. It was justified the possibility of solving on the basis of complex specification of reliance of the theoretical justification problems of the need to include certain blocks of data concerning the performed work by the auditor to the audit report. Results of such justification will help to neutralize the contradictions that arise in the auditor's relationship (as executors of tasks on the reliance provision) and in the relationship of users of their work results.
M42|Internal and External Economic Control of Operations of the Agricultural Serving Cooperatives|Control is an integral part in the management of any entity. The article is devoted to developing the institutional model of control of the agricultural serving cooperative system. Differences between the internal control and the internal audit were determined. In order to increase the efficiency and consistency of control of agricultural serving cooperative, the institutional model of its establishment through a combination of external control institutions and internal audit services was proposed. It was determined that the best option to strengthen the external control for agricultural serving cooperatives in terms of inaccessibility of audit services due to lack of funds is the formation of control service for cooperative associations. At the level of individual cooperative, depending on the scale of activities, it is expedient to create the internal audit services or to establish the position of internal auditor. Organizational principles of control service for cooperative associations were disclosed. Variants of recruiting employees of the internal audit service were justified.
M42|Theoretical Framework of Internal Control|Internal control when properly arranged can significantly increase efficiency of production and thereby competitiveness of the economic operator. At the same time organizational and methodological control methods are based on theory, which insight allows comprehensive approach to creation of the internal controls at the entity. The purpose of this article is to systematize theoretical basis of internal control that shall enable to develop the comprehensive approach to creation of internal controls at the entity. In order to identify the nature of internal control the author analyzed scientific approaches, systematized qualifying characteristics, clarified the purpose and the list of internal control subjects assessed the level of disclosure of the internal control nature in the national and international law, summarized methodological aspects of internal control. In the author's opinion, legislative recognition of 'internal control' shall make it possible to unify approaches arrangement and methodology thereof, facilitate better understanding of its purpose and objectives.
M42|Gaap Vs. Ifrs Treatment Of Leases And The Impact On Financial Ratios|As of January 1, 2013, most of the world financial market economies are using International Reporting Standards (IFRS) as the required framework for financial statements. A non-comprehensive listing includes the European Union Countries, Canada, Australia, Japan and New Zealand. In the United States, US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) is still required but adoption of IFRS has support of many accounting firms and professional organizations and is under consideration by the SEC. This case study focuses on differences in the treatment of leases and the impact of these differences on financial statements and selected financial ratios. Students take GAAP financial statements and prepare an IFRS based balance sheet, cash flow statement and income statement. It is necessary to understand both GAAP and IFRS rules regarding leases to address this case study. This case study is suitable for use at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. It may be used in an Intermediate Accounting II, Accounting Theory, Financial Statement Analysis or an International Accounting class, as well as an Investment Finance course. The case can be offered as an individual case study or as a group project
M42|Target Security: A Case Study Of How Hackers Hit The Jackpot At The Expense Of Customers|For most people, the word cybercrime invokes getting individualsâ€™ personal information through Internet hacking. For this reason, many people are wary about making online purchases, concerned about the security of their personal data and the rise in identity theft. However, the recent breach of security at Target, when customers made in store holiday purchases, indicates the pervasiveness of this terrible crime. In late December 2013, Target announced that hackers, through point of sale terminals in stores, had successfully stolen data for up to 40 million credit and debit cardholders. Target later revised the estimate to 110 million cardholders, citing that the breach included encrypted pin information as well as purchases made more than a decade ago. This case allows students to analyze the Target security breach and propose ways that the attack could have been prevented or at least detected more quickly by Target management, internal and external auditors. This case is suitable for an undergraduate class or a graduate business class.
M42|Frauds and Errors in the Audit of Financial Statements|The practice and the academic literature on financial audit methodology emphasizes that fraud risk analysis is a fundamental step in the audit engagement. While internationally there is an established practice regarding the detection of fraud risk within the mission of financial auditing, in Romania this issue remains so far insufficiently tackled. Given the signal indicators of the risk of fraud, the auditor should use the best procedures through which to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence. This evidence supports the audit opinion on the accuracy of audited statements and helps estimate the risk of fraud at company level.
M42|The Role of the Professional Accountants in Business Administration|In the last decades the role of the accountant became very important not only for corporate or public entities, but also for small business. The consequences of the financial crisis of 2008 reveal the role of professional accountants in businss administration and the importance of accounting for the modern society. In my oppinion, accounting profession contribute to transparency in financial reporting system and may improve the business comunication. This research is based on the analysis of the data collected through two questionnaires given to 100 entrepreneurs from Bucharest and other cities in Romania. It is well known that the small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) sector is a major employer of the professional accountants. In the last part of this research the results will indicate the importance of accountants in Romanian society and business administration.
M42|Compliance in letter and compliance in spirit? - Evidence from board and audit committee meetings in India|This paper analyzes two notions of compliance, 'compliance in letter' and 'compliance in spirit', using data on Board and Audit Committee meetings from India under its Clause 49 corporate governance regulations. The analysis is based on the sample of top 500 companies listed on the country's oldest stock exchange - the Bombay Stock Exchange -- and covers a period of seven years starting from 2006 when the modified version of the clause that contained a large number of corporate governance regulations came into effect in India. The analysis shows that while most of the companies complied with the explicit regulations relating to the number and interval between meetings, a significant percentage of the companies held all their Board and Audit Committee meetings on the same day which is not prohibited under the regulations but unexpected given the onerous responsibilities that same-day meetings put on directors who serve both on the Board and the Audit Committee. The incidence of same-day Board and Audit Committee meetings did not correlate with poor past performance of the company and multiple directorships of directors which could be potential drivers of same-day meeting for generating higher attendance to harness the expertise of as many directors as possible. Instead the incidence of same-day meetings correlated strongly with poor governance structures captured by lower board size, lower percentage of independent directors on the Board and the presence of inside directors in Audit Committees. Same-day Board and Audit Committee meetings did not result in higher meeting attendance by directors. The empirical analysis suggests that while 'compliance in letter' was high, compliance in spirit was low
M42|The Spillover Effects of Monitoring: A Field Experiment|We provide field experimental evidence of the effects of monitoring in a context where productivity is multidimensional and only one dimension is monitored and incentivized. We hire students to do a job for us. The job consists of identifying euro coins. We study the direct effects of monitoring and penalizing mistakes on work quality and evaluate spillovers on unmonitored dimensions of productivity (punctuality and theft). We find that monitoring improves work quality only if incentives are harsh, but substantially reduces punctuality irrespectively of the associated incentives. Monitoring does not affect theft, with 10% of participants stealing overall. Our findings are supportive of a reciprocity mechanism, whereby workers retaliate for being distrusted.Data, as supplemental material, are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2014.2089 . This paper was accepted by Uri Gneezy, behavioral economics .
M42|The Effects of Audit Firms Rotation: An Event Study in Chile|In order to determine the market reaction to an announcement of a change in the audit firm, we carry on an event study between 2004 and 2013 that includes 130 publicly traded Chilean Companies. We find that the market reacted positively when a company announced that it will keep its audit firm that year. We rule out possible biases in the informational content of the event. This suggests that overall, the costs associated to a change of an audit firm (start-up cost and know how loss) would dominate the benefits of the same change (reduction in the probability of a value destroying event such as a fraud or an error). We discuss the implications of this result for the potential implementation of a rule of mandatory rotation in a developing country such as Chile. We also discuss the possibility of identifying the specific costs and benefits behind the audit firm change.
M42|Opinion shopping: Partner versus firm-level evidence|"We study the strategies, timing and relative outcomes obtained by companies that attempt to shop for more favorable audit opinions both at the firm and at the partner level. Using a uniquely long time series of Spanish firms’ data, we employ the Lennox's (2000) methodology and find evidence of successful opinion-shopping through voluntary firm switching. In contrast, our results suggest that voluntary audit partner switches are associated with a fresh eye effect. Additionally, we document that firm switching activity is more likely when prior attempts to shop for an opinion were unsuccessful. Finally, we show that the fresh eyes effect associated with partner switching disappears when partner rotation becomes mandatory; and that under such a regulatory setting firm-level opinion-shopping is still pervasive. Estudiamos las estrategias empresariales para conseguir informes de auditoria con opiniones mas favorables, tanto a nivel de firma como de socio. Utilizando la metodología de Lennox (2000) y la comparación entre la opinión pre y post cambio de auditor, proporcionamos evidencia de la existencia de compra de opinión a través del cambio voluntario de firma de auditoría. Sin embargo, los resultados sugieren que los cambios voluntarios del socio de auditoría están asociados con un efecto ""ojos frescos"". Además, los cambios de firma son más probables cuando previamente se han producido intentos de compra de opinión que no han tenido éxito. Finalmente, se proporciona evidencia de que el efecto ""ojos frescos"" asociado a los cambios voluntarios de socio desaparece cuando la rotación del socio es obligatoria; y que la compra de opinión a nivel de firma sigue existiendo en un contexto de rotación obligatoria del socio."
M42|Dysfunctional behavior of external auditors the collision of time budget and time deadline evidence from a developing country|The general goal behind this research is to gain a better understanding of factors leading to dysfunctional behavior of auditors. The role of auditors has been a controversial issue especially after the recent accounting scandals (WorldCom, Enron, Paramalat SpA, Waste Management Inc., Xerox Corporation, and Société Générale). In relation to these scandals and lawsuits, a question is frequently asked “where were the auditors?” The survey we offer up for research is made up of 34 questions that are designed to analyse the perception of auditors and the cause of dysfunctional behavior. The object of this research is comprised of auditors positioned and employed at the Big Four audit firms in Kuwait. The selected sample is comprised from auditors at different levels ranging from audit trainees to audit partners. The so-called stakeholder theory talks about the relationship between audit behavior and audit firm practices with time deadlines and time budgets involved. It is generally accepted that the more auditors align their interests with firms’ measures and practices, the more a firm is capable of meeting general goals and objectives. Consequently, this may result in a less dysfunctional workplace conduct. Dysfunctional behavior (DB) is analysed against two signalling proxies of dysfunctional behavior; premature sign-off and under reporting of chargeable time. DB is analysed against time budget and time deadline pressures. The results suggest that the general belief among auditors is that the profession of accountancy predetermines their tendency to commit certain patterns of dysfunctional behavior. The results indicate that auditors understand that dysfunctional behavior is exercised by the majority of auditors. Dysfunctional behaviour is exercised with intention and it is not committed out of ignorance. One of the interesting findings is that auditors, at all levels, are concerned about their reputation. Thus, dysfunctional behavior is exercised, to a certain extent, without harming the quality of the audit work. Having our investigation conducted at the Big Four audit firms, we have come to the conclusion that there is a general difference in behavior patterns among perceptions of dysfunctional behavior and normal skeptic professional behavior. Audit firms should continuously conduct workshop and training events related to dysfunctional behavior. It is revealed that some auditors are not aware that certain practices are considered dysfunctional behavior or not. This research work can be used to aid audit practitioners to mitigate audit dysfunctional behavior. It highlights certain type of practices that is exercised in an improper way.
M42|Empirical Analysis on Industry Specialization of Audit Firms and Its Audit Quality|This study aims to empirically examine the influence of the auditor's industry specialization on its audit quality. Following the dissolution of ChuoAoyama?PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2007, the Japanese Big N audit market changed from Big 4 regime to Big 3 regime. Consistent with previous studies, absolute discretionary accruals are used as a proxy for audit quality along with six proxy variables for audit industry specialization. Additionally, we employed propensity score adjustment as a causal inference framework in order to lead more robust results. After analyzing a sample of publicly listed Japanese firms for fiscal years 2001 to 2006 (Big 4 period) and 2008 to 2012 (Big 3 period), we find that Japanese auditors perform higher quality audits during whole period. In addition, industry-specialized auditors' audit quality increases at a higher rate than for non-industry-specialized auditors in the Big 3 period compared to the Big 4 period.
M42|Considerations On Value Added Tax Implications On The Entity’s Performance|Romania has done significant progress regarding implementing European Directives on Value Added Tax, although certain notions have been taken over without adapting them to the Romanian economic environment, as well as disconnecting fiscality from accounting. Yet, current fiscal regulations don’t meet the requirements of an optimal fiscal system every time, as it is considered in economic theory. The principle of stability, for example, doesn’t belong to Romanian fiscal system and as far as simplicity is concern there is none, especially regarding VAT. Furthermore, the definition of terms used in the legislation involves a critical appreciation, justified by the fact that in some cases, the attempt to define certain terms, entails the need to address other terms. This shortfall is the result of the hurried takeover of terms from the European legislation that are “indigestible” for an adaptation of the language and customs of national conditions in the field.
M42|Internal Audit – Determinanat Factor In Preventing And Detecting Fraud Related Activity To Public Entities Financial Accounting|The objective of internal audit on fraud, identified in the financial and accounting activity in public entities is to give ensure and guarantee true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and equity, and the financial statements and results. To provide this guarantee internal audit monitors whether transactions and accounting operations entered correctly reflect the nature of the events that took place and whether they are likely to be distorted. The results of an internal audit mission, must ensure the quality and coherence of the financial accounting system, and to reflect correctly, sincerely and completely the financial accounting transactions from primary accounting documents and financial statements.
M42|Financial Accounting Information System – Premise Of Managerial Act|Economic globalization has led lately to an increase in the complexity of the economy, with major impact on the growth of needs related to the area, content, promptness and quality of information of an economic nature in general and focusing on financial and accounting information in particular. Moreover current economic phenomena identified in a highly competitive economy characterized by risk and uncertainty triggered the informational revolution on economic entities both in terms of their functionality and in terms of performance, giving a new dimension to the management information system and hence the financial accounting information system. Financial accounting information supports the management of any economic entity in substantiating management decisions so that they are characterized by opportunity and utility leading the entity towards performance.
M42|Challenges of the Audit Profession in the Globalization Era|Massive unprecedented changes, that best describe this era, are affecting the accountant and auditor profession, as well as the global business environment. The traditional role of the financial auditor will change, but if it will adapt and provide new services, may become a trusted councillor for its clients. The way financial auditors approach future tendencies will shape the destiny of the accountant and auditor profession. Financial auditors must understand innovation, to be open towards globalization, to be prepared as human resources that are competing not only nationally but also globally.
M42|The Impact of Japanese Regulatory Changes on Accrual-Based and Real Earnings Management|The purpose of this study is to investigate the changes in accrual-based earnings management (AEM) and real earnings management (REM) in response to Japanese regulatory changes. After the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in 2002, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of 2006 (J-SOX) was introduced in June 2006 in Japan, has been effective since the fiscal year ending on March 31, 2009. We shed light on the time lag between the introduction of SOX and J-SOX as a transition period. During this period, several regulatory bodies addressed the issue of internal control, considering both the SOX and the forthcoming J-SOX. This study, therefore, focuses on the J-SOX and a series of related laws and regulations in this transition period, and their effects on AEM and REM. Our results show that the level of AEM changes during the transition period before the introduction of J-SOX, while that of REM decreases after the introduction of J-SOX. The evidence generally supports the view that J-SOX and the series of regulatory changes before its implementation have an impact on the financial reporting quality of Japanese firms.
M42|Considerations Regarding the Contents of Internal Control|The wrongful and limited understanding of the notion of control can have a negative impact on the individual as an integrating part of a democratic society, who in view of his past experiences may be reluctant to control. In time there have been many attempts to define this notion and integrate it in current activities, whether referring to the control exerted at the level of one country or the control in an entity be it public or private. Throughout the present endeavour we shall focus on debating the contents of the internal control in view of the necessity of implementing it in the activities developed within the entity as well as in other external aspects that come to influence it.
M42|Particularities of Profit and Loss Account Audit and the Production Process in Constructions|The activity during the process of building is strongly influenced by the particular elements that support it, by the direct and indirect building costs. A well-controlled activity from the view point of execution, building site organisation, as well as ensuring the specialised human resource may lead to reaching the objectives set: finalising the building with minimum costs and a high level of the income statement. The financial audit of the profit and loss account is subsequent and implies a scheduled verification after the end of the financial year and submission of yearly statements to financial administration, as a confirmation that this activity was efficient, did not result in frauds. It thus follows that there is a direct relationship between the initial control proposed at the beginning of the building project and the final verification materialised through the annual financial audit.
M42|The Influence of Available Cash Evaluation in the Issuing of Financial Auditorâ€™s Opinion|In the present context of globalization, providing information that reproduces the true image of an entity, represents one of the main objectives aimed for by the economical-financial entities. To achieve this objective entities use the process of evaluation in order to ensure the real value of the patrimonial elements presented within the financial situations and regarding their certification, the audit process is used, having the aim to obtain a reasonable assurance that the economical-financial information used in the different decisional processes do not contain significant denaturation due to fraud and/ or to error.
M42|Protecting The Organization Against Risk And The Role Of Financial Audit On The Example Of The Internal Audit|In the contemporary economic reality and organization’s activities aiming at effectiveness and efficiency of functioning, a lot of significance is attached to a financial audit as an important instrument for protecting the organization against the risk factors. The aim of this article is to present theoretical and practical (on the basis of the examined example) aspects concerning the (internal) financial audit in the organization within the context of its assessment of the exposure to risk. The applied research methods are based on the method of conceptual analysis of the literature on the examined field, as well as on the case study of the auditing task. The results of the performed analyses and examinations allow to state that the financial audit constitutes an effective tool for protecting the organization against internal, as well as external risks.
M42|Public Sector Procurement - the Challenges Facing a Small Country|Public sector organisations within small countries have some significant advantages. They are small enough to have a good understanding of local needs and often have in-depth knowledge of the experience and skills available in local labour markets. However, these advantages can be off-set and even outweighed by the challenges of dealing with lack of economy of scale, scarcity of specialist procurement expertise and a greater risk of supplier collusion. This article focuses on public procurement in Wales and examines how the Welsh Government has been seeking to confront the challenges facing public procurement in a small country through the development and improvement of public procurement practice and capacity. The article concludes by looking at how the Auditor General for Wales is contributing to addressing the challenges facing public procurement in Wales through the exercise of his audit powers.
M42|Audit fees, Non-audit fees and Coporate Performance|Our research examines whether audit and non-audit fees are associated with firm performance, so, we study this relationship taking into account the impact of operating and corporate governance characteristics on firm performance. The sample in study is non-financial firms in S&P 500 covering the period from 2002 to 2014. We find a significant negative relationship between corporate performance and non-audit fees. This suggests that the increase (decrease) in corporate performance is related to the decrease (increase) in non-audit fees. The results add to the growing body of literature documenting relations between firm performance and remuneration of audit services, as well as to our understanding of the determinants of corporate performance. Furthermore, this study highlights the possible matter of providing non-audit services jointly with audit services, confine the functions of an auditor and consequently compromise the independence, that ultimately decrease the firm performance.
M42|Case Study Analysis of Corporate Governance and Management Control at Kendallville Bank|The present paper addresses the case study of a financial institution, the Kendallville Bank, developed by The Anti-Fraud Collaboration. The constituents of the Collaboration are the Center for Audit Quality, Financial Executives International, the National Association of Corporate Directors, and The Institute of Internal Auditors. These organisations are concerned with financial reporting fraud deterrence and detection. The case study approaches financial reporting fraud at a multidimensional level. It explores the corporate governance arrangements and management control instruments at place at the Kendallville Bank. The findings are discussed against the theoretical framework of the Agency Theory and the Stewardship Theory. Shortcomings of the arrangements are identified and safeguards are recommended on the background of international corporate governance best practice and academic literature. The risks arising from corporate governance weaknesses are addressed through various risk control procedures. Culture control is acknowledged as a major instrument to improve effectiveness and performance of the bank through a shift in the interpersonal interaction of the Board members, the executive team and the auditors.
M42|Earnings Quality and IFRS Research in Africa: Recent Evidence, Issues and Future Direction|This paper review the recent empirical research on IFRS and earnings quality among African studies and show mixed conclusions regarding the impact of IFRS on earnings quality and financial reporting quality in the region. Also, some discussions on factors that led to the growth in the earnings quality African literature over the last decade as well as some challenges in the recent literature, are provided. Also, the study makes several observations regarding IFRS and earnings quality research in Africa and suggests potential directions for future research. The need to (i) understand the recent direction of earnings quality research in Africa, (ii) understand the interaction between policy and earnings quality research, if any, in the African region, and (iii) the need to maintain high-level rigour in earnings quality research while ensuring greater interaction between policy and research, makes this study important. Given the paucity of research on earnings quality in developing countries, this study contributes to the broader earnings quality literature by providing a review of the African earnings quality literature; hence, conclusions based on empirical studies in this review are not intended to be generalised to developed countries but only to developing countries. Finally, while insights in this paper may be informative to the reader, the intended objective is to stimulate debates that would improve the outputs of earnings quality research and the overall quality of accounting disclosure among firms in Africa.
M42|Fraud Detection, Conservatism and Political Economy of Whistle Blowing|This paper presents a discussion on whistle-blowing and take the view that whistle-blowing is an important fraud detection technique. A discussion of some factors that influence the whistle-blowers’ incentive to blow the whistle or to remain silent in the face of persuasive fraud red flags, is also presented. The paper suggests that the tradeoff between the cost and benefit of whistle-blowing may compel the whistle-blower to apply some degree of conservatism in their whistle-blowing activities. Also, some discussion on how whistle-blowing might be influenced by firm-level politics, country-level political economy, firm ownership and other institutional factors is presented. Finally, although the provision of incentives can increase the appeal to encourage whistle-blowing, the appeal to blow the whistle may be weakened when the whistle-blower takes into account the larger context that influence the decision to blow the whistle or to remain silent.
M42|An empirical effect of Fraud Specific Problem Representation on Accountants’ Skills and Fraud Risk Assessment|This paper examines the impact of fraud specific problem representation (FSPR) on the relationship with Accountants’ Skills Requirement (SR) and Fraud risk assessment (FRA) in the Nigerian public sector. The research methodology is quantitative with cross-sectional design and survey. The respondents are accountants (i.e. auditors and forensic accountants) in the public sector accounting and auditing institutions. The study addresses the gap in the literature by highlighting the significant influence of FSPR on SR and FRA regarding fraud detection, prevention and response. The findings from a second generation statistical analysis tool of the Partial Least Square-Structural Equation Modelling (PLS-SEM) confirm the direct relationship of accountants’ skills on fraud risk assessment. Also, a direct relationship of accountants’ skills on fraud specific problem representation, and fraud specific problem representation on fraud risk assessment and the indirect relationship of fraud specific problem representation on skills and fraud risk assessment. This study may help to enhance the regulatory, ethical, institutional and legal framework in Nigeria especially and the developing nations in general. Furthermore, it will accord support for the government transformation programme on efficient and effective public sector and capacity building of the workforce.
M42|Determinants of Internal Audit Task Performance in Nigerian Tertiary Institutions: A Conceptual Approach|The increasing rate of financial irregularities, fraud, and mismanagement rocking Nigerian Tertiary Institutions calls for concern. Despite all control measures put in place by the government, coordinating and regulating agencies, and the institutions themselves, lack of transparency and accountability continues unabated. Literature and documentary evidence have shown that lack of functional internal audit department is one of the factors responsible for the frequent occurrence of these acts. The objective of this study, therefore, is to examine conceptually management support and communication skills as the key factors affecting internal audit task performance in the Nigerian tertiary institutions. Based on the existing literature and the pronouncement of accounting and auditing professional bodies, the study develops a framework of these factors as influencing task performance. The study suggests that adequate management support and effective communication skills of internal auditors will enhance the task performance of internal audit department, hence, curbing the incidence of financial malpractices. The study has policy implications as it will assist the proprietors (government and private individuals), coordinating ministries, regulatory authorities, professional bodies, councils and management of tertiary institutions, and auditors in their decision making and oversight functions.
M42|The Moderating role of Capability Element of Fraud on Internal Industry Factors and Fraud Prevention in Saudi Arabian Banking Sector|Fraud described as an unlawful act that portrays a violation of trust, deceit, or concealment and which does not essentially rely on applying it, or physical force threatening or violence. The Internal factors inspire and dishearten fraud in the sense of outcome deliverables. This paper discusses the impact of internal industry factors such as insider involvement, internal controls, and information sharing on fraud prevention in the Saudi Arabian banking sector. Precisely, this study investigates the moderating role of capability element of fraud on internal industry factors and fraud prevention in the Saudi Arabian banking sector. The findings of this study will help the banking sector in Saudi Arabia especially and Middle East banks in general to improve the fraud prevention system, and for other stakeholders, it will help them uncover critical areas in fraud schemes that deserve immediate and prompt attention.
M42|Do Religion, Corporate Governance and BIG 4 Audit Interactions Affect Misclassification?|This study examines the extent to which religious socials norms of the firms’ environment interacts with corporate governance and BIG4 audit to affect managers’ motivation to engage in misclassification so as to influence reported core earnings. Using a sample of 23,164 U.S. firm-year observations between 2000 and 2015, we show that religiosity complements corporate governance to mitigate classification shifting in both rural and urban areas. In a religious environment, we find that managers have disincentive to shift revenue items from and core expenses into special items to inflate reported core earnings to avoid market penalties and beat analyst forecast, even more so in the presence of board independence. In addition, we find that the interaction between religiosity and audit from big four auditors also lower the presence of misclassification. Overall, results show that religiosity complements corporate governance and audit against misclassifying revenue items or core expenses.
M42|Transparent management of beneficiaries of contributions from Foundation investment fund|In the introduction, the article compares the legislation for foundations and foundation funds according to the law on foundations and foundation funds and the new Civil Code. The paper focuses mainly on the legislative changes in the field of auditing of foundations and foundation funds and on reporting of administrative costs in the annual reports. As far as the article is based on the empirical data of the beneficiaries of contributions from foundation investment fund, the foundation investment fund is also mentioned, and its role in financing of the foundations and foundation founds is described. The article comments on important areas of transparent management that are publication of annual reports and financial statements, restriction and control of administrative costs, publication of auditor’s rewards and audit reports. Individual parts of the paper draw attention to the deficiencies in information reported.
M42|Entry into the audit profession in the context of legislative changes|In the introduction, the article summarizes legislative development in the area of the entry into the audit profession in the Czech Republic in the years 1993 - 2015 with particular emphasis on exams recognition of Chamber of Auditors of the Czech Republic in relation to other professional and educational institutions, especially in relation to public higher education institutions. In the following parts of the article, the history of the Chamber is mentioned, the examination system, its development and the rules for recognition of examinations passed in other professional and educational institutions are described in detail. The most significant organizations the Chamber cooperates closely with are described briefly. The article includes a short comparison of conditions of entry into the audit profession with other countries. In conclusion, the article analyzes if mitigation of the requirements for candidates for the audit profession has led to increase in attractiveness of the profession in the form of increase of the number of applications for exams recognition and the number of auditors registered by the Chamber, especially after the amendment to the Auditors Act 2009.
M42|Rotation of auditors of companies listed on the stock market of the Prague Stock Exchange|The aim of the article is to analyze the internal and external rotation of auditors on the stock market of Prague Stock Exchange. The analysis is made between the years 2011 - 2015 and is based on a total of 107 annual reports of listed companies. The annual report must contain the auditor's report for the period. Rotation of auditors is recently frequent topic of international research because of the new European regulation of the audit market. Following these international research this article contains the analysis of the Czech capital market. Data shows that on the Czech capital market there are fairly frequent changes of audit firms and key audit partners due to the number of listed companies. The analysis also shows the growing influence of the Big 4 companies (KPMG, Deloitte, PwC and EY (Ernst & Young)) in the number of audits carried out.
M42|Non-audit services provision issues and their current development|Issues in relation to provision of non-audit services by statutory auditors to the audited entities start to be one of the most discussed topics among professionals on audit fields in 2016. The main reason which caused increase interest in these problems, is the entry into force of directive 2014/56/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2006/43/EC on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities and repealing Commission Decision 2005/909/EC. The Czech legislation has applied wide range of changes incurred by amendment of the Act No 90/2003, Act on Auditors, that entered into force 1. 10. 2016. The aim of the article is to remind or to describe to a reader the issue of non-audit services provision by statutory auditors to the audited entities and to present changes which are caused by amending European legislation. A structure of the article is based on the articles’ goals. Initial part of the article is aimed to provide the explanation of fundamental definitions which are essential for the following explanation of the whole issue. The subsequent part summarizes opinions of opponents and proponents of the non-audit services provision. The summary contains the most popular mathematic models of auditor’s independence as well as comprehensive ethical and psychological models and arguments. The following part of the article presents the overview of changes, which were applied by amended EU legislation, practical instruction manual and the explanation of several unclear points. These should help to a reader to familiarize his behavior in the new environment.
M42|Modernisation of Public Sector Financial Reporting Systems in Europe - Challenges and Milestones|Many European countries have been carried out a modernization projects in public sector financial reporting since the last two decades. Consequence of a stronger demand for complex, reliable and relevant economic information on government is governments´ efforts towards better accountability. IPSAS standards, a full accrual national financial reporting standards closed to, or national standards with clear reference to IPSAS, are often considered as the best tool for that. This article aims to identify key challenges and milestones - four key aspects of these public sector financial reporting modernization projects. It offers a comparison amongst several European countries comparing the ways these countries decided to deal with those challenges and milestones.
M42|ICT in Auditing: Impact of Audit Quality Norms on Interpersonal Interactions|Productivity incentives have lately been driving auditors to introduce and utilize various computer-based tools to assist their work. The aim of this study is to understand how and why productivity incentives may disturb interpersonal interaction and relations between auditors at different ranks, in the context of assurance service. A case study was carried out with auditors affiliated with Danish subsidiaries of Big 4 audit firms to inspect the implementation and utilization of global audit methodology (GAM), which is the ICT-based platform that guides subordinate auditors through the audit process. The results highlight that superior auditors tend to experience prevalent trust in ICT tool over subordinate auditors, where such conditions reduce the opportunity for experiencing comfort by subordinates, while superiors still perceive comfort due to being comfortable with procedures that are administered by the tool. Finally, this mechanism further creates conditions under which the necessity for establishing interactions and relations between auditors of different ranks become diminished.
M42|Auditorské služby v České republice pohledem analýzy tržní koncentrace (se zaměřením na auditory subjektů veřejného zájmu)<BR>[Market Concentration of Audit Services in the Czech Republic: Empirical Evidence (Focusing on Auditors of Public Interest Entities)]|The aim of this paper is to analyze the market concentration of audit services in the Czech Republic and compare its results with the international research. The analysis is based on transparency reports for years 2011-2014. Auditors that in the reporting period carried out the statutory audit at some public interest entity are required to compile and publish the transparency report. Among other information, auditors are required to specify their total turnover split into turnover of audit fees and turnover of non-audit fees. Globally recognized Herfindahl-Hirschman index is selected as an appropriate analytical tool. Herfindahl-Hirschman index is complemented by indicators of market share (Current ratios) and the Lorenz curve which graphically displays the unequal distribution of the turnover on the market of audit services. These data show that in the period under investigation the firms forming Big4 obtained about 85% of audit fees. In the year 2014 the Big4 firms occupied 80% of total fees and 84% of audit fees. As a major player on the Czech market of audit services can be regarded two firms - Ernst & Young (EY) in the area of total fees and KPMG in the area of audit fees. The analysis clearly indicates a high level of market concentration of audit services in the Czech Republic. The high level of market concentration has its impacts on the audit quality and leads Authorities in the US and in the EU to the tightening of audit regulation.
M42|The Relationships Among Earnings Management, Independent Audit Opinion and Audit Firm Switch: A Research on Manufacturing Industry at Borsa İstanbul|In this paper, firstly the relationship between accruals/real transactions based earnings management and audit opinion is investigated. Secondly, the effect of prior modified audit opinion on audit firm switch is investigated. 1121 firm'year observations on Borsa Istanbul Manufacturing Industry are used. The results show that there is positive and significant relationship between the signed/absolute value of discretionary accruals and modified audit opinion. There is no relationship between the total amount of the abnormal production cost/abnormal operating expenses and modified audit opinion. A positive and significant relationship between prior modified auditor opinion and audit firm switch is determined. Audit rotation regulation has an effect on the audit firm switch in 2013 and companies change their audit firms.
M42|Research and Development Costs in Retail Trade|Research and development expenses are crucial business performance factors for all enterprises, including trading companies. The size and structure of these expenses depend largely on the nature of a company’s activities. Due to such importance and specificity, the research focus of this article is on R&D expenses in trading companies with particular emphasis on retail companies. Their share in the sales revenue of trading companies is increasingly important and determined by many factors, such as innovation, size, location, product categories, and others. Due to varying intensity of influence of these and other factors, research and development expenses in commercial companies differ among countries, trade types (wholesale, retail, wholesale and retail), retail formats (store types) and product categories. Understanding the factors of these differences is important for efficient management of research and development costs in trade, particularly retail companies. They are the focus of research in this work.
M42|The Performance Audit – A Basic Attribute of the Romanian Court of Accounts and a Consolidation Solution for Sustainability in the Current Macroeconomic Environment|Through the findings and recommendations brought by the performance audit missions it is aimed to reduce costs, increase using the resources efficiency and achieving the objectives set at the level of the activity, program, and the audited process. So it is an audit of a good financial management but which is exercised at a rate too low in our country because it represents a research work that requires flexibility, imagination and analytical skills, knowledge and experience. We consider therefore that the audit approach can be justified by the fact that it increases the credibility of the information, providing a certain insurance degree for the people who rely on the audited information. Corroborating the Romanian legislation regarding auditing with the provisions of the international auditing standards and the practical issues which arise from their application, we could identify several types of public audit.
M42|The cost of implementing new accounting standards: The case of IFRS adoption in Australia|This article examines the implementation errors that are made when accounting standards are implemented for the first time. Focusing on the transition to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), we provide evidence on the causes of these errors as well as the economic consequences of disclosing these errors. We find that the quality of both the chief financial officers (CFOs) and the auditors are associated with less implementation errors. We also find that there is a learning process as later adopters of IFRS report less errors compared to early adopters in the financial reporting cycle. In terms of the consequences of disclosing these errors, we find that firms reporting more implementation errors experience an increase in information asymmetry when these errors become known to market participants. Furthermore, we find a positive association between implementation errors and increases in audit fees when the implementation errors are disclosed. Our results are robust with respect to a number of sensitivity tests.
M42|The implementation of the finacial-accounting information system|The development of modern information and technologies in systems result in significant changes in a company's activity and changes in accounting information systems. Accounting system development goes back to Babylon, 3600 BC, when the oldest record of a business event occurred. There is ample evidence that accounting systems were used in ancient Greece, China and Rome. Trade activities have become more complex, which led to the development of higher forms of organization. Changes in accounting _ were consistent with changes in data processing methods, along with the development of technology, starting with the manual, the data processing computer as the most modern method.
M42|Basics and Alternatives Concerning the Measurement of Company Performances|"In a competitive economy, a company's activity aims to achieve strategic objectives. Of these, two objectives: making profit and meeting the needs of a particular market segment are vital targets to maintaining the companyâ€™s market position. This requires information which reveals the company's financial position and profitability. The companies which want to be competitive must assess the company's capacity to generate positive results and cash in a reliable way. This strategy needs information on the resources used and the results obtained, but should not overlook the truth that the profit arises from uncertainty and the risk assumed by the entrepreneur. In this regard, the International Accounting Standards often use the term ""probability"" when referring to the recognition criteria of structures comprised in the financial statements."
M42|The Role of Accounting and Internal Control in Reducing Bureaucracy in the Public Sector|The aim of this paper is to present the relation between efficient internal control and accounting procedures and how the internal control system could play an important role in reducing bureaucracy. Nowadays, the government accounting and control of public finances are a national and international priority, in the context refugee crisis and terrorist attacks. Modernization of the public sector accounting could accelerate the process of reducing bureaucracy by implementing accounting information system and electronic signature. The reform of the public administration in all European countries developed new control techniques and procedures in order to control public sector budget and financial activity. Efficient intern control procedure and managerial responsibility could contribute to good governance, transparency and low level of bureaucracy.
M42|Opportunities of Modern Understandings on Human Capital|The study is focused on the key factor in the structure of any organization â€“ the human capital. The objective is to present the thesis of the author that it is possible to optimize the process of formation of human capital through consolidated administration of certain management and control concepts. The tasks are connected with accumulation of evidence that the concept of the audit of human resources can be and should be developed.
M42|Late for a very important date: financial reporting and audit implications of late 10-K filings|Abstract Delays in financial reports often reflect issues related to period-end accounting and audit processes. We investigate the impact of filing delays in connection with auditor characteristics on the quality of financial statements in a sample of firms that filed Form 10-K after the statutory due date. We find that late filing firms are associated with lower financial reporting quality compared to timely filing firms matched by propensity scores, where financial reporting quality is measured by the absolute value of performance-matched discretionary accruals and the probability of a late filing being restated in subsequent periods. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the adverse consequences of late filings can be largely mitigated by having a Big 4 auditor. The differential audit quality stems primarily from Big 4 auditors in large offices and is more pronounced when an auditor may need to draw on additional resources in a limited period.
M42|Pongamos orden en los libros y las cuentas anuales de las sociedades agrarias de transformación<BR>[Let´s put in order the accounting records and annual accounts of the agrarian processing companies]|La normativa sustantiva de las Sociedades Agrarias de Transformación (SAT) presenta unas notables lagunas respecto a su régimen contable. De este modo, existen dudas respecto a los libros contables obligatorios y su legalización; así como del proceso de elaboración, auditoría, aprobación y depósito de las cuentas anuales. Por ello en este artículo trataremos en primer lugar los libros sociales y contables de las SAT, sobre la base de la normativa nacional y autonómica de estas sociedades, enunciando propuestas al respecto en la estela de la reciente normativa sobre la legalización de libros sociales y contables de aplicación general. Se analizará también, con espíritu crítico, todo el proceso de elaboración, auditoría, aprobación y depósito de las cuentas anuales y demás documentación que las SAT deben remitir anualmente a los respectivos Registros autonómicos. Se procederá a diferenciar los registros jurídico-mercantiles de los administrativos y en este último sentido, se plantearán cambios respecto al lugar y finalidad de dicho depósito. Tras treinta y cuatro años de antigüedad, la legislación sustantiva en materia económica y contable de las SAT está desfasada respecto al Derecho actual, siendo necesaria su revisión. Las recientes normas autonómicas no han supuesto un verdadero avance en este sentido. En suma, aseveramos la existencia de un gap entre la normativa sustantiva de las SAT y la normativa contable general en materia de cuentas anuales, que es insostenible y requiere una pronta intervención legislativa que lo anule.
M42|Corruption And Internal Control Weaknesses. Case Study Romania|Corruption represents one of the major causes of poverty all over the world and European Union is fighting against it. In the last few years, the corruption phenomenon registered a high level in some European countries and became one of the most problematic factors for doing business, due to the evolution of the perceived top five global risks: interstate conflict and regional consequences, extreme weather events, failure of national governance, state collapse or crises, high structural unemployment or underemployment (WEF-Global Risk Report 2015, p. 14). One of the modalities in combating corruption is implementing the internal control and most of the governments and organizations adopted strong control techniques. Most of the control weaknesses are related to the financial procedures and the number of controllers. Some of the controllers do not have enough financial expertise or do not understand the importance of informatics systems.
M42|The Romanian Internal Public Audit System – An X-Ray Analysis of Audit Compartment Activities|Closely following the Romania’s EU-Integration, the public administration began a drastic reform process of all its systems, including internal public audit. In this regard, even right after 1989, a connection to European governance mechanisms and the implementation of European best practices were sought. Thus, building an efficient and sustainable public administration migrated over time from intention to necessity and lately to priority of all development strategies. For implementing such mechanism, clear and transparent decision processes, a good management of available resources, an adequate institutional and administrative structure and standards centered on public interest promotion are necessary. This paper presents an X-Ray like image of the public audit system in Romania, for the implementation of an efficient management in public entities as part of public sector good governance. The sustainable development of public administration is in need of an audit system consolidation, based on specialists contributing to reaching objectives by improving information flows and efficient risk management.
M42|A review of accounting research in the Asia Pacific region|In this paper, we review scholarly accounting research published within the Asia Pacific Region by analysing nine of the main accounting journals within the region along five dimensions. The nine journals we focus on are: Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal; Australian Accounting Review; Abacus; Accounting and Finance; Australian Journal of Management; Accounting Research Journal; Journal of Contemporary Accounting and Economics; Managerial Auditing Journal; and Pacific Accounting Review. The five dimensions we consider are: the most frequently cited papers; topical coverage; impact on practice; research method; and noted authors. Our review leads us to conclude that the accounting journals published within the Asia Pacific region make a significant contribution to research and practice both within the region and internationally.
M42|The connection between financial management and financial control|The feature of a quality system within an organizational system in the management and financial control means a coherent legislative framework and financial reporting, determined in relation to invested or spent budget funds. The business process such as reporting, planning and execution of the budget or of the financial plan in public procurement, was closely associated with accounting reporting and with the implementation of an act of fiscal responsibility.
M42|The connection between the information system and financial control|Financial information systems help executives to manage the entity's liquid assets such as cash and securities for high yields with the lowest risk or loss. Some companies have implemented automated systems to manage their securities portfolios and automatically generated buying or selling in an order.
M42|Going Concern Research Assessment for Quoted Romanian Agricultural Companies|In a world without frontiers, the need for financial information is becoming greater and greater, being considered the main control instrument in economic activities.The transparency of financial information cannot be achieved without accountancy and audit contribution, main factors in identifying the observance of going ? concern assumption.Moreover the financial crisis may determine the risk increase which affects the proper development of business, in general and of agricultural activities, in particular. This increase in risk may be interpreted as a greater uncertainty as regards the agricultural companies capacity to continue their activity. The purpose of the paper is to demonstrate the logical connection between the observance of going concern principle in agricultural activities with the decrease of bankruptcy risk. The necessity to predict the bankruptcy risk is relevant not only for governance and company management but also for all other participants in the social act which interferes with the company. Therefore, the continuation of activity can be assessed by different methods applied to annual financial situations. The analysis is achieved both by using accounting methods and also by financial statistic methods. The present day economic life makes the audit resort to these methods of scientific and statistical analysis, directing the audit to another method ? the metric audit. The scientific ? technical basis of this paper is given by the research regarding the necessity of going concern ? an element of risk management.In order to make this research there have been used information and specialety reference materials. In order to attain the proposal objective there has been used a methodology of fundamental research as regards risk character.
M42|The Influence of Partners? Views on Chinese Auditors? Judgments Related to Professional Scepticism|Professional scepticism remains one of the most important and controversial topics in auditing. This study examines the influence of partners? views on auditors? professional scepticism in China. This examination is important given the hierarchical structures of audit firms, and even more important in China given the strong cultural emphasis on subordination and obedience. Specifically, this study invokes social contingency theory to provide insights into partner influences on auditors from an accountability perspective. It is expected that auditors with knowledge of partners? views are likely to be susceptible to pressure to align their judgments to the partners? views, and such pressure influences auditors? professional scepticism when exercising judgments. A between-subjects experiment was conducted with practicing auditors in China. The independent variable, partners? views on professional scepticism, was manipulated across three groups: (1) a control group, in which there is no information about partners? view, (2) a group in which partners? known views reflect low emphasis on professional scepticism, or (3) a group in which partners? known views reflect high emphasis on professional scepticism. The results provide evidence that when partners? views on professional scepticism are known, auditors perceive considerable amount of pressure to follow the partners? views. Further, the results show that when partners? views reflect low emphasis on professional scepticism, auditors? levels of professional scepticism are significantly lower compared to when partners? views are unknown. However, when partners? views reflect high emphasis on professional scepticism, auditors? levels of PS do not significantly differ from when partners? views are unknown. Furthermore, the results show that when auditors learn partners? views, increased intensity of perceived pressure can strengthen the effects of partners? influences on auditors? professional scepticism. The findings of this study have important implications for auditing regulators, professionals, and audit firms.
M42|Corporate Governance, Financial Performance And Audit Quality Of Listed Firms In Nigeria|This study examined corporate governance, financial performance and audit quality of listed firms in Nigeria. In order to achieve this, secondary data were obtained from the Factbook of the Nigerian Stock Exchange as well as the Annual Reports and Accounts of fiftyeight (58) listed firms for a period of 24 years spanning from 1990 to 2013. The Logistic regression was the tool adopted to analyze the data obtained for this study. The findings from the analysis of data indicated that ownership by non-executive director has the possibility of increasing audit quality. Evidence from the study also suggests that firm size, leverage, profitability and CEO duality are important factors that determine audit quality in Nigeria. We also found a link between corporate governance, financial performance and the audit quality of listed firms in Nigeria. On the basis of these findings, we recommended that the management of organizations should adhere strictly to the codes of best practice of good corporate governance as this would to a large extent help in enhancing corporate governance and the financial performance of firms and by extension, the quality of audit in Nigeria.
M42|External investigations and disciplinary sanctions against auditors: the impact on audit quality|In this paper, we provide empirical evidence for the impact of disciplinary sanctions imposed on Spanish auditing firms and their engagement partners. The disciplinary sanctions resulted from external investigations, which revealed misapplications of auditing standards. In particular, we evaluate (a) the efficacy of the external supervisory board in identifying low-quality auditors and (b) the effectiveness of the disciplinary system in improving the quality of subsequent statutory audits performed by the sanctioned auditors. We employ two earnings management indicators as proxies for audit quality: loss avoidance through extraordinary items and abnormal accruals. And we compare these measures in the financial statements of client companies (auditees) audited by sanctioned and non-sanctioned auditors between 1995 and 2007. Our evidence is mixed. The results show that companies audited by Non-Big 4 sanctioned auditors in the pre-inspection period are less likely to avoid bottom-line losses. Additionally, we conclude that use of this earnings management tool decreases in the post-investigation period for all sanctioned auditors, whether Big 4 or Non-Big 4 firms. Contrary to our expectations, the enhancement performance on this measure of audit quality is observed only for smaller fines. The discretionary accrual approach to earnings management does not offer significant results, however. Therefore, the conclusions are not robust, and further investigation is needed. A feasible explanation for the elusive conclusion may be based on the strong incentives for private firms to avoid bottom-line losses for financing purposes and to manipulate earnings to minimize tax payments. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
M42|Influencing Factors on Earnings Management, Empirical Evidence from Listed German and Austrian Companies|Purpose – Since the 1960s earnings management has been a widely researched area and became presumably known by the current accounting scandals. This paper aims at empirically showing which factors affect earnings management. Design/methodology/approach – According to former research literature factors are derived, which might influence the companies' earnings management behavior. These factors are the applied accounting standard, the industry sector and the country of official quotation. Although several measurements for earnings management like abnormal accruals or income smoothing exist, this paper is predominantly using the distribution of net income scaled by total assets (RoA) respectively total sales (RoS) as earnings management measure. These earnings management measures have been selected as they can measure the frequency of earnings management in reality and no estimates are necessary. Findings – In general, analyses show that the distribution in earnings management intervals differ from the total population. Most noteworthy is that by adoption of principle-based accounting standards (IFRS/US-GAAP), in case of this study no differences of earnings quality was observable. The other two variables yield in mixed results due to the robustness checks, which indeed questions the scaling variables for data-sets including the financial industries. Research limitations/implications – First, according to the chosen measurement parameter no distinct assertion concerning the reasons for execution or non-execution of earnings management can be deduced. Second, the method of earnings management's identification is not dividable and therefore real-, accounting-, legal- and illegal- earnings management cannot be identified. Third, the research results are just partially generalizable concerning representativity (e.g. other countries, non-market listed companies) and taken for granted just for similar data-sets. Originality/value – Although prior studies presume a rise in earnings quality, which indicates a decrease in earnings management by the adoption of principle-based accounting standards (IFRS/US-GAAP) in comparison to national GAAP, there is no difference or superior accounting standard identifiable through the results.
M42|The system of analytical triggers in anti-crisis management|A new wave of financial crises generates a need for placing certain limitations on positive & negative dynamics of the defining or assessed indicators & the factors influencing their formation. In similar, constantly arising situations, the author pioneers the use of the system of triggers or a trigger to exert automatic influence upon different parameters, which can be assessed both quantitatively & qualitatively.
M42|Assessment of the economical effectiveness of applying auditing software|The purpose of the present article is to propose a methodology for assessing economic efficiency before and after the implementation of auditing software in order to facilitate the process of choosing the most suitable specialized software application in the activity of auditors. The specificity in assessing the indicator is the use of projected economic efficiency, based on the potential revenues and the potential costs of introducing auditing software. In its applicability it is necessary to make an estimation of the possible saved hours, which will be used for taking on new commitments. In the article there is presented an actual example of the proposed methodology.
M42|Boon or bane of advance tax rulings as a measure to mitigate tax uncertainty and foster investment|Tax uncertainty often negatively affects investment. Advance tax rulings (ATRs) are commonly used as a measure to provide tax certainty. Rulings are currently controversially discussed in the context of tax planning activities of multinational firms (Luxembourg Leaks). We analyze ATRs as tax uncertainty shields from both the taxpayers' and the tax authorities' perspectives. In general, tax authorities charge ATR fees and investors request ATRs provided the fee does not exceed a certain threshold. We assume risk neutral investors and that tax authorities integrate investors' reasoning in their decision on whether and at what price to offer ATRs. We find for uniformly distributed cashflows that tax authorities offer ATRs at a prohibitively high fee. However, extending our model framework we find that ATRs are offered if the ATR enables tax authorities either to significantly reduce their tax audit costs, or to increase the probability of detecting ambiguous tax issues, or to increase their revenues by attracting more investment. ATRs may foster investment and are hence potentially beneficial for both tax authorities and taxpayers if the investment projects in question generate relatively small net returns but high tax uncertainty. This pattern is typical for aggressive tax planning strategies, e.g., in tax havens. Our findings are threefold. First, we find that even risk neutral investors will pay for tax certainty. Second, they enable us to explain the enormous demand for rulings for tax-aggressive strategies and illustrate the tax authorities' opportunity cost of offering ATRs free of charge to attract taxaggressive foreign MNGs. Third, our results provide new explanations for why ATRs, even if the fee is rather low, are not as frequently requested by taxpayers with substantial investments, as expected in settings with high tax uncertainty. Our paper elaborates the theoretical foundation that is essential when planning to use ATR fees as a new measure for tax uncertainty in future empirical tests.
M42|Strategic decision behavior and audit quality of big and small audit firms in a tendering process|"We investigate the strategic decision making of audit firms in a tendering process. In particular, we are interested in how audit firms behave to acquire audit clients and which audit quality is ensured. Our main findings are manifold. First, if two big audit firms are competing, we do not observe that each firm tries to acquire all clients. However, if one big and one small audit firm are competing, we find evidence that the big audit firm generally apply strategies to acquire all available clients. In contrast, the small audit firm uses a clear ""Guerilla Strategy"" which means that the firm concentrates only on few clients whereas the other clients are almost ignored. Second, small audit firms are better off if more clients do exist in the tendering process. Thus, the legislator should ensure that more audit clients are tendered if the competitiveness of smaller audit firms should be enhanced. Third, in a situation in which the competitive advantage of big audit firms increases over-proportionally, we do not observe that big audit firms are able to decrease the market share of small audit firms markedly or are even able to push small audit firms out of the market. Fourth, we find that the quality level of an audit is higher if the client is acquired by a small audit firm. This implies that increasing the number of smaller audit firms could increase the quality level of the audit market."
M42|Projektmanagement-Normen und -Standards|Dieses Arbeitspapier gibt einen Überblick über aktuelle Normen und Standards, die für das Projektmanagement (PM) von Bedeutung sind. Als relevante Normungsorganisationen werden die International Organization for Standardization (ISO), das Deutsche Institut für Normung (DIN) und das US-amerikanische American National Standards Institute (ANSI) bzw. das Project Management Institute (PMI®) berücksichtigt. Bei den Standards werden solche Organisationen als relevant erachtet, die in der Lage sind, den von ihnen publizierten Standard einem breiten, im Projektmanagement tätigen Adressatenkreis publik zu machen, Dienstleistungen, wie z. B. Schulungen anzubieten, und eine Weiterentwicklung des Standards sicherzustellen. Insgesamt werden 18 PM-Normen und sieben PM-Standards beschrieben. Die Darstellung umfasst beispielsweise die Normenreihen DIN 6990x und ISO 2150x, aber auch ANSI/PMI®-Normen, wie den in der Praxis weit verbreiteten PMBOK® Guide. Im Rahmen der Projektmanagement-Standards werden u. a. die ICB - IPMA Competence Baseline und PRINCE2® behandelt. Auch Standards für die Prüfung von Projekten finden Berücksichtigung, z. B. der Prüfungsstandard Nr. 4 des Deutschen Instituts für Interne Revision e.V. (DIIR) zur Prüfung von Projekten. Jede Beschreibung enthält eine prägnante Inhaltsangabe, den formellen Status der Norm bzw. des Standards und Links für die eigene Recherche. Insofern soll dieses Arbeitspapier nicht nur eine aktuelle, systematische Zusammenstellung bieten, sondern es stellt auch eine Hilfestellung für ein schnelles Orientieren und Nachschlagen dar.
M42|Developing an online collaborative system within the domain of financial auditing|The research paper, focused on a rather technical approach, has the goal to design a system that brings together diverse audit stakeholders and investigates how an audit database available online can be implemented in SharePoint, as part of an on-line audit system which is collaborative and national. The online audit database covers various information needs for both financial auditors and the employees of the Chamber of Financial Auditors of Romania. For rapid deployment, we used various tools: Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2, SharePoint Server 2010, SharePoint Designer 2010 and various implementation features: external content types, external lists, business data web parts etc. In this paper, we use two research methods: the first one is empiric, based on formulating a questionnaire and the interpretation of the results, while the second is the analysis of the implementation process by using a step-by-step approach. The online audit database stores information about the results of previous audits, the opinions issued as result of audits, the results of online electronic inspections, audit firms, audited entities, risks identified etc. The conclusion was that the online database, which is updated through Internet, is feasible to implement in SharePoint, for multiple audit stakeholders including financial auditors who can sell their financial audit services benefiting from the transparency that the system provides.
M42|The Role of Marketing Audit in Evaluation Sustainable Marketing Performance in Romanian Organizations|In today`s society, marked by profound changes in consumer attitudes towards the environment and social issues, organizations are forced to behave responsibly, to be oriented towards a sustainable marketing. However the efforts of the organization should be evaluated periodically to see the extent to which objectives are achieved and the extent to which resource consumption leads to results. From the marketing perspective, this can be achieved through marketing audit, which is a tool for evaluating and controlling a marketing organization’s performance. This paper aims, through a documentary study in the first part and an exploratory quantitative research, in the second, to highlight the role and place of the audit of marketing in companies in Romania, to assess the effectiveness of marketing activity undertaken the principles of sustainability. The last part of the paper includes research findings and a series of theoretical and managerial recommendations on the use of marketing audit as a tool for assessing the sustainability of marketing companies in the target group, with the possibility of generalizing to all companies operating on the market in Romania.
M42|Assurance on sustainability reports in the agri-food industry| Sustainability assurance has increased in the last decade because of the need to gain credibility. The aim of this paper is to develop an exploratory analysis about sustainability assurance in the agri-food industry. Given the lack of previous studies that focus in a specific sector, we consider that this is an interesting research gap. Thus, we aim to identify whether adoption of assurance and choice of assuror are associated with the agri-food industry, the country status where the company is located, company size and listing status. Findings indicate that companies from the agri-food industry are less likely than companies from other industries to assure their sustainability reports. On the other hand, we found a positive association between listing status and adoption of assurance, and that company size is associated with choice of assuror.
M42|Impact Of The Transition To Ifrs For The Romanian Listed Companies In Financial Distress|The transition to IFRS of the Romanian listed companies enables us to provide a comparison of some accounting data reported in the same period and that have been obtained according to different accounting regulations: RAS vs. IFRS. The aim of our paper is to establish if the listed companies in financial distress report a trend of changes due to the transition to IFRS that is different to the one established for the performant companies. Based on the data corresponding to the 2011 financial year (with available RAS and IFRS information), we have calculated Gray’s comparability index (for a series of financial indicators) in the case of the two groups of companies (one in financial distress and a performant one) and we have statistically tested the existence of significant differences between the values of the index for the two company categories. We have found out that some indicators evolve in the same manner (especially the balance sheet structure indexes), others maintain the same trend, but the significance of the variances are different (ROS, ROA, ROE and OI), and, finally, for another series of indicators, the trend of the change caused by the IFRS transition is different for the two groups of companies (leverage and equity).
M42|Empirical Study Related To Increasing The Accounting Information Quality At The Import-Exportcompanies Through Ifrs Implementation|Since the external trading activity accounts for an important source of national economy growth, being the developed states economy driver, the authors considered that at the level of the entities carrying out external trading activities, the own bookkeeping must be organized taking into account the specific of the activity developed. In this context, the authors began the preparation of the study starting from the idea that this category of companies must provide accounting information as qualitative as possible that can be easily comparable at the international level and hereby increase the international commercial exchanges. Meeting this challenge of increasing the external trading activities involves the adoption of specific measures, in line with the real state of performance and with the current needs of the companies from the national economy. A relevant measure is considered to be IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) implementation for this category of companies in order to increase the quality of the accounting information provided and implicitly of some new businesses with the abroad. In order to test the opinion related to IFRS implementation on the companies carrying out external trading activities, the authors prepared a study based on a questionnaire that targeted Romanian companies carrying out external trading activities, of different dimensions. The purpose of this questionnaire was to draw up conclusions related to the content, need and the information usability of the data reported through financial positions by the companies carrying out external trading activities. The questions addressed by the authors, in this respect, have predefined answers, meant to obtain the opinion of the Romanian companies related to the possible IFRS implementation, irrespective of size, of the impact forecasted of IFRS implementation process on the companies’ activity, as well as the importance granted to the auditing of collection and payment operations with a view to obtain qualitative financial-accounting information.
M42|Financial Audit -Risks Identified In The Audit Planning Stage|The general objective of the audit activity is to currently present, under all significant aspects, a financial situation and to state an opinion according to which all economic operations are indeed correct and pursuant the law. As any activity that involves the human factor, the audit activity is subject to the influence of certain risks, risks that emerge, firstly, from an organizational level of the audited entity. In audit, risk is a very important influence element, whose ignorance can generate major implications in achieving the final goal to create an evidences database on which a pertinent and objective opinion can be founded, concerning the audited financial situations. In this context, one of the main objectives, that takes place during the planning phase of the audit, is represented by assessing risks to which the audited activity is subjected to, evaluation that helps the determining the work volume implied by the audit.
M42|The Development And Impact Of The Progress Of Accounting Standards On International Co-Operation And European Integration|Both on a national and international level, the last twenty years have been shaped by a significant growth of the accounting regulations’ number and their complexity due mainly to the appreciation of the activity level of entities and it also generated an extension and diversification of the risks which are implied. The initial economic development together with the globalisation of economic and financial markets and the consequences of the global economic recession, have contributed to the aggravation of various used accounting systems, based on complex and difficult to apply standards. Therefore, emerged the need of simplifying and harmonizing these standards on an international level.
M42|Strategies For The Tourist Development Of The South-West Oltenia Region In The Context Of European Funds|The purpose of the present paper is to have a picture of the tourism sector in the region of South-West Oltenia in order to sketch out several medium and long-term strategies of tourist development. The conducted research encompasses several departments of analysis, one of them being the evolution of the region’s tourist activity, before and after the accession to the EU, an evolution which can be measured with the help of specific indicators of the tourist activity such as: the number of arrivals, number of guest nights, number of tourist accommodations by type and categories, rate of accommodation occupancy or the contribution of tourism to the region’s GDP. Another matter analyzed refers to the correlation of the tourism strategy in this region with both the global development strategy of the region ramified into different branches and fields and the strategies at national level regarding the economic development of the country. And last but not least, from our perspective the whole development strategy of tourism both at regional and national level should revolve around the irredeemable European funds, namely of viable projects that would lead to a higher absorption rate of more than 90% of this money.
M42|Considerations Of Fixed Assets Accounting Information System|The present study aims to analyze the functioning of an integrated system comprising the essence of contemporary operations management, namely the methods of process improving in a representative and essential industry. The priorities of local management practices follows subjects such as the savings, efficiency, optimizing the resources usage, remove of dissipation, total quality etc. We analyze the challenges accompanying the efforts of some entrepreneurs to assimilate the principles of improving and to acquiring the lean organization status. This work deals with the processes improvements, respectively the applying of lean manufacturing tools and principles within the automotive industry in Craiova and in adjacent area. The immediate utility of the processes improvement principles comes from their contribution to profit growth (cost reduction) and also to improve the competitive position. The research is a directed investigation on the optimization programs and processes applied by a dozen of organizations working around the great producer operating in or near Craiova, and by analyzing the directions promoted on their own or under the coordination of the driver-company. The implementation of process improvements principles at Ford's supplier’s network is one of the biggest objectives. The conclusions highlight the intentions and the achievements smoothing the philosophy of continuous improvement processes, the incumbent potential of these initiatives to eliminate the waste, but also some failures.
M42|The Impact Of Structural Funds In Central And Eastern European Countries|Structural funds are one of the most used instruments of the European Regional policy to promote regional convergence among the member states of the European Union. Nevertheless, because there are theoretical and empirical differences in literature regarding their capacity to promote economic growth in disadvantaged areas, we want to show the way in which central and eastern-European countries, which are subjects of our study (Bulgaria, Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia and Romania), managed to use the funds made available to them in the 2007-2013 budget through three mechanisms: European Development Fund (ERDF), Cohesion Fund (CF) and the European Social Fund (ESF). This paper’s aim is to demonstrate statistically that the funds made available by the European Union were a catalyst for long run economic growth for the central and eastern-European member states.
M42|Internal Control - A Useful Tool For Any Manager|“A good lead firm, said M.Jr.Harper, is to be master of its future and the future of being master is learning to work with information”. But one can not seriously claim that the accounting information fully meets all the information needs of different user groups, more so when it comes to management accounting whose role is perceived differently by each entity, depending on the purpose and management objectives. Therefore, whether the degree to which the routes to be taken corresponds to the present objectives are achieved by using different monitoring mechanisms combined in a generic way as the control. But what kind of control do we speak? In this context, the purpose of the article is to define the concept of control.
