M50|Informational Inequity Aversion and Performance|In labor markets, some individuals have, or believe to have, less data on the determinants of success than others, e.g., due to differential access to technology or role models. We provide experimental evidence on when and how informational differences translate into performance differences. In a laboratory tournament setting, we varied the degree to which individuals were informed about the effort-reward relationship, and whether their competitor received the same or a different amount of information. We find performance is adversely affected only by worse relative, but not absolute, informedness. This suggests that inequity aversion applies not only to outcomes but also to information that helps achieve them, and stresses the importance of inequality in initial information conditions for performance-dependent outcomes.
M50|What Drives Differences in Management Practices?|"Partnering with the US Census Bureau, we implement a new survey of ""structured"" management practices in two waves of 35,000 manufacturing plants in 2010 and 2015. We find an enormous dispersion of management practices across plants, with 40 percent of this variation across plants within the same firm. Management practices account for more than 20 percent of the variation in productivity, a similar, or greater, percentage as that accounted for by R&D, ICT, or human capital. We find evidence of two key drivers to improve management. The business environment, as measured by right-to-work laws, boosts incentive management practices. Learning spillovers, as measured by the arrival of large ""Million Dollar Plants"" in the country, increase the management scores of incumbents."
M50|Psychological Resilience Predicted by Personality Traits, Locus of Control and Self-Regulation of Young Entrepreneurs in Pekanbaru|Objective - Entrepreneurs are one of the important contributors to increasing non-agricultural economic income and developing micro, small and medium enterprises. In Indonesia, entrepreneurial orientation has empirically proven that psychological factors affect individuals in improving the economy of society. The concept of psychological resilience as the development of models to predict the events and situations of failure. In certain circumstances difficulties cannot be avoided, a person with psychological resilience is able to reduce the problem by creating a new situation. Individuals who have strong personality characteristics thought to be one important factor in the process of creation and development of enterprises. Methodology/Technique - The scale used in this study consisted of a scale big five personality (Openness) McCrae & Costa (2004), The Self-Regulation Questionnaire (SRQ) by Brown et al (1999), The Work Locus of Control Scale (WLCS) by Spector (1988) as modified by Spector (2004), and Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) compiled by Connor & Davidson (2003) as modified by Manzano and Ayala (2013). A total of 238 micro businesses have voluntarily participated. Findings - The results of path analysis showed that the openness personality directly (ß = 0.131) was significantly associated with resilience. Similarly, the personality trait through self-regulation shows indirect influence on resilience (p1 p3 0.027 x 0.175 = 0.0047) significantly. Novelty - The contributions of personality openness and self-regulation of the resilience of 0.136 or 13.6%. It can be concluded that indirectly associated the entrepreneur's psychological resilience of the personality trait through self-regulation significantly.
M50|The Effectiveness of Leadership Training from Generation Me Perspectives|Objective – This study aims to further explore how leadership training processes are perceived by various generations in an organization. In looking at this phenomenon we use the perspective of the Me generation who are currently attending a wide range of leadership training organized by their own organization as well as outside of the organization. It is expected that this understanding will provide an outline of how the process of leadership training can effectively change behaviour, improve competence, and advance individual's careers in the future. Methodology/Technique – This study uses a qualitative methodology and a case study with exploratory approach is chosen as the researchers have limited knowledge on the research area. In addition, a case study is a more in-depth study. The procedures of data analysis consist of three actions based on research by Miles and Huberman (1994) that occur instantly: data reduction, data presentation, and conclusion drawing. The findings of this study are a development of skills and expertise which is currently proposed for the security of one's career within an organization. Findings – With career security, the ability to work is increased and people are not limited to working in the same job. Employees have the opportunity to improve their skills and adapt to their working abilities in a changing environment. This will also improve the company's image, not only from the loyalty of their employees, but also in terms of the achievement of their goal, development of skills, motivation, productivity, and performance. Novelty – The empirical implications of this study are in line with the trait theory and contingency model. This proposes that a leader must have various attributes to be effective. Effective leadership is characterised by a number of traits such as cognitive abilities, social abilities, and integrated disposition tendencies. Type of Paper: Review
M50|Expectations, Wage Hikes, and Worker Voice: Evidence from a Field Experiment|Hirschman's (1970) seminal thesis that enabling worker “voice” prevents exit from the employment relationship has played a foundational role in labor economics. We provide the first experimental test of this hypothesis in a real-world setting via a randomized controlled trial in Indian garment factories. Just after what proved to be a disappointing wage hike, workers were chosen at random to participate in an anonymous survey in which they were asked for feedback on job conditions, supervisor performance, and overall job satisfaction. Enabling voice in this manner reduced turnover and absenteeism after the hike, particularly for the most disappointed workers.
M50|No country for old men? Increasing the retirement age in the Armed Forces|An ageing workforce due to low fertility rates and higher life expectancies challenges modern industrialized economies. To secure economic welfare and the balance of public budgets, governments worldwide implement reforms to increase the retirement age. This trend towards higher retirement age confronts a defense sector that for centuries has been in search of an age structure characterized by ‘youth and vigor’. We study the economic gains to society from increasing the special retirement age for military personnel in the Norwegian Armed Forces. By combining the literatures on pension, personnel, and military economics, we identify mechanisms crucial to the outcome of a special retirement age reform. Monte Carlo simulation is applied to illustrate the potential impact on the economic net gains of uncertain variables. We find that an increase in the retirement age provides substantial net benefits to society, even under fairly negative assumptions about the consequences for retention, motivation and efforts, and the value of elderly personnel in the Armed Forces.
M50|Confidence and Career Choices: An Experiment|Confidence is often seen as the key to success. Empirical evidence about whether such beliefs causally map into actions is, however, sparse. In this paper, we experimentally investigate the causal effect of an increase in confidence about one’s own ability on two central choices made by workers in the labor market: choosing between jobs with different incentive schemes, and the subsequent choice of how much effort to exert within the job. Using a hard-easy task manipulation to shift beliefs, we find that beliefs can be shifted, which in turn shifts decisions. In our setting, the beliefs of low ability individuals are more malleable than those of high ability individuals. Therefore, the treatment induces an increase in confidence and detrimental decision making by low ability workers but does not affect the outcomes of high ability workers. Men and women react similarly to the treatment. However, men hold higher baseline beliefs, implying that women make better incentive choice decisions. Policy implications regarding pre-labor market confidence development by means of feedback and grade inflation are discussed.
M50|Management Practises in Finnish Manufacturing Establishments: Evidence from FMOP|Abstract Data collected by the recently conducted Finnish Management and Organizational Practices Survey (FMOP) by Statistics Finland is used to examine the management practices in Finnish manufacturing establishments. The FMOP project was funded by the Strategic Research Council. This paper presents the descriptive statistics, some indicative international comparisons using poststratification weighted averages and a cross-regional comparison of the large areas of Finland. The management scores appear to be only slightly behind those of the US and approximately on par with those of Germany. This suggests that the management practices in Finnish manufacturing are on a comparatively high international level. We also find evidence of cross-regional differences in management quality in Finland with aggregate (employment weighted) but not unweighted management scores, which suggests that the differences in the allocation of employment between establishments may explain regional disparities in Finland. To analyse the statistical significance of the regional disparities in workforce allocation in greater depth, we utilize a moment-based estimation procedure that allows for statistical inferences using the Olley-Pakes decomposition. We find evidence of regional variations in the policy relevant allocation component.
M50|Local Best Practices for Business Growth|Can best practices of successful business peers influence the efficiency and growth of small-scale enterprises? Does it matter how this information is disseminated? This paper conducts a field experiment among urban retail shop owners in Indonesia to address these research questions. Through extensive baseline quantitative and qualitative assessments, we develop a handbook of local best practices that associates specific business practices with performance and provides detailed implementation guidance informed by exemplary local shop owners. The handbook is distributed to a randomly selected sample of shop owners and is complemented with three experiential learning modules: one group is invited to watch a documentary video on experiences of highly successful peers, another is offered light in-shop assistance on the implementation of the handbook, and a third group is offered both. Eighteen months after the intervention, we find no effect of offering the handbook alone, but significant impact on practice adoption when the handbook is coupled with experiential learning. On business performance we find sizable and significant improvements as well, up to a 35% increase in profits and 16.7% in revenues. The types of practices adopted map these performance improvements to efficiency gains rather than other channels. The analysis suggests these interventions are simple, scalable, and highly cost-effective.
M50|Legitimacy and Incentives in a Labour Relationship|We design a two-stage model where the winner of a tournament becomes the executive of his former opponent. We call procedural legitimacy, the legitimacy an executive obtains if he is promoted through a competition with no unfair treatment. The aim of this paper is to study how effort may paradoxically bolster or undermine this type of legitimacy with respect to technological assumptions. Besides we show that, in bayesian terms, winning the competition reinforces the belief of having been advantaged but it also reinforces the belief that the looser will be disadvantaged in the future and thus be less productive. This will tend to make winning the competition by being advantaged much less profitable. To incentivize more effort during the competition, the firm has to design a procedure where opponents are not evaluated by their peers but by neutral and external people. Thus the competition will not bring information on a potential inequality of treatment in the future. We argue civil servant examination in public administration and human resources departments are designed partially for this reason..
M50|Which kind of ability bolsters legitimacy?|The aim of this paper is to study in a theoretical perspective how the choice of the ability on which an executive is evaluated to be promoted may be a crucial stake. We show that a procedure where an executive is selected on a managerial ability will allow to increase his own wage, compared to a procedure where he needs to demonstrate ability on the same task than his employee. The intuition is that it would neutralize the issue of rivalry with the employee by preserving the self confidence of the employee in spite he has failed at being promoted, making him easier to incentivize. The consequence is that selecting leaders on their ability to outperform their employee will tend to favor the emergence of a leadership culture of humility during the promotion process in a sense that opponents will strategically reduce their performance to preserve the self-confidence of their employee and then make him less costly to incentivize. On the contrary, selecting leaders on managerial ability will favor the emergence of a leadership culture of demonstration of strength.
M50|The Hidden Effect of Meritocratic Promotion Procedure: Experimental Evidence|The aim of this experimental paper is to show how the willingness of an employee to accept inequality of wages between him and his executive will depend on the ability on which the executive is evaluated when he is promoted. This willingness to accept inequality is captured by the minimum wage enough to incentivize to work for his executive. We show that selecting an executive on his ability to outperform his employee at his own task will be counterproductive to make employee accepting inequality of wages. We argue that the efficiency of “merit-based” promotion procedure may be challenged by this result.
M50|#MeToo meets the mutual fund industry: Productivity effects of sexual harassment|Sexual harassment, a widespread problem in the workplace, arguably keeps female employees from optimally employing their human capital. We show that removing or diminishing this friction improves productivity. Specifically, using the male-dominated fund industry as our testing ground, we show that productivity of female mutual fund managers significantly increased after the Harvey Weinstein scandal and the onset of the #MeToo movement. Evidence from lawsuits and organizational changes at several fund companies also suggests that reducing the threat of sexual harassment improves productivity. Our results have important implications for the policy debate on workforce diversity and costs of sexual harassment.
M50|Confidence and career choices: An experiment|Confidence is often seen as the key to success. Empirical evidence about whether such beliefs causally map into actions is, however, sparse. In this paper, we experimentally investigate the causal effect of an increase in confidence about one's own ability on two central choices made by workers in the labor market: choosing between jobs with different incentive schemes, and the subsequent choice of how much effort to exert within the job. Using a hard-easy task manipulation to shift beliefs, we find that beliefs can be shifted, which in turn shifts decisions. In our setting, the beliefs of low ability individuals are more malleable than those of high ability individuals. Therefore, the treatment induces an increase in confidence and detrimental decision making by low ability workers but does not affect the outcomes of high ability workers. Men and women react similarly to the treatment. However, men hold higher baseline beliefs, implying that women make better incentive choice decisions. Policy implications regarding pre-labor market confidence development by means of feedback and grade inflation are discussed.
M50|"""The Good News about Bad News"": Feedback about Past Organisational Failure Bad ist Impact in Worker Productivity"|Failure in organisations is a very common phenomenon. Little is known about whether past failure affects workers’ subsequent performance. We conduct a field experiment in which we follow up a failed mail campaign to attract new volunteers with a phone campaign pursuing the same goal. We recruit temporary workers to carry out the phone campaign and randomly assign them to either receive or not receive information about the previous failure and measure their performance. We find that informed workers perform better – in terms of both numbers dialed (about 14% improvement) and completed interviews (about 20% improvement) – regardless of whether they had previously worked on the failed mail campaign. Evidence from a second experiment with student volunteers asked to support a campaign to reduce food waste suggests that the mechanism behind our finding relates to contextual inference: Informing workers/volunteers that they are pursuing a goal that is hard to attain seems to add meaning to the work involved, leading them to exert more effort.
M50|Determinants and Dynamics of Business Aspirations : Evidence from Small-scale Entrepreneurs in an Emerging Market|Small-scale entrepreneurs are ubiquitous in emerging market economies, yet very few graduate to become larger businesses. We ask whether such entrepreneurs even aspire to grow, and if so, on which dimensions of the business? What factors influence these aspirations, how realistic are they, and do entrepreneurs dynamically update them based on realized outcomes? Using a unique panel data set of small-scale retailers in Indonesia, we show that the average business has strong short- and long-term aspirations for growth in shop size, number of employees, number of customers, and sales. Yet, more than half of the businesses report no aspirations for growth in the next 12 months, and 16 percent fail to imagine an ideal business over the long-term. Entrepreneurs with low profits, business skills, and agency beliefs, as well as those who are older, female, and less educated have significantly lower aspirations. Analysis from a year later shows that most entrepreneurs fail to set realistic aspirations at baseline, but significantly adjust their aspirations to realistic levels with realized outcomes. The analysis also shows baseline aspirations are a strong predictor of measures of business expansion and innovation, as well as performance outcomes a year later.
M50|"""The good news about bad news"": Feedback about past organisational failure and its impact on worker productivity"|Failure in organisations is a very common phenomenon. Little is known about whether past failure affects workers' subsequent performance. We conduct a field experiment in which we follow up a failed mail campaign to attract new volunteers with a phone campaign pursuing the same goal. We recruit temporary workers to carry out the phone campaign and randomly assign them to either receive or not receive information about the previous failure and measure their performance. We find that informed workers perform better - in terms of both numbers dialed (about 14% improvement) and completed interviews (about 20% improvement) - regardless of whether they had previously worked on the failed mail campaign. Evidence from a second experiment with student volunteers asked to support a campaign to reduce food waste suggests that the mechanism behind our finding relates to contextual inference: Informing workers/volunteers that they are pursuing a goal that is hard to attain seems to add meaning to the work involved, leading them to exert more effort.
M50|Relative Performance Feedback to Teams|Between and within firms, work teams compete against each other and receive feedback on how well their team is performing relative to their benchmarks. In this paper we investigate experimentally how teams respond to relative performance feedback (RPF) at team level. We find that when subjects work under team incentives, then RPF on team performance increases the teams’ average performance by almost 10 percent. The treatment effect is driven by higher top performance, as this is almost 20% higher when the teams receive RPF compared to when the teams only receive absolute performance feedback (APF). The experiment suggests that top performers are particularly motivated by the combination of team incentives and team RPF. In fact, team incentives motivate significantly higher top performance than individual incentives when the team is exposed to RPF. We also find notable gender differences. Females respond negatively to individual RPF, but even more positively than males to team RPF.
M50|New Sources of Growth: The Role of Frugal Innovation and Transformational Leadership|Untuk dapat bangkit dari permasalahan pasca krisis dan tumbuh secara berkesinambungan, ekonomi suatu negara dituntut untuk mampu beradaptasi dengan perkembangan baru, yang tidak hanya VUCA (Volatile, Uncertain, Complex, and Ambiguous) namun sudah TUNA (Turbulent, Uncertain, Novel, and Ambiguous). Negara dituntut untuk berinovasi, mendayagunakan teknologi yang terus berubah secara kontinu dan eksponensial, serta menciptakan sumber pertumbuhan ekonomi baru yang mampu mendongkrak kesejahteraan masyarakat luas. Hal ini menuntut karakter kepemimpinan transformatif untuk mampu mendorong frugal innovation yang berdampak dan berkelanjutan, yang dapat dijadikan sebagai strategic driver pertumbuhan ekonomi ke depan. Hasil analisis menyimpulkan mengenai pentingnya peran kualitas inovasi dan potensi kepemimpinan sebagai sumber pertumbuhan ekonomi baru. Penelitian ini juga menawarkan pendekatan baru, yaitu Breakthrough Possibility Frontier (BPF) untuk memperlihatkan peran transformational leadership dengan kemampuan melakukan breaktrough dalam mendorong game changing frugal innovation sebagai strategic driver pertumbuhan ekonomi.
M50|The Impact of Employment Protection on the Industrial Wage Structure|This paper tests whether the job security offered by stricter employment protection legislation (EPL) undermines positive compensating wage differentials that would otherwise be paid. Specifically, we ask whether industries with relatively more need for layoffs and labour flexibility have lower wages in countries where stricter EPL protects workers from layoffs. We find this generally to be true for a large sample of industries in the major OECD countries over 1984-2005, particularly for wages of unskilled workers. However, we also find that where workers are well organised, they can take advantage of EPL to secure higher wages.
M50|HPWS in the Public Sector: Are There Mutual Gains?|Few studies investigate the links between high-performance work systems (HPWS) on public sector organizational performance and worker job attitudes. We fill this gap with analyses of these links using linked employer-employee surveys of workplaces in Britain in 2004 and 2011. We find robust evidence of positive associations between the use of HPWS and organizational performance in the public sector but no associations with worker attitudes. The implication is that, in contrast to similar work on the private sector in the United States (Appelbaum et al., 2000) HPWS is not delivering mutual gains for employers and employees in the British public sector.
M50|Broker versus social networks in adverse working conditions: cross-sectional evidence from Cambodian migrants in Thailand|Using unique survey data from Cambodians who worked in Thailand, we investigate the wage and non-wage job values for workers across job search methods, focusing on the dif-ference between social networks and brokers. This paper examines whether cross-border migration through brokers brings more adverse workplace conditions than other job search methods by looking at subjective measures of non-wage job values in the destination coun-try. Compared with migrants who obtained job information by themselves or from friends and family, migrants who got job information through brokers are more likely to receive higher expected wage gains from migration, but they are not likely to receive a higher wage in Thailand. Furthermore, they are more likely to experience adverse non-wage job values (i.e., adverse workplace conditions), even though migrants have similar individual characteristics, migration experiences, and original locations. The migrants who got a job through brokers are also more likely to be categorized a victim of human trafficking by of-ficials in the border area of Poipet, Cambodia. The evidence suggests that brokers are less likely to connect the Cambodian migrants with high wage jobs or better workplaces, and the results are more consistent with the explanation that exploiting strong individual ties (family/friends) are a safer route to obtaining better non-wage job values than brokers. The overall findings of this paper show the importance of a deeper understanding of employer behavior that leads to utilizing brokers to find migrant workers for poor jobs in destination marketplaces.
M50|People Management Skills, Employee Attrition, and Manager Rewards: An Empirical Analysis|How much do a manager's interpersonal skills with subordinates, which we call people management skills, affect employee outcomes? Are managers rewarded for having such skills? Using personnel data from a large, high-tech firm, we show that survey-measured people management skills have a strong negative relation to employee turnover. A causal interpretation is reinforced by research designs exploiting new workers joining the firm and managers moving jobs. However, people management skills do not consistently improve non-attrition outcomes. Better people managers are themselves more likely to receive higher subjective performance ratings and to be promoted.
M50|What Causes Labor Turnover To Vary?|Most turnover reflects churn, where hires replace departures. Churn varies substantially by employer, industry and worker characteristics. For example, leisure and hospitality turnover is more than double that of manufacturing. In the LEHD (QWI) data, permanent employer differences account for 36% of the variation in churn. The cost of churn is proxied by the mean wage and the benefit by the variance in wages. QWI and JOLTS data confirm predictions that high mean wage labor markets experience less churn and high wage-variance ones experience more churn. Additionally, less educated, younger and male workers have higher separation and churn rates.
M50|Beliefs and actions: How a shift in confidence affects choices|Confidence is often seen as the key to success. Empirical evidence about whether such beliefs causally map into actions is, however, sparse. In this paper, we experimentally investigate the causal effect of an increase in confidence about one’s own ability on two central choices made by workers in the labor market: choosing between jobs with different incentive schemes, and the subsequent choice of how much effort to exert within the job. An increase in confidence leads to an increase in self-selection into uncertain ability-contingent payment schemes. This is detrimental for low ability workers. Policy implications are discussed.
M50|Trust and signals in workplace organization: evidence from job autonomy differentials between immigrant groups|While much work has considered trust’s effect on workplace organization, particularly the granting of job autonomy, this relationship remains essentially a black box, lacking insight on the deeper process underlying employers’ ultimate trust or autonomy decision. I seek to unpack the trust-organization nexus, focusing on the role of employers’ inferences about employees’ trustworthiness. Integrating extant literatures, I posit that employers use group membership—and specific group-level traits—as an observable signal concerning individual employees’ trustworthiness and decide how much autonomy to grant to employees that have similar observable individual-level qualities but belong to different, easily recognizable social groups. Empirical analysis of job autonomy differentials between groups of migrants with different ethnonational identities reveals systematic patterns of variation that cannot be explained on the basis of observable employee traits alone. Hence, the evidence strongly supports the signalling value of group membership, demonstrating an important real-world feature of trust governing workplace organization.
M50|Which Two Heads are Better than One? Uncovering the Positive Effects of Diversity in Creative Teams|Creative teams drive the idea-economy, yet the determinants of a team's ability to create new ideas are not universally agreed upon. Group-level diversity has gained the most traction as an explanation, where a team's performance is usually attributed to diversity over observed characteristics such as race, gender, or functional expertise. Most agree that these characteristics are not especially important, but rather serve as an indicator of diversity in experiences, which is the actual mechanism that improves team ability. We formalize and test if experientially diverse groups produce more ideas. Because group assignment to projects in the field is rarely exogenous, and experiential diversity is not measured in observational data, we use a laboratory experiment to test our proposal. We find that experientially diverse teams create more ideas and also find no additional effect for gender, racial, socioeconomic, or personality diversity. Our general finding for why diversity may be important indicates that if a correlation exists between characteristic diversity and experiential diversity, the characteristically diverse team will have a higher ability. This generalization can be used to unify divergent results from prior studies and can help explain how dissimilar corporate diversity policies could be equally successful.
M50|Gender Differences within the Firm: Evidence from Two Million Travelers|We document gender differences in the price paid for work-related air travel among similar workers within a firm. We show that women pay consistently less per ticket than men, after accounting for a large set of covariates that include the characteristics of the trips, the employers, and the employees. A large proportion of the lower fares paid by women is explained by women booking flights earlier than men. We investigate potential mechanisms that could explain the observed gender differences. We find that gender differences increase with age, but we find no deviation from this trend during the childbearing years. We also find significant variation in gender differences across the regions of the world. Using country-level data on preference differences we report that positive and negative reciprocity are factors associated with the documented gender differences, although this result is only suggestive. The documented gender differences have important monetary implications for firms and suggest a potentially important role of morale within a firm.
M50|Gender Differences within the Firm: Evidence from Two Million Travelers|We document gender differences in the behavior of similar workers within a firm when they book business air travel. We show that women pay consistently less per ticket than men, after accounting for a large set of covariates that include the characteristics of the traveler, the routes and class they travel on, the firms that employ them, and the position that the traveler holds in the firm. A large proportion of the lower fares paid by women is explained by women booking flights earlier than men. We find significant variation in gender differences across the regions of the world. Using country-level data on preference differences, we show that gender differences in both positive and negative reciprocity are an important factor associated with the documented gender differences. In particular, negative reciprocity alone is able to explain the gender difference in paid fare: women (men) are less (more) willing to trade the firms’ money for their own utility when they feel they have been treated unfairly. The documented gender differences have both important monetary implications for firms and implications for the role of morale within the firm.
M50|HPWS in the Public Sector: Are There Mutual Gains?|Few studies investigate the links between high-performance work systems (HPWS) on public sector organizational performance and worker job attitudes. We fill this gap with analyses of these links using linked employer-employee surveys of workplaces in Britain in 2004 and 2011. We find robust evidence of positive associations between the use of HPWS and organizational performance in the public sector but no associations with worker attitudes. The implication is that, in contrast to similar work on the private sector in the United States (Appelbaum et al., 2000) HPWS is not delivering mutual gains for employers and employees in the British public sector.
M50|Driven by Change: Commercial Drivers’ Acceptance and Perceived Efficiency of Using Light-Duty Electric Vehicles in Germany|In this paper, we examine to what extent commercial drivers accept the substitution of conventional cars with light-duty e-vehicles (LDEVs) by conducting a cross-sectional survey at Deutsche Post, a major German postal delivery service provider. Specifically, we explore drivers’ acceptance from two perspectives. First, we investigate whether drivers are more satisfied with the LDEVs than with the conventional vehicles. Second, we question whether the EVs increase drivers’ perceived efficiency. Combining these two perspectives, we show that the greater the drivers’ overall satisfaction with LDEVs, the higher is the drivers’ perceived efficiency. We prove this by means of latent measures, such as perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use, using adaptations of Davis’ Technology Acceptance Model and Rogers’ Diffusion of Innovation Theory to form our Unified Technology Acceptance Model. Findings suggest that, on average, drivers are slightly more satisfied with their assigned LDEVs than with the available conventional cars. If drivers were able to choose their preferred vehicles, the majority of them would favor LDEVs. We detect statistically significant patterns of latent measures affecting perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use of LDEVs. While this paper focuses on German delivery service employees, the methodology presented here could easily be applied to any enterprise in the growing logistics sector electrifying its car fleet. Hence, our contributions are valuable for transportation research, and more specifically, to all potential commercial EV drivers, e.g., our insights might be relevant for approximately 500,400 drivers employed in the German logistics sector alone.
M50|The influence of demographic factors on South African investors' life satisfaction|Satisfaction with life is not always a set concept and may vary according to the demography of investors. Demographical factors can classify investors into various categories of life satisfaction, which can ultimately impact investment decisions. The level of life satisfaction can influence investment by causing a deviation between expected and actual investment choices. Gender can be grouped between males and females with different investment decisions based on each group?s satisfaction with life. The aim of this study is to determine the satisfaction with life of investors considering their gender, age group, ethnicity, income group and marital status. The results of the study show that male investors are more likely to have a positive life satisfaction and make optimistic investment choices compared to female investors. Investors who are older than 50 years of age, married or earn more than R700 000 annually are more likely to have a positive life satisfaction and make more optimistic investment choices, while investors with a negative life satisfaction are more likely to make pessimistic investment choices.
M50|Determinants and dynamics of business aspirations : evidence from small-scale entrepreneurs in an emerging market|Small-scale entrepreneurs are ubiquitous in emerging market economies, yet very few graduate to become larger businesses. This paper asks whether such entrepreneurs aspire to grow and, if so, on which dimensions of the business? What factors influence these aspirations, how realistic are they, and do entrepreneurs dynamically update them based on realized outcomes? A unique panel data set of small-scale retailers in Indonesia is used to show that the average business has strong short- and long-term aspirations for growth in shop size, number of employees, number of customers, and sales. Yet, more than 50 percent of the businesses report no aspirations for growth in the next 12 months, and 16 percent fail to imagine an ideal business over the long term. Entrepreneurs with low profits, business skills, and agency beliefs, as well as those who are older, female, and less educated have significantly lower aspirations. Analysis from a year later shows that most entrepreneurs fail to set realistic aspirations at baseline, but significantly adjust their aspirations to realistic levels with realized outcomes. The analysis also shows that baseline aspirations are a strong predictor of measures of business expansion and innovation, as well as performance outcomes a year later.
M50|Labour flows across firm´s size, economic sectors and wages in Colombia: evidence from employer-employee linked panel|This paper explores the behavior of Colombia labour market flows. We focus on job creation and job destruction from the plant´s perspective, and on hiring and separations from the worker´s point of view.We show how these labour flows change across different dimensions such as, firm’s size, economic sectors, as well as wages and present the dynamic of tenure across these dimensions. Our results are in line with those of Birch (1981) and more recently Neumark, Wall, and Zhang (2008), who found that small firms are the ones who created Jobs in the economy. We found that small firms have higher job and worker reallocation rates; and firms especially those with less than 50 employees are the ones with a higher employment growth rates compared to the larger ones. Moreover, we found that construction presents the highest labour flows, while manufacture the lowest. Finally, we found a negative relation between firm´s average wages and labour flows. Classification JEL: E24, J63, M50
M50|Serving the public interest in several ways: Theory and empirics|We develop a model where people differ in their altruistic preferences and can serve the public interest in two ways: by making donations to charity and by taking a public service job and exerting effort on the job. Our theory predicts that people who are more altruistic are more likely to take a public service job and, for a given job, make higher donations to charity. Comparing equally altruistic workers, those with a regular job make higher donations to charity than those with a public service job by a simple substitution argument. We subsequently test these predictions using cross-sectional data from Germany on self-reported altruism, sector of employment, and donations to charity. In addition, we use panel data from the Netherlands on volunteering and sector of employment. We find support for most of our predictions.
M50|How Do Employers Use Compensation History?: Evidence from a Field Experiment|We report the results of a field experiment in which treated employers could not observe the compensation history of their job applicants. Treated employers responded by evaluating more applicants, and evaluating those applicants more intensively. They also responded by changing what kind of workers they evaluated: treated employers evaluated workers with 7% lower past average wages and hired workers with 16% lower past average wages. Conditional upon bargaining, workers hired by treated employers struck better wage bargains for themselves. Using a structural model of bidding and hiring, we find that the selection effects we observe would also occur in equilibrium.
M50|Signaling to Experts|We study an otherwise standard education signaling economy with one additional feature: some of the potential employers can (imperfectly) observe workers' types directly. We propose a definition of competitive equilibrium for such an economy. The separating allocation is an equilibrium, in which employer's direct observation is irrelevant. However, there is another equilibrium where more informed employers hire high type workers with no education and pay lower wagers.
M50|Contemporary Developments in Behavioral Finance|Investors need not be rational for markets to be efficient. The axiom of efficient market hypothesis that it is not possible to earn excess profits because the available information gets factored in instantaneously fell flat due to influence of human behavior on the investment process. Exuberance of investors escalates asset values unduly on the back of financial irrationality. The intersection of human behavior and the investment decisions has since evolved as “behavioral finance.” Research demonstrates that investment decision-making process is more human than analytical, owing to behavioral biases. Recent studies in prospect theory and heuristic decision-making process focused more on investor behavior causing market anomalies. At a time when irrational behavior is demonstrated not only in security markets but also in other markets such as property, bullion and commodities, this paper explores the contemporary research in behavioral finance.
M50|The Effect of Human Resource Management Practices on Employees’ Work Engagement and the Mediating and Moderating Role of Positive Psychological Capital|This study proposes and investigates a model of psychological capital as a mediator and moderator in human resource (HR) practices-employee work engagement relationship. Although there have been a lot of researches on the relationship between HR practices and individual and organizational outcomes, how occur this relationship is still unclear. In order to advance our knowledge about this relationship, there is need to investigate possible mediating and moderating variables that effective on it. To test developed model, we collected data from 590 white-collor employees who are working in private companies from different sectors in Turkey. As a result of this study the effects of motivation and skill enhancing HR practices on work engagement are significantly partial mediated by psychological capital but not moderated. On the other hand the effects of opportunity enhancing HR practices and working conditions on work engagement are significantly partial mediated and moderated by psychological capital at the same time.
M50|Self-managed working time and employee effort: Theory and evidence|This paper theoretically and empirically examines the impact of self-managed working time (SMWT) on employee effort. As a policy of increased worker autonomy, SMWT can theoretically increase effort via intrinsic motivation and reciprocal behaviour, but it can also lead to a decrease of effort due to a loss of control. Based on German individual-level panel data, we find that SMWT employees exert higher effort levels than employees with fixed working hours. Even after accounting for observed and unobserved characteristics there remains a modest positive effect. This effect is largely driven by employees who are intrinsically motivated, suggesting that intrinsic motivation is complementary to SMWT. However, reciprocal work intensification does not seem to be an important channel of providing extra effort.
M50|Incremental innovation and competitive pressure in the presence of discrete innovation|Technical progress consists of improvements made upon the existing technology (incremental innovation) and innovative activities aiming at entirely new technology (discrete innovation). Incremental innovation is often of limited relevance to the new technology invented by successful discrete innovation. Previous theoretical studies have indicated that higher competitive pressure measured by product substitutability increases incremental innovation. In contrast, we find that intensified competition can decrease incremental innovation. A firm's market share upon its failure in discrete innovation decreases as competition intensifies. This effect decreases firms’ incentives for incremental innovation because the innovation outcome can be applied to a smaller amount of units.
M50|The Internationalisation of Firms and Management Practices:A Survey of Firms in Viet Nam|This study examines the role of management practices in the internationalisation of domestic firms through directly exporting and/or supplying to local affiliates of multinationals. An original survey of manufacturing firms in Viet Nam was conducted, investigating their management practices such as human resource management and internationalisation status. The survey results shed light on similarities and dissimilarities among firms in several dimensions of management practices. Findings reveal that internationalised firms tended to be more enthusiastic about the formal training of production workers, the modernisation of production and operation, and product and process innovation. Differences in skills and experience requirements for newly employed managers were less recognizable, but internationalised firms tended to have managers who studied overseas. Furthermore, the use of public support to employee training, teamwork in production, and unionisation of employees did not show a significant difference between internationalised and non-internationalised firms.
M50|The Impact Of School Corporate Cultures On Teachers Entrepreneurial Orientation. The Mediating Role Of Readiness For Change|The competition between schools in this era of globalization, especially among private schools, requisites entrepreneurial orientation development to private schools context. Many previous studies showed that entrepreneurial orientation can be influenced by corporate cultures. However, those previous studies have been mostly done on employees or managers at profit-oriented institutions. On the contrary, school teachers as employees in non-profit institution are often assumed to be conservative, prefer to have a relatively safe work, and tend to avoid changes, so they are not necessarily interested in doing entrepreneurial-oriented activities. Thus, the teacher's readiness for change also needs to be a mediator variable between corporate cultures and teacher’s entrepreneurial orientation. The purpose of this study is to examine the role of corporate cultures in schools toward teacher’s entrepreneurial orientation with teacher’s readiness for change as a mediator. The subject of this survey study are 316 teachers from 14 private schools in Indonesia that support teacher entrepreneurial orientation. The Structural Equation Model path analysis results showed that learning orientation culture could have a positive effect on teacher entrepreneurial orientation, either directly or through the mediation of readiness for change. However, market orientation culture could not give a direct positive effect on entrepreneurial orientation and requires teacher’s readiness for change as a mediator for indirect effect. The synchronization between corporate culture values with individual member’s values becomes a reason that will be discussed to explain the result of this study.
M50|Resistance to Change (RTC): A Taxonomical Perspective|"""Objective – This paper debatably argues that there is rather limited and effective framework in managing resistance to change. Thus, a different concept in assessing resistance to change is proposed. Methodology/Technique – This study is conducted through review of qualitative data based on organizational change literature. It was discovered that previous change research accentuated more on human aspect while missing other potential and critical aspect of change resistance. Findings – The past studies put more weightage on individual reactions to change. Study believes that everyone has own unique defence mechanisms that protect them from the change which act as barrier from allowing the individual to adapt with the change. Resistance correlates with individual’s mind reflecting one’s willingness and receptiveness to change while being influences by one’s thinking and behavior. Thus, evaluating resistance to change based on human aspect alone will produce dissimilarities in results. Novelty –Albeit the simplicity of the proposed model, the model will enable the assessment of resistance to change with the larger perspective in tandem with past recommendations of a dire need of better framework in managing resistance to change."""
M50|Power Distance as A National Culture Observed in Organizational Scope|"""Objective – Cultural factors have significant roles in creating behavior in an organization. This research claims that national culture like power distance that is usually measured in a national scope actually can have a better result when it is measured in the organizational scope. The goal of this research is to find out the level of power distance among private lecturers in Banjarmasin, Indonesia, and compare it to Hofstede’s power distance for the whole country. Methodology/Technique – This research uses explanatory research that tries to understand the degree of power distance among private university lecturers in Banjarmasin. The populations used were all lecturers in private colleges in Banjarmasin City. The samples used were 86 lecturers who have become a lecturer for at least 2 years. The analysis is done through a descriptive quantitative method measuring the level of power distance among lecturers in Banjarmasin and with confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) to understand which indicators that have the strongest influence in creating power distance culture among lecturers in Banjarmasin. Findings – The results of the research show that power distance culture is low among the lecturers in Banjarmasin City, with indicator “The level of authority used by the leader” as the lowest factor. The result also finds that the indicator “subordinates Exclusion in decision-making” as the strongest indicator to form power distance culture. Novelty – This research conducted in the context of Indonesia using primary data."""
M50|Nonunion Employee Representation: Theory And The German Experience With Mandated Works Councils|Theories of how nonunion employee representation impacts firm performance, affects market equilibria, and generates externalities on labor and society are synthesized. Mandated works councils in Germany provide a particularly strong form of nonunion employee representation. A systematic review of research on the German experience with mandated works councils finds generally positive effects, though these effects depend on a series of moderating factors and some impacts remain ambiguous. Finally, key questions for empirical research on nonunion employee representation, which have previously been little analyzed in the literature, are reviewed.
M50|Gender Wage Gap at the Top, Job Inflexibility and Product Market Competition|Research show that women are disadvantaged in inflexible occupations. We show that this will imply that female managers are on average more skilled than male managers. Due to the higher hurdles faced by women, only the most skilled among them will pursue a management career. This implies that female managers will, on average, be more beneficial for the firm when product market competition is intense. Using detailed matched employee-employer data, we find that (i) more intense product market competition leads to relatively higher wages for female managers and (ii) the share of female managers is higher in firms in more competitive industries.
M50|The Educated Underdog Becomes the Ultimate Superstar|We fi…nd an inverted relation between a player'’s birthday and the likelihood of receiving the Ballon d'’Or (awarded to the best football player in the world). We develop a multi-period skill formation model with selection into elite education. We show that those born late (underdogs) need to work harder to be selected for elite educational programs. However, those born too late will not make the cut-off. Those born late –– but not too late –– will thus end up with the highest skill levels as adults (educated underdogs). We use detailed data on the performance of elite Swedish football players to illustrate our model. These data provide strong support for the predictions of the model.
M50|Asset Specificity, Human Capital Acquisition, and Labor Market Competition|Firms let their employees operate assets to produce goods and services. Firm-specificity of asset and human capital, key concepts of transaction cost economics and labor economics respectively, play important roles in determining firms' productivity and welfare consequences of their competition. How are the degrees of firm-specificity of asset and human capital determined? We address this question through exploring a new model that captures interconnections among asset specificity, human capital acquisition, managerial capability, and labor mobility. We consider a two-period model with two firms, where period 1 is the skill-acquisition period and period 2 is the output period. In the beginning of period 1, each firm chooses a level of its asset specificity and employs a certain number of workers from the labor market. The level of asset specificity is interpreted as the extent to which the firm tailors its asset to the unique features of the firm's business strategies and products. A firm's second-period productivity is determined by its managerial capability, the extent to which its asset is tailored, and its workers' familiarity with its asset specificity. Managerial capability here means the capability of a firm's top management to develop an effective strategy and create a unique competitive position. We find that, as the importance of managerial capability increases, the labor mobility increases, and both the level of asset specificity and firm size decrease. When a firm chooses the specificity of its asset and the number of workers it employs in period 1, it estimates how many workers it will retain and how many workers it will hire from its rival in period 2. A higher importance of managerial capability increases the difference of period 2 productivity between a high-capability and a low-capability firm. Then, as the importance of managerial capability increases, each firm anticipates higher labor mobility, because a larger number of workers will move from a low-capability to a high-capability firm. Anticipation of higher labor mobility, in turn, reduces each firm's incentives to hire more workers and increase the level of asset specificity in period 1. We discuss implications of our model in the contexts of cross-industry and cross-country comparisons. In a newly emerging industry or in a business undergoing revolutionary technological changes, a business's success critically depends on the quality of its strategic decision making because these industries face a high level of uncertainty. Whereas in industries facing lower levels of uncertainty, strategic decision making is less important. These arguments suggest that the importance of managerial capability is higher in the former types of industries, and the importance tends to be lower in the latter types of industries. Our model then predicts that labor mobility is higher, specificity of asset and human capital is lower, and average firm size is smaller in industries of the former type and vice-versa in industries of the latter type. Also, as the economy makes a transition from industrial capitalism to post-industrial capitalism, modern economies are becoming increasingly knowledge intensive which renders the disadvantage to the firms that heavily rely on physical assets. Our model yields new implications regarding the consequences of the transition.
M50|Product Architecture and Intra-Firm Coordination: Theory and Evidence|Product architecture plays a critical role in the product development process. How does the nature of product architecture affect the quality of the product? To address this question, we make a distinction between system-level and part-level quality, and then posit the existence of a key trade-off in which greater integrality of a product’s architecture enhances its system-level quality, but produces the undesirable side-effect of increasing the degree of interdependence in component design. We hypothesize that when engineers’ coordination capability is relatively high, the former (positive) effect outweighs the latter (negative) effect so that greater integrality increases the product’s overall quality; conversely, lower coordination capability results in reduced overall quality. We find empirical support for this hypothesis by analysing a set of unique data collected through a firm-level survey administered in Japan. We also present the implications of our findings for managers making decisions about product design.
M50|The Effect of Board Directors from Countries with Different Genetic Diversity Levels on Corporate Performance|We link genetic diversity in the country of origin of the firms’ board members with corporate performance via board members’ nationality. We hypothesize that our approach captures deep-rooted differences in cultural, institutional, social, psychological, physiological, and other traits that cannot be captured by other recently measured indices of diversity. Using a panel of firms listed in the North American and UK stock markets, we find that adding board directors from countries with different levels of genetic diversity (either higher or lower) increases firm performance. This effect prevails when we control for a number of cultural, institutional, firm-level, and board member characteristics, as well as for the nationality of the board of directors. To identify the relationship, we use—as instrumental variables for our diversity indices—the migratory distance from East Africa and the level of ultraviolet exposure in the directors’ country of nationality. This paper was accepted by Wei Jiang, finance .
M50|Ceding control: an experimental analysis of participatory management|Abstract We use an experiment to evaluate the effects of participatory management on firm performance. Participants are randomly assigned roles as managers or workers in firms that generate output via real effort. To identify the causal effect of participation on effort, workers are exogenously assigned to one of the two treatments: one in which the manager implements a compensation scheme unilaterally or another in which the manager cedes control over compensation to the workers who vote to implement a scheme. We find that output is between seven and twelve percentage points higher in participatory firms.
M50|HRM and Small-Firm Employee Motivation: Before and after the Recession|A long-running debate in the small firms' literature questions the value of formal 'human resource management' (HRM) practices which have been linked to high performance in larger firms. We contribute to this literature by exploiting linked employer-employee surveys for 2004 and 2011. Using employees' intrinsic job satisfaction and organizational commitment as measures of motivation we find the returns to small firm investments in HRM are u-shaped. Small firms benefit from intrinsically motivating work situations in the absence of HRM practices, find this advantage disturbed when formal HRM practices are initially introduced, but can restore positive motivation when they invest intensively in HRM practices in a way that characterizes 'high performance work systems' (HWPS) and 'strategic human resource management' (SHRM). Although the HPWS effect on employee motivation is modified somewhat by the recessionary transition, it remains rather robust and continues to have positive promise for small firms.
M50|The Role of Caseworkers in Unemployment Insurance: Evidence from Unplanned Absences|Caseworkers are the main human resource used to provide social services. This paper asks if, and how much, caseworkers matter for the outcomes of unemployed individuals. Using large-scale administrative data, I exploit exogenous variation in unplanned absences among Swiss UI caseworkers. I find that individuals who lose an early meeting with their caseworker stay on average 10 days longer in unemployment (5% relative to the mean). Results show large heterogeneity in the economic value of caseworkers: the effect of a foregone meeting doubles for caseworkers in the highest productivity tercile, while it is zero for caseworkers in the lowest tercile. Finally, absences induce negative spillover effects on the performance of present colleagues, who have to cover additional workload.
M50|The internationalisation of firms and management practices : a survey of firms in Viet Nam|This study examines the role of management practices in the internationalisation of domestic firms through directly exporting and/or supplying to local affiliates of multinationals. An original survey of manufacturing firms in Viet Nam was conducted, investigating their management practices such as human resource management and internationalisation status. The survey results shed light on similarities and dissimilarities among firms in several dimensions of management practices. We found that internationalised firms tended to be more enthusiastic about the formal training of production workers, the modernisation of production and operation, and product and process innovation. Differences in skills and experience requirements for newly employed managers were less recognisable, but internationalised firms tended to have managers who studied overseas. Furthermore, the use of public support to employee training, teamwork in production, and unionisation of employees did not show a significant difference between internationalised and non-internationalised firms.
M50|Identity, Incentives, and Their Dynamics in the Production of Publicly Provided Goods|This paper aims to clarify the role of government provision of valuable goods and services when (i) workers may be intrinsically motivated to exert effort and (ii) there are constraints on how production occurs. We analyze the optimal organization of production in a model where agents' preferences have a behavioral component and where some decisions are made by a central authority and others are made at a lower, decentralized level. In this framework we show that it may be optimal for the central authority to choose a relatively inefficient monitoring technology and to reduce monetary incentives. The mechanism driving this result is related to a general-equilibrium effect as mediated by the public-administration budget constraint and the firm's own composition of workers.
M50|Self-Employment Dynamics and the Returns to Entrepreneurship|Small business owners and others in self-employment have the option to transition to paid work. If there is initial uncertainty about entrepreneurial earnings, this option increases the expected lifetime value of self-employment relative to pay in a single year. This paper first documents that moves between paid work and self-employment are common and consistent with experimentation to learn about earnings. This pattern motivates estimating the expected returns to entrepreneurship within a dynamic lifecycle model that allows for non-random selection and gradual learning about the entrepreneurial earnings process. The model accurately fits entry patterns into self-employment by age. The option value of returning to paid work is found to constitute a substantial portion of the monetary value of entrepreneurship. The model is then used to evaluate policies that change incentives for entry into self-employment.
M50|Knowledge Spillovers and Learning in the Workplace: Evidence from the U.S. Patent Office|Using application-level data from the Patent Office from 2001 to 2012, merged with personnel data on patent examiners, we explore the extent to which the key decision of examiners—whether to allow a patent—is shaped by the granting styles of her surrounding peers. Taking a number of methodological approaches to dealing with the common obstacles facing peer-effects investigations, we document strong evidence of peer influence. For instance, in the face of a one standard-deviation increase in the grant rate of her peer group, an examiner in her first two years at the Patent Office will experience a 0.15 standard-deviation increase in her own grant rate. Moreover, we document a number of markers suggesting that such influences arise, at least in part, through knowledge spillovers among examiners, as distinct from peer-pressure mechanisms. We even find evidence that some amount of these spillovers may reflect knowledge flows regarding specific pieces of prior art that bear on the patentability of the applications in question, as opposed to just knowledge flows regarding general examination styles. Finally, we find evidence suggesting that the magnitude of these peer examiner influences are just as strong, or stronger, than the influence of the examination styles of supervisors.
M50|Application of the Principle of Fairness in the Distribution of Rewards: Evidence from Serbia and Bosnia & Herzegovina|In the search for additional data, which would enable the conclusion on the implementation of the principle of fairness in the distribution of rewards as one of the key ethical concepts in relations between employers and employees, a survey was conducted, which entailed the corresponding proportional number of respondents from Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to enable comparison of results. On the basis of secondary data, this research started from the assumption that the principle of Procedural justice in the distribution of income in Serbia and B&H has been insufficiently applied in practice in organizations in these two countries. It has been assumed that the ownership structure of the company (organization) affects the degree of implementation of the principles of fairness. The aim of this paper is to identify elements of the system of rewards which determine the perception of fairness among employees and to what extent they are implemented in organizations in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this paper the authors are looking for the identification of elements that form the basis of fairness in the distribution of rewards and their importance for the perception of fairness. Methodologically, the paper is based on the analysis of the existing literature, secondary sources and statistically processed results of the survey conducted in 328 organizations in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The results of this analysis indicate that the elements of fairness in distribution of rewards were neglected in the organizations analyzed in this research. According to the presented data of the research conducted on the sample of 325 respondents in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina hypotheses are confirmed that the principles of procedural justice are not sufficiently applied in organizations in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Their application depends on the form of ownership. Low perception of procedural practice in distribution of rewards may have negative impact on business results, which can be the subject of some future research.
M50|School Management and Public–Private Partnerships in Uganda|Can the quality of school management explain differences in student test scores? In this paper, I present the first internationally benchmarked estimates of school management quality in Africa (based on the ‘World Management Survey’). The level and distribution of management quality is similar to that found in other low and middle-income countries (India and Brazil). I combine this data with individual student panel data, and demonstrate that differences in school management quality matter for student value-added—a standard deviation difference in management is associated with a 0.06 standard deviation difference in test scores. Finally, I contribute to understanding the role of the private sector in education in a low-income setting. Contrary to common perception, I find no difference between the quality of school management in government, private or public–private partnership (PPP) schools (despite the higher level of autonomy available to them). An exception is an internationally owned chain of PPP schools, which are as well managed as schools in the UK.
M50|An Assessment Method for Employees Performance Evaluation Using Cluster Analysis|Call Center industry has rapidly increased in number over the last ten to 15 years in the world. Nowadays call centers have become an important part of Customer Relationship Management (CRM). They are often the primary source of contact for customers. As a result, customer representatives are most important components of such call centers. The customer representatives first welcome the customers. The customers assume that the agents represent both the company and theirselves. Thus, the quality of the service by given the agents represent the company. In this context, the performance of the agents are extremely important for the company. Staffing costs account for over half of a call center?s total operations costs. Every call center has its own performance measurements that help internal managers to determine the level of success or failure of various agent activities. In this study, it is considered the criteria that the call centers consider in performance appraising of the customer representatives. The Cluster Analysis and Multidimensional Scaling techniques are used to classify the performance criteria. Clustering is the grouping of similar objects using data from the objects (Seber, G.A.F., 1984). This study is aimed to classify the customer representatives according to their similar performance characteristics using Cluster Analysis. The data used in analysis is taken from a inbound call center in Istanbul which belongs to 190 employees. This data contains number of calls, sales and churn rates. Firstly hierarchical clustering methods were used to decide the number of clusters. Five different performance levels (groups) were created and then were used Multidimensional Scaling. The basic result of multidimensional scaling is a spatial map. Similar results were obtained when two analysis results were compared. It is seen the best variables for evaluating the performance of employees are the number of calls and sales values. In the clustering analysis a clear clustering was occurred especially according to the number of calls. In multidimensional scaling outcomes, it is easier to observe customer representatives that differ from other performance criteria, such as sales, sales proposal and cancellation. The evaluation of employee performance is of great importance for both managers and employee motivation. A fair assessment can be made using Cluster Analysis for employee performance evaluation.
M50|Who Benefits from Bans on Employer Credit Checks?|Eleven states limit employers’ use of credit reports, and prominent politicians have proposed a national ban. This paper evaluates the success of these credit check bans in helping financially distressed individuals find employment. In the Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP), we identify those likely to directly benefit from credit check bans – unemployed individuals with recent financial trouble. Exploiting the staggered passage of state bans, we find that banning credit checks increases the likelihood of finding a job by twenty-five percent among people who have had trouble meeting their expenses. We find a small and statistically insignificant change in job-finding rates among people who have not had recent financial trouble and a statistically insignificant impact on minorities overall.
M50|Determinants and effects of formal target agreements: an empirical investigation of German firms|Abstract We investigate organizational determinants and performance effects of formal target agreements for employees based on the IAB establishment panel, a representative panel of German establishments. The results show that establishments with a high employee turnover rate, a large proportion of temporary workers, and a highly qualified workforce are significantly more likely to implement target agreements. Also, establishments with works councils installed are more likely to do so, controlling, among others, for firm size. Concerning organizational performance, we apply a first-difference and a fixed effects approach and find that establishments that implement target agreements achieve around 5 % higher total sales compared to firms that did not introduce this practice. Hence, organizations seem to benefit from the implementation of formal target agreements for employees.
M50|Accelerating GARCH and Score-Driven Models: Optimality, Estimation and Forecasting|We first consider an extension of the generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (GARCH) model that allows for a more flexible weighting of financial squared-returns for the filtering of volatility. The parameter for the squared-return in the GARCH model is time- varying with an updating function similar to GARCH but with the squared-return replaced by the product of the volatility innovation and its lagged value. This local estimate of the first order autocorrelation of volatility innovations acts as an indicator of the importance of the squared-return for volatility updating. When recent volatility innovations have the same sign (positive autocorrelation), the current volatility estimate needs to adjust more quickly than in a period where recent volatility innovations have mixed signs (negative autocorrelation). The empirical relevance of the accelerated GARCH updating is illustrated by forecasting daily volatility in return series of all individual stocks present in the Standard & Poorâ€™s 500 index. Major improvements are reported for those stock return series that exhibit high kurtosis. The local adjustment in weighting new observational information is generalised to score-driven time-varying parameter models of which GARCH is a special case. It is within this general framework that we provide the theoretical foundations of accelerated updating. We show that acceleration in updating is more optimal in terms of reducing Kullback-Leibler divergence and in comparison to fixed updating. The robustness of our proposed extension is highlighted in a simulation study within a misspecified modelling framework. The score-driven acceleration is also empirically illustrated with the forecasting of US inflation using a model with time-varying mean and variance; we report significant improvements in the forecasting accuracy at a yearly horizon.
M50|Increasing the Well-Being of Others On-the-Job and Outside the Workplace|We study the relationship between workers' opportunities to help others on-the-job and volunteering behavior outside the workplace. We predict that there is substitutability between workers' contribution to other peoples' well-being by exerting effort on-the-job and outside the workplace. We test this prediction using rich data from the Dutch LISS Panel. We exploit variation in workers' opportunities to help others on-the-job from two sources: i) workers' job switching behavior and ii) changes in workers' opportunities to help others on their current job through plausibly exogenous changes in workers' match of mission preferences with their employer. We find some support for our prediction.
M50|The anticipation and adaptation effects of intra- and interpersonal wage changes on job satisfaction|This paper analyses how individual job satisfaction is affected by wage changes. In order to account for potential dynamic effects of wage changes on job satisfaction, we include lead and lag effects of wage changes in our analysis. Furthermore, we examine the role of social comparisons. This strategy allows us to account for implications of behavioural theory and permits an appropriate methodological approach.
M50|Because of you I did not give up - How peers affect perseverance|Various empirical papers have shown that peers affect productivity and behavior in the workplace. However, the mechanisms through which peers influence each other are still largely unknown. In this laboratory experiment we study a situation in which individuals might look at their peers' behavior to motivate themselves to endure in a task that requires perseverance. We test the impact of unidirectional peer effects under individual monetary incentives, controlling for ability and tactics. We find that peers significantly increase their observers' perseverance, while knowing about being observed does not significantly affect behavior. In a second experiment we investigate the motives to self-select into the role of an observing or an observant subject and what kind of peers individuals deliberately choose. Our findings provide first insights on the perception of peer situations by individuals and new empirical evidence on how peer groups emerge.
M50|Pooling hawks and doves: Interim-efficient labor contracts for other-regarding agents|Behavioral contract theory typically argues that agents who differ in their intrinsic motivations to collaborate or to compete would be screened by principals or self-sort in labor market equilibrium. This view contrasts with the empirical observation that workers' perceived support from coworkers is a key factor for labor turnover. The present study considers a principal-multiple agents model with independent efforts. Agents are privately informed about their more or less pronounced altruistic (spiteful) preferences. It is shown that the interim-efficient labor contract is a pooling contract that ex interim Pareto-dominates any allocation that could be achieved under complete information. Hence, all parties prefer the composition of social types to be random. The distributive effects of interim-efficient contracting are closely related to the hawk-dove game, with workers suffering from less altruistic coworkers. The results indicate that corporate culture has a random component associated with workers' intrinsic motivations to collaborate or to compete.
M50|Durchsetzungsorientiert, hart oder sachorientiert, kooperativ verhandeln - welche Einschätzungen und Erwartungen haben Studierende?|Die Autorinnen haben bereits 2015 die Ergebnisse einer Studie zur Frage, welchen Einfluss die Wahl der Verhandlungsstrategie und das Geschlecht der verhandelnden Person sowie die Interaktion dieser beiden Variablen auf den Verhandlungserfolg von Führungskräften in Gehaltsverhandlungen haben, vorgestellt (vgl. Ruppert/Voigt 2015b). Diese Studie zeigte, dass Führungskräfte den Einsatz von Verhandlungstaktiken, die der sachorientierten, kooperativen Verhandlungsstrategie zuzuordnen sind, im Hinblick auf die Erfolgsaussichten in Gehaltsverhandlungen besser bewerten als Verhandlungstaktiken, die im Kontext einer durchsetzungsorientierten, harten Verhandlungsstrategie zum Einsatz kommen. In dem von ihnen im Rahmen dieser Studie durchgeführten Befragungsexperiment erwies sich die sachorientierte, kooperative Verhandlungsstrategie als - wenn auch nur minimal - erfolgreicher als die durchsetzungsorientierte, harte (vgl. Ruppert/Voigt 2015b). Parallel zu diesem Forschungsprojekt mit Führungskräften haben sie mit den gleichen methodischen Instrumenten eine Untersuchung mit Studierenden durchgeführt und die Ergebnisse der beiden Studien miteinander verglichen. Es zeigt sich, dass sich die Einschätzungen und Erwartungen der Studierenden von denen der Führungskräfte deutlich unterscheiden. Diese Unterschiede haben Implikationen für die Lehre an der Hoch-schule, insb. im Hinblick auf die Vermittlung von Schlüsselkompetenzen, die weiter zu diskutieren sind.
M50|Self-managed working time and firm performance: Microeconometric evidence|This paper empirically examines the impact of self-managed working time (SMWT) on firm performance using panel data from German establishments. As a policy for the decentralization of decision rights, SMWT provides employees with extensive control over scheduling individual working time. From a theoretical viewpoint, SMWT has ambiguous effects on both worker productivity and wages. Based on the construction of a quasi-natural experiment and the combination of a differences-in-differences approach with propensity score matching as an identification strategy, the empirical analysis shows that up to five years after introduction, SMWT increases firm productivity by about 9% and wage costs by about 8.5%. This implies that SMWT improves both individual and firm productivity, and supplemental evidence shows that these productivity enhancements can primarily be explained by incentive effects associated with decentralization policies in general.
M50|Morale, Relationships, and Wages: An Experimental Study|Many labor relations are characterized by the possibility of repeated interaction without long term contracts and with discretionary pay components. We implement such a structure in the lab by allowing workers and firms to interact repeatedly for many periods absent a pre-announced final period. In this setting persistent and different human resource practices emerge endogenously: we find (long-term) relationships characterized by generous surplus sharing and spot-interactions with little to no rent for the workers. Efficiency, i.e. exerted effort, is comparable across these two institutions. Hence, spot-interactions are at least as profitable for firms engaging in such relationships. In control treatments, we show that neither limited firm commitment nor structural unemployment alone is sufficient to generate these patterns. Analyzing individual level data, we document that firm and worker behavior are individually rational and that individual histories play a significant role in explaining the observed behavior.
M50|The Rapid Adoption of Data-Driven Decision-Making|We provide a systematic empirical study of the diffusion and adoption patterns of data-driven decision making (DDD) in the U.S. Using data collected by the Census Bureau for a large representative sample of manufacturing plants, we find that DDD rates nearly tripled (11%-30%) between 2005 and 2010. This rapid diffusion, along with results from a companion paper, are consistent with case-based evidence that DDD tends to be productivity-enhancing. Yet certain plants are significantly more likely to adopt than others. Key correlates of adoption are size, presence of potential complements such as information technology and educated workers, and firm learning.
M50|Mass Layoffs, Manufacturing And State Business Climates: Does State Policy Matter?|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12157-abs-0001""> This study provides the first estimates on the relationship between state public policies and job losses in the manufacturing sector. In addition, spatial model estimation is adopted to identify any effect that state policies may have on the adopting state as well as upon neighboring states. We find evidence that favorable ratings regarding some elements of a state's business climate coincide with a lower incidence of job loss. This relationship holds beyond the adopting state and is correlated with lower job losses in contiguous states. (JEL J50, J60, M50)"
M50|Self-managed working time and firm performance: Microeconometric evidence|This paper empirically examines the impact of self-managed working time (SMWT) on firm per-formance using panel data from German establishments. As a policy for the decentralization of decision rights, SMWT provides employees with extensive control over scheduling individual working time. From a theoretical viewpoint, SMWT has ambiguous effects on both worker productivity and wages. Based on the construction of a quasi-natural experiment and the combination of a differences-in-differences approach with propensity score matching as an identification strategy, the empirical analysis shows that up to five years after introduction, SMWT increases firm productivity by about 9% and wage costs by about 8.5%. This implies that SMWT improves both individual and firm productivity, and supplemental evidence shows that these productivity enhancements can primarily be explained by incentive effects associated with decentralization policies in general.
M50|Working from Home - What is the Effect on Employees' Effort?|This paper investigates how working from home affects employees' work effort. Employees, who have the possibility to work from home, have a high autonomy in scheduling their work and therefore are assumed to have a higher intrinsic motivation. Thus, we expect working from home to positively influence work effort of employees. For the empirical analysis we use the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP). To account for self-selection into working locations we use an instrumental variable (IV) estimation strategy. Our empirical results show that working from home has a significantly positive influence on work effort. Moreover, we find that also the frequency of working from home is crucial. The more often employees work from home, the higher is the work effort they provide.
M50|Manager Assignment and Project Returns: Evidence from the World Bank|I study the impact of World Bank managers on project success through the value-added method. Manager effects are interpretable as performance indices and are more volatile than country effects. Both correlate positively with determinants of productivity (i.e., schooling and institutions respectively) and provide evidence of a negative assortative matching, with high-performing managers assigned to low-performing countries. Exploiting a novel variation for World Bank board access, I find a significant manager premium for countries in the board. All of these results are consistent with the World Bank behaving as a planner which assigns its managers as project inputs to client countries.
M50|Market Interaction and Efficient Cooperation|We experimentally study causal effects of competitive market experience on efficiency levels attained in a subsequent social dilemma. We compare behavior of pairs of traders who have been market-winners with that of pairs who have been market- losers. We study both the cases where traders interacting in the social dilemma have competed with each other in the market before and where traders do not have a shared market experience. Shared market experience adversely affects efficiency in the social dilemma for both market-winner and market-loser pairs. Market-winners achieve higher efficiency levels in the social dilemma only if market experience is not shared.
M50|A productive clash of cultures : injecting economics into leadership research|Research on leadership in economics has developed in parallel to the literature in management and psychology and links between the fields have been sparse. Whereas modern leadership scholars mostly focus on transformational and related leadership styles, economists have mainly emphasized the role of contracts, control rights, and incentives. We argue that both fields could profit from enriching their approach with insights from the other field. We review and synthesize the economics literature on leadership in organizations and discuss how leadership scholars in management and psychology can benefit from the detailed understanding of transactional methods that economists have developed. We link the contributions in economics to a broad set of topics including the foundations of leadership, leader emergence, and leader effectiveness. At the same time, we also point out limitations of the economic approach and outline how the integration of leadership research and economics would broaden the scope of future studies.
M50|The workforce of pioneer plants|Does technology require labour mobility to diffuse? To explore this, we use German social-security data and ask how plants that pioneer an industry in a location – and for which the local labour market offers no experienced workers – assemble their workforces. These pioneers use different recruiting strategies than plants elsewhere: they hire more workers from outside their industry and from outside their region, especially when workers come from closely related industries or are highly skilled. The importance of access to experienced workers is highlighted in the diffusion of industries from western Germany to the post-reunification economy of eastern German. While manufacturing employment declined in most advanced economies, eastern German regions managed to reindustrialise. The pioneers involved in this process relied heavily on expertise from western Germany: while establishing new manufacturing industries in the East, they sourced half of their experienced workers from the West.
M50|Internal Control And Monitoring. Concepts, Tools And Models Of Implementation|The internal control system is currently under international control in a proper manner since the early 90s, when The Internal Control-Integrated Framework was published in 1992 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission knowing over the years a series of steps that have marked key moments in shaping this system designed in particular to protect the financial resources of the institutions.
M50|Risks In Public Procurement|Risks in public procurement, field of activity carried out by economists, can be defined as probable events that may have an undesirable impact on the results, namely that inevitably lead to the occurrence of irregularities / event which may harm the objectives of the contracting authority. Public procurement process must be oriented towards the ultimate beneficiary of public investments made or citizen so that this process must support true competition genuine leading to selection of the most effective offers, namely to achieve the best product, service or work.
M50|Efectos del miedo en los trabajadores y la organizacio?n|A partir de la propuesta de Deming sobre erradicar el miedo en el lugar de trabajo, diferentes investigaciones han encontrado que esta emocio?n es negativa para los trabajadores y las organizaciones. Este arti?culo tiene como objetivo identificar los efectos que el miedo genera en los trabajadores y en las organizaciones. Para ello, se realizo? una revisio?n bibliogra?fica sobre los estudios del miedo en la organizacio?n y sus implicaciones en el trabajo. De este modo se agruparon los efectos del miedo en el trabajador y en la organizacio?n y se analizaron sus implicaciones, a partir de lo cual se encontro? que identificar los efectos que tiene el miedo en la organizacio?n contribuye a la comprensio?n del papel que tienen las subjetividades en el contexto organizacional y el funcionamiento de estas.
M50|The newsvendor problem with convex risk|The newsvendor problem is a classical topic in Management Science and Operations Research. It deals with purchases and price strategies when a least one deadline is involved. In this paper we will assume that the decision is driven by an optimization problem involving both expected pro ts and risks. As a main novelty, risks will be given by a convex risk measure, including the usual utility functions. This approach will allow us to nd necessary and su¢ cient optimality conditions under very general frameworks, since we will not need any speci c assumption about the demand distribution.
M50|Media attention and betting markets|This paper investigates whether biased media attention affects perceptions about future events. We use data on World Cup tournaments in alpine skiing for the period of 1992–2014 and exploit close races as a source of randomness for ranking positions. Since the allocation of media attention is skewed towards the winner and athletes on the podium, we can estimate the causal effect of media attention. Our results document that ranking schemes generate sharp discontinuities in media attention even in close competitions. However, both regression discontinuity and instrumental variables estimates reveal that biased media attention neither affects prices nor quantities in the betting market. We conduct a series of robustness tests to explore the sensitivity of our results.
M50|Hierarchies and entrepreneurship|We establish a correlation between the hierarchical structure of a firm and the likelihood of business creation among its former employees, using a sample of 16 million observations of Swedish workers and a novel proxy for hierarchies based on occupation data. Conditional on firm size and many other variables, employees in firms with more layers are less likely to enter entrepreneurship, to become self-employed, and to switch to another employer. The effects of layers are much stronger for business creation than for job-switching and they are stronger for entrepreneurship than for self-employment. We discuss two potential explanations for the distinctive hierarchy effect we find. Part of the effect could be to be due to preference sorting by employees, and part due to employees in firms with fewer layers having a broader range of skills. One test showing that the probability of entrepreneurship increases with their prior rank in an organization is consistent with ability sorting and inconsistent with preference sorting.
M50|Retraining investment for U.S. transition from coal to solar photovoltaic employment|Although coal remains the largest source of electricity in the U.S., a combination of factors is driving a decrease in profitability and employment in the coal-sector. Meanwhile, the solar photovoltaic (PV) industry is growing rapidly in the U.S. and generating many jobs that represent employment opportunities for laid off coal workers. In order to determine the viability of a smooth transition from coal to PV-related employment, this paper provides an analysis of the cost to retrain current coal workers for solar photovoltaic industry employment in the U.S. The current coal industry positions are determined, the skill sets are evaluated and the salaries are tabulated. For each type of coal position, the closest equivalent PV position is determined and then the re-training time and investment are quantified. These values are applied on a state-by-state basis for coal producing states employing the bulk of coal workers as a function of time using a reverse seniority retirement program for the current American fleet of coal-powered plants. The results show that a relatively minor investment in retraining would allow the vast majority of coal workers to switch to PV-related positions even in the event of the elimination of the coal industry.
M50|Social norms of work ethic and incentives in organizations|In this paper, I model the relation between the dissemination of social norms of work effort (work ethic) in a given society and the choice of incentives by firms, and I motivate it by presenting evidence from three different datasets that suggests that work ethic is correlated with the intensity of firms’ incentives. When the effort choices of different agents in a firm are complementary, having hard-working coworkers makes an agent more productive. Therefore, in equilibrium, she will work harder. Foreseeing that a work ethic is more useful to hard-working agents, parents will be more willing to transmit it in societies in which the probability that their offspring will have coworkers with strong work ethic is higher. I then expand the model to incorporate the firm technology choice, allowing firms to decide between complementary and separable production processes. In societies with wide dissemination of work ethic, firms will want effort to be complementary (as in modern production processes), while the opposite is true when the dissemination of work ethic is narrow. Finally, I investigate the comparative dynamics of the model.
M50|Loss averse agents and lenient supervisors in performance appraisal|A consistent empirical literature shows that in many organizations supervisors systematically overrate their employees’ performance. Such leniency bias is at odds with the standard principal-agent model and has been explained with causes that range from social interactions to fairness concerns and to collusive behavior between the supervisor and the agent. We show that the principal-agent model, extended to consider loss-aversion and reference-dependent preferences, predicts that the leniency bias is comparatively less detrimental to effort provision than the severity bias. We test this prediction with a laboratory experiment where we demonstrate that failing to reward deserving agents is significantly more detrimental than rewarding undeserving agents. This offers a novel explanation as to why supervisors tend to be lenient in their appraisals.
M50|Specifics of the Development of Family Businesses in the Czech Republic|In many developed countries, there has been a long tradition of family enterprises, and family enterprises have played a major role in national economies. A family enterprise can be regarded as the main pillar of economy, providing many job opportunities. In functioning market economies, family enterprises are associated both with small businesses but also large corporations, and present a major source of income for the state budget. The support of family enterprises is based on a sophisticated ecosystem of national institutions, associations, educational and research centres. In the Czech Republic, family businesses are mostly associated with small and medium-sized enterprises. These play a major role in the development of the endogenous potential of individual regions of the Czech Republic. Family enterprises are linked to a particular region, both commercially and socially, and form a regional business backbone and a basis for regional infrastructure. Their task also lies in the social area. The purpose of this article is to define a family business and to define the status of family businesses, in particular in the Czech Republic. The subject matter of the research is a family business as an economic feature. The scientific objective is to evaluate the current situation in the Czech Republic, and to propose functional ecosystem support of family enterprises, based on university educational programmes. The paper has been prepared on the basis of general theoretical scientific methods, in particular the method of comparison of secondary data in published publicly available researches, its analysis, synthesis, comparison, analogy, deduction and generalisation, and using a method of professional estimates. This study helped to establish that family businesses represent a true economic potential for the Czech Republic. A conclusion was made that an expert group for a family enterprise should be established, in cooperation with the Association of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises and Crafts of the CR and one of the universities in the CR. This group should coordinate the origin of a comprehensive educational programme covering issues such as the specifics of family business management, handing over a family enterprise to the next generation, risk management, how to manage the entry of family businesses to foreign markets, and how to access funds and subsidies for their further development.
M50|Valuing Alternative Work Arrangements|We employ a discrete choice experiment in the employment process for a national call center to estimate the willingness to pay distribution for alternative work arrangements relative to traditional office positions. Most workers are not willing to pay for scheduling flexibility, though a tail of workers with high valuations allows for sizable compensating differentials. The average worker is willing to give up 20 percent of wages to avoid a schedule set by an employer on short notice, and 8 percent for the option to work from home. We also document that many job-seekers are inattentive, and we account for this in estimation.
M50|Mechanisms for Quality Assurance of Universities in Cameroon|This paper takes a perspective look at the evolution of universities in Cameroon and the recent orientation of deregulation as it affects quality assurance in these universities. The paper identifies these flaws by attempting to elucidate the meaning of the mechanism for quality assurance in the face of deregulation. The regulatory mechanisms identified by this paper include inter-alia, appropriate scrutiny of new programs, relying on impartial advice from examiners using the state law NO.98/004 of1998 to compliment the efforts of internal school administration. And above all opening linkages between universities and relating universities education in the world of science and technology, this paper does not only enhance quality assurance but also builds on the idea of economic growth and development.
M50|“No more credit score”: employer credit check bans and signal substitution|In the past decade, most states have banned or considered banning the use of credit checks in hiring decisions, a screening tool that is widely used by employers. Using new Equifax data on employer credit checks, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax data, and the LEHD Origin-Destination Employment data, we show that these bans increased employment of residents in the lowest-credit score census tracts. The largest gains occurred in higher-paying jobs and in the government sector. At the same time, using a large database of job postings, we show that employers increased their demand for other signals of applicants’ job performance, like education and experience. On net, the changes induced by these bans generate relatively worse outcomes for those with mid-to-low credit scores, for those under 22 years of age, and for blacks, groups commonly thought to benefit from such legislation.
M50|The role of financial reporting and transparency in corporate governance|The authors review recent literature on the role of corporate financial reporting and transparency in reducing governance-related agency conflicts between managers, directors, shareholders, and other stakeholders—most notably financial regulators—and suggest some avenues for future research. Key themes include the endogenous nature of governance mechanisms with respect to information asymmetry between contracting parties, the heterogeneous nature of the informational demands of contracting parties, and the corresponding heterogeneity of the associated governance mechanisms. The authors also emphasize the role of credible commitment to financial reporting transparency in facilitating informal multiperiod contracts among managers, directors, shareholders, and other stakeholders. Finally, they discuss the importance of regulatory supervision and oversight as a class of governance mechanisms that is particularly important for banks and financial institutions.
M50|A Productive Clash of Cultures: Injecting Economics into Leadership Research|Research on leadership in economics has developed in parallel to the literature in management and psychology and links between the fields have been sparse. Whereas modern leadership scholars mostly focus on transformational and related leadership styles, economists have mainly emphasized the role of contracts, control rights, and incentives. We argue that both fields could profit from enriching their approach with insights from the other field. We review and synthesize the economics literature on leadership in organizations and discuss how leadership scholars in management and psychology can benefit from the detailed understanding of transactional methods that economists have developed. We link the contributions in economics to a broad set of topics including the foundations of leadership, leader emergence, and leader effectiveness. At the same time, we also point out limitations of the economic approach and outline how the integration of leadership research and economics would broaden the scope of future studies.
M50|New firm formation in the wake of mergers and acquisitions: Are employees pushed or pulled into entrepreneurship?|This study investigates the relationship between mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and employee entrepreneurship in human capital-intensive service sectors. We investigate two sets of theoretical mechanisms. First, M&As may push employees entrepreneurship by lowering the average barriers of leaving the current employment (i.e. being associated with general deterioration of working conditions). Second, M&A activities may generate new entrepreneurial opportunities, which are first and foremost accessible by employees directly affected by M&As. Results on employee entrepreneurship in 3 039 Swedish firms during the time period 2000-2009 confirm that the number of firms spawned from a specific incumbent increases following an M&A. Push-oriented factors are found to contribute to this effect, but a dominating part of the total effect remains unexplained. This suggests that pull-oriented explanations of opportunity creation in the wake of M&As constitute an important avenue for further research on employee entrepreneurship.
M50|Because of you I did not give up - How peers affect perseverance|Various empirical paper have shown that peers affect productivity and behavior in the workplace. However, the mechanisms through which peers influence each other are still largely unknown. In this laboratory experiment we study a situation in which individuals might look at their peers' behavior to motivate themselves to endure in a task that requires perseverance. We test the impact of unidirectional peer effects under individual monetary incentives, controlling for ability and tactics. We find that peers significantly increase their observers' perseverance, while knowing about being observed does not significantly affect behavior. In a second experiment we investigate the motives to self-select into the role of an observing or an observant subject and what kind of peers individuals deliberately choose. Our findings from this treatment provide first insights on the perception of peer situations by individuals and new empirical evidence on how peer groups emerge.
M50|製品開発におけるアイデア創出，コンセプト策定，および人材マネジメント：日中韓比較|本稿は，日中韓３か国の製造業およびソフトウェア業の企業に対する質問紙調査データの分析結果である．この調査の最大の特徴は，製品開発における製品のアイデア出しや製品コンセプト策定などの「上流工程」（フロントエンド）と人材マジメントとの関連に焦点を絞ることにある．このように焦点を絞ったのは，そこに従来の研究では明らかにされてこなかった空白領域があり，なおかつ実務的にも製品開発の成果を決定づける重要なプロセスにほかならないからである．この調査で得た特に重要な論点を，日本を中心にまとめると以下の通りである．(1)日本において，製品開発の全工程を一貫して製品開発エンジニアが主導する割合が，3か国の中で最も高い．(2)上流工程主導者の職務経験に関しては，マーケティング・営業経験者の割合が3か国の中で最も低い．(3)製品企画担当者の位置づけについては，「技術者に近い」とする回答割合が3か国で最も高く，「経営企画に近い」とする回答割合が3か国で最も低い．(4)開発した製品の市場での成功と失敗とが処遇に反映される度合は，3か国中で最も低い．また，長期的インセンティブ付与（＝ポストによる処遇）に重点が置かれている．以上の結果の含意は，次のように考えられる．(1)調整作業がより多く必要になると考えられるインテグラル・アーキテクチャ製品の場合，同一の主導者が一貫して開発全工程を主導する開発スタイルは有効である．したがって，日本企業がインテグラル・アーキテクチャを堅持する限り，この開発スタイルを不用意に変えるべきではない．(2)しかしその一方で，日本企業の開発スタイルは，負の側面をも持つ．すなわち，製品開発の全工程を一貫して製品開発エンジニアが主導し，上流工程主導者にマーケティングもしくは営業の職務経験が「ない」という状況は，上流工程に市場ニーズの情報が入りにくい構造になっていることを意味する．(3)したがって求められる改革は，「技術もわかる」マーケティング担当者と「市場もわかる」製品開発エンジニアの育成であり，その協業体制の構築である．
M50|Analysis Of The Mixture Of Cultural Types Under Competitive Values Framework In Public And Private Companies In The Mexican Shallows, Analisis Del Tipo De Cultura Organizacional En Empresas Publicas Y Privadas Del Bajio Mexicano Bajo El Modelo De Valores En Competencia|This paper studies organizational climate and culture in public and private organizations in the Bajio region in Mexico. We analyze their culture typeÂ´s mix under the Competing Values Framework CVF, determining if one domain prevails over others. This additionally verifies differences among variables forming the four culture types. The sample included 26 companies from diverse industry sectors. The Mexican validated version of the Organizational Climate and Culture Survey, was applied to 1,444 employees. The study links organizational climate and culture. Notwithstanding that, the four cultural domains (clan, adhocracy, hierarchy and market) are present in the organizations of the sample as predicted by the CVF. Market culture is more prevalent. In order to comprehend climate and culture in the organizations, the consideration of the confluence and linkage of all CVFÂ´s quadrants is needed.
M50|Gender, Competition and Performance: Evidence from Real Tournaments|There is a growing literature looking at how men and women respond differently to competition. We contribute to this literature by studying gender differences in performance in a high-stakes and male dominated competitive environment, expert chess tournaments. Our findings show that women underperform compared to men of the same ability and that the gender composition of games drives this effect. Using within player variation in the conditionally random gender of their opponent, we find that women earn significantly worse outcomes against male opponents. We examine the mechanisms through which this effect operates by using a unique measure of within game quality of play. We find that the gender composition effect is driven by women playing worse against men, rather than by men playing better against women. The gender of the opponent does not affect a male player’s quality of play. We also find that men persist longer against women before resigning. These results suggest that the gender composition of competitions affects the behavior of both men and women in ways that are detrimental to the performance of women. Lastly, we study the effect of competitive pressure and find that players’ quality of play deteriorates when stakes increase, though we find no differential effect over the gender composition of games.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M50|What Role Did Management Practices Play in SME Growth Post-recession?|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are known to contribute significantly to aggregate economic growth. However, little is known about the role played by management practices in SME growth since recession. We contribute to the literature on SME growth by analysing longitudinal administrative data on firms' employment and turnover, taken from the UK's Business Structure Database (BSD), with data on management practices collected in face-to-face interviews from the HR Managers and employees who were surveyed as part of the 2011 British Workplace Employment Relations Survey (WERS). We find off-the-job training is the only management practice that is robustly and significantly associated with higher employment growth, increased turnover, and a decline in closure probabilities, over the period 2011-2014. The findings suggest SME investment in off-the-job training is sub-optimal in Britain such that firms could benefit economically from increasing the amount of off-the-job training they offer to their non-managerial employees.
M50|Gender Differences in Cooperative Environments? Evidence from the U.S. Congress|This paper uses data on bill sponsorship and cosponsorship in the U.S. House of Representatives to estimate gender differences in cooperative behavior. We employ a number of econometric methodologies to address the potential selection of female representatives into electoral districts with distinct preferences for cooperativeness, including regression discontinuity and matching. After accounting for selection, we find that among Democrats there is no significant gender gap in the number of cosponsors recruited, but women-sponsored bills tend to have fewer cosponsors from the opposite party. On the other hand, we find robust evidence that Republican women recruit more cosponsors and attract more bipartisan support on the bills that they sponsor. This is particularly true on bills that address issues more relevant for women, over which female Republicans have possibly preferences that are closer to those of Democrats. We interpret these results as evidence that cooperation is mostly driven by a commonality of interest, rather than gender per se.
M50|When does HRM 'Work' in Small British Enterprises?|Using nationally representative workplace data we find substantial use of high-performance work systems (HPWS) in Britain's small enterprises. We find empirical support for the proposition that HPWS have a non-linear association with employees' overall job attitude, with a positive association apparent where HPWS are used intensively. These associations are robust to factors often cited as obstacles to HPWS implementation such as informality and family ownership.
M50|Working-time autonomy as a management practice|Allowing workers to control their work hours (working-time autonomy) is a controversial policy for worker empowerment, with concerns that range from increased shirking to excessive intensification of work. Empirical evidence, however, supports neither view. Recent studies find that working-time autonomy improves individual and firm performance without promoting overload or exhaustion from work. However, if working-time autonomy is incorporated into a system of family-friendly workplace practices, firms may benefit from the trade-off between (more) fringe benefits and (lower) wages but not from increased productivity.
M50|Numerical labor flexibility and innovation outcomes of start-up firms: A panel data analysis|Using a panel data set based on repeated questionnaire surveys of Japanese start-up firms, this study examines the effects of numerical labor flexibility on the innovation outcomes of start-up firms, a topic on which there is currently insufficient research. Here, numerical labor flexibility is defined as the external labor turnover of regular employees and the proportion of non-regular employees, and innovation outcomes include product innovation and patent applications. The estimation results of a random-effects probit model indicate that an inverted U-shaped relationship exists between the external labor turnover of regular employees and the probability of patent applications. Moreover, a similar U-shaped relationship exists between the proportion of non-regular employees and the probability of product innovation. These results are interpreted in light of the organizational characteristics of start-up firms. The implications of the findings are discussed.
M50|Complementarities of Human-Resource Management Practices: A Case for a Behavioral-Economics Perspective|We stress the relevance of complementarities of human-resource management (HRM) practices for explaining persistent productivity differences across organizations. We give an overview of economics as well as strategic HRM literature, document gaps, and show how insights from behavioral economics can inform the analysis. To this end, we develop a simple agency model illustrating how social preferences influence the design and consequences of incentive schemes, investigate how auxiliary HRM practices can strengthen this interaction, and discuss other behavioral subfields that are also suited to inform research on complementarities. Finally, we give an outlook on further research in this field.
M50|Gender, competition and performance:Evidence from real tournaments|There is a growing literature looking at how men and women respond differently to competition. We contribute to this literature by studying gender differences in performance in a high-stakes and male dominated competitive environment, expert chess tournaments. Our findings show that women underperform compared to men of the same ability and that the gender composition of games drives this effect. Using within player variation in the conditionally random gender of their opponent, we find that women earn significantly worse outcomes against male opponents. We examine the mechanisms through which this effect operates by using a unique measure of within game quality of play. We find that the gender composition effect is driven by women playing worse against men, rather than by men playing better against women. The gender of the opponent does not affect a male player’s quality of play. We also find that men persist longer against women before resigning. These results suggest that the gender composition of competitions affects the behavior of both men and women in ways that are detrimental to the performance of women. Lastly, we study the effect of competitive pressure and find that players’ quality of play deteriorates when stakes increase, though we find no differential effect over the gender composition of games.
M50|Overconfidence and Occupational Choice|A statistical theory of overconfidence is proposed and applied to the issue of occupational choice. Individuals who can choose whether to engage in an activity or not must estimate their performance. The estimates have error and that error has positive expectation among those who engage in the activity. As a result, an unbiased ex ante estimate of performance in an occupatoin results in an ex post biased estimate of ability among those enter. The statistical theory of overconfidence provides a number of testable implications, most significant of which is that overconfidence should be more prevalent in occupations where estimates of ability are noisier. This and other implications are tested and found to hold using the Current Population Survey and Panel Study of Income Dynamics data.
M50|Using Lagged Outcomes to Evaluate Bias in Value-Added Models|Value-added (VA) models measure agents' productivity based on the outcomes they produce. The utility of VA models for performance evaluation depends on the extent to which VA estimates are biased by selection. One common method of evaluating bias in VA is to test for balance in lagged values of the outcome. We show that such balance tests do not yield robust information about bias in value-added models using Monte Carlo simulations. Even unbiased VA estimates can be correlated with lagged outcomes. More generally, tests using lagged outcomes are uninformative about the degree of bias in misspecified VA models. The source of these results is that VA is itself estimated using historical data, leading to non-transparent correlations between VA and lagged outcomes.
M50|Crowdsourcing City Government: Using Tournaments to Improve Inspection Accuracy|"The proliferation of big data makes it possible to better target city services like hygiene inspections, but city governments rarely have the in-house talent needed for developing prediction algorithms. Cities could hire consultants, but a cheaper alternative is to crowdsource competence by making data public and offering a reward for the best algorithm. A simple model suggests that open tournaments dominate consulting contracts when cities can tolerate risk and when there is enough labor with low opportunity costs. We also report on an inexpensive Boston-based restaurant tournament, which yielded algorithms that proved reasonably accurate when tested ""out-of-sample"" on hygiene inspections."
M50|Gender Differences in Cooperative Environments? Evidence from the U.S. Congress|This paper uses data on bill sponsorship and cosponsorship in the U.S. House of Representatives to estimate gender differences in cooperative behavior. We employ a number of econometric methodologies to address the potential selection of female representatives into electoral districts with distinct preferences for cooperativeness, including regression discontinuity and matching. After accounting for selection, we find that among Democrats there is no significant gender gap in the number of cosponsors recruited, but women-sponsored bills tend to have fewer cosponsors from the opposite party. On the other hand, we find robust evidence that Republican women recruit more cosponsors and attract more bipartisan support on the bills that they sponsor. This is particularly true on bills that address issues more relevant for women, over which female Republicans have possibly preferences that are closer to those of Democrats. We interpret these results as evidence that cooperation is mostly driven by a commonality of interest, rather than gender per se.
M50|Discrimination as a Self-Fulfilling Prophecy: Evidence from French Grocery Stores|Examining the performance of cashiers in a French grocery store chain, we find that manager bias negatively affects minority job performance. In the stores studied, cashiers work with different managers on different days and their schedules are determined quasi-randomly. When minority cashiers, but not majority cashiers, are scheduled to work with managers who are biased (as determined by an Implicit Association Test), they are absent more often, spend less time at work, scan items more slowly, and take more time between customers. Manager bias has consequences for the average performance of minority workers: while on average minority and majority workers perform equivalently, on days where managers are unbiased, minorities perform significantly better than do majority workers. This appears to be because biased managers interact less with minorities, leading minorities to exert less effort.
M50|Organizational Capacity, Regulatory Review, and the Limits of Political Control|Studies of administrative politics focus primarily on political control and ignore organizational capacity. We argue that political and organizational factors, as well as the interaction between the two, are necessary for explaining executive policymaking. To test this theory, we consider the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), an agency often perceived to be the president’s political instrument. Using a new dataset of over 22,000 regulations reviewed by OIRA, we demonstrate that political factors influence review lengths, but organizational factors also exhibit a significant role. We find that reviews are longer when OIRA is understaffed and over-worked. Significantly, we demonstrate that low organizational capacity inhibits the president’s ability to expedite priority rules. Overall, this study highlights the organizational limits of political control. (JEL H11, H83, K23, L50, L51, M50)
M50|Reward Management Practices-Evidence from Constanta County, Romania|Modern companies are aware of the importance of their human resources. The human resources management field raised numerous research themes that have been debated in the specialized literature. One of these themes concerns the relationship between the specific practices regarding human resources field and the level of performance achieved by the organization and its members. In this context, one important subject proved to be the reward practices used by the companies in order to motivate and achieve a certain level of performance. The results of several specialized studies reflect a better image on this particular field within the Romanian companies. This paper intends to analyse specific issues based on an empirical study on the companies located in Constanta County. The use of modern reward practices such as supplementary variable payment correlated with individual or group performances was targeted. The results indicate an area with underdeveloped practices and challenges to be faced.
M50|Emotional Intelligence: Requiring Attention|This article aims to highlight the need for emotional intelligence. Two methods of measurement are presented in this research, in order to better understand the necessity of a correct result. The results of research can lead to recommendations for improving levels of emotional intelligence and are useful for obtaining data to better compare past and present result. The papers presented in this research are significant for future study of this subject. The first paper presents the evolution of emotional intelligence in the past two years, more specifically its decrease concerning certain characteristics. The second one presents a research on the differences between generations. The third one shows a difference in emotional intelligence levels of children from rural versus urban environments and the obstacles that they encounter in their own development.
M50|The effect of crisis on employees’ stress and dissatisfaction|This study, using a random sample of employees working in the private and public sectors, investigates the effect of crisis on job stress and dissatisfaction. Two stage cluster sampling is first used to collect primary data and relying on our sample and the collected variables we model for the first time a number of qualitative variables as features representing crisis (especially stress and dissatisfaction but also migration, reprioritizing and behavioral changes). Logistic regressions are used next presenting us with many useful elements concerning the function of stress, dissatisfaction and supportive elements and offering the corresponding probability of the effect on employees during the crisis. There are many new findings like, among others, the acceptance of salary reductions, number of working hours, economic migration, behavioral changes between management and employees, reprioritizing, and minimization of career opportunities.
M50|Human capital and performance appraisal in the public sector: An empirical investigation from employees’ and senior managers’ perspective|Human capital is often considered as one of the most fundamental requirements for high organizational performance, whereas key driver for the achievement of higher levels of employees' productivity is considered the employment of a suitable performance appraisal system. Based on this perspective, we assume that every organization needs to establish an effective appraisal system which will be sufficient to facilitate employees’ continuous development. This is especially relevant for public sector organizations that in some countries implement fundamentally flawed performance appraisal systems. On the verge of the transition from the bureaucratic to the new public management model, the organizational units of the public sector seem to have an excellent opportunity to redesign their key processes, including human capital appraisal forms. This paper explores the context and role of a few critical human capital practices, which are mainly related to employees’ self-evaluation and performance appraisal, and are currently implemented in the Greek public sector. To attain our goal, an empirical investigation was conducted via a questionnaire survey to specifically determine whether self-evaluation and appraisal problems exist, in particular in terms of objectivity, consistency, adequacy, and credibility. The questionnaires were addressed both to employees and senior managers. The empirical results obtained, highlight some core problems that the public sector faces, with regard to existing self-evaluation systems and appraisal practices. These, among others, include the following: a lack of objectivity both in employees’ self-evaluation and in their appraisals assessed by the senior managers; inconsistencies between the way the public servants perceive the range and quality of their merits and those included in their job description; mistrust and lack of reliability on employees’ evaluation reports and selection criteria. Finally, some policy reformations are proposed to cope with these problems.
M50|Leadership style and Performance of Small and medium size enterprises in Cameroon|In Cameroon, SMEs contribute about 50% of the GDP and accounts for about 92% of businesses (INS, 2009) but about 80% of this SME’s created in Cameroon die before their 5th anniversary with one of the principal causes being the lack of corporate leadership. The main objectives of this research it to show the effects of leadership style on the performance of Cameroonian SMEs. The research follows a Hypothetico- deductive methodology through which primary data was collected through the Multi Factor Leadership Questionnaire which was administered on 114 workers form 38 SMEs in 05 major towns in the southwest region of Cameroon between the period of November 2015 to January 2016, the data was analysed using the Principal Component Analysis (PCA), the Pearson correlation coefficient and the Ordinary Least Square Multiple Regression(OLS), the SPSS version 20 was used for regression. The Principal results showed that the Transformational Leadership style exerted a positive and significant effect on the performance of SMEs in Cameroon, while the Transactional leadership style exerted a positive and significant impact on performance, this results are in coherence with the results obtained by Bass and Avolio, 2004 in their work entitled “Leadership and Performance beyond Expectations”. This research will therefore propose that in order to achieve organizational performance, managers should use the Transformational alongside with the Transactional leadership style since a combination of the two leadership style will permit the enterprise to attain performance beyond expectations.
M50|Corporate benefits and their impact on economy of a company. Case study|Company WA confirms current trends that a mid-size company (by number of employees) may provide a developed employee care program. Under this program, the portion of benefits to total costs is systematically increased, while the increase in benefit costs is within the limit for growth of personal expenses. Based on the analysis of employee satisfaction with the current system of employee benefits, the management has decided to increase benefit programs year on year (2015/2016) by 1.9 mil. CZK. The resulting proposal is oriented by the priority of employees - to improve their lifestyle. The proposal is also tax favourable in regards to personal expenses, employee’s taxes and effectively promotes management objectives in the development and stabilisation of human resources. Implementation of all current and proposed benefits amounting to 6.7 mil CZK will lead to tax savings amounting to about 1.6 mil. CZK in 2016.
M50|When Does HRM 'Work' in Small British Enterprises?|Using nationally representative workplace data we find substantial use of high-performance work systems (HPWS) in Britain's small enterprises. We find empirical support for the proposition that HPWS have a non-linear association with employees' overall job attitude, with a positive association apparent where HPWS are used intensively. These associations are robust to factors often cited as obstacles to HPWS implementation such as informality and family ownership.
M50|What Role Did Management Practices Play in SME Growth Post-Recession?|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are known to contribute significantly to aggregate economic growth. However, little is known about the role played by management practices in SME growth since recession. We contribute to the literature on SME growth by analysing longitudinal administrative data on firms' employment and turnover, taken from the UK's Business Structure Database (BSD), with data on management practices collected in face-to-face interviews from the HR Managers and employees who were surveyed as part of the 2011 British Workplace Employment Relations Survey (WERS). We find off-the-job training is the only management practice that is robustly and significantly associated with higher employment growth, increased turnover, and a decline in closure probabilities, over the period 2011-2014. The findings suggest SME investment in off-the-job training is sub-optimal in Britain such that firms could benefit economically from increasing the amount of off-the-job training they offer to their non-managerial employees.
M50|Compliance- und Integrity-Ansaetze in der Unternehmensethik – Normenorientierung ohne Werte oder Werteorientierung ohne Normen? (Approaches of Compliance and Integrity in Business Ethics: Norm-Orientation without Values or Value-Orientation without Norms?)|Compliance und Integrity in der Wirtschaftsethik gelten als zwei Ansaetze einer verantwortlichen Unternehmenssteuerung. Compliance wird dabei haeufig als eine regel- bzw. normenbasierte Strategie ausgewiesen, wohingegen Integrity als ein werteorientierter Ansatz verstanden wird. Gegenstand des Artikels ist die Frage, inwieweit aus einem Abgleich von Compliance- und Integrity-Strategien mit einer philosophischen Normen- und Werte-Unterscheidung Erkenntnisse fuer die Beziehung beider Unternehmensstrategien gewonnen werden koennen. Die konzeptionelle Analyse wird dabei Einsicht in ein sich ergaenzendes Verhaeltnis erlauben und zugleich Grenzen beider Ansaetze aufzeigen. (In business ethics Compliance and Integrity approaches are considered as two strategies of responsible organizational management. While Compliance has characteristics of a rule- or norm-based strategy, Integrity seems to resemble a value-based strategy. This paper discusses the questions to which extent the difference between Compliance and Integrity drawn along the lines of the philosophical distinction between norms and values can help to clarify the relation of the respective accounts of business ethics. The conceptual analysis will shed light on their complementary nature and at the same time reveal some limits of both approaches.)
M50|Personal und Diversitaet|Im berufsbegleitenden Studium „Interdisziplinaere Arbeitswissenschaft“ an der Leibniz Universitaet Hannover finden immer wieder Lehrveranstaltungen statt, die eine Bruecke zwischen dem Personalmanagement und dem Umgang mit Diversitaet in Organisationen schlagen. Die Beitraege zu diesem Band sind alle in diesem Kontext entstanden. Einige verknuepfen aktuelle Themen wie Employer Branding, Personalauswahl, Digitalisierung oder Erfolgsmessung mit Diversity Management. Andere beschaeftigen sich mit Boreout, Intuition, Arbeitszufriedenheit und Glueck, die bisher kaum mit Diversitaet in Verbindung gebracht wurden. Weitere Beitraege stellen Erfahrungen aus diversity-orientierten Trainingsmassnahmen vor oder greifen bislang unterschaetzte Diversity-Aspekte in Organisationen (Attraktivitaet, Introvertiertheit, UEberforderung…) auf. Kritische Blicke auf das Diversity Management aus einer queeren Perspektive und aus Sicht der interkulturellen Kompetenzentwicklung runden das Spektrum ab. Wer an der Schnittstelle von Personal und Diversitaet lehrt, forscht und arbeitet, kann aus den Artikeln interessante Anregungen fuer seine Taetigkeit ableiten.
M50|About The Of Disciplinary Content Of Doxastic Management|"The article stated, in substance, that by accepting the hypothesis of continuing transformation of content and configuration ""small worlds"", along with developments in technology and behavioral sciences, necessarily supported the finding that mutations endoexogenous influences organizational entity as a whole his notable consequences on management. Doxastic management is a new epistemological covered by copyright scientifically in 2013. It appears that is not yet discerned neighborhood structure between the model, physical reality and metaphysical reality. It also considers that the segment infinite / finite (physical reality model) possible site management, doxastic operating, new emphases on the horizon iterative expected idealization /aspirate. Etymological explanatory are described aspects of doxastic and believe that management is global doxastic depositary of conceptual management. Describe the elements that define managerial complexity in terms of using new information technologies, shaping the early conceptual management and doxastic formulas disciplinary explanatory content doxastic management reflected in the conceptual doxometric premises management."
M50|Consequences Of Meta-Linguistics Participation On The Operationalization Of Dynamic Management Doxastic Logic|The paper starts from the thesis that proves non-invasive behavioral explaining differences, but the existence of operational priorities of the company / entity / enterprise lead to invasiveness. There are no known ways / methods / programming doxastic methods as long as management intervention can be treated as a hub that dominates hypertext / productive economic common rules the world. The phenomenon of identity management is far from meeting the full harmonization attitudinal decision-making process. Doxastic management is a new epistemological covered by copyright scientifically in 2013. The paper described aspects of doxastic procedural behavior, situations tangible managerial decision in doxastic field. They are played and the comparison between deterministic doxastic systems analysis and managerial phenomena is considered to operationalize participation of doxastic metalinguistic logic of dynamic management. Doxastic management simplicity and demarcation or limitation of positive action by doxastic management round alignments research.
M50|Master and Servant The birth of self-consciousness through recognition|"Hegel's famous Master and Slave dialectic which he develops in his work Phenomenology of Spirit describes in narrative form the development of self­ consciousness - the result of a struggle between two „beings"". The central point is recognition. Not only recognition of your own self-consciousness but also of the other. He presents this idealized in a situation where two beings meet and the development they have to undergo. The following article doesn't make a strict distinction between „inside the mind"" and „reality"" but uses Hegel's „pattern"" adapting it to working life and the relationship between workers and their leaders. This article will help tounderstand the social phenomenon of achieving self-conscious­ ness - not only necessary for the own wellbeing but an important factor for a good working team and company - and to make the lector reflect about asymmetrical recognition."
M50|Human Resources Management And Education: A Study Of Theoret?Cal|The world rapidly changes. This change increase the competition and force companies to change. This change increases the importance of the high quality workforce. Now the enterprise is human power, the investment to workforce also sets out the future of the enterprises. Anyhow, in order to follow up and to accommodate changes, companies value existent workforce and see education and development activities as an important investment to this resource. This study gives theoretical information about the human resources management and the role of the education enhancing human resources capacity. The last part indicates conclusions of this study. . . .
M50|Effects of Motivating to Sustain Commitment of the Sales Professionals|Motivation is an important tool which can have a signifi cant impact to improve the performance of employees in any organization and in the current competitive world, employees’ commitment is crucial in achieving the organizational goals. The current research is aimed at examining the role played by motivation in sustaining the commitment of sales professionals. Primary data has been collected among 100 sales professionals using the close-ended questionnaire. For the analysis purpose both descriptive and inferential analysis has been conducted. The fi ndings from the analysis show that most factors included in the model to measure the motivation show a signifi cant and positive impact. Similarly the coeffi cient for organizational support, psychological support and fi nancial support shows a positive and signifi cant impact. In examining the impact of increased motivation on employees’ commitment, the results were also statistically signifi cant and positive. On the basis of the fi ndings it can be concluded that the motivation has a signifi cant and positive impact on employees’ commitment so organizations should focus on motivating their employees; however, the method used for motivation can differ from one organization to another.
M50|Social Entrepreneurship Research – Challenges, Explanations and Suggestions for the Field Development (Przedsiebiorczosc spoleczna – wyzwania, przyczyny i sugestie dla obszaru badawczego)|The aim of the paper is to examine the human resources management (HRM) in not-profit organisations in view of entrepreneurship theory and to identify some problems which could be crucial for future research and development of pro-entrepreneurial HRM practices in non-profit organizations. It was suggested that some solutions from business ventures can be implemented in non-profit organisations, but specific traits of them (as engagement of volunteers and their motivation and expectations) have to be taken into account. The pro-entrepreneurial HRM in non-profit organisations was analysed in relevance to different types of people’s involvement (employees, volunteers, members, social entrepreneurs) and selected HRM functions (job description, recruitment, training and rewarding).
M50|Nature of NGO Volunteers’ and Employees’ Motivation. Implications and Recommendations for Managerial Staff (Charakter motywacji wolontariuszy i pracownikow organizacji pozarz¹dowych. Implikacje i rekomendacje dla kadry kierowniczej)|The analysis presented below indicates different types of motivation of non-governmental organisations’ staff and involves the relationship between the type of motivation and other staff features. This allows not only for looking at the causes and characteristics of involvement in the activities of non-governmental organisations but also for describing the specific motivation of the various groups involved in the activities of the organisation and presenting profiles of these groups. Moreover, the analysis of motivations and characteristics correlated with them allows for drawing conclusions related to motivating rules of these groups, stimulating their commitment and selecting the management style appropriate for analysed organisations.
M50|Does corporate social responsibility make over-educated workers more productive?| This article provides first evidence on whether corporate social responsibility (CSR) influences the productivity effects of over-education. By relying on detailed Belgian-linked employer–employee panel data covering the period 1999–2010, our empirical results exhibit a positive and significant impact of over-education on firm productivity. Moreover, they suggest that the effect of over-education is positively enhanced when the firm implements a CSR process, especially when it aims to have: (i) a good match between job requirements and workers’ educational level, (ii) a diverse workforce in terms of gender and age, and (iii) a long-term relationship with its workers. When focussing on required education and over-education, the results suggest that CSR, besides representing an innovative and proactive approach for the firms’ stakeholders, may also be beneficial for the firm itself through a bigger increase in productivity for each additional year of required education or over-education.
M50|Human resource management and radical innovation: a fuzzy-set QCA of US multinationals in Germany, Switzerland, and the UK|Abstract This paper explores, based on the varieties-of-capitalism approach, configurations of key human resource management practices that explain radical innovation in subsidiaries. A fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis is conducted with data for 69 subsidiaries of US-based MNEs in Germany, Switzerland, and the UK. Contrary to the implications of the varieties-of-capitalism literature, combining numerical flexibility and employing a high share of academics does not necessarily achieve radical innovation. Various paths to radical innovation exist, and most of them involve functional flexibility. Overall, the findings emphasize the strategic discretion MNEs have, and accentuate that functional flexibility is a key HR practice to achieve radical innovation across differing varieties of capitalism countries.
M50|Innovative management control systems in knowledge work: a middle manager perspective|Abstract Integrating theorizing in sensemaking and conceptual or contextualized metaphor theory, this study investigates how middle managers in knowledge work settings support or contest the implementation of changes in management control systems (MCS) by examining how they make sense of the new control roles allocated to them. It draws on case study evidence from an organizational unit of a US multinational technology company. Results from qualitative analysis show that managers employed contextualized metaphors as collective symbols to make sense of and deal with differing views of changes in MCS and the impact on their roles, responsibilities and identity at work. Specifically, the results indicate that individuals’ acceptance of innovative control practices varied and that by remaining unaware of managers’ dilemmas, the organization ran the risk of failing to properly implement the changes, even though the system had been deemed appropriate for knowledge work. Because of their fundamental role in the success of implementing MCS-related changes in knowledge work settings, realizing how middle manager develop an understanding and react to changes in MCS is a critical endeavor for both researchers and practitioners alike.
M50|An empirical inquiry into the relationship between corporate governance and human resource management|Purpose – Based on the tenets of the stakeholder theory, the study investigates the influence of corporate governance best practices on 'hard' and 'soft' human resource management practices in public listed companies in Malaysia. Design/methodology/approach – Data was collected from public listed companies in the consumer product sector via structured questionnaire. Multiple regression analysis is conducted using SPSS to test the hypotheses. Findings – The findings suggest that board of directors' independence significantly predicts training and development practices. It is also evidenced that audit committee's effectiveness is significantly related to team-based work. Research limitations/implications - The study is conducted in a single sector of the economy resulted to a small number of listed companies. Originality/value – The significant relationship between board of directors' independence and training and development; and audit committee effectiveness and team-based work indicate that training and development and team-based work are ingrained in the companies' HRM practices, more acceptable and the least complicated to implement. Indicating that public listed companies are answerable to various stakeholders, thus, making it difficult to introduce and implement certain HRM practices.
M50|Market competition and efficient cooperation|We use laboratory experiments to study the causal effects of favorable and unfavorable competitive market experience on cooperation in a subsequent social dilemma game. The issues we study are part of the broader topic of whether there are behavioral spillovers between different spheres of social interactions. Market interaction takes place in a continuous double auction market in which one side of the market obtains the larger part of the surplus. We examine the efficiency of subsequent cooperation for pairs of market-winners, market-losers and mixed pairs and study both the cases where interaction in the social dilemma is with others from the same market, ‘market-partners’, and where it is with others from another market, ‘market-strangers’, and compare it with benchmark behavior in a stand-alone social dilemma game. We find that in market-partners, market experience has adverse effects on the efficiency of cooperation on both market-winner and market-loser pairs. In market-strangers, pairs of market-winners manage to cooperate more efficiently. These results indicate that it is not market experience per se that lowers the ability to cooperate. Rather, having competed for scarce resources on the same side of the market makes it difficult to overcome the social dilemma and positive market experience fosters cooperation only for those who did not have to compete with each other. We also show that differences in cooperation cannot be explained by ex-ante income differences and find that market experience also affects subjective well-being and social value orientation.
M50|Grit Trumps Talent? An experimental approach|Perseverance to accomplish long-term goals, also know as grit, is a crucial determinant for success in life. In the present study we introduce an innovative laboratory design to elicit grit in an incentivized and controlled way. Subjects work on a computerized task to solve anagrams. By observing their decision not to shirk, we measure their grittiness experimentally. We find that the original questionnaire measure of grit developed by Duckworth et al. (2007) is significantly correlated with our new experimental measure - even when controlling for ability and a questionnaire measure of self-control. Moreover, subjects' earnings increase in their experimentally elicited grit.
M50|Develop And Implement Human Resources Strategies – Important Activities Within An Organization|This paper aims to bring to the forefront the fundamental aspects of the smooth running of any organization: human resources and human resources strategy. The entire study was approached from the perspective that strategies need efficient and effective human resources with strong role in achieving goals. Are presented elaborate stages of human resources strategy, criteria need to be considered, features to be found in the human resources strategy adopted correctly and ways to implement it so as to contribute to achieving the organization's objectives. Article is based on a solid theoretical and fundamental research of the literature.
M50|SMEs GROWTH AND HUMAN CAPITAL INVESTMENTS (THE CASE OF POLAND)| Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) face more threats and challenges than their larger counterparts. [It] This situation is caused mostly by the limited access to resources or their unavailability. That is why SMEs have to manage carefully their resources, plan growth and calculate investments in order to achieve the highest possible return. Many authors claim that one of the most valuable resource for any firm is the human capital (HC); it may be the source of competitive advantage. This article touches upon the relationship between SMEs growth and human capital investments. The main question is whether there is any relationship between the stage of SMEs growth and investments in HC. Do investments in HC support SMEs performance on every stage of their growth? The results of the research conducted on 219 Polish SMEs. On the basis of conducted analysis it can be stated that the share of investments in HC vary in subsequent stages. Moreover HC seems to impose SMEs’ performance only in the mature stages, when organisations are well developed and have achieved an appropriate market position.
M50|Transfer Of Performance Appraisal Practices From Mnc Parent To Subsidiaries In Serbia|This paper seeks to address one of central issues in the international human resource management literature regarding the extent to which foreign subsidiaries of multinational companies (MNCs) tend to implement performance appraisal practices and policies of the parent company versus those of local companies in the host country. The study conducted in 65 subsidiaries of foreign–owned multinational companies in Serbia found that performance appraisal practices in MNC subsidiaries in this transition country closely resemble parent company practices. The conclusion drawn from the study is that the transfer depends mainly on dependence on parent inputs, the degree of parental control, and subsidiary age, implying that MNCs need to take these variables into consideration when deciding whether to transfer their performance appraisal practices to their subsidiaries in this transition country or to accept local practices.
M50|Identifying Organizational Factors Of Job Satisfation: The Case Of One Serbian Company|This paper presents the results of exploratory research, the objective of which was to identify organizational factors of job satisfaction. A stratified random sample of 1,488 employees from a Serbian company answered a specially designed questionnaire, which asked them to rate the importance of and their satisfaction with fifty job different aspects. The survey results were analysed by means of three factor analyses, firstly using the data on the importance of job aspects, secondly using the data on satisfaction with the job aspects, and thirdly using data on the gap between the importance and satisfaction ratings. By synthesizing the results of the three factor analyse, a total of six job satisfaction factors was obtained, three of which are identical to previously identified factors and can be found in job satisfaction theory, two of which are modifications of already identified factors, and one factor which is new in this field of research.
M50|Intrinsic Motivations of Public Sector Employees: Evidence for Germany|" type=""main"" xml:id=""geer12056-abs-0001""> We examine differences in altruism and laziness between public sector employees and private sector employees. Our theoretical model predicts that the likelihood of public sector employment increases with a worker's altruism, and increases or decreases with a worker's laziness depending on his altruism. Using questionnaire data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study, we find that public sector employees are significantly more altruistic and lazy than observationally equivalent private sector employees. A series of robustness checks show that these patterns are stronger among higher educated workers; that the sorting of altruistic people to the public sector takes place only within the caring industries; and that the difference in altruism is already present at the start of people's career, while the difference in laziness is only present for employees with sufficiently long work experience."
M50|How does Part-time Work Affect Firm Performance and Innovation Activity?|This paper analyzes how part-time work affects financial and innovative firm performance. Moreover, it provides a detailed examination of part-time work by defining three different forms of part-time work (large, medium and small part-time work) depending on weekly working hours. Considering human capital theory, I expect part-time workers to have lower work experience and to accumulate less human capital. Thus I hypothesize that part-time work affects both, financial and innovative firm performance, negatively. For the empirical investigation I use a large German firm-level data set. The analysis shows that increasing part-time work has a significant negative impact on financial firm performance. Specifically, there are differences with regard to the considered categories of part-time work. Part-time workers having the fewest working hours per week have the strongest negative impact on financial firm performance. However the negative effect of part-time work does not remain for innovative firm performance. The results show no significant difference between part-time and full-time workers in their impact on innovative firm performance.
M50|The Role of Establishments and the Concentration of Occupations in Wage Inequality|Abstract This paper uses the microdata of the Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) Survey to assess the contribution of occupational concentration to wage inequality between establishments and its growth over time. We show that occupational concentration plays an important role in wage determination for workers, in a wide variety of occupations, and can explain some establishment-level wage variation. Occupational concentration is increasing during the 2000–2011 time period, although much of this change is explained by other observable establishment characteristics. Overall, occupational concentration can help explain a small amount of wage inequality growth between establishments during this time period.
M50|Complementarities of HRM Practices - A Case for Employing Multiple Methods and Integrating Multiple Fields|We provide an overview over different literature streams that aim at explaining the origin of persistent productivity differences across organizations by variation in the use of management practices. We focus on human resource management (HRM) practices, document gaps in the literature, and show how insights from behavioral economics can inform the analysis. To this end, we develop a simple agency model illustrating how social preferences influence the design and impact of incentive schemes, investigate how auxiliary HRM practices can strengthen this interaction, and provide an overview over empirical investigations of this questions. Finally, we identify avenues for further research in this field.
M50|Team Production, Gender Diversity, and Male Courtship Behavior|This theoretical paper explores the impact of gender diversity on team production. The key assumption is that men derive utility from signaling high ability to female colleagues. The analysis shows that some gender diversity maximizes expected team production if (i) men and women have similar expected ability, and (ii) monetary incentives to exert effort are not too strong. The study generates important and testable economic implications: the presence of women fundamentally changes the behavior of male team members, gender diversity has the biggest effects in young teams, and monetary incentives crowd-out the impact of gender diversity.
M50|Culture And Creativity In The Hotel Industry|Academics’ have always had an interest in creativity, although the literature on this subject began to develop once the rate of progress in science, technology and other fields started to increase. Currently, it is generally considered that the countries with a less creative population will fail to be competitive at an international level. This principle can easily be applied in the business environment, where creativity is needed in order to innovate and to gain competitive advantage. The paper focuses on creativity in a specific economic sector: the hotel industry, aiming at highlighting the way this extremely needed ability is influenced by cultural values. As a result, the paper presents the influence of three of Hofstede’s socio-cultural values (individualism, power distance and long term orientation) on employees’ creativity in the Romanian hotel industry.
M50|Niche Websites And Online Tools Used In Recruitment|Based on technological evolution and a very large number of users, the Internet plays a key role in attracting talented employees which can generate competitive advantage for the organization. Therefore nowadays niche websites, specialised recruitment sites, become increasingly important. With the creation of such sites also appeared several applications for recruiting. The purpose of this paper is to analyze these sites and applications in order to determine the advantages and disadvantages of specialised recruitment websites (1), career sites of organizations (2) social professional sites (3) . Using these online recruitment tools lead to the development of e-recruitment. Our conclusion is that these websites do not represent yet a universal solution for organizations although the number of users is growing. For being successful in the recruitment process, recruiters have to combine niche websites in recruiting and not use only one type of niche websites.
M50|Accounting Challenges – Capitalizing Human Value|Assessing the performance of business organisations has been a priority for all stakeholders, and this is the reason accounting has continuously evolved to better assist investors in their decision-making process. However, given the increasing importance of the service industry, the focus in evaluating business performance is also on employees’ performance and employee-centred organisational policies that would further stimulate the knowledge-production at the firms’ level. As many accounting professionals have already understood, accounting faces the challenge of a continuous adaption to the necessities of the business environment, thus admitting that it should provide the grounds for a sustainable and generalizable methodology for intellectual and, more particularly, human capital recognition. This paper offers a literature review on intellectual capital management and reporting, leaving room for the debate upon the choice of instruments that would ensure an accurate presentation employees’ added-value to organisational performance. It also presents a schematic approach to further develop the subject, describing the proposed methodology for further in-depth research.
M50|Papel de los seguidores en el desarrollo de las teorías de liderazgo organizacional|La mayoría de revisiones acerca del liderazgo se han enfocado en el líder y su papel dentro de la organización. Las investigaciones actuales demuestran que los seguidores, como un elemento importante del liderazgo, poseen un papel activo en la selección del estilo de liderazgo y en la teoría desde la cual se le evaluará a un líder. Desde este punto, el objetivo de este artículo es identificar cuál ha sido el papel de los seguidores en el desarrollo de las teorías del liderazgo organizacional. Al evaluar el papel que tiene el seguidor dentro del desarrollo de las teorías del liderazgo se pudo concluir que de acuerdo con su percepción, su comportamiento y sus necesidades, exige cierta categoría de líder, que puede ser vista desde cada teoría.
M50|Management Efficiency in Football: An Empirical Analysis of Two Extreme Cases| Analysis of managerial efficiency in sport economics typically focuses on evaluating coach decisions instead of assessing the organization as a whole. This paper studies the relative importance of variables related to power and managerial decisions by estimating stochastic production frontiers models for the Chilean and Italian football leagues. We find that historical and geographical variables intended to capture market size play their expected roles in both Italy and Chile. However, the degree of technical inefficiency is lower magnitude in Chile. This difference could be due to a smaller market size and/or to financial constraints faced by small clubs in this country. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
M50|A life-span perspective on life satisfaction|The German population is ageing due to decreasing birth rates and increasing life expectancy. To sustain the German pension system, legal retirement age is increased step by step to 67 years. This raises questions about how to enable and motivate older individuals to work that long. Hence, it is important to understand whether they represent a homogeneous group that can be addressed through specific measures and instruments. Life-span theory points to systematic changes as well as increased heterogeneity with age. For example, work motivation does not generally decline with age but becomes increasingly task-specific, depending on changing life goals and individual adaptation processes in adult development. In this empirical study we analyse age heterogeneity with regard to current life satisfaction and life satisfaction domains (measured as satisfaction with work, income, family and health) that represent personal utilities individuals strive for. For our analysis we use data collected as part of a representative German longitudinal data study (SOEP1). We find increasing heterogeneity in current life satisfaction, satisfaction with work, family life, and health with age. Thus, common mean level analyses on age effects yield only limited informative value. The heterogeneity of older adults should be taken into account when motivating and developing older workers.
M50|Goals, motivation and gender|I present an experiment on non-binding goals and motivational effects. Consistent with results from psychology, I find that goals increase output. This is due to improved speed and accuracy. Men are more responsive to goals than women.
M50|Confidence enhanced performance? – The causal effects of success on future performance in professional golf tournaments|This paper provides field evidence on the causal impact of past successes on future performances. Since persistence in success or failure is likely to be linked through, potentially time-varying, ability it is intrinsically difficult to identify the causal effect of succeeding on the probability of performing well in the future. We therefore employ a regression discontinuity design on data from professional golf tournaments exploiting that almost equally skilled players are separated into successes and failures half-way into the tournaments (the “cut”). We show that players who (marginally) succeeded in making the cut substantially increased their performance in subsequent tournaments relative to players who (marginally) failed to make the cut. This success-effect is substantially larger when the subsequent (outcome) tournament involves more prize money. The results therefore suggest that past successes provide an important prerequisite when performing high-stakes tasks.
M50|Was Sarbanes-Oxley Costly? Evidence from Optimal Contracting on CEO Compensation|This paper investigates the effects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) on CEO compensation, using panel data constructed for the S&P 1500 firms on CEO compensation, financial returns, and reported accounting income. Empirically SOX (i) changes the relationship between a firm’s abnormal returns and CEO compensation, (ii) changes the underlying distribution of abnormal returns, and (iii) significantly raises the expected CEO compensation in the primary sector. We develop and estimate a dynamic principal agent model of hidden information and hidden actions to explain these regularities. We find that SOX (i) increased the administrative burden of compliance in the primary sector, but reduce this burden in the service sector, (ii) increased agency costs in most categories of the firms, and (iii) reduced the off-equilibrium loss from the CEO shirking.
M50|Grit Trumps Talent? An experimental approach|Perseverance to accomplish long-term goals, also know as grit, is a crucial determinant for success in life. In the present study we introduce an innovative laboratory design to elicit grit in an incentivized and controlled way. Subjects work on a computerized task to solve anagrams. By observing their decision not to shirk, we measure their grittiness experimentally. We find that the original questionnaire measure of grit developed by Duckworth et al. (2007) is significantly correlated with our new experimental measure - even when controlling for ability and a questionnaire measure of self-control. Moreover, subjects' earnings increase in their experimentally elicited grit
M50|Women Helping Women? Evidence from Private Sector Data on Workplace Hierarchies|We study gender spillovers in career advancement using eleven years of employer-employee matched data on white-collar workers at over 4,000 private sector workplaces in Norway. Our data allow us to define seven hierarchical ranks that are consistent across plants and over time and track promotions even for individuals who change employers. We find positive spillovers across ranks (flowing from higher-ranking to lower-ranking women) but negative spillovers within ranks. The finding of narrower gender gaps in promotions for workers with more female bosses suggests that policies that increase female representation in corporate leadership can have spillover benefits to women in lower ranks.
M50|Look For People, Not For Alpha: Mutual Funds Success And Managerial Intellectual Capital|This is the first paper to explore which characteristics of Russian fund managers are connected with a higher abnormal return (measured by Jensen’s alpha) and risk (beta) for mutual funds. While only some fund managers publish biographic sketches we use the Heckman procedure to control for self-selection issues. The results support the idea that individual characteristics indicate the possibility to earn abnormal alpha. The relationship between both fund performance measures and manager experience has inverted U-shape. The results can be used as a simple screening system that helps to choose a mutual fund to invest in without sophisticated calculations
M50|Portfolio Forming Decisions: The Role of Intangibles|The purpose of this study is to present a tool to categorize companies as potentially profitable on the basis of an analysis of their intangibles. The paper distinguishes two crucial attributes for picking shares: intangibles and the capitalization of intangible-based growth potential in market indicators. By means of these attributes we create a portfolio from a sample of European companies and annually rebalance it. To test its attractiveness we compare it with benchmarks and random portfolios during the period from 2006 to 2013 using the Sharpe coefficient. The comparisons of the portfolio with the benchmarks demonstrate the importance of intangibles and the validity of the proposed tool. The Sharpe coefficient of the portfolio is significantly higher than the mean and median Sharpe ratio of random portfolios. The importance of intangibles for choosing an investment goal increases in crises. The paper contributes to the literature by identifying undervalued shares on the basis of the company’s intangibles and developing an algorithm to create an intangible-based investment portfolio
M50|Socialist Legacies of Personnel and Human Resource Management in European Transition Economies: An Analytical Review|Socialist legacies of personnel / human resource management are examined, reviewing 83 studies based on the context of transition from the socialist management to the modern management in European transition economies. The results show that the studies tend to exhibit a relatively strong preference to explain transitions accompanied by institutional legacies of socialist personnel management as associated with the traditional industrial sectors inherited from the socialist period. Cultural legacies are relatively focused widely throughout all European transition economies, but EU accession of these countries gives negative impact on maintaining studies on Socialist-specific cultural legacies. Socialist legacies in personnel and human resource management remain strong contextual characteristics in European transition economies.
M50|Peer Settings Induce Cheating on Task Performance|Recent research has shown that the presence of peers can increase individual output both in the lab and the field. This paper tests for negative side effects of peer settings. We investigate whether peer settings are particularly prone to cheating even if they do not provide additional monetary benefits of cheating. Participants in our real effort experiment had the opportunity to cheat when declaring their output levels. Although cheating did not have different monetary consequences when working alone than when working in the presence of a peer, we find that cheating is a more severe problem in peer settings.
M50|How are work-related characteristics linked to sickness absence and presenteeism? Theory and data|This paper investigates how changes in work-related factors affect workers' absence and presenteeism behavior. Previous studies (implicitly) assume that there is a substitutive relationship, i.e. a change in a work-related factor decreases the level of absence and simultaneously increases presenteeism (or vice versa). We set up a theoretical model in which work-related characteristics not only affect a worker's absence decision but also the individual-specific sickness definition. Since workrelated factors affect presenteeism through these two channels, nonsubstitutive relationships between absence and presenteeism are also conceivable. Using European cross-sectional data, we find only few substitutive and complementary relationships, while the bulk of the work-related characteristics is related only to one of the two sickness states.
M50|An Empirical Study Of Emotionalintelligence And Stress In College Students|A growing body of research indicates that emotional intelligence is an important factor for student success. In this paper, we examine the relationship between emotional intelligence and stress. Consistent with our hypothesis, we found a significant relationship between one dimension of emotional intelligence (use of emotions) and stress. We also found that age and gender impacted emotional intelligence and stress. Findings from this study have implications for students and universities
M50|Employability and Job Mobility: Critical Skills for New Graduates in ASEA|This paper explores the level of student employability skill, and identifies factors that influence international mobility. The findings would help forecast employment trajectories of new graduates in the Southeast Asia labor market. The information will be especially useful for seven professional occupations including doctors, engineers, nursing, architecture, accountants, dentists, and surveyors. The sample sizes were 278 new graduates of five occupational programs; nursing, accountancy, engineering, doctor, and surveying, from Burapha University in 2012. The findings revealed that most respondents were male and graduated from engineering programs. We consider the intention of these new graduates to work aboard. The proportion of new graduates who have plans to work aboard and who have not was quite indifferent. Countries which new graduate would primarily expect to work in were Singapore, Malaysia, and Brunei. For graduates, self-assessed employability skill readiness for Southeast Asia labor market, the personal trait ranked first. Moreover, the most influential factor of new graduate job mobility was work experience, followed by higher wages, gaining promotions, life enhancement, and family concerns.
M50|¿Es Útil La Gestión De Los Recursos Humanos En Los Ayuntamientos? / Is Human Resource Management In Local Councils Useful?|¿Sirve de algo gestionar los recursos humanos en los ayuntamientos? En el momento de crisis actual, ¿está justificado el gasto en esta área? Aunque a nivel de empresa privada se ha estudiado ampliamente la inversión en gestión de recursos humanos, en el ámbito de la administración pública española la investigación es escasa. Para cubrir este hueco, este trabajo realiza un estudio sobre una muestra de 85 ayuntamientos españoles de más de 20.000 habitantes. Los análisis efectuados apoyan la idea de que efectivamente la adopción de ciertas prácticas de recursos humanos tiene un efecto positivo en los resultados de las corporaciones locales. De hecho, aunque hay prácticas que están muy reguladas por la normativa de la función pública se pueden gestionar de forma más eficiente sin colisionar con la legalidad vigente. / Is human resource management in local councils useful? In the current crisis, is the expenditure in this area justified? Although investment in human resources management has been widely studied at the private enterprise, research is scarce in the area of Spanish public administration. To fill this gap, this work carried out a study on a sample of 85 Spanish municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants. Analysis supports the idea that actually some practices of human resources have positive effect on the results of local corporations. In fact, although there are practices that are very regulated by the public service regulations you can manage more efficiently without colliding with the law in force.
M50|The Role of Goals and Feedback in Incentivizing Performance| In this paper, we experimentally investigate how goal setting and feedback policies affect work performance. In particular, we study the effects of (i) absolute performance feedback, (ii) self‐specified goals, and (iii) exogenous goals and relative performance feedback. Our results show that the average performance of the subjects who are provided self‐performance feedback is 11% lower than the ones who obtain no feedback. Moreover, setting a non‐binding personal goal does not affect performance. Finally, assigning an exogenous goal and providing relative performance feedback decreases performance by 8%. We discuss the insights our findings offer for the optimal design of goal setting and feedback mechanisms. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
M50|Crunch Time : When Leadership Matters Most|Leadership has been the focus of many academic papers and research studies. While there have been countless studies covering leadership style, traits of successful leaders, and theories of leadership, less attention has been paid to specific times or situations which call for more leadership than others. This paper will address three situations in which leadership tends to matter the most: crisis, change, and uncertainty. Specifically, this paper will focus on reasons why leadership is most critical at these times, traits and characteristics of leaders who are most successful in such situations, and unique opportunities that exemplary leadership can uncover during such times. The remainder of this paper will discuss these situations in detail, explaining why each circumstance demands high quality leadership, as well as the specific traits and characteristics that leaders must possess in order to best serve their constituents during these times.
M50|A sequential choice model of family business succession|Management succession is a critical process, especially in family-owned businesses. Current models of management succession focus on elements such as personal development of potential successors and decision-making processes by incumbents and governance bodies, but do not account for interactions among actors. This paper addresses this weakness using a game-theoretic approach applied to the setting of family businesses. We model a tournament-style game in which two siblings pursue the CEO position of a family business. In the course of our analysis, we consider a variety of factors, such as the predispositions of the founder to choose one sibling over the other, the value placed on winning the top job by each sibling, the cost for the siblings of pursuing the job, and the possibility of “first-mover advantages.” We close the paper by discussing implications of our work for both family businesses and corporations. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
M50|The Efficiency of Slacking Off: Evidence from the Emergency Department|"Work schedules play an important role in utilizing labor in organizations. In this study of emergency department physicians in shift work, schedules induce two distortions: First, physicians ""slack off"" by accepting fewer patients near end of shift (EOS). Second, physicians distort patient care, incurring higher costs as they spend less time on patients accepted near EOS. Examining how these effects change with shift overlap reveals a tradeoff between the two. Within an hour after the normal time of work completion, physicians are willing to spend hospital resources eight times more than their market wage to preserve their leisure. Accounting for overall costs, I find that physicians slack off at approximately second-best optimal levels."
M50|An Overview of Millennials’ Coming of Age. The Emergence of Generation Y and its Underlying and Consequential Socio-Economic Aspects|With numbers approaching the mark of 100 millions worldwide, Generation Y (also known as the Millennials) is the fastest growing segment of today’s workforce. But they are also demanding consumers reshaping the marketplace through a unique set of values and characteristics deeply embedded in this generational cohort’s ethos. As a result, everybody in the business world is trying to better understand them, whether it’s from an inside-out perspective as in „How can we better serve our clients?”, or the vice versa - „How can we continuously motivate our employees?”. This paper aims at picturing the key aspects defining Generation Y, the underlying factors leading to their new reality and foreseeable economic consequences across the field.
M50|Assessing Mentoring Activities in the Management of Knowledge Based Organizations|Knowledge based organizations are aware of the benefits of mentoring activities. Mentors, mentees and the organization are the main actors of a mentoring programme , play ing an important role in developing organizational creativity and inno vation . I n order to assess a mentoring progra m m e one needs a strategy and specific instruments. This paper aims to present some assessment methods and instruments that can apply to mentoring activities. There will be discussed the evaluat ion of mentors, the mentor - mentee relationship, the impact of mentoring on mentee and mentor’s performances, the success in achieving the mentoring program goals and the overall success of the programme. The paper is a result of the research “Mentoring – a component of th e human resources management”, done by the undersigned as a postdoctoral fellow at the Romanian Academy, Iaºi Branch, in the project SOP HRD/159/1.5/S/13367
M50|The Approaches on Human Resources Management Practices within Romanian Companies - an Empirical Study|Human resources management practices proved to be important for the company’s performances, allowing it to maintain and develop its activities. Such practices determine flexibility and the capacity of an organization to adjust to the changes that occur in its environment. The Romanian companies are aiming to improve their level of performance and the development of such specific practices under a proper approach represents the solution. This paper intends to analyze the main approaches of these practices based on the result of an empirical study. This study was conducted on companies from Constanta county. These results were compared with the ones provided by other specialized studies regarding Romanian companies in order to create a clearer image on the level of the human resources management practices within the analyzed companies.
M50|A Life-Span Perspective on Life Satisfaction|The German population is ageing due to decreasing birth rates and increasing life expectancy. To sustain the German pension system, legal retirement age is increased step by step to 67 years. This raises questions about how to enable and motivate older individuals to work that long. Hence, it is important to understand whether they represent a homogeneous group that can be addressed through specific measures and instruments. Life-span theory points to systematic changes as well as increased heterogeneity with age. For example, work motivation does not generally decline with age but becomes increasingly task-specific, depending on changing life goals and individual adaptation processes in adult development. In this empirical study we analyse age heterogeneity with regard to current life satisfaction and life satisfaction domains (measured as satisfaction with work, income, family and health) that represent personal utilities individuals strive for. For our analysis we use data collected as part of a representative German longitudinal data study (SOEP). We find increasing heterogeneity in current life satisfaction, satisfaction with work, family life, and health with age. Thus, common mean level analyses on age effects yield only limited informative value. The heterogeneity of older adults should be taken into account when motivating and developing older workers.
M50|Getting ready for the young generation to join the workforce: A comparative analysis of the work values of Chinese and Slovenian business students|Due to the ever greater cooperation between China and CEE countries, and especially the lack of research on the young generation’s work values among the latter, we fill an empirical gap and conduct a comparative analysis of work values among Chinese and Slovenian business students. We explore the relationship between national culture and differences in expressed work values. While advancement was the top item within both samples, we found a stronger instrumental value dimension for the Slovenians and a stronger social-altruistic value dimension for the Chinese. Moreover, while national culture remains a factor for understanding the work values of the young generation, it is not the dominant one. Our results offer some support for a universal or crossvergence perspective on the work values of the young generation.
M50|The influence of temporary time offs from work on employer attractive-ness – An experimental study|By offering temporary time off programs, companies aim at increasing their employer attractiveness. However, little is known about whether temporary time off programs increase the attractiveness of employers and to what extent this effect is shaped by how temporary time off programs are designed. Using signaling theory, we propose that potential employees receive signals from temporary time off programs that influ-ence the employer attractiveness and that this influence is moderated by risk aversion. Against this background, our article presents an experimental investigation of the in-fluence of temporary time off programs on employer attractiveness. It was shown that only paid temporary time off programs have a positive effect on employer attractive-ness, and that risk-averse individuals perceive companies that offer paid temporary time off programs as more attractive. The results indicate that the design of temporary time off programs and the level to which potential employees are risk-averse have a general effect on employer attractiveness.
M50|Krankenstand und Praesentismus als betriebliche Gesundheitsindikatoren (Sickness absence rates and presenteeism as work-related indicators of health)|Krankheitsbedingte Fehlzeiten in Unternehmen werden im Rahmen des betrieblichen Gesundheitsmanagements haeufig als Gesundheitsindikatoren der Belegschaft herangezogen. In einer Querschnittserhebung bei einer Zufallsstichprobe von pflichtversicherten Arbeitnehmer/innen in Oberoesterreich (n = 930) zeigt sich jedoch, dass der subjektive Gesundheitszustand von Arbeitnehmer/innen deutlich besser durch Praesentismushaeufigkeiten (arbeiten trotz Krankheit) als durch Fehlzeiten prognostiziert werden kann. Praesentismus ist im Vergleich zu Krankenstand staerker mit Magen-Darm Beschwerden, Muskel-Skelett Beschwerden, Migraene sowie psychischen Beschwerden assoziiert, welche zugleich wichtige Determinanten der Gesundheitseinschaetzung darstellen. Personen entscheiden sich im Krankheitsfall generell und bei Migraene und psychischen Beschwerden im Besonderen haeufiger fuer Praesentismus als fuer Krankenstand. Speziell bei geringen Krankenstandshaeufigkeiten sollten Krankenstandsstatistiken durch Schaetzungen der Praesentismushaeufigkeiten ergaenzt werden. Es ist davon auszugehen, dass insbesondere der psychische Gesundheitszustand besser durch Praesentismus als durch Fehlzeiten abgeschaetzt werden kann. (Data on sickness absence is frequently used as a health indicator of employees. Based on a cross-sectional analysis with a random sample of employees covered by the Upper Austrian Sickness Fund (n = 930), it is shown that presenteeism (attending work despite illness) is a better indicator of health states than sickness absence. Compared to sickness absence, presenteeism is more strongly associated with gastro-intestinal complaints, musculoskeletal complaints, migraine, and mental ill-health, which are likewise strong determinants of subjective health. People with health complaints in general and with migrane and mental ill-health in particular have a higher propensity to favour presenteeism over sickness absence. Especially when rates of sickness absence are low, it is recommended to complement sickness absence data with estimates of presenteeism. It is assumed that presenteeism is a better estimator of mental health in particular.)
M50|German Human Resource Management professionals under tensions: A Bourdieusian approach|In line with the current discussion on Human Resource Management (HRM) professionals, we claim that HRM professionals are confronted with a critical challenge: they have to master the tensions between HRM as a profession on the one hand and the needs of maintaining power within their organization on the other. In this paper we explore whether HRM professionals perceive tensions stemming from changes in their professional role, their organizational roles and their position, where these tensions come from, and which strategies are used to cope with them in their daily practice. We build our theoretical frame on Bourdieu’s Theory of Practice and conceptualize HRM professionals as actively contesting both their own as well as their groups’ interests without losing sight of structural influences. Moreover, this theoretical framing allows us to assume that professional positions in organizations are inherently based on contradictions and tensions and so highlights these facets of HRM professional practice as well as focusing attention on coping strategies. Our empirical study is based on 21 interviews with German HRM professionals from large enterprises. The results show three main sources of tensions HRM professionals perceive within their organizations. These tensions stem from what we refer to as their various “sandwich” positions, from scarce resources, and from conflicts with line management. Our results show that these tensions are handled by HRM professionals as they dispose of suitable habitus aspects and professional capital. We identify four strategies that HRM professionals deploy when dealing with the tensions: the strategic consultant strategy, the active HRM service provider strategy, the HRM controller strategy and the qualification strategy. All of these strategies enable HRM professionals to maintain or even broaden the power position of HRM within their organization.
M50|Einflussgrößen und wirtschaftliche Folgen von krankheitsbedingten Fehlzeiten|Die vorliegende Arbeit gibt eine Übersicht der E i n f l u s s g r ö ß e n u n d F o l g e n a u f d i e krankheitsbedingten Fehlzeiten. Es sollen dabei die volks- und betriebswirtschaftlichen Konsequenzen beleuchtet werden. Die Methodik basiert auf einer Literaturrecherche. Über eine halbe Million Arbeitsunfähigkeitstage werden jährlich in Deutschland verzeichnet. Die Gründe sind sehr verschieden und die Arbeitgeber haben jedoch nur auf die betrieblichen und internen Faktoren Einfluss. Arbeitszufriedenheit und Anwesenheit stehen im Zusammenhang. Aufgrund der Fürsorgepflicht und der Bemühung um motivierte und leistungsfähige M i t a r b e i t e r m ü s s e n G e s u n d h e i t s - u n d Arbeitsschutzmaßnahmen durchgeführt werden. Je geringer die krankheitsbedingten Ausfallzeiten, desto geringer auch die betriebswirtschaftlichen K o s t e n . K o s t e n r e d u z i e r u n g u n d Produktivitätssteigerung sind die Folgen.
M50|Reciprocity and Workers’ Tastes for Representation|Using unique survey data from the German Socio-Economic Panel, this study examines the influence of reciprocal inclinations on workers’ sorting into codetermined firms. Employees with strong negative reciprocal inclinations are more likely to work in firms with a works council while employees with strong positive reciprocal inclinations are less likely to work in such firms. However, the results also show striking gender differences in the relationship between reciprocity and taste for representation. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
M50|Prisoners’ other Dilemma|We introduce a measure for the riskiness of cooperation in the infinitely repeated discounted Prisoner’s Dilemma and use it to explore how players cooperate once cooperation is an equilibrium. Riskiness of a cooperative equilibrium is based on a pairwise comparison between this equilibrium and the uniquely safe all defect equilibrium. It is a strategic concept heuristically related to Harsanyi and Selten’s risk dominance. Riskiness 0 defines the same critical discount factor $$\delta ^{*}$$ δ ∗ that was derived with an axiomatic approach for equilibrium selection in Blonski et al. (Am Econ J 3:164–192, 2011 ). Our theory predicts that the less risky cooperation is the more forgiving can parties afford to be if a deviator needs to be punished. Further, we provide sufficient conditions for cooperation equilibria to be risk perfect, i.e. not to be risky in any subgame, and we extend the theory to asymmetric settings. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M50|Betriebswirtschaftliche Folgen und Bewertung des Mindestlohns in Hotellerie und Gastronomie|On 1 January 2015 a minimum wage of 8.50 euros per working hour was implemented in Germany. The hotel and restaurant industry, as a service-intensive sector, is especially affected. To study the economic impact of the minimum wage, an online survey with 1,512 hoteliers and gastronomers was conducted. The results show that no negative effects on the total number of employees are anticipated, but the participants do expect a changing staff structure. The expected economic impact depends on branch, region and company size. Most entrepreneurs plan to compensate for the extra costs by increasing prices. The participants considered the greatest challenges to be the documentation obligation of the daily working time and the implementation effort–more so than the extra wage costs. In total, the sector holds unfavourable attitudes towards the minimum wage, with hoteliers less negative than gastronomers, and entrepreneurs in the north and west less negative than those in the south and east of Germany. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
M50|Complementarities of HRM Practices|We provide an overview over different literature streams that aim at explaining the origin of persistent productivity differences across organization by variation in the use of management practices. We focus on human resource management (HRM) practices, document gaps in the literature, and show how insights from behavioral economics can inform the analysis. To this end, we develop a simple agency model illustrating how social preferences influence the design and impact of incentive schemes, investigate how auxiliary HRM practices can strengthen this interaction, and provide an overview over empirical investigations of this questions. Finally, we identify avenues for further research in this field.
M50|Which employers regard the threat of dismissal as a suitable incentive to motivate workers?| Using German establishment data, this study finds that the share of blue-collar workers, an outdated production technology and a high-wage policy increase the probability that employers regard the threat of dismissal as a suitable incentive. A participatory human resource management policy, the incidence of a works council and difficulties in filling vacancies decrease the probability.
M50|Sickness absence, presenteeism and work-related characteristics|This paper investigates how changes in work-related factors affect workers' absence and presenteeism behavior. Previous studies (implicitly) assume that there is a substitutive relationship - specifically, that a change in a work-related factor that decreases the level of absence simultaneously increases presenteeism (or vice versa). We set up a theoretical model in which work-related characteristics not only affect a worker's absence decision but also the critical level of sickness that defines presenteeism. Our model shows that non-substitutive relationships between absence and presenteeism are also conceivable. Using European cross-sectional data, we find only one substitutive and few complementary relationships, while the bulk of the work-related characteristics are related only to one of the two sickness states.
M50|Peer Effects in Cheating on Task Performance|Recent research has shown that the presence of peers can increase individual output both in the lab and the field. As a new explanation for higher individual output levels, we test whether peer settings are particularly prone to cheating even if peer settings do not provide additional monetary benefits of cheating. Participants in our real effort experiment had the opportunity to cheat when declaring their output levels. Although cheating did not have different monetary consequences when working alone than when working in the presence of a peer, we find that cheating on task performance is a more severe problem in peer settings. Our results potentially have far-reaching repercussions regarding organizational design in the context of group settings where principals are not fully able to observe agents' output levels.
M50|Corporate governance, state ownership and cross-listing: Evidence from Chinese A-share listed firms|This paper analyses the relationship between corporate governance, state ownership and cross-listing by using data from 2,113 Chinese A-share listed firms during the period 2008 to 2013. Firstly, corporate governance features in state-owned vs. non-state-owned and cross-listed vs. domestically-listed firms are examinde. Secondly, this paper investigates whether state ownership and cross-listing affect the sensitivity of the relation between corporate governance and firm value in Chinese listed firms. The effects are rather mixed.
M50|How are Work-related Characteristics Linked to Sickness Absence and Presenteeism? - Theory and Data -|This paper investigates how changes in work-related factors affect worker's absence and presenteeism behavior. Previous studies (implicitly) assume that there is a substitutive relationship, i.e. a change in a work-related factor decreases the level of absence and simultaneously increases presenteeism (or vice versa). We set up a theoretical model in which work-related characteristics not only affect a worker's absence decision but also the individual-specific sickness defintion. Since work-related factors affect presenteeism through these two channels, non-substitutive relationships between absence and presenteeism are also conceivable. Using European cross-sectional data, we find only few substitutive and complementary relationships, while the bulk of the work-related characteristics is related only to one of the two sickness states.
M50|Arbeitsmarktergebnisse und berufliche Ziele der Generation Y im Vergleich zur Generation X|Junge Menschen der Jahrgänge 1980 bis 1995, in der medialen Berichterstattung häufig als Generation Y oder Millennials bezeichnet, steigen in den letzten Jahren zunehmend in das Berufsleben ein. Ihnen wird von manchem Beobachter unterstellt, dass sie andere berufliche Ziele verfolgen würden und andere Vorstellungen hätten als vergleichbare Altersgruppen in den Vorgängergenerationen. Unternehmen müssten daher ihre Arbeitsbedingungen anpassen, um auch für diese jungen Fachkräfte attraktiv zu bleiben. Ein intergenerationaler Vergleich dieser Generation Y mit den Angehörigen der Geburtsjahrgänge 1965 bis 1979 (Generation X) auf Basis des Soziooekonomischen Panels findet allerdings keine eindeutigen Anhaltspunkte für eine unterschiedliche Einschätzung oder Haltung, wenn sozio-demografische Faktoren, konjunkturelle Trends und Merkmale der beruflichen Tätigkeit berücksichtigt werden. Vielmehr erweist sich die Zunahme der Erwerbstätigkeit von jungen Frauen im Verbund mit einer Ausweitung der Teilzeitbeschäftigung als potenzieller Treiber für beobachtbare Unterschiede. Für die Personalarbeit von Unternehmen bedeutet das, dass sie eher die allgemeinen Trends adressieren als sich auf vermeintliche Besonderheiten einer neuen jungen Generation einstellen sollten.
M50|Publikationsangaben von BWL-Professoren auf ihren Webseiten|Wir untersuchen, ob BWL-Professoren des deutschsprachigen Raums innerhalb der Domäne ihrer Universität oder Fachhochschule über eine Webseite verfügen, die über ihre Publikationen informiert. Auf diesen Webseiten angegebene Publikationen der letzten fünf Jahre (2009 bis 2013) werden mit Publikationen in der Datenbank von Google Scholar verglichen und es wird der Anteil an aktuellen Publikationen geschätzt, die nicht auf den Webseiten angegeben sind. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass eine Webseite mit Publikationsangaben eher bei Professoren im Ruhestand, Fachhochschulprofessoren und bei solchen Professoren fehlt, deren quantifizierbare Forschungsleistung in den letzten fünf Jahren vergleichsweise gering war. Sie deuten außerdem darauf hin, dass ein nicht unbeachtlicher Anteil an Publikationen nicht auf vorhandenen Webseiten angegeben wird. Dies ist auch für in Fachzeitschriften veröffentlichte Aufsätze zu beobachten. Berechnungen von binär logistischen Regressionen ergeben, dass ältere Professoren und Professoren mit einer höheren Forschungsleistung in den letzten fünf Jahren mit einer geringeren Wahrscheinlichkeit alle Publikationen der letzten fünf Jahre auf ihrer Webseite angeben.
M50|How do knowledge brokers work? The case of WERS|A resource-based view of organizations suggests that internal knowledge is amongst the most important sources of competitive advantage. Regardless of whether these ideas are exaggerated, it is not necessary to buy into them all to accept the significance of knowledge as a resource. Knowledge is complex, multi-faceted, intangible, often tacit and specialised; consequently, it is difficult to manage exchange. This has implications for narrowing the gap between academic research and policy impact, and for developing policy-relevant academic research. This paper examines how one particular study, the Workplace Employment Relations Study (WERS), uses KBs to bridge the gap between research and practical knowledge. the findings indicate that KBs in both government and academia have been essential in the effective deployment of WERS research in policy-making and commercial practice.
M50|Verhandlungsstrategien und Verhandlungstaktiken in Gehaltsverhandlungen|"Haben männliche und weibliche Führungskräfte vor einer Gehaltsverhandlung eine Verhandlungsstrategie wirkt sich dies sehr unterschiedlich auf ihre Erfolgsaussichten aus: Bei Männern ist es ein Erfolgsfaktor - bei Frauen ein Misserfolgsfaktor (Ruppert / Voigt 2009). Das hier beschriebene Forschungsprojekt dient der Aufklärung dieses ""Strategie-Paradoxons"". Zwei in Gehaltsverhandlungen üblicherweise eingesetzte Verhandlungsstrategien (Durchsetzungsstrategie / Integrationsstrategie) inklusive einschlägiger Verhandlungstaktiken wurden differenziert nach Geschlecht auf ihren Erfolg untersucht. Hierfür wurden vier knapp fünfminütige Videoclips mit Ausschnitten aus einer Gehaltsverhandlung gedreht. Variiert wurden das Geschlecht und die Verhandlungsstrategie. Jeder der vier Filme wurde von 90 Probanden gesehen und von diesen mittels eines standardisierten Fragebogens u. a. in Bezug auf den Erfolg der jeweils gezeigten Verhandlungsstrategie sowie der eingesetzten Verhandlungstaktiken bewertet. Die Ergebnisse sind durchweg überraschend."
M50|Personnel economics issues: What causes increasing work intensity, and what are the policy responses?|In this paper the issue from personnel economics such as work intensity has been investigated. George Akerlof back in 1976 argued that the real life failed to correspond to the standard general equilibrium model set by Arrow-Debreu. In the real life information is neither complete nor it’s costless. In real life workers tend to work in harsh conditions, and put more efforts in order to receive better wages, also they have incentives to educate themselves more, as better educated employees are more productive. More productive means that they work faster as the rat’s race to the cheese and faster rats will get to the cheese first and get more cheese than slower rats. In reality workers do not want to share their output with slower workers. But it is because of bad norms that firms sets or taxes that government imposes that workers tend to work suboptimal i.e. work more than what is required in equilibrium, or work less than the equilibrium socially optimal required effort. The problem also arises when firms compare worker and pick ‘’average’’ worker, nowadays in OECD (rich) countries club, workers tend to get paid more and get spurious data on increased productivity and the measure average effort to be biased, so wage function will then be biased w=w (ē, t), wage is function of average effort and time needed to produce output.
M50|Personnel Economics essay: Issues in Human Capital Theory, training and earnings of workers|In this paper the issues from the personnel economics has been investigated. The issues such as training of workers from Becker’s human capital theory and their association with the workers’ productivity. In the second part of the paper the issue of grooming has been investigated in relation with earnings for which there exist and it is presented empirical evidence. In the equation as regressors are also present Mincerian variables: age, marital status and others. Also the four puzzles in the empirical literature about the determinants of earnings has been investigated. And how the empirical literature helps in resolving them.
M50|Capital investment and managerial efficiency A simple model for sport clubs|This paper analyzes the relation between resource inputs and managerial effort in sport teams (or, more generally, in firms). The discussion is motivated by a theoretical model that suggests that clubs use managerial effort as a substitute of capital resources in the production process. In this framework, different levels of effort are always optimal decisions given its relative cost. Thus, the relatively higher effort exerted by small (compared to big) sport team is not a consequence of hidden information or incentive problems in the organization but it is a optimal decision of small team/firm to offset capital market restrictions. Managers in big firms, on the other hand, are not obliged to offer their maximum personal effort given that it can be more easily substituted by capital resources in the production process.
M50|Firm-level innovation activity, employee turnover and HRM practices — Evidence from Chinese firms|This paper examines the relationship between employee turnover, HRM practices and innovation in Chinese firms in five high technology sectors. We estimate hurdle negative binomial models for count data on survey data allowing for analyses of the extensive as well as intensive margins of firms' innovation activities. Innovation is measured both by the number of ongoing projects and new commercialized products. The results show that higher R&D employee turnover is associated with a higher probability of being innovative, but decreases the intensity of innovation activities in innovating firms. Innovating firms are more likely to have adopted high performance HRM practices, and the impact of employee turnover varies with the number of HRM practices implemented by the firm.
M50|A Combination With Multiple Organizational Implications: Generation Y And Knowledge Management|Generation Y is the subject of numerous speeches in public, particularly in relation to the work, the expectations and behaviors in the organisation. Current management is surprised by the integration of these young people in the work environment. The solution of integration of these young people would be, as most specialists appreciate, in an management “between generations” to adapt their practices to the specific characteristics of each generation, an evolving technological environment and its ways of organizing work to reach for the model enterprise 2.0, according to the allegedly logic of action of youth. But this solution transfers a large part of the problem within the scope of knowledge management. This paper analyzes the new studies that were concerned with the need for the integration of young people who belong to generation Y in enterprises and the impact of this integration to achieve a new stage in the development of knowledge management that will increase organizational performance. The chosen research methodology is qualitative, imposed by the chosen issue and incorporeal nature phenomena to be observed; more precisely by identifying how the knowledge transfer occurs between generations within SMEs.
M50|Theories And Methods Regarding Employee Motivation|Nowadays, more and more companies from the international business environment, are starting to consider their own employees as a more important resource than the financial capital or the physical assets. This is why the employee motivation is becoming one of the main focuses amongst the companies who want to maintain a competitive position in the market. Motivation, as an instrument used for the increase of human resource productivity, can take different shapes, according to the psychosocial profile of each employee. Thus, the managers should build a personal relationship with their employees and try to understand their expectations regarding to what the company can offer then. Moreover, managers should understand which are the best methods through which they can increase their employee’s satisfaction, so they can fulfill their task at an optimum level. This paper aims to present a series of theories and methods employee motivation, their advantages and disadvantages and the situations in which these theories can be successfully applied.
M50|Contributions Of Social Information System To Value Added Growth And Organizational Performance|Strategic alignment of human resources function is ensured by design and use of an adequate social information system, which has the ability to control personnel costs, optimize the legal aspects, increase customer loyalty and manage talents, taking into account the constraints of mobility and dematerialization . These new elements are highlighted by choosing a qualitative methodology, based on analysis of the latest studies and research dealing with the human resources information system/social media. It highlights the ways in which these systems can provide this function a privileged status for creating added value. The paper, which has the explorative character and opens new research perspectives for a larger project, presents two models for analysis and quantification of newly created value, that the introduction and proper management of social information system promotes in the enterprise, but also operational elements on quantification of its influence on organizational performance.
M50|The Value of Bosses|How and by how much do supervisors enhance worker productivity? Using a company-based data set on the productivity of technology-based services workers, supervisor effects are estimated and found to be large. Replacing a boss who is in the lower 10% of boss quality with one who is in the upper 10% of boss quality increases a team's total output by more than would adding one worker to a nine member team. Workers assigned to better bosses are less likely to leave the firm. A separate normalization implies that the average boss is about 1.75 times as productive as the average worker.
M50|Making Do With Less: Working Harder During Recessions|"Why did productivity rise during recent recessions? One possibility is that average worker quality increased. A second is that each incumbent worker produced more. The second effect is termed ""making do with less."" Using data from 2006 to 2010 on individual worker productivity from a large firm, these effects can be measured and separated. For this firm, most of the gain in productivity during the recession was a result of increased effort. Additionally, the increase in effort is correlated with the increase in the local unemployment rate, presumably reflecting the costs of losing a job."
M50|Grade retention and unobserved heterogeneity| We study the treatment effect of grade retention using a panel of French junior high‐school students, taking unobserved heterogeneity and the endogeneity of grade repetitions into account. We specify a multistage model of human‐capital accumulation with a finite number of types representing unobserved individual characteristics. Class‐size and latent student‐performance indices are assumed to follow finite mixtures of normal distributions. Grade retention may increase or decrease the student's knowledge capital in a type‐dependent way. Our estimation results show that the average treatment effect on the treated (ATT) of grade retention on test scores is positive but small at the end of grade 9. Treatment effects are heterogeneous: we find that the ATT of grade retention is higher for the weakest students. We also show that class size is endogenous and tends to increase with unobserved student ability. The average treatment effect of grade retention is negative, again with the exception of the weakest group of students. Grade repetitions reduce the probability of access to grade 9 of all student types.
M50|Pro Bono Work and Trust in Expert Fields|A controversy has been simmering in law for at least 30 years about whether pro bono work should be mandatory for lawyers, who now donate 1-3% of their time to the poor. This has centered on the unmet legal needs of the poor, the duty of lawyers, and the contrast with US doctors, who are conspicuous in their tradition of voluntary pro bono work. In 2003 alone, they donated $12 billion of labor amounting to 5-10% of their time. This debate has tended to neglect the credence good aspect of the services of experts (e.g., of doctors, lawyers, and accountants), and the role that voluntary pro bono work might play. Expert services have un- verifiable quality to non-experts and are subject to moral hazard. Experts who cheat their customers should crowd out experts who do not, resulting in low trust, prestige, and wages. We ask how pro bono work might promote trust in expert fields. We introduce incomplete information into a psychological game theoretic model of experts who value the esteem from their customers. In our model, pro bono work arises in equilibrium because experts who value the perception of honesty among their customers more are also more willing to give away labor to the poor to signal their honesty. We show that if the aversion to disappointing this esteem is sufficiently high, there is a unique equilibrium in which their wages are high, they do pro bono work, and experts who would have been dishonest are crowded out of the field. Our novel approach involving psychological factors suggests that while mandatory pro bono could redistribute surplus from experts to the poor, it could also undermine the screening effect of pro bono work, and thus, cause a deterioration in service quality.
