M53|Employment Protection and Firm-provided Training: Quasi-experimental Evidence from a Labour Market Reform|In 2012 a labour market reform, known as Fornero Law, substantially reduced firing restrictions for firms with more than 15 employees in Italy. The results from a difference in regression discontinuities design that compares firms below versus those above the cut-off before and after the reform demonstrate that, after the Fornero Law, the number of trained workers increased in firms just above the threshold, with an order of magnitude of approximately 1.5 additional workers in our preferred empirical specification. We show that this effect might be partly explained by the reduction in worker turnover and a lower use of temporary contracts at the threshold after the reform. Our study highlights the counter-intuitive and potentially adverse effects of employment protection legislation (EPL) on training in dual labour markets due to larger firms seeking to avoid the higher costs of EPL by means of temporary contracts.
M53|Employer-Provided Training and Productivity : Evidence from a Panel of Japanese Firms|This study presents evidence on the quantitative relationship between employer-provided training and productivity among Japanese firms. The important contributions of this study are its construction of a panel of training stock at the firm-level, its distinction between manufacturing and service firms, and its comparison of the relative contribution of training to productivity and wages. The results indicate, first, that training significantly contributes to the labor productivity of the firm. Second, the estimated elasticity of productivity with respect to training stock is greater for service firms than for manufacturing firms. Third, the elasticities of productivity and wages to training stock are similar in size, meaning that the returns to firms' training investments are shared by their workers in proportion to the wage share of the value-added. These results suggest that policies to promote firms' training investments have the potential to improve productivity and wages, particularly for firms in service sector.
M53|Why Join a Team?|We present experiments exploring why high ability workers join teams with less able co-workers when there are no short-term financial benefits. We distinguish between two explanations: pro-social preferences and expected long-term financial gains from teaching future teammates. Participants perform a real-effort task and decide whether to work independently or join a two-person team. Treatments vary the payment scheme (piece rate or revenue sharing), whether teammates can communicate, and the role of teaching. High ability workers are more willing to join teams in the absence of revenue sharing and less willing to join teams when they cannot communicate. When communication is possible, the choice of high ability workers to join teams is driven by expected future financial gains from teaching rather than some variety of pro-social preferences. This result has important implications for the role of adverse selection in determining the productivity of teams.
M53|The Effectiveness of Leadership Training from Generation Me Perspectives|Objective – This study aims to further explore how leadership training processes are perceived by various generations in an organization. In looking at this phenomenon we use the perspective of the Me generation who are currently attending a wide range of leadership training organized by their own organization as well as outside of the organization. It is expected that this understanding will provide an outline of how the process of leadership training can effectively change behaviour, improve competence, and advance individual's careers in the future. Methodology/Technique – This study uses a qualitative methodology and a case study with exploratory approach is chosen as the researchers have limited knowledge on the research area. In addition, a case study is a more in-depth study. The procedures of data analysis consist of three actions based on research by Miles and Huberman (1994) that occur instantly: data reduction, data presentation, and conclusion drawing. The findings of this study are a development of skills and expertise which is currently proposed for the security of one's career within an organization. Findings – With career security, the ability to work is increased and people are not limited to working in the same job. Employees have the opportunity to improve their skills and adapt to their working abilities in a changing environment. This will also improve the company's image, not only from the loyalty of their employees, but also in terms of the achievement of their goal, development of skills, motivation, productivity, and performance. Novelty – The empirical implications of this study are in line with the trait theory and contingency model. This proposes that a leader must have various attributes to be effective. Effective leadership is characterised by a number of traits such as cognitive abilities, social abilities, and integrated disposition tendencies. Type of Paper: Review
M53|Employer-Provided Training and Productivity : Evidence from a Panel of Japanese Firms|This study presents evidence on the quantitative relationship between employer-provided training and productivity among Japanese firms. The important contributions of this study are its construction of a panel of training stock at the firm-level, its distinction between manufacturing and service firms, and its comparison of the relative contribution of training to productivity and wages. The results indicate, first, that training significantly contributes to the labor productivity of the firm. Second, the estimated elasticity of productivity with respect to training stock is greater for service firms than for manufacturing firms. Third, the elasticities of productivity and wages to training stock are similar in size, meaning that the returns to firms' training investments are shared by their workers in proportion to the wage share of the value-added. These results suggest that policies to promote firms' training investments have the potential to improve productivity and wages, particularly for firms in service sector.
M53|Training, Soft Skills and Productivity: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Retail|Understanding the causal association between skills and productivity is essential for designing effective training programs. This paper evaluates an intervention aimed at boosting leadership and communication skills among store managers and sales associates from a large Latin American retailer. The empirical analysis is carried out using longitudinal information gathered by the firm and through two skills surveys. The Identification exploits the experimental design in the context of a difference-in-difference strategy. The results indicate large positive effects of the training program on store-level productivity. We further link these Findings to individual-level performance measures. In particular, we document positive effects on total sales and numbers of transactions for all workers. Regarding the mechanisms, we provide evidence suggesting that the intervention was more effective in boosting leadership skills than communication skills. Spillovers from trained managers to untrained sales representatives also contribute to the main effects. Our findings point towards the possibility of increasing productivity through training programs targeting critical skills.
M53|Competition, Institutions and Company-sponsored Training|The new training literature argues that imperfect labour markets (i.e. less competition) lead to an increasing productivity-wage wedge. We show that this relation does not hold for all institutional and market environments. We use representative establishment panel data for Germany and apply a control function approach for estimating the production function to correct for endogeneity in input factors. We show that the skill-productivity gradient responds stronger to increases in product market competition and labour market density than the skill-wage gradient. This leads to an increasing productivity-wage wedge in more competitive environments. Similarly, works councils have a stronger effect on the skill-productivity than on the skill-wage gradient while both gradients are similar in the presence of union wage bargaining. Our results call for a more nuanced interpretation of the exposition of the new training literature to understand company-sponsored training across institutional and market environments.
M53|Training, Soft Skills and Productivity: Evidence from a Field Experiment|This paper examines a training intervention aimed at boosting leadership and communication skills among employees of a large Latin American retailer. The identification exploits an experimental design in the context of a difference-in-difference strategy. Using longitudinal information obtained from the firm and two skills surveys, we document large positive effects of the training on store- and individual- level productivity. The intervention was more effective in boosting leadership than communication skills. Spillovers from trained managers to untrained sales representatives also contribute to the main effects. Our findings confirm the possibility of increasing productivity through training targeting critical soft-skills.
M53|Open Labor Markets and Firms’ Substitution between Training Apprentices and Hiring Workers|In this paper, we study whether Swiss employers substitute between training apprentices and hiring cross-border workers. Because both training apprentices and hiring skilled workers are costly for firms, we hypothesize that (easier) access to cross-border workers will lead some employers to substitute away from training their own workers. We account for potential endogeneity issues by instrumenting a firm’s share of cross-border workers using a firm’s distance to the national border and therefore its possibility to fall back on cross-border workers to satisfy its labor demand. We find that both OLS and 2SLS estimates are negative across a wide range of alternative specifications, suggesting that firms substitute between training and hiring workers when the supply of skilled workers is higher. Our preferred 2SLS estimate implies that the increase in firms’ share of crossborder workers within our observation period, from 1995 to 2008, led to about 3,500 fewer apprenticeship positions (equal to about 2% of the total number of apprentice positions).
M53|Immigrants and Workplace Training: Evidence from Canadian Linked Employer Employee Data|Job training is one of the most important aspects of skill formation and human capital accumulation. In this study we use longitudinal Canadian linked employer-employee data to examine whether white/visible minority immigrants and Canadian-borns experience different opportunities in two well-defined measures of firm-sponsored training: on-the-job training and classroom training. While we find no differences in on-the-job training between different groups, our results suggest that visible minority immigrants are significantly less likely to receive classroom training, and receive fewer and shorter classroom training courses, an experience that is not shared by white immigrants. For male visible minority immigrants, these gaps are entirely driven by their differential sorting into workplaces with less training opportunities. For their female counterparts however, they are mainly driven by differences that emerge within workplaces. We find no evidence that years spent in Canada or education level can appreciably reduce these gaps. Accounting for potential differences in career paths and hierarchical level also fails to explain these differences. We find however that these gaps are only experienced by visible minority immigrants who work in the for-profit sector, with those in the non-profit sector experiencing positive or no gaps in training. Finally, we show that other poor labor market outcomes of visible minority immigrants, including their wages and promotion opportunities, stem in part from these training gaps.
M53|Why Join a Team?|We present experiments exploring why high ability workers join teams with less able co-workers when there are no short-term financial benefits. We distinguish between two explanations: pro-social preferences and expected long-term financial gains from teaching future teammates. Participants perform a real-effort task and decide whether to work independently or join a two-person team. Treatments vary the payment scheme (piece rate or revenue sharing), whether teammates can communicate, and the role of teaching. High ability workers are more willing to join teams in the absence of revenue sharing and less willing to join teams when they cannot communicate. When communication is possible, the choice of high ability workers to join teams is driven by expected future financial gains from teaching rather than some variety of pro-social preferences. This result has important implications for the role of adverse selection in determining the productivity of teams.
M53|"Long-term Effects from Early Exposure to Research: Evidence from the NIH ""Yellow Berets''"|"Can a relatively short but intense exposure to frontier research alter the career trajectories of potential innovators? To answer this question, we study the careers and productivity of 3,075 medical school graduates who applied to the Associate Training Programs (ATP) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) during the turbulent period of the Vietnam War, 1965-1975. Carefully selecting on observables, we compare physicians who attended the program to those who passed a first admission screen but were ultimately not selected. We find that program participants were more likely to initially enter academic medicine, and less likely to switch to purely clinical endeavors as their careers unfolded. Over the life cycle, NIH trainees also garnered publications, citations, and grant funding at a much higher rate than synthetic controls. The direction of their research efforts was also durably imprinted by their training experience. In particular, NIH trainees appear to have acquired a distinct ""translational'' style of biomedical research which became an implicit training model for physician-scientists as ATP alumni came to occupy the commanding heights of academic medicine throughout the United States."
M53|Персонал В Ресторанном Бизнесе<BR>[The personnel in restaurant business]|Статья посвящена специфике человеческих ресурсов в ресторанном бизнесе. Автор рассматривает особенности управления персоналом в сфере общественного питания, существующие подходы к управлению персоналом и необходимость создания собственной команды квалифицированных сотрудников. The article is devoted to the specifics of human resources in the restaurant business. The author considers the peculiarities of personnel management in the field of catering, existing approaches to personnel management and the need to create their own team of qualified employees.
M53|Система Отбора Найма Персонала В Сфере Ресторанного Бизнеса<BR>[The selection system of recruitment in the field of restaurant business]|Статья посвящена особенностям формирования системы подбора персонала ресторана, а также основным критериям найма сотрудников. Автором рассматриваются особенности кадровой политики и ее влияние на рекрутинг персонала. Особое внимание уделяется мероприятиям, направленным на удовлетворение мотивации сотрудников. The article is devoted to the peculiarities of the formation of the system of selection of staff to the restaurant, as well as the basic criteria for the selection of staff. The author considers the peculiarities of personnel policy and its impact on the recruitment of personnel. Special attention is paid to the activities aimed at satisfying the motivation of employees.
M53|Особенности формирования резюме при отсутствия опыта работы Features of formation summary with no experience<BR>[Features of formation summary with no experience]|В статье рассматривается, особенности формирования резюме для тех, кто является новичком на рынке труда. На основе проведенного анализа сделаны важные выводы, благодаря которым каждый сможет составить грамотное резюме. The article discusses the features of forming a resume for those who are new to the labor market. On the basis of the analysis made, important conclusions have been made, thanks to which everyone will be able to make a competent summary.
M53|Japanese Knowledge Transfer via Training in Mexico?s Automotive Industry|The automotive industry has been considered a source for development because of its impact on employment, knowledge transfer capabilities and backward and forward linkages with other industries. However, only a handful of developing countries have achieved an internationally competitive automotive industry. This might be attributable to the industry requiring not only skilled labor but also a strong supporting industry able to provide from 20,000 to 30,000 parts and components. In an ideal setting, supplier firms and assembly plants work interconnected creating positive externalities to each other, but for developing countries, it has been shown that this is difficult to achieve. The case of Mexico stands out as a country that has successfully attracted major automotive assemblers but has not been able to develop a solid supplier base. Despite the increasing presence of Japanese firms in Mexico, local firms have not been able to enter automotive chains primarily due to the inability to meet technological and quality requirements. This study analyzes specific cases of knowledge transfer to local firms under a training project from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The results show improvements in quality and productivity measurements of participating firms. The knowledge acquired through training was internalized and diffused within the firm allowing for industry-specific certifications, market growth, and market diversification.
M53|Employment Protection and Firm-provided Training: Quasi-experimental Evidence from a Labour Market Reform|In 2012 a labour market reform, known as Fornero Law, substantially reduced firing restrictions for firms with more than 15 employees in Italy. The results from a difference in regression discontinuities design that compares firms below versus those above the cut-off before and after the reform demonstrate that, after the Fornero Law, the number of trained workers increased in firms just above the threshold, with an order of magnitude of approximately 1.5 additional workers in our preferred empirical specification. We show that this effect might be partly explained by the reduction in worker turnover and a lower use of temporary contracts at the threshold after the reform. Our study highlights the counter-intuitive and potentially adverse effects of employment protection legislation (EPL) on training in dual labour markets due to larger firms seeking to avoid the higher costs of EPL by means of temporary contracts.
M53|Digitalisierung und Weiterbildung - Industrie 4.0 versus Dienstleistung 4.0|"Dienstleistungsunternehmen nutzen mehr neue digitale Technologien als das Verarbeitende Gewerbe, wie beispielsweise digitale Vertriebswege und digitale Dienstleistungen. Unternehmensnahe Dienstleister nutzen im Schnitt 2,4 von acht abgefragten neuen digitalen Technologien, gesellschaftsnahe Dienstleister 2,3 und Unternehmen des Verarbeitenden Gewerbes nur 2,1. Im Verarbeitenden Gewerbe sind vor allem die kleinen Unternehmen wenig digitalisiert, während die großen Unternehmen zu den Vorreitern zählen. Digitale Technologien sind Treiber der Weiterbildung. Unternehmen, die viele digitale Technologien nutzen, sind häufiger weiterbildungsaktiv und wenden mehr Geld und Zeit für die Weiterbildung ihrer Mitarbeiter auf. Da technologiegetriebene Weiterbildung in der Industrie eine längere Tradition hat als im Dienstleistungsbereich, lösen neue Technologien einen weniger sprunghaften Weiterbildungsbedarf aus. Chancen der Digitalisierung werden erkannt. In allen Wirtschaftsbereichen werden mehr Chancen als Risiken in der Digitalisierung gesehen. Unternehmensnahe Dienstleister sehen die größten Chancen in der Digitalisierung; die geringsten sehen Industrieunternehmen. Inhalte der Weiterbildung werden durch die Digitalisierung vielfältiger und beschränken sich nicht nur auf IT-Kenntnisse. Berufliches Fachwissen bleibt der wichtigste Weiterbildungsinhalt. Soft Skills wie Kommunikations- und Kooperationsfähigkeit sowie Selbstständigkeit, Planungs- und Organisationsfähigkeit gewinnen im Rahmen der Digitalisierung an Bedeutung. Branchen- und unternehmensspezifische Besonderheiten sollten bei der Bereitstellung von Lernangeboten berücksichtigt werden. Führungskompetenzen gewinnen in allen Branchen an Bedeutung, um Führungskräfte für ""Digital Leadership"" zu qualifizieren. IT-Kenntnisse werden vor allem bei den unternehmensnahen Dienstleistern in Weiterbildung vermittelt. IT-Anwender- und IT-Fachkenntnisse werden im Verarbeitenden Gewerbe und bei den gesellschaftsnahen Dienstleistern vergleichsweise selten vermittelt, auch weil die Nutzung mobiler sowie stationärer Geräte dort eine geringere Verbreitung hat als bei den unternehmensnahen Dienstleistern. Ein digitales Mindset erhöht die Bereitschaft, sich digital weiterzubilden. Wenn im Unterneh-men ein digitales Mindset vorhanden ist, das sich darin äußert, dass die Unternehmen große Chancen in der Digitalisierung sehen, dann werden auch häufiger digitale Weiterbildungsangebote genutzt. Kleine Unternehmen des Verarbeitenden Gewerbes nutzen am seltensten digitale Lernangebote, während große Industrieunternehmen zu den Vorreitern der Nutzung von E-Learning zählen. Didaktische Potenziale stärker nutzen. Während die hohe Flexibilität digitaler Lernangebote von vielen Unternehmen geschätzt wird, sehen relativ wenig Unternehmen didaktische Vorteile bei der Nutzung neuer Medien in der Weiterbildung - hier besteht noch Handlungsbedarf, sowohl hinsichtlich der Erkenntnis, was digitale Medien können, aber auch hinsichtlich des Wissens über die Qualität der Angebote."
M53|Determinants of work-related training: An investigation of observed and unobserved firm-, job- and worker-heterogeneity|One of the most important policy goals in industrialized countries is to increase the skill level of the labor force by life-long-learning strategies. In this paper our aim is to explain to what extent the variation in training investments is determined either by (observed and unobserved) heterogeneity of firms or of workers, hence we put a new perspective on the determinants of training. Rather than analyzing single determinants or groups of variables, we decompose the variation into a worker-specific and a firm-specific part and show how much of the unexplained variation is independent of both. Our results show that both firm-, job- and worker-level heterogeneity explains training participation and that firm heterogeneity is far less important compared to the others. Also interesting, is the finding that a large part of the overall variance is not driven by firm- or worker heterogeneity, hence training participation seems to be to some extent an unexplained event which happens by chance.
M53|Flexible Work Organization and Employer Provided Training: Evidence from German Linked Employer-Employee Data|We examine the hypothesis that flexible work organization involves greater skill requirements and, hence, an increased likelihood of receiving employer provided training. Using unique linked employer-employee data from Germany, we confirm that employees are more likely to receive training when their jobs are characterized by greater decision-making autonomy and task variety, two essential elements of flexibility. Critically, the training associated with workplace flexibility does not simply reflect technology. Skill-biased organizational change plays its own role. Moreover, we show that the training associated with workplace flexibility is disproportionately oriented toward employees with a greater formal education. Our results also provide modest evidence of an age bias of workplace flexibility. However, the link between workplace flexibility and training does not appear to differ by gender.
M53|Skills for the 21st Century: Findings and Policy Lessons from the OECD Survey of Adult Skills|The OECD Survey of Adult Skills is the jewel in the crown of its Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC). This paper argues that the findings and policy lessons from the project to date justify the high hopes which were placed in PIAAC when detailed planning for the project began in 2003. First, it presents a brief recap of PIAAC and its two predecessor international skills surveys. Second, it outlines the main themes which have been investigated to date using data from PIAAC. Third, the main findings and policy lessons drawn from PIAAC are highlighted. Finally, looking forward to the second cycle of PIAAC, for which planning is now underway, the paper suggests some priority areas for improvements to the survey design in order to add to its analytical usefulness and enhance its utility to policy makers.
M53|Training participation and the role of reciprocal attitudes|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), I examine the relation between workers’ reciprocal attitudes, as measured in 2005 and 2010, and participation in work-related training courses in 2007 and 2013, respectively. Theory predicts that employers find it more profitable to invest in human capital of workers who have positively reciprocal attitudes, because they are more likely to return their employer’s kindness with higher effort and/or loyalty. The findings are mixed, depending on the survey year. I find that positively reciprocal workers are more likely to participate in employer-financed training in 2007, in particular when training is general. Also consistent with theoretical expectations, I do not find a relation between workers’ reciprocal attitudes and participation in training that is not financed by the employer. However, workers’ reciprocal attitudes are not related to training participation in 2013. A possible explanation is that employers use training to induce reciprocal feelings in a slack labour market only.
M53|Training participation and the role of reciprocal attitudes|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), I examine the relation between workers’ reciprocal attitudes, as measured in 2005 and 2010, and participation in work-related training courses in 2007 and 2013, respectively. Theory predicts that employers find it more profitable to invest in human capital of workers who have positively reciprocal attitudes, because they are more likely to return their employer’s kindness with higher effort and/or loyalty. The findings are mixed, depending on the survey year. I find that positively reciprocal workers are more likely to participate in employer-financed training in 2007, in particular when training is general. Also consistent with theoretical expectations, I do not find a relation between workers’ reciprocal attitudes and participation in training that is not financed by the employer. However, workers’ reciprocal attitudes are not related to training participation in 2013. A possible explanation is that employers use training to induce reciprocal feelings in a slack labour market only.
M53|Fachkräftemangel in der Pflege: Kritische Situationsbewertung und Skizzierung einer Handlungsalternative|Das Bundeskabinett hat am 01.08.2018 das Pflegepersonal-Stärkungsgesetz beschlossen. Unter anderem ist darin die Einstellung von 13.000 zusätzlichen Pflegefachkräften vorgesehen. Angesichts der derzeitigen Mangelsituation in diesem Berufsfeld bestehen starke Zweifel, ob diese Stellen adäquat besetzt werden können. Zukunftsprojektionen für das Jahr 2030 zeigen, dass sich die Pflegekraftlücke noch deutlich vergrößern wird. Auch der Zugriff auf bislang unerschlossene Arbeitskräftepotenziale wird zur Schließung nicht ausreichend sein. Die soziale Dramatik dieses Problems verbietet eine abwartende Haltung. Bisher beschlossene Maßnahmen sind zu kleinteilig und zu reaktiv angelegt. Es sind kurzfristig Handlungen erforderlich, die einen aktiven Lösungsbeitrag in einer substanziellen Größenordnung leisten. Vorgeschlagen wird in einem stark fokussierten Handlungsansatz die Errichtung einer groß dimensionierten Pflegefachschule (10.000 Plätze) in einem Drittland. Es wird ein begründeter Kriterienkatalog für die Auswahl geeigneter Länder vorgestellt. Als potenziell geeignetes Land wird Vietnam diskutiert.
M53|Flexible Work Organization and Employer Provided Training: Evidence from German Linked Employer-Employee Data|We examine the hypothesis that flexible work organization involves greater skill requirements and, hence, an increased likelihood of receiving employer provided training. Using unique linked employer-employee data from Germany, we confirm that employees are more likely to receive training when their jobs are characterized by greater decision-making autonomy and task variety, two essential elements of flexibility. Critically, the training associated with workplace flexibility does not simply reflect technology. Skill-biased organizational change plays its own role. Moreover, we show that the training associated with workplace flexibility is disproportionately oriented toward employees with a greater formal education. Our results also provide modest evidence of an age bias of workplace flexibility. However, the link between workplace flexibility and training does not appear to differ by gender.
M53|The Wider Benefits of Adult Learning: Work-Related Training and Social Capital|We propose a regression-adjusted matched difference-in-differences framework to estimate non-pecuniary returns to adult education. This approach combines kernel matching with entropy balancing to account for selection bias and sorting on gains. Using data from the German SOEP, we evaluate the effect of work-related training, which represents the largest portion of adult education in OECD countries, on individual social capital. Training increases participation in civic, political, and cultural activities while not crowding out social participation. Results are robust against a variety of potentially confounding explanations. These findings imply positive externalities from work-related training over and above the well documented labor market effects.
M53|Training in the Great Recession - Evidence from an Individual Perspective|This paper analyses the effect of the economic crisis in 2008 and 2009 on individual training activities of different employee groups within establishments. We use a unique German linked employer-employee panel data set with detailed information on individual training history (WeLL-ADIAB). The so-called Great Recession can be seen as an exogenous, unexpected, and time-limited shock. Therefore, our quasi-experimental setting using Diff-in-Diff analyses reveals the causal impact of the crisis on the training participation and the number of training measures. We find a direct negative effect of the crisis on individual training activities in 2009 and 2010. The negative effect therefore sets in with a time lag and lasts until after the recession. Furthermore, the recession effect is stronger for employees in unskilled jobs than for employees in skilled jobs.
M53|Who Teaches the Teachers? A RCT of Peer-To-Peer Observation and Feedback in 181 Schools|It is well established that teachers are the most important in-school factor in determining student outcomes. However, to date there is scant robust quantitative research demonstrating that teacher training programs can have lasting impacts on student test scores. To address this gap, we conduct and evaluate a teacher peer-to-peer observation and feedback program under Randomized Control Trial (RCT) conditions. Half of 181 volunteer primary schools in England were randomly selected to participate in the two year program. We find that students of treated teachers perform no better on national tests a year after the program ended. The absence of external observers and incentives in our program may explain the contrast of these results with the small body of work which shows a positive influence of teacher observation and feedback on pupil outcomes.
M53|The Wider Benefits of Adult Learning: Work-Related Training and Social Capital|We propose a regression-adjusted matched difference-in-differences framework to estimate non-pecuniary returns to adult education. This approach combines kernel matching with entropy balancing to account for selection bias and sorting on gains. Using data from the German SOEP, we evaluate the effect of work-related training, which represents the largest portion of adult education in OECD countries, on individual social capital. Training increases participation in civic, political, and cultural activities while not crowding out social participation. Results are robust against a variety of potentially confounding explanations. These findings imply positive externalities from work-related training over and above the well-documented labor market effects.
M53|Employment Protection, Temporary Contracts and Firm-Provided Training: Evidence from Italy|In this study, we leverage on Italy's size-contingent firing restrictions to identify the causal effect of employment protection legislation (EPL) on firm-provided training using a regression discontinuity design. Our analysis demonstrates that higher levels of EPL reduce incentives for firms to invest in workers' training. The number of trained workers falls by about 1.5-1.9 units at the threshold: this is not a negligible effect, corresponding to a 16-20% reduction in the number of trained workers. The results are robust to several sensitivity checks and controls for potential confounding factors (e.g. work councils). The effect of EPL on training is not mediated by different levels of investment in physical capital or propensities to innovate, while it is mostly accounted for by higher worker turnover and more use of temporary contracts, which entail less training, in firms with higher firing costs. Our study highlights the potential adverse effects of EPL on worker training in dual labour markets, owing to larger firms seeking to avoid the higher costs of EPL by means of temporary contracts.
M53|Anonymity of distance? Job search and labour market exclusion in a growing African city|Do obstacles to job search contribute to labour market exclusion in developing countries? To answer this question, we contrast two very different interventions, designed to alleviate spatial and informational constraints for unemployed youth in a congested African city: a transport subsidy and a job-application workshop. Both treatments have large positive effects on the probability of finding stable and formal jobs. Neither treatment has a significant average effect on the overall probability of employment, but we detect a sizeable increase in earnings and employment rates among the most disadvantaged job-seekers. Our results highlight the importance of job-search constraints as mechanisms for exclusion of the most disadvantaged. They also show that, if targeted well, low-cost interventions can have large impacts, improving equity in the labour market
M53|The Wider Beneﬁts of Adult Learning: Work-Related Training and Social Capital|We propose a regression-adjusted matched difference-in-differences framework to estimate non-pecuniary returns to adult education. This approach combines kernel matching with entropy balancing to account for selection bias and sorting on gains. Using data from the German SOEP,we evaluate the effect of work-related training, which represents the largest portion of adult education in OECD countries, on individual social capital. Training increases participation in civic, political, and cultural activities while not crowding out social participation. Results are robust against a variety of potentially confounding explanations. These ﬁndings imply positive externalities from work-related training over and above the well-documented labor market effects.
M53|Can German vocational training combat skill shortages in developing countries? Evidence from dual training system in the Philippines:| This paper estimates the impacts of the Philippine Dual Training System (DTS) on labor market outcomes using a recent survey that tracked graduates from DTS and non-DTS programs provided by vocational training institutes. DTS programs partner with local employers to combine on-the-job training (OJT) with the conventional school- or center-based instruction, while non-DTS programs consist solely of the latter. The estimation results in Fuzzy Regression Discontinuity Design show a significantly positive impact on the most-recent monthly earnings. The impact significantly increases with the OJT intensity, measured by the number of hours of in-company OJT. The above results imply that the role played by OJT is essential to support higher earnings for DTS graduates.
M53|Discriminations dans l’accès à la banque et à l’assurance : Les enseignements de trois testings|This research measures discriminations on three markets which were rarely studied in France even though the access to these markets determines the occupational and social integration of individuals, in particular young people?: automobile insurance, health insurance and consumer credit market. On these markets, we estimate the age discrimination, sexual discrimination, ethnic origin discrimination, and discrimination based on place of residence, using correspondence testing. We used six profiles of fictitious individuals who submitted similar requests for an quotation from credits, insurances and health insurances providers. First of all, in March?2016, we tested?38?non-life and composite insurance company by sending them an online request for a quotation for an automobile insurance. Then, between April and May, 2016, we tested?52?companies which allowed sending a request for an estimate for a health insurance from a simulation made on their website. Finally, in June, 2016, we tested?20?financial institutions by sending six requests to estimate the cost of a consumer credit in order to buy a second-hand car. These three testing campaigns highlight the existence of age discrimination, sexual discrimination, ethnic discrimination, as well as discrimination related place of residence, both in the access to the services and in pricing applied by providers. Classification JEL?: C93, J14, M53
M53|Investment in human capital in post-Soviet countries: Why are firms not training more?|Using STEP employer surveys data in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Ukraine, this paper investigates how innovation, openness to international business contacts, use of computer at work and skills shortages affect employer-provided training in post-Soviet countries. It examines different types of training (less formal on-the-job training along with more formal in-house and external training) provided to white-collar or blue-collar workers. After controlling for a range of firm characteristics, we find a positive link between technological innovation and intensity of training of all types provided to white-collar workers that points to the technology-skills complementarity. Besides, the level of computer use at work is a significant determinant of the incidence and intensity of external training provided to white-collar and blue-collar workers.
M53|企業の教育訓練投資と生産性|本稿は、日本企業のデータを使用し、企業の教育訓練投資と生産性の関係を定量的に分析する。本稿の特長は、教育訓練ストックのパネルデータを構築して、製造業とサービス産業を区別して分析するとともに、教育訓練と生産性及び賃金との間の量的な関係を比較する点にある。分析結果によれば、第一に、教育訓練は、企業の生産性に対して正の寄与をしている。第二に、生産性の教育訓練ストックに対する弾性値は、製造業に比べてサービス産業の方が顕著に高い。第三に、教育訓練投資の収益は、企業と労働者に対して要素所得シェアに見合った割合で帰属している。以上の結果は、企業の教育訓練投資を促進する政策が、特にサービス分野の企業の生産性や賃金を高める上で潜在的に有効な可能性を示唆している。
M53|企業の教育訓練投資と生産性|本稿は、日本企業のデータを使用し、企業の教育訓練投資と生産性の関係を定量的に分析する。本稿の特長は、教育訓練ストックのパネルデータを構築して、製造業とサービス産業を区別して分析するとともに、教育訓練と生産性及び賃金との間の量的な関係を比較する点にある。分析結果によれば、第一に、教育訓練は、企業の生産性に対して正の寄与をしている。第二に、生産性の教育訓練ストックに対する弾性値は、製造業に比べてサービス産業の方が顕著に高い。第三に、教育訓練投資の収益は、企業と労働者に対して要素所得シェアに見合った割合で帰属している。以上の結果は、企業の教育訓練投資を促進する政策が、特にサービス分野の企業の生産性や賃金を高める上で潜在的に有効な可能性を示唆している。
M53|Training in the Great Recession: Evidence from an individual perspective|This paper analyses the effect of the economic crisis in 2008 and 2009 on individual training activities of different employee groups within establishments. We use a unique German linked employer-employee panel data set with detailed information on individual training history (WeLL-ADIAB). The so-called Great Recession can be seen as an exogenous, unexpected, and time-limited shock. Therefore, our quasi-experimental setting using Diff-in-Diff analyses reveals the causal impact of the crisis on the training participation and the number of training measures. We find a direct negative effect of the crisis on individual training activities in 2009 and 2010. The negative effect therefore sets in with a time lag and lasts until after the recession. Furthermore, the recession effect is stronger for employees in unskilled jobs than for employees in skilled jobs.
M53|Employment Protection, Temporary Contracts and Firm-provided Training: Evidence from Italy|In this study, we leverage on Italy's size-contingent firing restrictions to identify the causal effect of employment protection legislation (EPL) on firm-provided training using a regression discontinuity design. Our analysis demonstrates that higher levels of EPL reduce incentives for firms to invest in workers' training. The number of trained workers falls by about 1.5-1.9 units at the threshold - this is not a negligible effect, corresponding to a 16-20% reduction in the number of trained workers. The results are robust to several sensitivity checks and controls for potential confounding factors (e.g. work councils). The effect of EPL on training is not mediated by different levels of investment in physical capital or propensities to innovate, while it is mostly accounted for by higher worker turnover and more use of temporary contracts, which entail less training, in firms with higher firing costs. Our study highlights the potential adverse effects of EPL on worker training in dual labour markets, owing to larger firms seeking to avoid the higher costs of EPL by means of temporary contracts.
M53|The Impact of Management Practices on SME Performance|We examine the impact of management practices on firm performance among SMEs in Britain over the period 2011-2014, using a unique dataset which links survey data on management practices with firm performance data from the UK’s official business register. We find that SMEs are less likely to use formal management practices than larger firms, but that such practices have demonstrable benefits for those who use them, helping firms to grow and increasing their productivity. The returns are most apparent for those SMEs that invest in human resource management practices, such as training and performance-related pay, and those that set formal performance targets.
M53|Further Training and Affective Commitment|We investigate the relation of further training and employees' affective commitment. In doing so, we distinguish between a support effect and a participation effect: On the one hand we analyze how a firm's general support for further training is associated with the affective commitment of their employees and on the other hand how individual participation in further training relates to affective commitment. Using the Linked Personnel Panel (LPP), which is a longitudinally linked employer-employee data set, we are able to control for several human resource management instruments additionally to the usual demographics and job characteristics. Moreover, the two-level structure of the data allows us to analyze the support effect from a firm's perspective and an individually perceived perspective. Results show that employees' participation in further training is positively related to affective commitment, but that a general perceived firm's support for personnel development mediates the positive relation of participation in further training and individual affective commitment. Furthermore, we find that the relation of perceived firm's interest in personnel development and affective commitment is increasing with years of schooling and decreasing with age.
M53|Organisational Accreditation and Worker Upskilling in Britain|Britain has lagged behind the G7 countries in labour productivity in recent years. There is also an emerging concern about a potential post-Brexit skills deficit. Upskilling the existing workforce via on-the-job training may be a vital policy tool available. Using a panel of organisations and their 'Investors in People' accreditation status, this paper empirically examines if accreditation promotes upskilling. Fixed effects estimates reveal that accreditation enhances on-the-job training but only in private sector organisations. Difference-in-differences estimates using unaccredited and di-accredited organisations as alternative matched comparators reinforce the FE findings. Policy may have to further engender accreditation schemes that boost worker upskilling to address the productivity concerns and to cope with the rapid technological changes better.
M53|Who Teaches the Teachers? A RCT of Peer-to-Peer Observation and Feedback in 181 Schools|It is well established that teachers are the most important in-school factor in determining student outcomes. However, to date there is scant robust quantitative research demonstrating that teacher training programs can have lasting impacts on student test scores. To address this gap, we conduct and evaluate a teacher peer-to-peer observation and feedback program under Randomized Control Trial (RCT) conditions. Half of 181 volunteer primary schools in England were randomly selected to participate in the two year program. We find that students of treated teachers perform no better on national tests a year after the program ended. The absence of external observers and incentives in our program may explain the contrast of these results with the small body of work which shows a positive influence of teacher observation and feedback on pupil outcomes.
M53|The Impact of Migration on Productivity and Native-Born Workers' Training|We investigate the relationship between migration and productivity in the UK, using an instrumental variable along the lines suggested by Bianchi, Buonanno and Pinotti (2012). Our results suggest that immigration has a positive and significant impact (in both the statistical sense and more broadly) on productivity, as measured at a geographical level; this appears to be driven by higher-skilled workers. The results for training are less clear, but suggest that higher-skilled immigration may have a positive impact on the training of native workers. We discuss the implications for post-Brexit immigration policy.
M53|Skills for the 21st Century: Findings and Policy Lessons from the OECD Survey of Adult Skills|The OECD Survey of Adult Skills is the jewel in the crown of its Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC). This paper argues that the findings and policy lessons from the project to date justify the high hopes which were placed in PIAAC when detailed planning for the project began in 2003. First, it presents a brief recap of PIAAC and its two predecessor international skills surveys. Second, it outlines the main themes which have been investigated to date using data from PIAAC. Third, the main findings and policy lessons drawn from PIAAC are highlighted. Finally, looking forward to the second cycle of PIAAC, for which planning is now underway, the paper suggests some priority areas for improvements to the survey design in order to add to its analytical usefulness and enhance its utility to policy makers.
M53|The Skills to Pay the Bills: Returns to On-the-job Soft Skills Training|We evaluate the causal impacts of on-the-job soft skills training on the productivity, wages, and retention of female garment workers in India. The program increased women’s extraversion and communication, and spurred technical skill upgrading. Treated workers were 20 percent more productive than controls post-program. Wages rise very modestly with treatment (by 0.5 percent), with no differential turnover, suggesting that although soft skills raise workers’ marginal products, labor market frictions are large enough to create a substantial wedge between productivity and wages. Consistent with this, the net return to the firm was large: 258 percent eight months after program completion.
M53|The impact of management practices on SME performance|We examine the impact of management practices on firm performance among SMEs in Britain over the period 2011-2014, using a unique dataset which links survey data on management practices with firm performance data from the UK's official business register. We find that SMEs are less likely to use formal management practices than larger firms, but that such practices have demonstrable benefits for those who use them, helping firms to grow and increasing their productivity. The returns are most apparent for those SMEs that invest in human resource management practices, such as training and performance-related pay, and those that set formal performance targets.
M53|The Effects of an Education-Leave Program on Educational Attainment and Labor-Market Outcomes|Abstract I study the effect of an education leave subsidy for the employed on labor-market outcomes and educational attainment using Finnish administrative linked employer-employee panel data and matching methods. The adult education allowance is available to employees with at least eight years of work experience and allows them to take a leave for 2–18 months to participate in an education program while being compensated for a substantial part of their forgone earnings. I find large positive treatment effects on educational attainment and changing occupation. The treatment effects on earnings and employment are negative during the lock-in period and close to zero afterward. Treatment effects on pseudo-outcomes are small and with one exception not statistically significant, which supports the credibility of the identification strategy. Sensitivity analyses show that unobserved variables should have a fairly large effect on treatment assignment to change the results.
M53|Can we weigh the interests of future generations?|Human development and sustainability are essential components of contemporary life. Each generation should take its chances and use resources without creating ecological debts by overexploiting capacity of the Earth. We always have to keep in mind the obligation to do at least as much for our successor generation as our predecessors did for us. The effect of environment on humans has both temporary and long-time affects: cultural, natural and industrial heritage preservation is an important component of sensitive equilibrium between economic, social and cultural development. Human resource departments should be able to follow requirements for qualified trained experts for both public and private sectors covering professions able to manage preserving, protecting, presenting, introducing, and improving values of sustainable, healthy and safe surrounding environment.
M53|Why Agents Need Discretion: The Business Judgment Rule as Optimal Standard of Care|Should managers be liable for ill-conceived business decisions? One answer is given by U.S. courts, which almost never hold managers liable for their mistakes. In this paper, we address the question in a theoretical model of delegated decision making. We find that courts should indeed be lenient as long as contracts are restricted to be linear. With more general compensation schemes, the answer depends on the precision of the court’s signal. If courts make many mistakes in evaluating decisions, they should not impose liability for poor business judgment.
M53|Gender Matters in Economic Empowerment Interventions: A Research Review - Working Paper 456|A review of the recent evaluation evidence on financial services and training interventions questions their gender neutrality and suggests that some design features in these interventions can yield more positive economic outcomes for women than for men. These include features in savings and ‘Graduation’ programs that increase women’s economic self-reliance and self-control, and the practice of repeated micro borrowing that increases financial risk-taking and choice. ‘Smart’ design also includes high quality business management and jobs skills training, and stipends and other incentives in these training programs that address women’s additional time burdens and childcare demands. Peer support may also help to increase financial risk taking and confidence in business decisions, and may augment an otherwise negligible impact of financial literacy training. These features help women overcome gender-related constraints. However, when social norms are too restrictive, and women are prevented from doing any paid work, no design will be smart enough. Subjective economic empowerment appears to be an important intermediate outcome for women that should be promoted and more reliably and accurately measured. More research is also needed on de-biasing service provision, which can be gender biased; lastly, whenever possible, results should be sex-disaggregated and reported for individuals as well as households.
M53|Quantitative overeducation and cooperative game theory|Overeducation is an empirical phenomenon in two dimensions: qualitative and quantitative. Quantitative overeducation addresses a firm’s decision, to train more employees than needed. One explanation for this decision is modeled in this article—that of classical bargaining power. The main idea is that after investing in human capital the employer uses employees outside the firm to raise the bargaining power when he negotiates with the employees within the firm on how to share the profit of the firm. To model this, we use cooperative game theory for the first time. The labor market is modeled by a coalition structure and the payoffs are determined by the χ value (Casajus, 2009).
M53|Anonymity or Distance? Job Search and Labour Market Exclusion in a Growing African City|Do obstacles to job search contribute to labour market exclusion in developing countries? To answer this question, we contrast two very different interventions, designed to alleviate spatial and informational constraints for unemployed youth in a congested African city: a transport subsidy and a job-application workshop. Both treatments have large positive effects on the probability of finding stable and formal jobs. Neither treatment has a significant average effect on the overall probability of employment, but we detect a sizeable increase in earnings and employment rates among the most disadvantaged job-seekers. Our results highlight the importance of job-search constraints as mechanisms for exclusion of the most disadvantaged. They also show that, if targeted well, low-cost interventions can have large impacts, improving equity in the labour market.
M53|Antecedents of Training Effectiveness in Bahrain|This study focuses on antecedents of the training programs’ effectiveness at public sector organizations in Bahrain. A Kirkpatrick model is utilized as a partial research framework and tested as the dependent variable training effectiveness in this study. This study further examines the relationship between the independent variables, trainer and social support toward training effectiveness. The survey instrument was developed for data collection and the questionnaires were distributed to the staff working in the public sector in Bahrain. The total usable questionnaires are 128. The study adopts a quantitative approach using SPSS statistic approach. The outcomes also discover that both antecedents have a positive and a significant relationship with the training effectiveness at various Kirkpatrick’s levels.
M53|The Value of Skill Training Programs for Self-Employment, Entrepreneurship and Non-Cognitive Traits. Evidence from a Regression Discontinuity Design|Using a “fuzzy” regression discontinuity design, we examine the short-run impacts of a vocational training program on self-employment, new business plans, entry into entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial traits using data from the Nepal Employment Fund training program, which funds training workshops offered to eligible individuals. We find striking positive effects of training on self-employment among transformative entrepreneurs. Among individuals who our analysis identifies as transformative entrepreneurs, training provision increases the likelihood of self-employment by 0.21, or equivalent to a 50 percent increase in self-employment from the baseline average. We find impact differences by gender: self-employment increase by 21 percent among women and we detect no impacts among men. The program also generated sizable improvements in self-reported self-regulation and a decreased frequency of anxiety about future income. The female sub-sample and the most labor-intensive training types primarily drive the positive program impacts.
M53|Apprentice Poaching in Regional Labor Markets|"""A number of studies have found that firms provide less training if they are located in regions with strong labor market competition. This finding is usually interpreted as evidence of a higher risk of poaching in these regions. Yet, there is no direct evidence that regional competition is positively correlated with poaching. Building on a recently established approach to ex-post identify poaching of apprenticeship completers, our paper is the first to directly investigate the correlation between regional labor market competition and poaching. Using German administrative data, we find that competition indeed increases training establishments' probability of becoming poaching victims. However, poaching victims do not change their apprenticeship training activity in reaction to past poaching. Instead, our findings indicate that the lower training activity in competitive regions can be attributed to lower retention rates, a less adverse selection, and lower labor and hiring costs of apprenticeship completers hired from rivals."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
M53|Assessment Model For Professional Development With International Perspective, Modelo De Evaluacion Para La Educacion Empresarial Con Vision Internacional|This research focuses on the analysis of education and professional development. It generates an evaluation and self-assessment model, with an international perspective. It is based on three fundamental dimensions: Knowledge, management capability and ethics. Each dimension contains elements (areas of expertise) and these in turn contain variables that are intended to be considered in the profession for students, educators and professionals in different specialties, be it at a local or global level. The model is adaptable at every level in different countries. The study was formalized to discover the most significant variables of each element (areas of expertise). The variables obtained are the result of analysis of a selected sample of data of graduate students in the city of Tijuana in the northern state of Baja California, Mexico; an industrial and core center of ample development bordering the United States. In addition, the study considers variables resulting from triangulating data of three field experts plus the author. This model or method helps to identify key performance variables in order to correct, obtain improvements and to create further development
M53|In-firm training, innovation and productivity: the case of Caribbean Small Island Developing States| In-firm training is a crucial innovative activity in modern knowledge-based economies, which face increasing global competition and rapidly changing technology. Nevertheless, there are few studies that look at in-firm training in the Caribbean. This study uses the World Bank Enterprise Survey (WBES) 2010 and Compete Caribbean’s Productivity Technology Innovation Survey (PROTEqIN) 2014 to provide empirical evidence on in-firm training in the region. The results suggest that there is a relatively low incidence of training in the region, although there are significant differences across countries and this may be because of heterogeneities in public support and barriers to in-firm training. Also, various firm characteristics affect in-firm training including size, ownership, whether the firm exports, whether the firm is part of a larger organization, innovative activity and workforce structure and educational level. Lastly, the findings suggest that in-firm training in the region may play a relatively small role and may even not matter for innovation and productivity, although this finding may be because of low levels of formal training and the metrics used in defining and measuring in-firm training, innovation and productivity given the data available and limitations of the sample.
M53|The On-the-Job Training Decision in Latin America|Using data from the World Bank’s Enterprise Survey, this paper explores the determinants of firms’ training decisions in Latin America and the Caribbean. The share of production for the export market and the size of the firm are key factors; training programs are not prevalent in all sectors. In addition, the share of workers receiving training depends on the age of the firm, and only for non-productive workers are differences observed across sectors. More detailed data from a Longitudinal Enterprise Survey in Chile are used to corroborate these findings. It is found that the percentage of workers receiving training is low and that the extensive and intensive margins of training are affected by different sets of firm characteristics. Finally, the results of a qualitative study in Chile suggest that training is mostly introduced to comply with certifications and standards imposed by domestic and foreign authorities. Training in larger firms may also be oriented to improve the work environment.
M53|Information Advantages of Training Employers Despite Credible Training Certificates|We show that employers that invest in general human capital can positively select the employees they retain although training contents are transferable and visible to all employers (they are certified by credible external institutions). To solve the puzzle, we distinguish between soft and hard skills. Hard skills are tested in graded final exams and can be signalled to outside employers while soft skills are typically not tested and cannot be signalled. Therefore, the information advantage about soft skills can explain why employers keep a positive selection of training participants and invest in certified and transferable skills.
M53|A firm of one's own : experimental evidence on credit constraints and occupational choice|This study presents results from a randomized evaluation of two labor market interventions targeted to young women aged 18 to 19 years in three of Nairobi's poorest neighborhoods. One treatment offered participants a bundled intervention designed to simultaneously relieve credit and human capital constraints; a second treatment provided women with an unrestricted cash grant, but no training or other support. Both interventions had economically large and statistically significant impacts on income over the medium term (7 to 10 months after the end of the interventions), but these impacts dissipated in the second year after treatment. The results are consistent with a model in which savings constraints prevent women from smoothing consumption after receiving large transfers -- even in the absence of credit constraints, and when participants have no intention of remaining in entrepreneurship. The study also shows that participants hold remarkably accurate beliefs about the impacts of the treatments on occupational choice
M53|Worker Overconfidence: Field Evidence and Implications for Employee Turnover and Returns from Training|Combining weekly productivity data with weekly productivity beliefs for a large sample of truckers over two years, we show that workers tend to systematically and persistently over-predict their productivity. If workers are overconfident about their own productivity at the current firm relative to their outside option, they should be less likely to quit. Empirically, all else equal, having higher productivity beliefs is associated with an employee being less likely to quit. To study the implications of overconfidence for worker welfare and firm profits, we estimate a structural learning model with biased beliefs that accounts for many key features of the data. While worker overconfidence moderately decreases worker welfare, it also substantially increases firm profits. This may be critical for firms (such as the main one we study) that make large initial investments in worker training.
M53|Training Contracts, Employee Turnover, and the Returns from Firm-sponsored General Training|Firms may be reluctant to provide general training if workers can quit and use their gained skills elsewhere. “Training contracts” that impose a penalty for premature quitting can help alleviate this inefficiency. Using plausibly exogenous contractual variation from a leading trucking firm, we show that two training contracts significantly reduced post-training quitting, particularly when workers are approaching the end of their contracts. Simulating a structural model, we show that observed worker quit behavior exhibits aspects of optimization (for one of the two contracts), and that the contracts increased firm profits from training and reduced worker welfare relative to no contract.
M53|Product Market Competition and Employer Provided Training in Germany|Using German establishment data, this paper examines the relationship between product market competition and the extent of employer provided training. We demonstrate that high product market competition is associated with increased training except when the competition is so severe as to threaten liquidation to a firm. We take this as evidence of an inverted U-shaped relationship. We also make clear that while this relationship is very evident for the service sector it is largely missing for manufacturing where we confirm earlier results of no relationship.
M53|Not for the Profit, but for the Training? Gender Differences in Training in the For-Profit and Non-Profit Sectors|We use Canadian linked employer-employee data to examine gender differences in probability, duration, and intensity of firm-sponsored training. We find that women in the for-profit sector are less likely to receive classroom training, and receive shorter classroom training courses. However, we find the reverse in the non-profit sector, with women being more likely to receive both classroom and on-the-job training, and also receiving longer classroom training courses. Our results suggest that women's worse training opportunities in the for-profit sector mainly operate within workplaces. We find no evidence that gender gaps in training in the for-profit sector are driven by lower probabilities of accepting training offers, child or family commitments, weaker labour market attachment, or worker self-selection. We also find that gender differences in expected changes in wages and training opportunities between the two sectors can explain a large portion of women's higher probability of employment in the non-profit sector. Finally, decomposition results suggest that gender differences in training explain some of the gender wage gap in the for-profit sector, which is twice as large than in the non-profit sector.
M53|Beyond Conflict: Long-Term Labour Market Integration of Internally Displaced Persons in Post-Socialist Countries|The break-ups of the former Soviet Union and Yugoslavia were accompanied by some of the worst military conflicts in modern history, claiming lives of thousands of people and forcibly displacing millions. We study how people displaced by war and conflict within these countries fare on the labour market in the long term – 10 to 15 years after their displacement. Our conceptual framework draws on the theory of cumulative disadvantage and the notion of unemployment 'scarring'. Data come from the Life in Transition II survey, conducted in post-conflict, post-socialist countries in 2010 (n=10,328). Multiple regression analysis reveals a significant long-term labour market disadvantage of forced displacement: people who fled conflict 10-15 years ago are more likely to be long-term unemployed, experience a recent job loss and work informally. We also find that people affected by conflict (both displaced and non-displaced) are more willing to acquire further education and training. These results are not uniform across demographic groups: displaced women consistently experience a greater labour market disadvantage than displaced men, and people affected by conflict in the younger age group (18-34) are particularly keen to acquire extra education and training. Overall, our results highlight a long-lasting vulnerability of the forcibly displaced in developing and transition economies, and advance the emerging literature on the effects of internal displacement on labour market outcomes and human capital accumulation. We also discuss how forced internal displacement extends the theory of cumulative disadvantage.
M53|Law and economics of training: a taxonomy of the main legal and institutional tools addressing suboptimal investments in human capital development|Abstract Economic literature has widely acknowledged the growing role of firm training in the knowledge economy. Training fosters labour productivity, boosts competitiveness, and strengthens firms’ capacity to innovate. This key role of training, however, raises relevant issues in terms of the optimal level of the corresponding investment. In fact firms that bear training costs may not be able to fully appropriate the relevant benefits. In addition training may facilitate structural changes and stimulate growth nationwide. Efficiency reasons thus justify the existence of legal and/or institutional tools, either voluntary or mandatory, aimed at addressing suboptimal investments in human capital development. The purpose of this study is to draw a systematic taxonomy of the main legal and institutional devices able to address the underlying inefficiencies of training investments. Training is on the top of the political agenda in many countries. The European Union is committed to increase adults’ participation in lifelong learning and to improve the quality of training programs and institutions. However, while training is of increasing political interest, a proper tool-box for policy makers is still missing.
M53|Worker Overconfidence: Field Evidence and Implications for Employee Turnover and Returns from Training|Combining weekly productivity data with weekly productivity beliefs for a large sample of truckers over two years, we show that workers tend to systematically and persistently over-predict their productivity. If workers are overconfident about their own productivity at the current firm relative to their outside option, they should be less likely to quit. Empirically, all else equal, having higher productivity beliefs is associated with an employee being less likely to quit. To study the implications of overconfidence for worker welfare and firm profits, we estimate a structural learning model with biased beliefs that ac-counts for many key features of the data. While worker overconfidence moderately decreases worker welfare, it also substantially increases firm profits. This may be critical for firms (such as the main one we study) that make large initial investments in worker training.
M53|Training Contracts, Employee Turnover, and the Returns from Firm-Sponsored General Training|"Firms may be reluctant to provide general training if workers can quit and use their gained skills elsewhere. ""Training contracts"" that impose a penalty for premature quitting can help alleviate this inefficiency. Using plausibly exogenous contractual variation from a leading trucking firm, we show that two training contracts significantly reduced post-training quitting, particularly when workers are approaching the end of their contracts. Simulating a structural model, we show that observed worker quit behavior exhibits aspects of optimization (for one of the two contracts), and that the contracts increased firm profits from training and reduced worker welfare relative to no contract."
M53|Ksztaltowanie kariery pracownika utalentowanego w osiaganiu przewagi konkurencyjnej przez wspolczesne przedsiebiorstwa|W gospodarce opartej na wiedzy o konkurencyjnosci przedsiebiorstw w coraz wiekszym stopniu decyduje umiejetnosc korzystania z posiadanych zasobow. Szczegolna rola przypisywana jest zasobom o charakterze niematerialnym. Zasobem strategicznie waznym we wspolczesnym przedsiebiorstwie jest talent – pracownik utalentowany. Zasoby jednak nie sa cenne same w sobie, lecz maja znaczenie w aspekcie dzialan ukierunkowanych na osiagniecie przewagi konkurencyjnej. Pozyskanie i zatrzymanie pracownikow utalentowanych, ze wzgledu na ich wybitnosc, staje sie jednym z najwiekszych wyzwan w wielu przedsiebiorstwach. Uwzgledniajac specyficzne ich cechy, potrzeby i oczekiwania, zagadnieniem o charakterze kluczowym staje sie stworzenie mozliwosci realizacji kariery. Celem opracowania jest wykazanie znaczenia kariery jednostek utalentowanych dla przewagi konkurencyjnej wspolczesnego przedsiebiorstwa. Jego realizacja dokonana zostanie w wyniku przedstawienia talentu jako zrodla przewagi konkurencyjnej. Ukazane zostanie znaczenie wspolczesnych modeli kariery dla jednostek utalentowanych, jak rowniez z perspektywy przedsiebiorstwa. Artykul ma charakter teoretyczny. Przedmiotowe rozwazania przeprowadzone zostaly na podstawie analizy literatury przede wszystkim z zakresu nauk o zarzadzaniu: zarzadzania strategicznego oraz zarzadzania zasobami ludzkimi. Wazne uzupelnienie przeprowadzonych rozwazan stanowily spostrzezenia sformulowane w literaturze z zakresu psychologii. Zastosowano metode rozumowania dedukcyjnego. Skonfrontowano nowe trendy w zarzadzaniu kariera pracownikow we wspolczesnych organizacjach z zalozeniami przyjmowanymi w zarzadzaniu talentami, uwzgledniajac kontekst strategiczny funkcjonowania przedsiebiorstwa. Kariera stanowi nadal srodek do realizacji zamierzen strategicznych organizacji, zwlaszcza w okresie trwajacej „wojny o talenty”. Tymczasowosc relacji zatrudnienia oraz duza mobilnosc pracownikow utalentowanych sprawiaja, ze w przypadku tej grupy pracownikow organizacje powinny dazyc do budowania relacji dlugoterminowych w wyniku zarzadzania ich kariera wewnatrz organizacji. Takie ksztaltowanie karier przyczyni sie do realizacji zamierzen strategicznych przedsiebiorstwa.
M53|Job satisfaction and organizational commitment under Traditional and Modern T&D program: Evidence from Public Banking Sector of Pakistan|This article investigates the impact of traditional and modern training programs on the overall performance and commitment to employees in public banking sector of Pakistan. Additionally, the study examines the relationship between antecedents of organizational commitment and job satisfaction. Bank of Khyber, First Women Bank, National Bank of Pakistan, Sindh Bank, and The Bank of Punjab are currently operating public banks in Pakistan. Thus, all five considered in this study using strata sampling technique. Total 26 Branch Managers participated in interviews whereas 292 completed survey questionnaire. Results showed modern T&D methods preferred by contractual employees whereas permanent employees prefer traditional methods of training and development. Moreover, T&D significantly affect the continuance commitment (CC) of female employees whereas salary increment enhances males' normative commitment (NC) and affective commitment (AC). Additionally, both modern and traditional T&D methods improve job satisfaction. AC and NC are relatively higher in public bank employees in comparison to CC, resulting from training and development program.
M53|The Mediating Role of Job Satisfaction between Training and Development Practices and Organizational Commitment: Responses from Private Banking Sectors of Karachi, Pakistan|This paper examines the impact of modern and traditional training and development programs on the employees of banking sectors' organizational commitment and overall performance within Karachi, Pakistan. Furthermore, the paper explores the causal-effect relationship between organizational commitment's distinctive attributes and T&D program through mediating role of job satisfaction, by particularly looking at the contractual and permanent employees. By combining the strata, convenience, and purposive sampling, we gathered data from the 307 employees working in the Karachi's banking sector. Since, the study falls largely into positivist paradigm thus quantitative analysis are conducted in this study. Interestingly, the findings revealed that modern methods of training and development are highly preferred by the contractual workers. In addition to that, the working efficiency of the employees aging between 30-40 years is significant positively affected by modern T&D methods. On the other hand, working efficiency does not improve for the permanent employees under both; traditional and modern methods to notable extent. In addition to that, irrespective of the type of employment status, the affective and normative commitment of male employees is significant positively affected by the salary increment while the continuance commitment of female workers is significant positively affected by the training and development programs. Nevertheless, job satisfaction has significant mediating role in improving the organizational commitment of employees under both; traditional and modern methods of training and development. Interestingly, the continuance commitment is less visible in contrast to affective commitment and normative commitment among both permanent and contractual employees working within the banking sector.
M53|"The importance of training programs in the improvement of the performance of employees in the petroleum companies""- Case of Sonatrach company - The Regional Directorate of BERKAOUI (Ouargla- Algeria)"|The training of the workers in the enterprises allows the development in the skills and knowledge of the employees. As the other Enterprises, the training programs in the petroleum companies got a great importance, which became more cleared through this study. Through the case study on Sonatrach subsidiary employees, and based on self-questionnaire our paper aims to analyze the training programs contribution in the improvement of the unit productivity level, and on the upgrading of the profitability and efficiency of the workers. Nevertheless, the importance of the training contribution appears undoubtedly in minimizing the lost days caused by the work accidents, which is a huge costs organization must cover Although the luck in decreasing in the rates of this accidents.
M53|Evaluation of Employee Work Performance ? Basis for Identifying Educational Needs|Identification of educational needs is the basic starting point of the preparation and planning of corporate education. For the education to be efficient, it is necessary to examine educational needs, based on currently available company information or information acquired for this purpose. In order to identify educational needs properly, it is necessary to conduct the needs analysis on three levels: the enterprise level, job position level, and on the level of individuals. The focus of the paper is on the lowest level, i.e. analysis of individuals, where the process involves the assessment of property traits of individuals, while the decisive factor is the performance and behaviour of employees in the implementation of working activities. The concept of the research is based on the needs of practice and existing legislation in the Slovak Republic. Courses in economics, the aim of which is to develop the knowledge of economics and business skills, are not offered in the study programmes of general medicine, dentistry and biomedical physics to the extent to correspond to the needs for the performance of managerial positions in health establishments or to the performance of private medical practice. The project summarises results acquired during the second year of the work on the project KEGA No. 014EU-4/2016 ? ?Preparation of the content and structure of subject disciplines focused on the development of knowledge and skills of graduates from non-economic health service fields of study? supported by the government educational agency of the Slovak Republic.
M53|Product Market Competition and Employer Provided Training in Germany|Using German establishment data, this paper examines the relationship between product market competition and the extent of employer provided training. We demonstrate that high product market competition is associated with increased training except when the competition is so severe as to threaten liquidation to a firm. We take this as evidence of an inverted U-shaped relationship. We also make clear that while this relationship is very evident for the service sector it is largely missing for manufacturing where we confirm earlier results of no relationship.
M53|Business is Tough, but Family is Worse: Household Bargaining and Investment in Microenterprises in Uganda|I present evidence that intra-household decision making affects business investment decisions and household welfare. I interact the results from a behavioral experiment that allows spouses to hide money from each other with an experiment that delivered capital to business owners in Uganda. Businesses were randomly selected to receive capital through a loan or grant, or capital paired with training. I find evidence that the grant with training treatment had medium-term economic impacts when given to men, but there are no effects from the other treatments for men or women. I also find that the loan with training treatment had impacts on the income of spouses of women, though women do not know about these effects. The results from the incentivized behavioral game correlate significantly with household economic outcomes: men who do not hide money from their wives show higher economic outcomes from the treatments, while those who hide money show a negative change relative to a control group. The opposite is the case for women: women who hide money from their husbands show increased economic outcomes, while those who do not hide money see a decrease in outcomes. The results are consistent with strong female household constraints where women have little control over resources in the family and so hiding money is the only way to keep control of it. Men have less fear of losing control of money in the household, and so those that hide money likely have serious household issues that lead to significant negative investment behavior. The results help to explain why women with existing enterprises have performed so poorly in previous capital experiments and why researchers have failed to find impacts from microfinance.
M53|On-the-job-training as a signal: Why low-educated workers invest less in further training|Studies of on-the-job training have found that low skilled workers participate less in further training. In this paper, we develop a signalling model of training where training can increase productivity when workers’ prior ability matches the level of the training course. Consequently, employers can use observed training participation as information about the quality of their employees when job performance is unobservable. As a result, programs aimed at low ability workers will be underutilized because of the negative signal participation conveys about their initial ability. We show that offering training has spillover effects: introducing high-level courses to a choice set of only low-level courses increases participation in low-level courses, and improves sorting efficiency. We discuss the implications of these results for optimal training provision, and make several testable predictions for assessing the validity of our model.
M53|A Firm of One's Own: Experimental Evidence on Credit Constraints and Occupational Choice|We conducted a randomized evaluation of two labor market interventions targeted to young women aged 18 to 19 in three of Nairobi's poorest neighborhoods. One treatment offered participants a bundled intervention designed to simultaneously relieve credit and human capital constraints; a second treatment provided women with an unrestricted cash grant, but no training or other support. Both interventions had economically large and statistically significant impacts on income over the medium-term (7 to 10 months after the end of the interventions), but these impacts dissipated in the second year after treatment. Our results are consistent with a model in which savings constraints prevent women from smoothing consumption after receiving large transfers – even in the absence of credit constraints, and when participants have no intention of remaining in entrepreneurship. We also show that participants hold remarkably accurate beliefs about the impacts of the treatments on occupational choice.
M53|Worker Training and Quality Competition|We uniquely examine the relationship between firm-sponsored training and product quality competition. Using an oligopolistic model of both price and quality competition, we show that an increase in the sensitivity of demand to product quality will strengthen firms’ incentives to train their workforce. Cross section, panel and instrumental variable estimations confirm that British establishments provide more intensive training when their competitive position is more sensitive to product quality. A variety of robustness checks and changes in variable definitions leave this confirmation in place.
M53|Berufliche Bildung lohnt sich! Argumente für eine offene Diskussion|Durch sinkende Schulabgängerzahlen und ein verändertes Bildungsverhalten ist das berufliche Ausbildungssystem in Deutschland unter Druck gekommen - und das, obwohl es international als Königsweg zur Bekämpfung von Jugendarbeitslosigkeit wahrgenommen und wertgeschätzt wird. Der vorliegende Beitrag überprüft Vorurteile und Klischees über das in der deutschen Debatte oft verkannte duale System. Die Ergebnisse zeigen: berufliche Bildung bietet Absolventen gute Arbeitsmarktchancen und interessante Karriereperspektiven.
M53|The retention effect of training: Portability, visibility, and credibility|This paper analyses the effect of training participation on employees' retention in the training company. It for the first time empirically combines the human capital and the monopsony theory by jointly controlling for the portability, visibility, and credibility of training. Based on an extensive German linked-employer-employee data set with detailed information on training history (WeLL-ADIAB), we show that training increases employees' retention. We compare the probability to stay at the same employer between training participants and accidental training non-participants (those who could not participate in planned training on the basis of exogeneous reasons). Higher portability of general human capital contents and visibility of training induced by training certificates however reduce the retention effect of training. Retention is further reduced when training is credibly provided and certified by external institutions, the full training effect on retention is still positive, however. We are careful to control for endogeneity of training participation in retention equations, unobserved time-invariant effects, and extensive individual and employer characteristics including wage increases and general job satisfaction.
M53|Non-Monetary Benefits of Continuous Training|We study the effects of continuous training on non-monetary outcomes. Wider benefits of continuous training have become a top priority on the European political agenda. Using SOEP data, we find evidence that continuous training increases life satisfaction, reduces worries about the own economic and job situation, and increases civic participation in some domains. We employ a regression-adjusted DiD matching approach that accounts for selection on observables and for time-invariant unobservables.
M53|The Effect of Regional Competition and Company-sponsored Training on the Productivity-Wage Wedge|The new training literature argues that imperfect labour market competition drives a wedge between productivity and wage increases in skills. We apply recent advancements in the estimation of production and wage functions to show a compressed wage structure in Germany. We also use regional and industry variation in labour market competitiveness and show that there is a premium on productivity and wages,but the productivity-wage wedge does not diminish in labour markets that are more competitive.
M53|Training funds and the incidence of training: the case of Mauritius| Training funds are used to incentivize training in developing countries, but the funds are based on payroll taxes that lower the return to training. In the absence of training funds, larger, high-wage and more capital-intensive firms are the most likely to offer training unless they are liquidity constrained. If firms are not liquidity constrained, the fund could lower training investments. Using an administrative data set on the Mauritius training fund, we find that the firms most likely to train pay more in taxes than they gain in subsidies. The smallest firms receive more benefits than they pay in taxes.
M53|The added value of coaching compared to a friendly discussion: Insight from behavioral economics|Purpose – This paper addresses a criticism of coaching that is rather overlooked in the respective literature but highly discussed among clients. It is often claimed that coaching is nothing more than a chat among friends or colleagues and has, therefore, no added value for a potential customer. Design/methodology/approach – The paper draws on the respective interdisciplinary literature to identify limitations and biases that are present in general discussions with friends or colleagues but professional coaches should be trained to overcome. Findings – Questions and discussion are indeed at the core of a coaching session, thus bearing much resemblance to a friendly chat. However, the resemblance is superficial. In this paper ten main differences between a coaching session and a discussion with a non-expert are found and analyzed. They are grouped into three categories: Biases, Heuristics and Personal Limitations. Research limitations/implications – Further research will be needed to test empirically the use of input from behavioural economics as a basis for coaching and also to enrich it with additional factors. Moreover, practitioners can use the proposed factors to increase their effectiveness as well as to create a unique selling proposition for their business. Originality/value – The paper discusses specific skills and capabilities that a professional coach must have and provides significant implications for both researchers and practitioners.
M53|Works Councils and Employer Attitudes toward the Incentive Effects of HRM Practices|A growing number of econometric examinations show that works councils substantially shape the personnel policy of firms in Germany. Firms with works councils make greater use of various HRM practices. This gives rise to the question of whether employers view the shaping of personnel policy positively or negatively. Using data from manufacturing establishments, this study finds that the incidence of a works council increases the probability that the employer has positive attitudes toward the incentive effects of performance pay, profit sharing, promotions, further training, and worker involvement in decision-making. It decreases the probability of a positive attitude toward the incentive effects of a high-wage policy. The pattern of results also holds when accounting for the issue of endogeneity by applying a recursive multivariate probit model. The results suggest that works councils play a redistribution role in wages and a trust-building role in the other HRM practices.
M53|Delegation and worker training|This paper models a principal-firm offering training to its agent-worker under alternative organizational structures: integration, where the principal retains authority to overrule the investment project recommended by the worker; and delegation, where the principal cannot overrule the worker’s preferred investment project. We identify the conditions under which delegation increases the profit-maximizing training intensity. Empirical estimates from matched employer-employee data show that workplaces delegating authority do provide more worker training. This result persists in two cross sections, in panel fixed effect estimates and across many robustness checks including an instrumental variable exercise that also controls for establishment fixed effects.
M53|Is investing in apprentices related to decision-makers’ altruism and their high time preference?|In this article, the relation between firms’ engagement in apprenticeship training and two important economic preferences, i.e. the decision maker’s altruism and time preference, is analyzed. Firstly, the relation between these two preferences and a firm’s decision to provide apprenticeship places (extensive margin) is examined. Secondly, for firms that train, the effect on the amount of investments in apprenticeship training (intensive margin) is analyzed. The results show that the degree of altruism of a decision maker is positively, albeit weakly significant, associated to the probability to provide apprenticeship places as well as substantially related to the amount of investments in apprenticeship training. Time preferences are not related to the training decision (extensive margin) but significantly related to the amount of investments in training.
M53|Is investing in apprentices related to decision-makers' altruism and their high time preference?|In this article, the relation between firms’ engagement in apprenticeship training and two important economic preferences, i.e. the decision maker’s altruism and time preference, is analyzed. Firstly, the relation between these two preferences and a firm’s decision to provide apprenticeship places (extensive margin) is examined. Secondly, for firms that train, the effect on the amount of investments in apprenticeship training (intensive margin) is analyzed. The results show that the degree of altruism of a decision maker is positively, albeit weakly significant, associated to the probability to provide apprenticeship places as well as substantially related to the amount of investments in apprenticeship training. Time preferences are not related to the training decision (extensive margin) but significantly related to the amount of investments in training.
M53|Work-Related Learning and Skill Development in Europe: Does Initial Skill Mismatch Matter?|Abstract This paper provides more insight into the assumption of human capital theory that the productivity of job-related training is driven by the improvement of workers’ skills. We analyze the extent to which training and informal learning on the job are related to employee skill development and consider the heterogeneity of this relationship with respect to workers’ skill mismatch at job entry. Using data from the 2014 European Skills and Jobs Survey, we find – as assumed by human capital theory – that employees who participated in training or informal learning show greater improvement of their skills than those who did not. The contribution of informal learning to employee skill development appears to be larger than that of training participation. Nevertheless, both forms of learning are shown to be complementary. This complementarity between training and informal learning is related to a significant additional improvement of workers’ skills. The skill development of workers who were initially underskilled for their job seems to benefit the most from both training and informal learning, whereas the skill development of those who were initially overskilled benefits the least. Work-related learning investments in the latter group seem to be more functional in offsetting skill depreciation than in fostering skill accumulation.
M53|Business Practices in Small Firms in Developing Countries|Management has a large effect on the productivity of large firms. But does management matter in micro and small firms, where the majority of the labor force in developing countries works? We develop 26 questions that measure business practices in marketing, stock-keeping, record-keeping, and financial planning. These questions have been administered in surveys in Bangladesh, Chile, Ghana, Kenya, Mexico, Nigeria and Sri Lanka. We show that variation in business practices explains as much of the variation in outcomes – sales, profits and labor productivity and TFP – in microenterprises as in larger enterprises. Panel data from three countries indicate that better business practices predict higher survival rates and faster sales growth. The effect of business practices is robust to including numerous measures of the owner’s human capital. We find that owners with higher human capital, children of entrepreneurs, and firms with employees employ better business practices. Competition has less robust effects.
M53|Personnel policy adjustments when apprentice positions are unfilled: Evidence from German establishment data|German firms have increasing difficulties in filling apprentice positions. I study how firms adjust their personnel policies when they face unfilled apprentice positions. Using the IAB Establishment Panel (2008-2014) and applying fixed effects panel estimations, I find that small firms react by hiring more unskilled workers. I do not observe an intensified use of personnel policies directed at the existing workforce, such as further training, retention of apprenticeship graduates or conversion of fixed-term into permanent contracts. Moreover, the results do not indicate that firms with unfilled apprentice positions turn away from apprenticeship training. My findings suggest that most training firms may not regard unfilled apprentice positions as a serious problem (so far).
M53|A Cross‐Country Comparison of Gender Differences in Job‐Related Training: The Role of Working Hours and the Household Context|Theory suggests that in a partnership, the individual with the lower working hours and earnings position should exhibit lower training participation rates. Since women are more likely to match this description, we investigate whether systematic group differences in earnings position and working hours explain gender variation. Across all countries, male workers are unaffected by their earnings position. For female workers in Germany, not Italy or the Netherlands, working part‐time instead of full‐time corresponds with a decrease in course length by 5.5 hours. Regarding German part‐ (full‐)time employed women, single earners train 5.6 (2.9) hours more than secondary earners.
M53|Qualifikationsbedarf und Qualifizierung: Anforderungen im Zeichen der Digitalisierung|Im digitalen Wandel nehmen die Anforderungen an die Fähigkeiten, Fertigkeiten und das Wissen der Mitarbeiter zu. Die Einschätzungen der Unternehmen, die bereits einen hohen Grad der Digitalisierung ihrer geschäftlichen Aktivitäten aufweisen, geben Orientierung, wie sich die fortschreitende Digitalisierung auf die Arbeitswelt auswirken könnte. Mehr als acht von zehn dieser Unternehmen, (82,2 Prozent) sehen Anpassungsbedarf in der schulischen und akademischen Bildung. Diese stellt die Grundlage dafür dar, dass Beschäftigte in einer sich stetig wandelnden Arbeitswelt im Laufe ihrer Erwerbsbiografie ihre berufliche Handlungsfähigkeit aufbauen, erhalten und weiterentwickeln können. Der Fokus richtet sich dabei insbesondere auf das Wissen über die modernen Informations- und Kommunikationstechnologien und den Umgang mit dem Internet als berufliches Medium. Während es heute noch vielerorts ausreicht, dass lediglich ausgewählte Belegschaftsangehörige über entsprechende IT-Kompetenzen verfügen, wird dies in Zukunft auch von der Mehrheit der Beschäftigten verlangt werden, um die Potenziale digitaler Technologien zur Steigerung der Effizienz von Arbeits- und Fertigungsprozessen ausschöpfen zu können. Davon sind zwei Drittel (beim IT-Fachwissen) bis drei Viertel (bei online-Kompetenzen) der stark digitalisierten Unternehmen überzeugt. Im digitalen Wandel steigen zugleich auch die Anforderungen an die sozialen Kompetenzen der Mitarbeiter noch einmal an. Flexible Arbeitsorganisationen, die Arbeit in virtuellen Teams und dezentrale Entscheidungsstrukturen bedürfen Mitarbeiter mit hoher Kooperationsbereitschaft, ausgeprägter Kommunikationsstärke sowie der Fähigkeit und der Bereitschaft sich und die eigene Arbeit eigenständig und eigenverantwortlich zu organisieren. Eine zunehmende Bedeutung erwarten aber selbst sieben von zehn der Unternehmen, die sich im Zusammenhang mit der Digitalisierung der Arbeitswelt noch relativ zurückhaltend zeigen. Unter den stark digitalisierten Betrieben sind es sogar mehr als acht von zehn. [...]
M53|Managers, Training, and Internal Labor Markets|"We propose a theory that emphasizes the role of managers for the production and allocation of human capital in firms. Managers invest time to train junior employees, and acquire information about the juniors' abilities that is valuable for job assignments. This dual role of managers matters especially in a multidivisional firm, whose internal labor market may be structured in two distinct ways. In a ""silo"", junior workers are eligible only for a transfer or promotion in the division they currently work in; in a ""lattice"", they can also be assigned to another division. The prospect of losing a good worker to another division undermines a managerís training incentives, and may encourage her to misrepresent the information she provides about her workers. We show that because of these agency problems, implementing a lattice to achieve better job assignments also leads to higher wage costs for the firm. As a result, either silos or a lattice can be optimal. Our comparative-statics analysis suggests that the recent trend for firms to facilitate cross-divisional mobility may be caused by product market competition, a tight managerial labor market, and skill-biased technological change."
M53|Individual determinants of job-related learning and training activities of employees - An exploratory analysis of gender differences|Regarding gender differences, theory suggests that in a partnership the individual with the lower working hours and earnings position should exhibit lower training participation rates. Since women are more likely to match this description, we investigate whether systematic group differences explain gender variation. Across all countries, male workers are not affected by their earnings position. Disadvantages for female secondary earners arise only in Germany in the group of part-time workers when compared to single earners but not in the group of full-time workers. The findings hold at the extensive and the intensive margin, suggesting that, compared to the Netherlands and Italy, Germany faces particular obstacles regarding gender differences in job-related training.
M53|The retention effect of training – portability, visibility, and credibility|This paper analyses the effect of training participation on employees’ retention in the training company. It for the first time empirically combines the human capital and the monopsony theory by jointly controlling for the portability, visibility, and credibility of training. Based on an extensive German linked-employer-employee data set with detailed information on training history (WeLL-ADIAB), we show that training increases employees’ retention. We compare the probability to stay at the same employer between training participants and accidental training non-participants (those who could not participate in planned training on the basis of exogeneous reasons). Higher portability of general human capital contents and visibility of training induced by training certificates however reduce the retention effect of training. Retention is further reduced when training is credibly provided and certified by external institutions, the full training effect on retention is still positive, however. We are careful to control for endogeneity of training participation in retention equations, unobserved time-invariant effects, and extensive individual and employer characteristics including wage increases and general job satisfaction.
M53|Friendship at Work: Can Peer Effects Catalyze Female Entrepreneurship?|Does the lack of peers contribute to the observed gender gap in entrepreneurial success? A random sample of customers of India’s largest women's bank was offered two days of business counseling, and a random subsample was invited to attend with a friend. The intervention significantly increased participants' business activity, but only if they were trained with a friend. Those trained with a friend were more likely to have taken out business loans, were less likely to be housewives, and reported increased business activity and higher household income, with stronger impacts among women subject to social norms that restrict female mobility. (JEL G21, J16, J24, L26, M53, O16, Z13)
M53|Employee Perceptions and Expectations of Online Marketing Service Quality: An Investigation of Farmers’ Associations in Taiwan| Numerous agribusiness firms have aimed to improve their service quality to build profitable relationships with customers. Prior research has indicated that employee satisfaction could create customer loyalty, yielding favorable business results. According to previous studies, the SERVQUAL scale was used in this study to investigate the relationship between the expectations and perceptions of farmers’ association employees in Taiwan. The results indicated that the largest gap between employee expectations and perceptions pertained to the tangibility of service quality, followed by reliability, empathy, responsiveness, and assurance. In addition, the results suggested that perceived responsiveness could influence expected tangibility, and that expected empathy could influence perceived assurance and empathy. To achieve higher profitability, farmers’ associations should focus on low-performing areas, and the overall value of an organization should be vital to employees.
M53|Kompetencje a zachowania edukacyjne dorosłych Polaków / Competences and Educational Behaviours of Adult Poles|Increasing activity in the field of lifelong learning is an important educational goal of the European Union. The rapidly changing environment creating new demands makes it necessary to take action in the field of continuous education. Labour market requirements in the process of evolving towards a knowledge-based society are changing, which is particularly important in the era of population ageing and raising the retirement age. All forms of education: formal, non-formal and informal should gain importance in response to the growing requirements. The situation in Poland is vary unfavourable when comparing the participation in activities related to lifelong learning with other European Union countries. Research indicates various demographic, social and economic determinants of adult engagement in lifelong learning. This study attempts to assess the relationships between the level of competences in various areas and the educational behaviours of adult Poles. The analyses are based on individual data from a national survey on human capital. The crucial purpose, which is to identify interdependences among the considered factors, attitudes and behaviours, is accomplished by selected statistical and econometric methods supported by suitable data visualization techniques.
M53|Relational Knowledge Transfers|We study how relational contracts mitigate Becker's classic problem of providing general human capital when training contracts are incomplete. The firm's profit-maximizing agreement is a multiperiod apprenticeship in which the novice is trained gradually over time and eventually receives all knowledge. The firm adopts a 1/e rule, whereby at the beginning of the relationship the novice is trained, for free, just enough to produce a fraction 1/e of the efficient output. After that, the novice earns all additional knowledge with labor. This rule causes inefficiently lengthy relationships that grow longer the more patient the players. A minimum wage is welfare enhancing.
M53|Romanian Cultural Specificity Reflected In The Romanian Post-December Studies|In this article we proposed an inventory of the main post-December researches conducted by Romanian researchers, on the Romanian cultural specificity, with suggestions of valorization in organizations, especially for the management. The analyzed diagnoses, whose findings are synthetically presented, are grouped according to their reference level: national or regional one. The conclusions extract the main axiomatic trends, discussing the positive and / or negative implications within the working place.
M53|Youth Unemployment And School Dropout|"Unemployment is one of the most serious problems of the contemporary world, fact which is expressed not only by all European statistics, statistics showing a growing number of unemployed, despite the consistent concern of the governments of all developed countries. Worse is that the unemployment is the highest among young people up to 25 years, many of them being university graduates. This way the trend of young people to stop attending studies appeared ... seeing as useless their efforts to invest in their future through university studies, the chances of finding a job are minimal despite their diplomas. Hence the name of ""the lost generation"" - the way that young people are called nowadays. The market economy, based mainly on private property is not considering social issues, it pursues just one goal: profit, more exactly the profit maximization."
M53|Intercultural Competence Between Desirability And Necessity|This article is an attempt to scan and inventory the key aspects concerning intercultural competence on appeal to literature and information provided by training centers. Punctually, our concerns have focused on the definition and components of intercultural competence, but also on some models and tools that form it. Specific aspects in management were highlighted and we make a proposal for a positive exploitation of the ample material, a rather redundant one which we had access to using innovative collaborative networks, within a multidisciplinary and multicultural project.
M53|Construcción permanente del sujeto-maestro. Transformación subjetiva orientada hacia la emancipación|En el artículo se expresan diversas reflexiones en torno a la capacidad que posee el maestro para construirse y de-construirse día a día, para reconocerse como sujeto con derechos, y las posibilidades comunicativas que le permiten transformar realidades humanas. En tanto, el texto devela aspectos determinantes que se consideran fundamentales en la formación del maestro actual, resaltando las competencias que éste debe desarrollar en el ser, saber y hacer para lograr sentido de pertenencia, realidad que se transmite a quienes le rodean, en consonancia con la categoría del poder.
M53|Curse of Anonymity or Tyranny of Distance? The Impacts of Job-Search Support in Urban Ethiopia|We conduct a randomized evaluation of two job-search support programs for urban youth in Ethiopia. One group of treated respondents receives a subsidy to cover the transport costs of job search. Another group participates in a job application workshop where their skills are certified and they are given orientation on how to make effective job applications. The two interventions are designed to lower spatial and informational barriers to employment. We find that both treatments significantly improve the quality of jobs that young jobseekers obtain. Impacts are concentrated among women and the least educated. Using rich high-frequency data from a phone survey, we are able to explore the mechanisms underlying the results; we show that while the transport subsidy increases both the intensity and the efficacy of job search, the job application workshop mainly operates through an increase in search efficacy. Both interventions mitigate the adverse effects of spatial constraints on employment outcomes, and the job application workshop alleviates informational asymmetries by helping workers to signal their ability.
M53|The Impact of Human Resource Management Practices on Employees Performance: The Case of Islamic University of Gaza in Palestine|This article examines the impact of human resource management practices (HRMPs) on employee’s performance at Islamic University of Gaza (IUG) in Palestine. In particular, the primary data has been collected via standard questionnaires from a randomly selected sample of 115 employees (faculty and non-faculty members) of IUG. The multiple regression model was used to analyze the data SPSS 22. The findings of this research study have reported that HRMPs (recruitment and selection, training and development, compensation and incentives, performance appraisal) are positively related to employee’s performance. The contribution of this study is threefold. Firstly, to investigate the relationship between HRMPs and employees performance. Secondly, this research study provides meaningful insight about HRMPs and employees performance at higher education institutions in Palestine. Third, from a practical perspective, the study draws attention to the fact that there is a need to develop HRMPs that can enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of higher education institutions in Palestine. These results of this cross-sectional study can be applicable the similar higher educational institutions in Palestine.
M53|The returns to voucher-financed training on wages, employment and job tasks|This paper analyzes the returns to training that was co-financed by a German training voucher program. The estimation strategy compares outcomes of participants in voucher training with voucher recipients who intended to participate in training, but did not do so because of a random event like course cancellation by the provider of training. While there is no impact of voucher training on wages and employment, there is evidence that after training participation individuals are more often engaged in nonroutine analytic tasks.
M53|Retraining investment for U.S. transition from coal to solar photovoltaic employment|Although coal remains the largest source of electricity in the U.S., a combination of factors is driving a decrease in profitability and employment in the coal-sector. Meanwhile, the solar photovoltaic (PV) industry is growing rapidly in the U.S. and generating many jobs that represent employment opportunities for laid off coal workers. In order to determine the viability of a smooth transition from coal to PV-related employment, this paper provides an analysis of the cost to retrain current coal workers for solar photovoltaic industry employment in the U.S. The current coal industry positions are determined, the skill sets are evaluated and the salaries are tabulated. For each type of coal position, the closest equivalent PV position is determined and then the re-training time and investment are quantified. These values are applied on a state-by-state basis for coal producing states employing the bulk of coal workers as a function of time using a reverse seniority retirement program for the current American fleet of coal-powered plants. The results show that a relatively minor investment in retraining would allow the vast majority of coal workers to switch to PV-related positions even in the event of the elimination of the coal industry.
M53|Gender and the effect of working hours on firm-sponsored training|Using employees’ longitudinal data, we study the effect of working hours on the propensity of firms to sponsor training of their employees. We show that, whereas male part-time workers are less likely to receive training than male full-timers, part-time working women are as likely to receive training as full-time working women. Although we cannot rule out gender-working time specific monopsony power, we speculate that the gender-specific effect of working hours on training has to do with gender-specific stereotyping. In the Netherlands, for women it is common to work part-time. More than half of the prime age female employees work part-time. Therefore, because of social norms, men working part-time could send a different signal to their employer than women working part-time. This might generate a different propensity of firms to sponsor training of male part-timers than female part-timers.
M53|Measuring the use of human resources practices and employee attitudes: The Linked Personnel Panel|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to introduce a new data source available for researchers with interest in human resources management (HRM) and personnel economics, the Linked Personnel Panel (LPP). Design/methodology/approach - – The LPP is a longitudinal and representative employer-employee data set covering establishments in Germany and a subset of their workforce and is designed for quantitative empirical human resource research. Findings - – The LPP employee survey applies a number of established scales to measure job characteristics and job perceptions, personal characteristics, employee attitudes towards the organization and employee behaviour. This paper gives an overview of both the employer and employee survey and outlines the definitions, origins, and statistical properties of the scales used in the individual questionnaire. Practical implications - – The paper describes how researchers can access the data. Originality/value - – First, the data set combines employer and employee surveys that can be matched to each other. Second, it can also be linked to a number of additional administrative data sets. Third, the LPP covers a wide range of firms and workers from different backgrounds. Finally, because of its longitudinal dimension, the LPP should facilitate the study of causal effects of HRM practices.
M53|The Impact of Employee Training and Innovation on Turnover Intention: An Empirical Research|Companies pay special attention to employee turnover rates because losing qualified employees causes many financial and nonfinancial problems. Thus managers should find permanent solutions for disruptive turnovers. Literature gives strong cues for preventing high turnover rates. This study makes significant contributions to turnover literature by using empirical research results. The research has been carried out with 239 employees working in 36 different service firms operating in Turkey and it focuses on whether employee training and innovation can be used as instruments to decrease turnovers. While innovation and turnover scales were measured in one dimension, employee training scale was measured in two dimensions as extensive training and training in multiple functions. Results indicate that all variables are significantly correlated with each other. It is observed that innovation and training in multiple functions variables are having a significant power for decreasing turnover. Besides it is seen that the variable of innovation does not mediate the relationship between employee training and turnover.
M53|Training & Development Barometer for Effective Transformation of Organizational Commitment and Overall Performance in Banking Sectors of KPK, Pakistan: Qualitative study of Workforce of Bank of Khyber|This research paper investigates the impact of T&D program on the level of employees' organizational commitment and overall performances in the Banking sector of KPK by considering Bank of Khyber as a case study. Study aims to critically examine all three attributes of organizational commitment (affective, normative, and continuance commitment respectively) and its impact on the job satisfaction in banking sector of KPK, Pakistan. The notions of Guest et.al, (2003) and Wall & Wood (2005) are taken as a foundation to explore the linkage between organisational commitment and T&D program, however both these studies had not investigated all three attributes in equal manner. The focus of these previous studies were more on affective and continuance commitment and did not investigate the causes and consequences that make these attributes to create an impact on the overall performances. Thus this study is significant because it attempts to explain in exploratory manner the reasons behind impact created by training. Inductive approach in a cross-sectional design following interpretive research philosophy research is carried out. The bank of Khyber, KPK is case study selected with 15 regional and branch managers as participants for interviews and 277 employees participated in the survey questionnaire, selected through stratified, convenience, and random sampling technique. Results of present study indicates that to retain skilled workforce, organization has to work on their continuance commitment by offering them promotion and salary increment because these are two factors that enable firms to retain skilled workers. Training increases employees' affective and normative commitment more in general as compare to continuance commitment. This paper contributes to the field of management and administrative sciences by investigating the relationship between T&D program and employees' performance and organisational commitment by exploring workforce and management's perspective through financial institution. It adds to the managerial literature related to T&D in relation with organisational commitment and overall performance in developing country's context.
M53|Project Management As A Positive Force For Change In Underserved Communities|This paper discusses the development of a project management course at a high school in an underserved community in the United States. This course was part of the ThrivalsÂ® initiative, which strives to be a positive force in the African American community. Our research goal was to assess whether high school students could acquire and demonstrate knowledge of the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) at a proficiency level equivalent to the level of university students. We compared the performance of the pilot class at the high school to that of a university level class and found no statistically significant difference in high school studentsâ€™ learning compared to that of the university students
M53|Identification And Analysis Of Student'S Talents At The School Of Public Accounting At The Benemerita Universidad Autonoma De Puebla|This research identifies and analyzes the talents School of Public Accounting students at the Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla (BUAP). Specifically, we examine students studying the subject of innovation and entrepreneurial talent. The study is exploratory, descriptive and explanatory. The design of the research work is non-experimental. This is cross-section research. In order to carry out the data collection, 50 talent-recognition tests were applied. These tests consist of 180 items of a non-probabilistic intentional type sample. The study also presents an impact analysis of the subject of Innovation and Entrepreneurial Talent as a strategic tool to demonstrate creativity and innovation. Finally, we not that developing the competence of Learning to Undertake is a challenge for teachers, such that entrepreneurship becomes a pillar in modern education
M53|Leadership Best Practices And Employee Performance: A Phenomenological Telecommunication Industry Study|This phenomenological study explored leadership best practices among senior managers at a major telecommunications organization in to determine the perceived effects that such routines had on actual employee performance. The study took place in State of Georgia in the United States from January 16 to February 18, 2014 and involved ten selected managers who held the role of customer service manager for a minimum of 2 years and were identified as a top performer based on the ranking and rating reports from the organizationâ€™s data. The major themes that emerged centered around four major areas: (1) employeeoriented perspective of best leadership practices, (2) performance perspective of best leadership practices, (3) process perspective of best leadership practices, (4) learning and growth perspective of best leadership practices. It was determined that leaders should create a working environment where there is increased employee engagement and participation; communicate goals, gain employee understanding, and apply communication styles that fit the need of each employee at all levels; identify and plan opportunities of growth for employees through training and development; recognize the importance of personally engaging with their employees; and, understand the importance of having regular meetings to update employees about new products and services.
M53|A Practical Management System For The Effective Use Of Offshore Software Project Opportunities|A qualitative, grounded theory research was conducted to explore and deepen the understanding of how middle and low level managers can initialize and manage information technology (IT) outsourcing projects. The study involved 17 managers and leaders working in Ukraine in offshore software development companies. A grounded theory was utilized to analyze data from participants to identify the interrelationship among seven core categories including: (a) project communication, (b) employee training, (c) flexible organization, (d) strategic communication, (e) team unit, (f) transparent management, and (g) vendor adaptability. The study results indicate that applying a combination of concepts in the new theory as strategies allow managers to overcome barriers and achieve the realization of opportunities beyond traditional benefits in outsourcing. Such opportunities include achieving value-added results, vendor motivation, improved software quality, efficiency and timely delivery, organizational growth potential. The study highlighted the importance of referring a practical management system with characteristics of easily understandable and imaginable management approaches. The study also raised public awareness of the specific outsourcing landscape in Ukraine formed by that countryâ€™s cultural, technological, and political situation. The findings contribute to the body of knowledge on a practical management system in outsourcing although its scope was constrained by limited resources
M53|Desing Of An Instrument For Measuring, Compensation System And Its Relationship With Commitment And Permanence, Diseno De Un Instrumento Para Medir La Relacion Sistema De Compensacion, Permanencia Y Compromiso|In this study, we discuss data related to the design, construction and validation of an instrument to measure the influence of the compensation system, in the permanence and commitment of workers in a Mexican manufacturing company. The instrument was designed based on Allen and Meyer (1990), Richards (2006) and Luhmann & De Georgi (1993). The instrument has 41 Items that assess the variables through ten dimensions. Two validation processes were performed; first a content validation process was performed, this process was conducted in consultation with experts. Subsequently, to obtain the reliability of the instrument, a pilot study was conducted, which results gave an Alpha Cronbach’s coefficient with a value of 0.864. It can be concluded that the instrument achieved the validity and reliability needed to measure the population studied
M53|Transmission Of Knowledge In Companies With Profuse Use Labor Comparative Analysis, Transmisión De Conocimientos En Empresas Con Profuso Empleo De Mano De Obra Un Análisis Comparativo|The paper develops an analysis of tacit knowledge in the workplace by direct workers who serve in the maquiladora industry in MSMEs located in Tehuacan areas workshops in Chignahuapan. Both municipalities are located in Puebla, Mexico and use interorganizational networks-sectoral knowledge as facilitators of that transmission. To appreciate matches and inequalities in the two areas, we compare our results with similar studies with respect to manual labor. We use a convenience sample of researchers and fees. Questionnaires were applied to 383 maquila 100 sphere workshop workers for information from primary sources. Result of fieldwork provide information regarding the mode of transmission of knowledge between the two groups. Evidence indicates that the first group includes companions who play the main role in the aforementioned transmission. The second group is the family and indicates then kind of knowledge transmitted between them including general data, working conditions and salary, benefits and appropriate treatment and economic benefits.
M53|Adopting a Cleaner Technology: The Effect of Driving Restrictions on Fleet Turnover|Driving restrictions —limits on car use based on the last digit of a car’s license plate— are increasingly popular forms of pollution and congestion control, notwithstanding the literature has shown they typically result in more pollution by moving the fleet composition toward higher-emitting vehicles. We study a design feature present in some restriction programs but much overlooked in the literature: that cleaner cars be exempted from the restriction. Based on evidence from Santiago- Chile’s 1992 program, we find this exemption feature to have a large impact on fleet composition toward cleaner vehicles. We also develop and calibrate for Santiago a vertical-differentiation model of the car market to show that driving restrictions that make optimal use of these exemptions can be way more effective in the fight against local air pollution than alternative instruments such as scrappage subsidies and gasoline taxes.
M53|Adopting a Cleaner Technology: The Effect of Driving Restrictions on Fleet Turnover|Driving restrictions —limits on car use based on the last digit of a car’s license plate— are increasingly popular forms of pollution and congestion control, notwithstanding the literature has shown they typically result in more pollution by moving the fleet composition toward higher emitting vehicles. We study a design feature present in some restriction programs but much overlooked in the literature: that cleaner cars be exempted from the restriction. Based on evidence from Santiago- Chile’s 1992 program, we find this exemption feature to have a large impact on fleet composition toward cleaner vehicles. We also develop and calibrate for Santiago a vertical differentiation model of the car market to show that driving restrictions that make optimal use of these exemptions can be way more effective in the fight against local air pollution than alternative instruments such as scrappage subsidies and gasoline taxes.
M53|Estrangulamiento de Márgenes|El estrangulamiento de márgenes puede ocurrir cuando una empresa verticalmente integrada que tiene una posición de dominio en el mercado aguas arriba (o aguas abajo) compite con empresas que no están integradas aguas abajo (aguas arriba), las cuales dependen de la empresa integrada para la provisión de un insumo intermedio esencial para sus procesos de producción, distribución o ventas. En esas condiciones podrían existir incentivos para que la empresa integrada ofrezca el insumo intermedio a un precio tal que a un potencial competidor no le resulte rentable participar en el mercado. Este ensayo presenta un análisis de las condiciones en las cuales se podría producir estrangulamiento de márgenes en cualquier mercado, identificando las motivaciones que tienen las firmas integradas y los potenciales entrantes, y las situaciones que indicarían la existencia de un eventual abuso. En la segunda parte se discute la metodología para realizar las pruebas de estrangulamiento de márgenes, tanto para situaciones de prácticas anticompetitivas como para fines de regulación.
M53|What Role Did Management Practices Play in SME Growth Post-recession?|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are known to contribute significantly to aggregate economic growth. However, little is known about the role played by management practices in SME growth since recession. We contribute to the literature on SME growth by analysing longitudinal administrative data on firms' employment and turnover, taken from the UK's Business Structure Database (BSD), with data on management practices collected in face-to-face interviews from the HR Managers and employees who were surveyed as part of the 2011 British Workplace Employment Relations Survey (WERS). We find off-the-job training is the only management practice that is robustly and significantly associated with higher employment growth, increased turnover, and a decline in closure probabilities, over the period 2011-2014. The findings suggest SME investment in off-the-job training is sub-optimal in Britain such that firms could benefit economically from increasing the amount of off-the-job training they offer to their non-managerial employees.
M53|Behavior Change for Early Childhood Nutrition: Effectiveness of Health Worker Training Depends on Maternal Information in a Randomized Control Trial|We carry out a randomized control trial to test for interaction effects between training state-employed caregivers and providing mothers information to improve nutrition of preschool children aged 2-6 in rural India. Salaried caregivers are supposed to provide a mid-day meal and also advise mothers on health and nutrition for their child. Our one-day caregiver training covered basic health and nutrition facts with advice on how to communicate with mothers for behavior change at home. We find that this training was effective only when we provided the mothers with an independent source of nutrition information, and that the combined treatment was effective only among younger caregivers. Results are consistent with behavior change as a costly investment that is more attractive when done earlier in life, and greater response to information that is confirmed and reinforced from multiple sources.
M53|The dynamics of training programs for the unemployed|Time plays an important role in both the design and interpretation of evaluation studies of training programs. While the start and duration of a training program are closely linked to the evolution of job opportunities, the impact of training programs in the short and longer term changes over time. Neglecting these “dynamics” could lead to an unduly negative assessment of the effects of certain training schemes. Therefore, a better understanding of the dynamic relationship between different types of training and their respective labor market outcomes is essential for a better design and interpretation of evaluation studies.
M53|The Relevance of Lifelong Learning (LL) in the Economics of Education: Establishing a Research Program/La relevancia del aprendizaje a lo largo de la vida en la Economía de la Educación: Establecimiento de un programa de investigación|The objective of this paper is to provide a general framework for a research program on Lifelong Learning, with a special reference to its relevance and impact on European economies. The topic of Lifelong Learning (LL) has assumed great importance in the policies and practices of a number of international agencies, national governments and institutions of learning in recent years. Although there are numerous studies and works in the field of LL, however, there is room for its improvement. In this article we present a summary of the existing literature, its weaknesses and we propose some research lines to improve the knowledge on LL El objetivo de este artículo es proporcionar un marco general para un programa de investigación sobre la formación a lo largo de la vida (Lifelong Learning -LL), con especial referencia a su relevancia e impacto en las economías europeas. La formación a lo largo de la vida ha adquirido una gran importancia en las políticas y prácticas de un gran número de agencias internacionales, gobiernos nacionales e instituciones de formación en años recientes. Aunque existen numerosos estudios y trabajos en el campo del LL, sin embargo, existe margen de mejora. En este artículo se repasa la bibliografía existente, sus debilidades y se proponen vías de investigación para mejorar el conocimiento sobre la formación a lo largo de la vida.
M53|Informational Frictions and Practice Variation: Evidence from Physicians in Training|Substantial practice variation across physicians for seemingly similar patients remains an unresolved puzzle. This paper studies physicians in training to explore the behavioral foundations of practice variation. A discontinuity in the formation of teams reveals a large contribution of relative experience in the size of practice variation. Among the same physician trainees, convergence towards a common practice differs by practice environment, with more convergence in specialist-driven services. Rich trainee characteristics and training histories, including the practice styles of prior supervising physicians, explain little if any variation. These findings suggest a major role for informational frictions in the origins of practice variation.
M53|Learning Job Skills from Colleagues at Work: Evidence from a Field Experiment Using Teacher Performance Data|We study on-the-job learning among classroom teachers, especially learning skills from coworkers. Using data from a new field experiment, we document meaningful improvements in teacher job performance when high- and low-performing teachers working at the same school are paired and asked to work together on improving the low-performer’s skills. In particular, pairs are asked to focus on specific skills identified in the low-performer’s prior performance evaluations. In the classrooms of low-performing teachers treated by the intervention, students scored 0.12 standard deviations higher than students in control classrooms. These improvements in teacher performance persisted, and perhaps grew, in the year after treatment. Empirical tests suggest the improvements are likely the result of low-performing teachers learning skills from their partner.
M53|Impact of apprenticeships on individuals and firms: Lessons for evaluating Modern Apprenticeships in Scotland|This review summarises existing studies evaluating the impact of apprenticeships on individuals and firms and provides a brief overview of relevant evaluations in three related policy areas: education; active labour market programmes; and private on-the-job training. Based on the reviewed literature, it draws a number of lessons that are relevant for evaluating apprenticeship programmes in OECD member countries, such as the Modern Apprenticeships in Scotland. First, rigorous evaluation depends on the existence of suitable, high-quality data. Second, the measured effects of apprenticeships depend on the time elapsed since the end of the training period. Third, the outcomes most commonly examined in the existing literature are wages and the probability of employment. Fourth, it is important to employ methods that take into account not only observed but also unobserved individual characteristics. Finally, comparing apprentices to different “control groups” might provide different and complementary evidence on the impact of apprenticeships.
M53|Strategic Shirking in Promotion Tournaments|"We provide a theoretical analysis of multitask promotion tournaments in which workers increase their promotion chances by under-performing (over-performing) on tasks that are de-emphasized (emphasized) in a promotion rule. In some settings the firm can mitigate such ""strategic shirking"" by committing to a promotion rule that requires more balance in the performances across job tasks than would be justified on productivity grounds. The model can explain ""Putt’s Law"", which states that competent workers are sometimes passed over for promotion in favor of incompetent ones. (JEL J24, M53)."
M53|Training Future Entrepreneurs Using European Funds. A Descriptive Research on Start-Up Romania Programs|This paper focuses on the mutual relationship among the concepts of entrepreneurship, trainingpersonnel and business start-up and development. From our point of view, Romania shallencourage as much as possible entrepreneurship so as to create SMEs, the most flexible andnumerous in number in the Romanian total number of companies. Hence, the main objective of thispaper is to highlight the importance of accessing European funds in increasing the number ofRomanians properly trained so as to become successful entrepreneurs and to manage successfulbusinesses. At the same time, another main objective is to present the need of entrepreneurshiptraining and support in business start-up and development by using the descriptive method ofresearch.
M53|Insight and Blight – Initiatives on Enhancing Financial Literacy in Hungary|The standard of financial literacy affects the effective management of economic and income shocks both on the individual and national levels. Earlier surveys implied the ineffectiveness of financial literacy enhancing training programmes in Hungary. We surveyed the training organisations by using questionnaires and examined the characteristics of financial literacy courses along with the possible reasons for their ineffectiveness. The survey data were analysed by descriptive statistics and hypothesis tests. We found that four big organizations trained more than 90 per cent of the total 500 thousand people who attended such courses in recent years in Hungary. Students from elementary and secondary schools are heavily overrepresented in these courses. The courses are predominantly short; however, they cover multiple topics. Although some two fifths of the training programmes rely on public funds, only one third of them publish the syllabuses and training materials. We also found that the educational needs of the target groups are usually assessed; however, the effectiveness of the training programmes is usually not measured. We concluded that enhancing financial literacy in vulnerable social groups would require a more targeted support from the government. Additionally, in order to encourage the responsible and reasonable use of public funds, publicly funded financial literacy enhancing programmes should disclose reports on their effectiveness, they should publish course syllabuses and materials and apply quality control. Furthermore, it is crucial to revamp the practice of enhancing financial literacy in Hungary; the assessment and development of financial literacy should be realised with targeted funding in an organised, transparent and quality-controlled way.
M53|Training, quality of management and firm level bargaining|The double aim of this paper is to investigate the link between firm training behaviour and the adoption of performance-related pay (PRP) and to verify how the quality of management contributes to explaining the strength of this link. Using Ordinary Least Squares Estimates and Fixed Effect Estimates for a sample of Italian firms, we find that training is a significant determinant of firm level bargaining on PRP. Furthermore, we find that managerial quality plays a significant positive role and suggest that this is because managerial quality favours the evolution of social norms based on wage bonuses that enhance trust, sustain collaborative relationships and motivate co-workers to train each other.
M53|Sustaining the Growth of Employee: Motivation and Career Development in Organization|The research study is to determine the sustaining the employee’s growth of employee with motivation and career development in organization. The data for literature review have been collected from published journals and books. The purpose of this research is to evaluate the significance impact of motivation on employee growth with respect to career development and those factor which are broadly set in this research study. The sample technique and analysis are used by SPSS tool. Regression and correlation analysis are conducted
M53|Training, quality of management and firm level bargaining|Abstract The double aim of this paper is to investigate the link between firm training behaviour and the adoption of performance-related pay (PRP) and to verify how the quality of management contributes to explaining the strength of this link. Using Ordinary Least Squares Estimates and Fixed Effect Estimates for a sample of Italian firms, we find that training is a significant determinant of firm level bargaining on PRP. Furthermore, we find that managerial quality plays a significant positive role and suggest that this is because managerial quality favours the evolution of social norms based on wage bonuses that enhance trust, sustain collaborative relationships and motivate co-workers to train each other. Jel Classifications: M53; M52; J50; I20
M53|Training, quality of management and firm level bargaining|Abstract The double aim of this paper is to investigate the link between firm training behaviour and the adoption of performance-related pay (PRP) and to verify how the quality of management contributes to explaining the strength of this link. Using Ordinary Least Squares Estimates and Fixed Effect Estimates for a sample of Italian firms, we find that training is a significant determinant of firm level bargaining on PRP. Furthermore, we find that managerial quality plays a significant positive role and suggest that this is because managerial quality favours the evolution of social norms based on wage bonuses that enhance trust, sustain collaborative relationships and motivate co-workers to train each other. Jel Classifications: M53; M52; J50; I20
M53|Case Study Analysis of Corporate Governance and Management Control at Kendallville Bank|The present paper addresses the case study of a financial institution, the Kendallville Bank, developed by The Anti-Fraud Collaboration. The constituents of the Collaboration are the Center for Audit Quality, Financial Executives International, the National Association of Corporate Directors, and The Institute of Internal Auditors. These organisations are concerned with financial reporting fraud deterrence and detection. The case study approaches financial reporting fraud at a multidimensional level. It explores the corporate governance arrangements and management control instruments at place at the Kendallville Bank. The findings are discussed against the theoretical framework of the Agency Theory and the Stewardship Theory. Shortcomings of the arrangements are identified and safeguards are recommended on the background of international corporate governance best practice and academic literature. The risks arising from corporate governance weaknesses are addressed through various risk control procedures. Culture control is acknowledged as a major instrument to improve effectiveness and performance of the bank through a shift in the interpersonal interaction of the Board members, the executive team and the auditors.
M53|The Balanced Scorecard and Beyond – Applying Theories of Performance Measurement, Employment and Rewards in Management Accounting Education|This study applies the prevailing scholarly theories of strategic management, employment decisions, cost accounting and share reward schemes to a panel of questions raised by Colin Drury (2012) in the case study of the fictitious company Integrated Technology Services (UK) Ltd., ITS (UK). The paper provides model answers which can be used when working with the case study at institutions of higher education. The merit of the work lies in three areas. First, it provides an overview of theories accepted by the academia that can be utilized for further research. Second, it contrasts pro and contra arguments. Thus it shows the limitations of the very theories when applied to scenarios inspired by practical problems. Third, it develops an innovative Balanced Scorecard for ITS (UK). The scorecard can be used as an example when working with Drury’s case study. But it is also suitable for real life situations of business entities faced with oppressive overheads and deteriorating net margins, building on highly skilled workforce and trying to preserve its differentiated profile.
M53|The Relative Age Effect Reversal among NHL Elite|December 31 the first quarter of the year, most likely because they are relatively bigger than their younger counterparts born later in the year. As this Relative Age Effect (RAE) has been well-established in junior hockey and across other professional sports, we argue that the long- term impact of this phenomenon is still poorly understood. Using roster data on North American NHL players from 2008 to 2015, we examine the RAE in terms of birth month distribution and the extent that RAE is associated with points (i.e. goals plus assists) and player salaries. We find evidence of an RAE reversal—that players born in the second half of the year (July-December) score more points per season (29-50% more points) and command higher salaries (30%-50% more salary). Among elite players—the highest scoring and highest paid athletes—the scoring gap ranges between 14% and 26% more points for players born in the second half of the year—whereas the salary gap ranges between 18% and 50% greater salary. We argue that results partly support an “underdog” effect in NHL that is greatest among elite players.
M53|https://cebr.vse.cz/index.php/cebr/article/download/285/175|Negative feedback has been repeatedly identified as beneficial for organizational learning, adaptability, and performance. Despite having these advantages, most organizations still do not use negative feedback to its full potential, as they fail to spread it correctly among their members. The application of negative feedback, therefore, faces several issues like misuse or process avoidance that are mostly driven by psychological factors. The purpose of this paper is to discuss potential benefits of a newly emerged organizational approach called radical candor for contemporary state of the art in feedback-related behavior and to propose how it might be successfully applied in organizational settings. We define radical candor as a proactive and compassionate engagement in an unpleasant and direct feedback process. Radical candor may help reduce the influence of psychological factors like extreme levels of attachment, harsh emotions or low self-esteem in order to make organizational members more engaged and satis-fied with the negative feedback process. Organizations willing to apply radical candor might consider either official implementation from top to bottom (through managers and leadership) or unofficial intervention through the agents (employees of all levels) depending on company characteristics.
M53|What Role Did Management Practices Play in SME Growth Post-Recession?|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are known to contribute significantly to aggregate economic growth. However, little is known about the role played by management practices in SME growth since recession. We contribute to the literature on SME growth by analysing longitudinal administrative data on firms' employment and turnover, taken from the UK's Business Structure Database (BSD), with data on management practices collected in face-to-face interviews from the HR Managers and employees who were surveyed as part of the 2011 British Workplace Employment Relations Survey (WERS). We find off-the-job training is the only management practice that is robustly and significantly associated with higher employment growth, increased turnover, and a decline in closure probabilities, over the period 2011-2014. The findings suggest SME investment in off-the-job training is sub-optimal in Britain such that firms could benefit economically from increasing the amount of off-the-job training they offer to their non-managerial employees.
M53|Recruitment and apprenticeship training|The paper assesses non-training firm’s potential for free-riding on the training efforts of firms that train apprentices. In order to assess potential free-riding, the paper analyses whether training or non-training firms are more likely to recruit apprenticeship graduates that have been trained elsewhere. Firms without apprentices are less likely to hire apprenticeship graduates trained elsewhere than training firms. If these firms do hire apprenticeship graduates, they hire a smaller proportion compared to all new-hired skilled workers who have an apprenticeship degree than training firms. The paper discusses three potential explanations for this finding: lower demand for apprenticeship graduates, information disadvantage and apprentices’ preferences.
M53|Training practices and organisational performance: A comparative analysis of domestic and international market oriented organisations in Central & Eastern Europe|The paper explores organisational level training practices in the Central and Eastern European (CEE) region and tests their impact on overall organisational performance. We draw upon data from the CRANET international survey of HR practices in order to provide a comparative overview of training and development in selected CEE Countries. Distinguishing between organisations focusing on the international and on the domestic market, and drawing upon data from 1147 companies in eight countries (Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Serbia), we examine training practices and approaches and test their impact on organisational performance. Our findings demonstrate that the use of more developed training practices contributes to better organizational performance assessed by reference to service quality, productivity, profitability and rate of innovation. The market focus of the organisation in terms of serving a domestic or an international one also appears consequential with those operating internationally recording more extensive training practices.
M53|Personal und Diversitaet|Im berufsbegleitenden Studium „Interdisziplinaere Arbeitswissenschaft“ an der Leibniz Universitaet Hannover finden immer wieder Lehrveranstaltungen statt, die eine Bruecke zwischen dem Personalmanagement und dem Umgang mit Diversitaet in Organisationen schlagen. Die Beitraege zu diesem Band sind alle in diesem Kontext entstanden. Einige verknuepfen aktuelle Themen wie Employer Branding, Personalauswahl, Digitalisierung oder Erfolgsmessung mit Diversity Management. Andere beschaeftigen sich mit Boreout, Intuition, Arbeitszufriedenheit und Glueck, die bisher kaum mit Diversitaet in Verbindung gebracht wurden. Weitere Beitraege stellen Erfahrungen aus diversity-orientierten Trainingsmassnahmen vor oder greifen bislang unterschaetzte Diversity-Aspekte in Organisationen (Attraktivitaet, Introvertiertheit, UEberforderung…) auf. Kritische Blicke auf das Diversity Management aus einer queeren Perspektive und aus Sicht der interkulturellen Kompetenzentwicklung runden das Spektrum ab. Wer an der Schnittstelle von Personal und Diversitaet lehrt, forscht und arbeitet, kann aus den Artikeln interessante Anregungen fuer seine Taetigkeit ableiten.
M53|The Causal Impact of Human Capital on R&D and Productivity: Evidence from the United States|This paper contributes to the empirical literature on the impact of human capital on technology adoption and the production structure of the economy by using census micro data aggregated at the state level data for US cohorts born between 1915 and 1939. We test the impact of secondary and tertiary schooling in the US at the state-cohort level on R&D and TFP growth across industries in 1970. While we follow the literature in using the variation in the timing of compulsory schooling laws across states to instrument secondary schooling, we propose a novel instrument for tertiary enrollment. In particular, we exploit, as in Acemoglu, Autor and Lyle (2004), the differences across states and cohorts in World War II mobilization rates. While Acemoglu, Autor, and Lyle (2004) used this variation as an exogenous shift in female labor supply, we exploit the fact that WWII veterans were benefited by the GI Bill Act (1944), which granted them free college education once they were discharged from service. This provides a clean source of variation in the costs of attending college, which allows us to exploit differences in college enrollment across states and cohorts. Our results suggest that, consistent with the initial discussion, different types of human capital are associated to different effects on the productive structure of the economy. Two-stage least squared regressions find no effect of the share of population with secondary schooling over outcomes such as R&D per worker or TFP growth. On the other hand, the share of population with tertiary education has a significant effect on both R&D per worker or TFP growth. In particular, a 1% increase in the share of workers with tertiary education increases R&D per worker by 1.8 percentage points, and annual TFP growth by 1% for 17 years. Creation-Date: 2015
M53|Time-distributed difference-in-differences approach: The case of wage returns to training|In this article we introduce econometric model specification that describes time-distributed treatment effect basing on the difference-in-differences approach. It gives us possibility to control for mobility in estimates of wage returns to professional training on the data of a Russian enterprise of 2006–2010. We show that wage growth after some kinds of professional trainings is well explained by the mobility
M53|Antecedents of Opportunity at Work: Evidence from White-Collar Employees in Turkey|Opportunities provided to employees at work facilitate important organizational outcomes. Although opportunity at work is a significant topic of research, antecedents of opportunity are under-explored. The study aims to analyze the relationships between opportunity at work and possible antecedents of opportunity, i.e. different types of leadership and high performance work practices. For this purpose, factor analyses and hierarchical multiple regression analyses are carried out using data from 550 white-collar employees. The results of analyses show that opportunity at work is explained with reference to three factors: Promotion, development, and recognition opportunities. Transactional, transformational, and participative leadership create at least one type of opportunity for employees. High performance work practices (HPWPs) predict development and promotion opportunity for employees working in different industries. The study fills a gap in the literature by exploring antecedents of opportunity at work, with important implications for both research and practice. Managers are advised to adopt the characteristics of transactional, transformational, and participative leadership in order to create opportunities for their subordinates. Moreover, organizations are recommended to employ HPWPs to create opportunities for their employees.
M53|Demographic Factors that affect the Entreprenuership Intentions of Students in Tourism Department: Comparison of Two State Universities|Recently, entreprenuership is one of the most important subjects. Because most countries are aware that they can achieve economic development and growth by the help of entreprenuership. Therefore, these countries try to create tangible and intangible opportunities that would unfold entreprenuership potential. Turkey needs entreprenuers in tourism sector. It is important for Turkey to lead their students who studies in tourism department to entreprenuership because of abundance in touristic destinations and labor-intensive characteristics of the tourism sector. In this study, entreprenuership intentions of students in tourism departments at Afyon Kocatepe University and Trakya University are compared, and similarities and differences in students’ entreprenuership intentions are put forth. For this purpose, Cronbach Alpha is used to test the reliability of the study, and Kruskal Wallis analysis is conducted to test the impact of demographic factors on the entreprenuership intentions of students. The similarities of demographic factors that affect the students’ entreprenuership intentions of both universities are seen on the same age groups and same objectives (establishing their own businesses, not considering to work in state agencies), and differences are observed in terms of gender and grades (semester). One of the important findings of the study is that entreprenuership education at Trakya University affected the entreprenuership intentions of the students partially and for a short period of time.
M53|System szkoleń i podnoszenia kwalifikacji zawodowych jako forma transferu wiedzy w przedsiębiorstwach międzynarodowych|W artykule przedstawiono szczegółową analizę przyjętej strategii w polskiej filii koncernu międzynarodowego, dotyczącej podnoszenia kwalifikacji i zwiększania potencjału wiedzy pracowników, poprzez wprowadzanie systemu szkoleń i dokształcania zawodowego. Problematyka szkoleń i podnoszenia kwalifikacji (VET) odzwierciedla jeden z podstawowych mechanizmów transferu i tworzenia wiedzy w przedsiębiorstwach, co uznawane jest za najważniejszy czynnik konkurencyjności we współczesnych warunkach globalizacji i budowania gospodarki opartej na wiedzy. Zastosowanie metody case study, stanowi odpowiedź na potrzeby uzupełniania analiz w zakresie tej problematyki o najbardziej aktualne ustalenia empiryczne, odzwierciedlające realne procesy zachodzące na poziomie przedsiębiorstw. Prezentowany przypadek stanowi przykład szerokiego zakresu form podnoszenia kwalifikacji pracowników, stosowanych w przedsiębiorstwach należących do inwestorów zagranicznych. Jednym z rezultatów wprowadzenia rozbudowanego systemu szkoleń w polskiej filii koncernu jest dość radykalne podwyższenie kwalifikacji zawodowych pracowników, a to z kolei wskazuje, że duża inwestycja zagraniczna w regionie - szczególnie w takim, w którym staje się dominującym podmiotem gospodarczym - przyczynia się do pozytywnych zmian na rynku pracy, zarówno w aspekcie ilościowym, jak i jakościowym. Dodatkowym rezultatem wykorzystania analizy case study jest możliwość szczegółowego określenia przestrzennego zasięgu sieci powiązań z firmami szkoleniowymi, co prowadzi do potwierdzenia wcześniejszych ustaleń wielu autorów, o silniejszym zakorzenieniu (embeddedness) inwestora zagranicznego w regionie, w którym zostały nawiązane sieci współpracy z lokalnymi partnerami.
M53|Attitudes Towards Work in the Context of the Age of Employees (Postawy wobec pracy w kontekscie wieku pracownikow)|The aim of the article is to present the current research achievements regarding the differences and similarities between attitudes towards work among employees of different ages1. The research and analysis of differences in attitudes, manifested by the representatives of different generations, pose a number of methodological problems which can have a big impact on final conclusions. The text attempts to analyse intergenerational differences regarding: work in the hierarchy of values, work satisfaction, loyalty to the employer and flexibility for changes. The author did not conduct his own empirical research, as the aim of this article was to gather available results of the research already conducted. The conclusions from the studies cited are of a practical nature and are intended for both academics and business practitioners.
M53|Professionalization of Vocational Roles of Public Employment Services Employees in Europe Through Competency Profiling (Profesjonalizacja rol zawodowych pracownikow Publicznych Sluzb Zatrudnienia w Europie poprzez profilowanie kompetencji)|The aim of this article is the development of competence profile for employment counsellors within public employment services, reflecting the recent changes and redefinition of these professional roles. This article aims to analyse the state-of-play in relation to professionalization of vocational roles of PES employees in Europe, on the basis of research conducted by the author in the years 2012–2014 for the European Commission. These studies included literature review, analysis of available research and structured survey conducted among representatives of the Public Employment Services in 22 EU countries, complemented by in-depth interviews and analysis of solutions used in PES. On the basis of this research a European reference competence profile for PES and EURES counsellors has been created by the author for the purposes of increasing professionalization of roles within these specific public services.
M53|Naturalisation and on-the-job training: evidence from first-generation immigrants in Germany|Abstract This paper empirically analyses the effect of naturalisation on on-the-job training (OJT) participation among first-generation immigrants in Germany. OJT is associated with improved labour market outcomes and provides therefore an indicator for labour market integration. Naturalisation is assumed to act as a signal of the employee’s commitment to the host country and may thus increase employers’ likelihood of offering OJT. Testing the theoretical link with multivariate estimations (based on the German Socio-Economic Panel) shows a positive and significant correlation. To reduce selection bias on observables, propensity score matching is applied, yielding a significant average treatment effect. JEL Classification: J15, J24, M53
M53|The Market for Training Services: A Demand Experiment with Bangladeshi Garment Factories|We marketed a training program for lower level managers (line supervisors) to large factories in the Bangladeshi ready-made garment industry. Take-up of the program (even for a free slot) was low, due to intense production pressures, fire-fighting and concerns over retention of trained workers. Take-up is quite insensitive to pricing. There was higher interest and demand in training modules aimed at improving production processes and quality, rather than human resources and social compliance. Since the program was priced close to a commercially viable rate, it might be possible to develop a market provided they could be proved to be effective.
M53|Entrepreneurial Outcomes and Organisational Performance through Business Coaching|The hereby article aims to address the main question of whether organisational performance is directly or indirectly enhanced by business coaching. The research integrates a quantitative study having as major purpose the investigation of the manner in which business coaching contributes to corporation growth in start-up firms and developing companies. The primary objective of the research is to quantitatively determine the effects enhanced by business coaching on company performance and growth of organisational incomes. SME growth and coaching impact are studied through inter-relationships between distinctive company characteristics (such as: industry category, company maturity, number of employees), entrepreneur features (among which can be mentioned: leader age, nominal gender, studies), and entrepreneur character (for instance: locus of control at work, selfefficacy in the work place). The comparison is made between two types of entrepreneurs: the ones who have received business coaching previously with entrepreneurs with no prior business coaching experience, except the one after which research is performed. The research concludes that business coaching has a great impact on the development of entrepreneurs’ locus of control and self-efficacy, these leading to organisational growth.
M53|Hiányszakmák Heves Megyében| A kutatás témájának aktualitását az is mutatja, hogy a diákoknak és a képzőknek, munkaerőpiacnak is kiszámítható, egyértelmű információkra van szüksége, hogy tervezni tudjanak. Ez felveti az egyik fontos kérdést – ami további kutatásra ad lehetőséget, hogy kell-e évente változtatni a hiányszakmákat? Változás történt a hiányszakmák számának meghatározásában 2016/2017-évre vonatkozóan. Az eddigi 10 majd 11 szakma helyett a 2016/2017-es évre már 25 szakma került meghatározásra. Szót kell ejteni a tanulószerződésről és az ösztöndíjról. Az ösztöndíj tényleg ösztönözi-e a diákokat, hogy hiányszakmát tanuljanak? A felnőttképzés tekintetében a legbeszédesebb ábra a finanszírozás tekintetében található: mind országos mind megyei vonatkozásban a legtöbben EU-s forrásokból finanszírozott képzéseken vesznek részt. A képzésen részt vevők iskolai végzettségét tekintve a legtöbben érettségivel, illetve felsőfokú végzettséggel jelentkeznek. A szakképzés intézményei jelenleg a szakiskola, szakközépiskola Változás a 2016-os tanévtől felmenő rendszerben történik, amikor a szakközépiskolák szakgimnáziumokká alakulnak, a szakmunkásképző intézmények szakközépiskolává. ------------------------------------- The actuality of the research is supported by the fact that students, educators and the job market need unambiguous information in order to make any plans. This raises one important question which provides a basis for further research: do jobs with shortage of professionals need to be changed annually? There was a change in the determination of jobs with shortage of professionals regarding the year 2016/2017. Instead of the 10 then 11, 25 professions have been determined for the year 2016/2017. We also have to mention the student contracts, grants and scholarships. Do grants and scholarships really motivate students to learn an occupation with shortage of professionals. The most obvious factors in respect with adult education can be connected to financing: most of them participate in courses financed by the EU both on state and county level. Most of the participants of courses have a high school diploma or have participated in higher vocational education. Currently, the institutions of vocational training are vocational and secondary vocational schools. Changes will begin from the school year of 2016 when secondary vocational schools will become secondary vocational grammar schools and vocational schools will become secondary vocational institutions.
M53|Training Assessment: A Premise For Training Transfer In Enterprises|The technical literature tackled the issues of training transfer and training assessment from two distinct research directions that sometimes happened to intermingle; in the light of recent discoveries, we considered these issues were interrelated via a causal connection. We used an analysis of the approach of these two topics in 30 enterprises that constantly provided their employees with training in the past two full years. The present paper demonstrated the fact that the training transfer rate is: a) strongly influenced by the extent to which training evaluation methods were used; b) moderately influenced by the support employees received when they returned to work in order to implement what they had learned; and c) it is not influenced by the proper training evaluation methods (which may be different depending on the specific of the training and the expertise of the human resources specialist who undertakes the assessment).
M53|Long Term Impacts of Vouchers for Vocational Training: Experimental Evidence for Colombia|We use experimental data of a training program in 2005 in Colombia. We find that even up to ten years ahead, the JeA program had a positive and significant effect on the probability to work in the formal sector, and to work for a large firm. Applicants in the treatment group also contributed more months to social security during the analyzed period. Earnings of treated applicants were 11.8% higher in the whole sample, and they made larger contributions to social security. We also present non parametric bounds showing that for some percentiles of the sample of women, there are positive and nearly significant effects of the program. Thus, the effects of the program would have been capitalized both in increases in the likelihood of being formal, and increases in productivity. We also present evidence that the estimated program effects on the likelihood of working for the formal sector, the likelihood of working for a large firm, and the earnings in the formal sector, are not an artifact of analyzing multiple outcomes. We also find those in the treatment group have 0.315 more years of education, and have a probability of graduating from high school 10 percent higher than the control group. We find no significant effect on the probability of attending college or any school program, nor on fertility decisions, marital status or some dimensions of assortative mating. Among applicants matching to the census of the poorest population, we find that beneficiaries are more likely to participate in the labor market, to be employed, and to be enrolled in a private health insurance at the time of the survey. Finally, we find that the benefits of the JeA program are higher than it costs, leading to an internal rate of return of at least 22.1 percent.
M53|Systemic flexibility and human capital development: the relationship between non-standard employment and workplace training|The aim of this paper is to explore the relationship between non-standard contracts (part-time, fixed-term) and workplace training by discussing the implications of two different theoretical frameworks grounding on human capital theory and strategic management, respectively. To achieve this purpose we develop alternative hypothesis on the association between the presence of non-standard workers and four different outcome variables related to workplace training and job-related practices. By using data on Italian firms we get different results according to the type of non-standard contract and training. Part-time and temporary contracts carry out distinct functions with respect to off-the job training as far as labour flexibility is concerned. On the other hand, although non-standard work seems to be unrelated to on-the-job training decisions, this is not the case when the overall number of job-related practices is taken into account. Overall, our evidence can reflect the decision to substitute off-the-job training with job-related practices in presence of part-time workers. Conversely, the recourse to temporary employment can be associated with the need to enhance systemic flexibility throughout the organization.
M53|Identifying educational needs by rationalising TVET industry clusters in Brazil|Technical Vocational Educational and Training (TVET) institutions need to reinvent themselves to keep up with market trends, which is why they should assume a more proactive strategy instead of a reactive one towards their Catalogue of Courses. Assuming that TVET institutions are also revenue-maximising institutions, they must provide all of the information that employers and workers need in their materials in a common language and should avoid multiple marketing actions. Therefore, the aim of this research is to present an empirical study to group industrial segments with similar occupational structures and R&D investments to help TVET institutions identify their training needs and tailor their descriptive materials of their marketing and sales teams. Data mining and cluster analysis were used to identify how regular courses at the Brazilian National Service for Industrial Training (SENAI) could be offered within industrial segments in 2011.
M53|Rise of the Machines: The Effects of Labor-Saving Innovations on Jobs and Wages|Job polarization the rise in employment shares of high and low skill jobs at the expense of middle skill jobs occurred in the US not just recently, but also in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. We argue that in each case polarization resulted from increased automation, and provide a theoretical explanation. In our model, firms deciding whether to employ machines or workers in a given task weigh the cost of using machines, which is increasing in the complexity (in an engineering sense) of the task, against the cost of employing workers, which is increasing in training time required by the task. Insights from artificial intelligence and robotics suggest that some tasks do not require training regardless of complexity, while in other tasks training is required and increases in complexity. In equilibrium, firms are more likely to automate a task that requires training, holding complexity constant. We assume that more-skilled workers learn faster, and thus it is middle skill workers who have a comparative advantage in tasks that are most likely to be automated when machine design costs fall. In addition to explaining job polarization, our model makes sense of observed patterns of automation and accounts for a set of novel stylized facts about occupational training requirements.
M53|Long Term Impacts of Vouchers for Vocational Training: Experimental Evidence for Colombia|We use experimental data of a training program in 2005 in Colombia. We find that even up to ten years ahead, the JeA program had a positive and significant effect on the probability to work in the formal sector. Applicants in the treatment group also contributed more months to social security during the analyzed period, and to work for a large firm. Earnings of treated applicants were 11.8% higher in the whole sample, and they made larger contributions to social security. In addition, we also present non parametric bounds that for some percentiles of the sample of women, there are positive and nearly significant effects of the program. Thus, the effects of the program would have been capitalized both in increases in the likelihood of being formal, and increases in productivity. We also present evidence that the estimated program effects on the likelihood of working for the formal sector, the likelihood of working for a large firm, and the earnings in the formal sector, are not an artifact of analyzing multiple outcomes. We also find that for the whole sample of applicants, those in the treatment group have 0.315 more years of education, and have a probability of graduating from high school 10 percent higher than the control group. We find no significant effect on the probability of attending college or any school program, nor on fertility decisions, marital status or some dimensions of assortative mating. Among applicants matching to the census of the poorest population, we find that beneficiaries are more likely to participate in the labor market, to be employed, and to be enrolled in a private health insurance at the time of the survey. Finally, we find that the benefits of the JeA program are higher than it costs, leading to an internal rate of return of at least 22.1 percent. On the whole, the program was a cost-effective alternative, worth to consider to bridging the transit of youths from the informal to the formal sector in the future.
M53|Gestión de carreras contemporáneas: desafíos críticos para la gestión humana|Con el presente artículo de revisión se exponen algunos lineamientos conceptuales sobre carreras en organizaciones. Se hace especial énfasis en la transformación que esta práctica ha sufrido, dadas las nuevas condiciones del trabajo generadas por los cambios tecnológicos, económicos y culturales que se han venido presenciando desde finales del siglo XX. La literatura especializada muestra, en el presente momento histórico, un escenario más dinámico y complejo para las personas y las organizaciones. Se encontró que en las condiciones actuales, las personas dirigen su propia carrera con el propósito de alcanzar mejores niveles en sus trayectorias dentro o fuera de la organización. Ello plantea nuevos retos y maneras de pensar la gestión de personas, a fin de generar prácticas alternativas. En último término, a modo de sugerencia, se plantean algunas cuestiones para ser abordadas por los responsables en gestión humana, en el sentido de construir relaciones recíprocas con las que se contribuya al desarrollo mutuo.
M53|Percepciones del impacto de la capacitación, compensación y selección del personal en la eficiencia de los proyectos|Este artículo tiene como objetivo investigar los efectos de tres prácticas de gestión de recursos humanos (capacitación, selección de personal y compensación) en el éxito de proyectos, medido bajo las percepciones de los gerentes de proyectos sobre los parámetros de costo, tiempo y calidad (eficiencia de proyectos) con los que terminan sus proyectos. Se llevó a cabo en 108 empresas basadas en proyectos de los municipios de Tampico y Victoria registradas en el Directorio Estadístico Nacional de Unidades Económicas, con un muestreo de conveniencia no probabilístico. El estudio busca contribuir a la teoría sobre los factores críticos de éxito (FCE) de proyectos y confirmar la gestión de recursos humanos (GRH) como uno de ellos, lo cual ayuda a los gerentes de proyectos a mejorar la ejecución de sus trabajos, obteniendo así mayores posibilidades de éxito en ellos. Los resultados de este análisis muestran una influencia positiva de la capacitación y compensación en la eficiencia de proyectos, la cual tiene implicaciones importantes para los directivos de este tipo de empresas interesados en mejorar la eficiencia de los proyectos que realizan, pues no todos los elementos analizados tienen la misma repercusión sobre sus resultados.
M53|The effect of schooling vouchers on higher education enrollment and completion of teachers: A regression discontinuity analysis|This paper investigates the effects of education vouchers for teachers. We study effects on enrollment and completion of higher education programs, and on the retention of teachers in the education sector. We do this by exploiting a fuzzy regression discontinuity design. Read also the accompanying Background Document (only in Dutch). The discontinuity in the probability of being assigned a voucher arises due to budget constraints in the first application period. Our estimates suggest that effects of voucher assignment on both higher education enrollment and completion rates are in the order of 10 to 20 percentage points as measured five and a half years after application. Relative to a baseline enrollment rate of 77 percent and a baseline completion rate of 54 percent (i.e. of applicants that were not assigned a voucher), these effect estimates correspond to a 12 to 29 percent higher enrollment and to a 17 to 42 percent higher completion. Effects on enrollment and completion are relatively small for shorter studies (up to one year) and for teachers that had already started at the time of application. The teacher voucher crowds out both funding by schools out of their regular professional development budgets as well as financial contributions by teachers themselves. Our results suggest small positive effects of voucher assignment on retention in education as measured four years after application.
M53|Network Effects on Worker Productivity|We use data from an in-house call center of a multi-national mobile network operator to study how co-worker productivity affects worker productivity via network effects. We also exploit data from a field experiment to analyze how exogenous changes in worker productivity due to on-the-job training affect co-worker productivity, including non-trained workers. We show that there are strong network effects in co-worker productivity. This effect is driven by conformist behavior. We also show that exposure to trained workers increases the productivity of non-trained workers. This effect works through strategic complementarities (knowledge spillovers). We demonstrate how our network model of worker productivity can be used to inform a variety of practical decisions faced by personnel managers including the design of optimal training policy.
M53|The Social Environment and Business Communication in English: A Small-Scale Research on Front-Line Staff Performance in Russia, Spain and France|The performance measuring of the English everyday use of the front-line personnel remains an important topic of theoretical and practical study. Using a method of participant observation, the authors compared the St. Petersburg business environment with two cities in Spain (Madrid, Girona) and one in France (Perpignan). The observers carried out 64 visits in four cities. The sampling method is a convenience sample. The research in Spain and France was carried out in March-April, June-August 2014 and in Russia in June-July 2015. The observers checked how the front-line staff performed business communication in English. The authors draw conclusion that St. Petersburg demonstrates the worst results in the front-line interaction in English.
M53|Tournament incentives and corporate fraud|This paper identifies a new incentive for managers to engage in corporate fraud stemming from the relative performance evaluation feature of CEO promotion tournaments. We document higher propensities to engage in fraud for firms with strong tournament incentives (as proxied for by the CEO pay gap). We posit that the relative performance evaluation feature of CEO promotion tournaments creates incentives to manipulate performance, while the option-like character can motivate managers to engage in risky activities. We thereby extend previous corporate fraud literature that focuses mainly on equity-based incentives and reports mixed findings. Our results are robust to using different fraud samples, and controlling for other known determinants of fraud as well as manager skills.
M53|The effect of hysteresis on equilibrium selection in coordination games|One of the fundamental problems in both economics and organization is to understand how individuals coordinate. The widely used minimum-effort coordination game has served as a simplified model to better understand this problem. This paper first presents theoretical results that give conditions under which the minimum-effort coordination game exhibits hysteresis. It then uses these theoretical results to develop and confirm some experimental hypotheses using human subjects in the laboratory. The main insight is that play in a given game is heavily dependent on the history of parameters leading up to that game. For example, the experiments show that when cost c=0.5 in the minimum-effort coordination game, there is significantly more high effort if the cost has increased to c=0.5 compared to when the cost has decreased to c=0.5. One implication of this is that a temporary change in parameters may be able move the economic system from a bad equilibrium to a good equilibrium.
M53|Repeated selection with heterogeneous individuals and relative age effects|In many contexts, skill-accumulation over time crucially depends on the amount of training received, which is often allocated through repeated selection. We analyze optimal selection when individuals differ with respect to their ability to transform training into skills and relative age. The latter is considered a major determinant for initial within-cohort performance differentials. The optimal policy is pro-competitive at later selection stages in the sense of selecting the individuals with the higher skill signals. In early stages, pro-competitive selection, counter-competitive selection or no selection can be the optimal policy, depending on the size of the relative age differences and on the degree of heterogeneity with respect to ability in the population. We show that under the optimal selection policy the probability of allocating high intensity training to the individuals with highest ability is not monotone with respect to the size of the relative age advantage. Finally, the (empirical) observation of persistent relative age effects does not necessarily hint at suboptimal selection policies.
M53|Initiatives for the improvement of continuous management training| [EN] Purpose. This work aims to present, from the company viewpoint, a structured account of management proposals and practices directed toward improving the intensity and effectiveness of continuous management training (CMT). Design/methodology/approach. The article takes as its main theoretical referents the Theory of Human Capital, the Resource-Based Vision and the contributions made via the new institutional economy with regard to the problems of information asymmetry between companies, employees and training providers and completes the proposals that derive from this theoretical approach. To do this, experience-based contributions are collected from a selection of company training and HR managers from twelve Basque companies characterised by their strong investment in management training. The methodology used was qualitative and obtained by different qualitative techniques: Focus Groups, Nominal Groups and the Delphi Method, which make up the so-called Hybrid Delphi. Findings and implications. The proposals are aimed at the main agents in training activity: training providers, associations and public agents engaged in management training and, particularly, companies themselves. The initiatives seek above all to increase training market transparency, to improve mutual commitments between companies and managers, and to link training and development with culture and strategic management, so that firms make optimal investment in management training. Originality/value. The methodology used is original, and the contributions are consistent with the theory, have a proven practical utility, and are presented in a hierarchy, which facilitates decision making.
M53|Measuring cultural intelligence: a new test of the CQ scale|Despite an increasing number of publications on cultural intelligence (CQ), the operationalization and conceptualization of this construct demand further attention. In this replication study among 308 experienced overseas Chinese respondents, a two-dimensional structure seems to better represent the data than the original four-dimensional CQ scale. The results of the analysis identify two new dimensions: internalized cultural knowledge and effective cultural flexibility, both of which exhibit satisfactory levels of reliability and validity. A series of regression analyses also provide assessments of the nomological validity of the new CQ dimensions in relation to their antecedents and consequences.
M53|Effects of work-based learning on companies involved in VET education|The paper studies the effects on companies from taking on apprentices for work-based learning. What are the benefits and costs that can be identified? In a series of semi-structured in-depth interviews with companies and school representatives, we study the effects of work-based learning at five Swedish companies that run their own VET schools. Our overall conclusion is that there are significant net benefits to the companies themselves, primarily through lower recruitment costs but also through positive effects on the skills of supervisors and other staff, as well as of the companies’ brand and community commitment. These long-term benefits clearly outweigh the short-turn cost of time-loss and strenuous for staff to supervise the trainees.
M53|Individual Returns to Training in a Russian Firm|This work is devoted to estimating the individual return to worker's professional training. This empirical research is based on unique monthly data, comprised of the personnel records of workers in a Russian metallurgical enterprise between 2006--2010. Using the original time distributed difference-in-differences technique we control for the effect of workers' mobility and the ``non-parallel'' dynamics of earnings in estimates. A qualitative comparison of mobility in trained and control groups is also made by Kaplan-Meier survival curves. The main factors that distinguish this paper from others are the following. (I) We focused on the internal labour market, concluding that it has common peculiarities of wage setting concerned with training as an open labour market. (II) We show that mobility-friendly training programs give high returns, and not only in transition economies. (III) We suggest controlling for mobility by choosing a corresponding control group. (IV) We use a robust new specification that is reactive to different dynamics of the dependent variable in treated and control groups in difference-in-differences estimates. (V) We compared three different kinds of training and our conclusions could have practical application (at least in Russian context). The best way to raise personal earnings is on-the-job training. The internal mobility caused by retraining courses was the same impact on workers as if they lacked retraining. The wages of workers trained in the same field grow randomly for a few months before and after training. Nevertheless it is difficult to prove the causal effect of this kind of training on wage growth
M53|Improving company management: review of recent ideas|This paper is largely based on over a hundred articles and comments (including the author's), submitted to the french Les Echos online business daily during the past few months. It reviews possible management improvements to help companies and consequently also their national economies.
M53|Moderating Effect Of Individual Differences On The Relationship Between Content, Delivery Method And Perceived Effectiveness Of Training|The business literature has mostly focused on the relationship between job performance and satisfaction of employees rather than the relationship between job performance and the training and development of employees. Additionally, the amount of research focused on determinants of training outcomes and effectiveness, is not satisfactory. This study analyzes the moderating effect of age, gender and seniority on the relation between the content and delivery of training programs and training effectiveness. Regarding training effectiveness, only the first two phases of the four levels model of Kirkpatrick (i.e. the satisfaction about the training and the learning outcome perceptions) are analyzed. A multinational corporation operating in Turkey is chosen as the sample for this study. The findings revealed that age and gender factors are insignificant in the first level of the Kirkpatrick model. However, seniority is the only factor affecting trainee satisfaction. Regarding the second level of Kirkpatrickâ€™s model, all age, gender and seniority factors affect the learning process perceived outcome. These findings support some previous research but contradict with some others
M53|Work Habits As Positive And Negative Influence On Workplace Productivity|The purpose of this study was to measure senior level executive perception of what encompasses successful workplace productivity in 21st century organizations. This qualitative study involved 42 senior level executives from 14 different industries and institutional groupings who represented Western organizations. The authors collected data from August 2013 to April 2014. Over 76% of the participants had over 10 yearsâ€™ experience in their professional field. These senior level executives indicated that a number of different categories such as Attitude, Ethics, Initiative, Interpersonal Skills, Personal Development, Teams, Leadership, Time Management, Focus, Rules and Solutions were either positive or negative workplace habits affecting productivity. The majority of executives cited Attitude as the most positive workplace habit affecting productivity and Unaccountability and Carelessness as the most negative workplace habits affecting productivity. The authorsâ€™ findings offer insights into ways that senior leaders can adjust their hiring and training strategies so positive workplace habits are enabled and negative ones are contained and minimalized so greater productivity can be engaged in the workplace. We offer directions for future research in the subject area and point to areas for possible training consideration
M53|Labor Competencies: An Exploratory Study In The Industrial Sector In The Comarca Lagunera,Las Competencias Laborales: Estudio Exploratorio En El Sector Industrial De La Comarca Lagunera|Skills are a priority for companies as an intangible factor that influences, through the management of human capital, the creation of distinct competitive advantages for organizations. The objective of this work is to present results of an exploratory study on the needs and priority of the certification of labour competencies in companies of the industrial sector of Comarca Lagunera. The research is of an empirical nature. For the collection of data we built an instrument that was validated through a focus group ofe expert son the topic of development and evaluation of competency certification. The group was composed of businessmen and academics. Subjects who were interviewed were owners, managers or supervisors of the companies. Results identified the most important competencies for the metalworking industry, the level of certification and priority assigned to assisting the academic formation of the Manager, the size and degree of maturity of the companies, and businesses as a line of action through training and certification of competence and a vision shared to competitiveness.
M53|Characterization Of Human Talent Practices In Companies Of Valle Del Cauca, Caracterizacion De Las Practicas De Talento Humano En Empresas Del Valle Del Cauca|Organizations must be characterized by their adaptation to the environment in which they compete. We wish to identify, through this descriptive research, how the organization manages its human talent, in order to define improvement actions to enable it to perform a truly strategic role. When applying a questionnaire to 25 companies in Valle del Cauca, we discovered, among other findings, that the majority of companies have a formal strategic plan but not one for human management. The role of the human management area remains operational. There is not a culture of attracting and retaining top talent, and therefore, it is necessary for companies to adopt a more holistic view about how to manage talent.
M53|Teachers' work style development as means of preventing their high staff turnover rates|Defining teachers' work styles from an organizational rather than an educational point of view, the present study focuses on their abilities to manage their time and professional projects and on exploring a training strategy of developing those skills. The research has been carried out on a small sample of students in teacher training programs (undergraduate and graduate level) participating in a 11 weeks training project focused on exercising and self evaluating progress. The comparison between pretest and post test measures of time and project management abilities has demonstrated a significant improvement of these skills.
M53|Do Micro-Entrepreneurship Programs Increase Wage-Work? Evidence from Chile|Using a randomized controlled trial of a large-scale, publicly run micro-entrepreneurship program in Chile, we assess the effectiveness of business training and asset transfers to the poor. Using survey and monthly administrative data we study the effects of the program over a period of 46 months. We find that the program significantly increases employment by 15.3 and 6.8 percentages points 9 and 33 months after implementation, respectively. There is also a significant increase in labor income. The employment increase in the short run is through self-employment, while in the long run wage work also increases. In the long run, total labor increases mostly due to an increase in wage income. This is consistent with the hypothesis that skills taught during the training lessons are also useful for wage work. We also find that the quality of the intervention matter, especially in the long run. Finally, comparing two levels of asset transfers, different employment paths emerge: those who receive a low level of transfers mostly end up with salaried work whereas those who receive a high level of transfers tend to be self-employed.
M53|People and Machines: A Look at the Evolving Relationship between Capital and Skill in Manufacturing, 1860–1930, Using Immigration Shocks|Abstract This paper estimates the elasticity of substitution between capital and skill in manufacturing using immigration-induced variation in skill mix across U.S. counties between 1860 and 1930. We find that capital initially complemented both high- and low-skill labor (determined by literacy) and, unlike today, was more complementary with low-skill labor. Around 1890, capital increased its relative complementarity with high-skill labor. Simulations calibrated to our estimates imply the level of capital-skill complementarity after 1890 allowed the manufacturing sector to absorb the large wave of Eastern and Southern European immigrants with only a modest decline in less-skilled relative wages. This would not have been possible under the older production technology.
M53|Ten Facts You Need To Know About Hiring|We provide new empirical evidence regarding the magnitude and the determinants of a firm's costs required to fill a vacancy. The average costs required to fill a vacancy for a skilled worker in Switzerland amount to about 16 weeks of wage payments. The main components of the vacancy costs are initially low productivity, the formal instruction of a new hire (53 percent), disruption costs due to informal instruction of new hires (26 percent), and search costs (21 percent). Furthermore, hiring costs for small firms are associated with labor market tightness (i.e., the vacancy-unemployment ratio).
M53|The Pecuniary and Non-pecuniary Returns to Voucher-financed Training|"This paper analyzes the returns to training that was co-financed by the German voucher program ""Bildungsprämie"". The estimation strategy compares outcomes of participants in voucher training with voucher recipients who intended to participate in training, but did not do so because of a random event like course cancellation by the provider of training. We find no impact of voucher training on wages, employment, job tasks and on subjective outcomes (in particular, the risk of job loss and job satisfaction). However, there is evidence that training participants report to better match the skill requirements of their job."
M53|Wage returns to mid-career investments in job training through employer supported course enrollment: evidence for Canada|Using longitudinal data for Canada, we analyze the incidence and wage returns to employer supported course enrollment for men and women. Availability of confidential data, along with a relatively rich set of observable covariates, lead us to the estimation of difference-in-differences matching models of the effect of employer supported course enrolment on wages. The estimated average treatment effects on the treated range from 5.5 to 7.2 percent for men and 7.1 to 9.0 for women. While high-skilled workers show disproportionately higher rates of participation in employer-supported training, we observe no wage premiums for these types of workers. Statistically significant positive wage returns are found, on the other hand, for low-skilled workers. JEL codes: C14, I20, J24, J31, M53 Copyright Ci et al.; licensee Springer. 2015
M53|Worker Reciprocity and the Returns to Training: Evidence from a Field Experiment|Workers' reciprocal behavior is one argument used to explain why firms invest in employee human capital. We explore the relation between firm-sponsored training and reciprocity by providing evidence that workers reciprocate employer training investments by making greater effort. Using a field experiment with random assignment to a training program, we show that reciprocal workers have significantly higher performance than their non-reciprocal peers after participation in the training course. This result suggests that reciprocal workers exert greater effort in response to the firm's investment.
M53|Ten Facts You Need To Know About Hiring|We provide new empirical evidence regarding the magnitude and the determinants of a firm's costs required to fill a vacancy. The average costs required to fill a vacancy for a skilled worker in Switzerland amount to about 16 weeks of wage payments. The main components of the vacancy costs are initially low productivity, the formal instruction of a new hire (53 percent), disruption costs due to informal instruction of new hires (26 percent), and search costs (21 percent). Furthermore, hiring costs for small firms are associated with labor market tightness (i.e., the vacancy-unemployment ratio).
M53|Does vocational training help young people find a (good) job?|Youth unemployment has increased in many industrialized countries following the recent global recession. However, this reflects not only the cyclical shock, but also the crucial role of institutions in structuring the transition from school to work. Vocational training, in particular in a dual form combining vocational schooling and structured learning on-the-job, is often considered to be one of the most important policy solutions in combating youth unemployment. The evidence available supports this perception, but the institutional requirements of a successful training system also have to be taken into account from a policy perspective.
M53|Is training effective for older workers?|The labor market position of older workers is cause for concern in many industrialized countries. Rapid population aging is challenging pension systems. The recent economic crisis has forced many older adults out of the workforce, into either pre-retirement or non-employment. Encouraging people to work longer and fostering the employability of older workers have become priorities for policymakers. Training specifically designed for older workers might help attain these goals, since it may refresh human capital and reduce the payâ€“productivity gap. Training older workers might also benefit employers and society as a whole.
M53|The importance of informal learning at work|Although early human capital theory recognized the relevance of workers’ experience, its focus was on education and formal training. Recent studies find that much of the performance of newly hired workers is driven by learning by doing or learning from peers or supervisors in the workplace. Descriptive data show that workers learn a lot from the various tasks they perform on the job. Informal learning at work seems to be relevant for all age groups, although it drives more of the performance of younger workers. Informal learning is far more important for workers’ human capital development than formal training courses.
M53|High involvement management and employee well-being|A wide range of high involvement management practices, such as self-managed teams, incentive pay schemes, and employer-provided training have been shown to boost firms’ productivity and financial performance. However, less is known about whether these practices, which give employees more discretion and autonomy, also benefit employees. Recent empirical research that aims to account for employee self-selection into firms that apply these practices finds generally positive effects on employee health and other important aspects of well-being at work. However, the effects can differ in different institutional settings.
M53|Learning the „Look-at-you-go” Moment in Corporate Governance Negotiation Techniques|This article explores in an interdisciplinary manner the way concepts are learned or internalized, depending on the varying means of transmission, as well as on the sequencing in which the information is transmitted. In this sense, we build on the constructivist methodology framework in assessing concept acquisition in academic disciplines, at an advanced level. We also present the evolution of certain negotiation techniques, from traditional setting, to less predictable ones. This assessment is compared to a specific Pop Culture case study in which we find an expressive representation of negotiation techniques. Our methodology employs both focus groups and experimental design to test the relative positioning of theoretical concept acquisition (TCA) as opposed to expressive concept-acquisition (ECA). Our findings suggest that while expressive concept acquisition (ECA) via popular culture representations enhances the students understanding of negotiation techniques, this can only happen in circumstances in which a theoretical concept acquisition (TCA) is pre-existent.
M53|Youth Unemployment After Apprenticeship Training and Individual, Occupation, and Training Employer Characteristics|This paper analyses the risk of unemployment, unemployment duration, and the risk of longterm unemployment immediately after apprenticeship graduation. Unemployed apprenticeship graduates constitute a large share of unemployed youth in Germany but unemployment incidence within this group is unequally distributed. Our paper extends previous research in three dimensions. It shows that (i) individual productivity assessment of the training firm, (ii) initial selection into high reputation training firms and occupations, and (iii) adverse selection of employer moving graduates are correlated with unemployment after apprenticeship graduation. The empirical evidence is obtained from the second longitudinal version of the linked employer-employee panel data from the IAB (LIAB). This large data set allows us to calculate the exact unemployment spell length of apprenticeship graduates. In addition, we can include individual, employer, occupation as well as industrial relation characteristics before and after apprenticeship graduation into our list of explanatory variables for unemployment risk. We show in several robustness checks that our results are remarkably stable when we vary the employees included in the sample, the definition of unemployment, and the list of explanatory variables.
M53|Strategies of change for the hotel industry. Porter, Kotler, Bowmann positions|"The hospitality industry is defined as the provision of accommodation, catering and leisure facilities, which include but are not limited to hotels, motels, restaurants, clubs, casinos, cruise ships and theme parks. History of hospitality industry begins in 1794, during the period when the first colonial hotel ""City"" was opened in New York City. The industry began to develop between the '50s and '60s, transforming into a dynamic industry we know today. The World Tourism Organization (World Travel Organization) forecasts that the hospitality industry will triple its size by the year 2020, making it one of the largest industries in the world. Also at this time the travel industry means 8 percent of jobs in the world and has the highest growth potential among all global industries. This increase will provide more employment opportunities for people with the right qualifications. Career options in the hospitality industry continues to multiply with the industry."
M53|A társadalmi vállalkozások tanácsadás iránti igényei|A szerző 16 társadalmi vállalkozóval készített mélyinterjú alapján elemzi, hogy a vezetési ta-nácsadás igénybevételével kapcsolatban milyen tapasztalatokkal rendelkeznek, milyen céllal veszik igénybe a szolgáltatást, mennyire elégedettek a kapott eredménnyel, mit várnak tanácsadóiktól. A társadalmi vállalkozások számára nyújtott tanácsadás speciális elemeinek megfogalmazásához kontrollcsoportként egy korábbi, 2011-12-es kérdőíves felmérésének eredményit alkalmazza, melyben 58 tanácsadó és 77 ügyfél vett részt. A tanulmány/kutató munka a TÁMOP-4.2.1.D-15/1/KONV-2015-0009 azonosító számú projekt részeként – az Új Széchenyi Terv keretében – az Európai Unió támogatásával, az Európai Szociális Alap társfinanszírozásával valósul meg.
M53|Knowledge Sharing Behaviour and Development of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises|The aim of the article is to indicate the knowledge sharing behavior (KSB) in SMEs. The task is to be achieved through an analysis research results on KSB. This kind of behaviour is associated in the literature with much broader knowledge management issues. This paper is an attempt to correlate the employees' statements with their work places (company’s size) and aims at research made on force of such correlation, including specific character of personnel behaviour resulting from company policy.
M53|Job-Related Training on Russian Enterprises|An effective system of personnel training is one of the most important factors of companies' growth and development of the whole economy, especially in times of rapid technological progress. This study is aimed to analyze the factors affecting the companies' stimulus to invest in the employees' human capital in Russia. Logistic regressions to determine the effects using data from Russian firms in 2011 are applied in the study. The study shows that innovative activity of the enterprise, a high proportion of workers with higher education, and an active employment policy have a positive effect on the probability of the availability of training programs in the enterprise.
M53|Diagnosis of the applications of Continuous Learning of Watkins and Marsick Model in IT Industry of Indian Silicon Valley|Each organization must turn into a learning association. Pioneers may think articulating a reasonable vision, the exact motivating forces for workers and giving preparing make associations to learn. This suspicion is not simply imperfect – it's hazardous despite heightened rivalry, progresses in innovation, and movements in client inclinations. In element complex circumstances cause and impacts are available in unobtrusive structures, yet the aftereffects of mediations are not instantly observable. In perspective of Watkins and Marsick, authoritative learning started with a shared perception that critical learning, Continuous Learning – It is the center of a fruitful association flourishing to increase focused edge over different organizations in a solid aggressive business. The goal of the study incorporates To determine the acts of Watkins and Marsick model in IT industry through Continuous Learning. Examination works together Moderate to High rankings for different components of Continuous Learning under demographic variables - Age, sexual orientation, Education, Occupation and Income. Exploration finishes up serious utilization of Continuous Learning in IT industry under demographic division variables. The movement from customary techniques to advanced strategies for Learning Organization practices is because of interest from the business and can even finish up giving Continuous Learning is have to associations in the dynamic association environment.
M53|The Emerging Role of Mindfulness Research in the Workplace and its Challenges|This paper focuses on the current state of art in mindfulness research on workplace and identi-fies some of the necessary steps and risks in the creation of mindful leadership theory. Mind-fulness has the potential to effectively address three topical organizational challenges of grow-ing demands on adaptability, prevailing issues of work-related stress and the necessity to raise the moral level in organizations. Current studies seem to suitably respond to the issues of work-related stress; however, the challenges of adaptability and morality so far lack appropri-ate empirical validation. Lack of empirical support is also noticeable in the case of mindful leadership theory as most studies still focus solely on individual leader development. Howev-er, it is important to start to discuss the suitable core variables of mindful leadership now as a clear differentiation from other leadership approaches like authentic leadership will be crucial for successful creation of mindful leadership theory. This paper also presents recommenda-tions for entrepreneurs and managers willing to incorporate mindfulness into their organiza-tional settings.
M53|Lernprozesse im Unternehmen als betriebliche Arbeitspolitik. Formen, Methoden und Strategien der gewerblich-technischen Qualifizierung in der Automobilindustrie: Analyse und Instrumente anhand zweier Fallstudien|Vor dem Hintergrund der anhaltenden Internationalisierungsstrategien in den Automobil- und Zulieferindustrieunternehmen entsteht ein Wandel in der unmittelbaren Umwelt der Organisation, der die Prozesse des kollektiven und individuellen Lernens stark beschleunigt. Diese Veraenderungen erfordern einerseits die Gestaltung der betrieblichen Arbeitspolitikfelder, wie z.B. Personal- und Qualifizierungspolitik in der Produktion, und andererseits die Foerderung der Kompetenzentwicklung durch qualifikatorisch wirksame Lernprozesse am Arbeitsplatz und im Arbeitsverlauf/-vorgang. Die Autorin analysiert die betrieblichen arbeitspolitischen Rahmenbedingungen und Strukturen sowie die methodisch-didaktischen Lernarrangements bei der Gestaltung von aneignungsfoerderlichen Lernprozessen in der Fertigung von erzeugenden Automobil- und Zulieferindustrieunternehmen. Aus der Perspektive der Organisation als Einheit stehen das Handeln der Akteure im Unternehmen und das Individuum als Subjekt des Lernens in einer prozessorientierten Wechselwirkung und direktem Zusammenhang. Der Untersuchungsfokus richtet sich auf das „Lernen auf dem Shop-Floor“ und somit auf das „Lernen im Prozess der Arbeit“ sowie auf den Gestaltungskontext von moderner Lerninfrastruktur zur Verschmelzung von informellem und formellem Lernen in der Fertigung. Die Ergebnisse aus der Analyse bestaetigen die Annahme, dass Lernen im Prozess der Arbeit im Shop-Floor-Bereich die Systematisierung und Strukturierung des Lernprozessablaufs benoetigt. Dies kann durch den Einsatz von lernfoerderlichen Rahmenbedingungen, Methoden und Instrumenten realisiert werden. Die betriebliche Politikgestaltung, die Arbeitsbedingungen und die Arbeitsorganisation sowie die Zusammenarbeit der Akteure sind dabei wesentliche Faktoren. Die systematische Einbettung von Lernen im Arbeitsprozess erfordert demnach als Voraussetzung die Akzeptanz und Mitwirkung an Veraenderungsprozessen. Basierend auf den Ergebnissen dieser Studie wird als Empfehlung ein Instruktionsdesign zur umfassenden Qualifizierung von Mitarbeitern auf dem Shop-Floor konzipiert.
