M55|French GPs’ Willingness to Delegate Tasks: May Financial Incentives Balance Risk Aversion?|Delegating tasks to paramedics is a fairly recent development in France. So far it has essentially been developed in hospitals and is incipient in general practice. This paper focuses on the willingness of general practitioner to do so. A 2012 survey of 2,000 GPs might help anticipate GPs' willingness to delegate. This paper tests whether a more favourable funding system might help increase GP willingness. We implement a quasi-experimental design wherein GPs are randomly selected to form three groups of equal size, each of them being exposed to a different funding scheme when declaring their willingness to delegate tasks to nurses: Fully Funded (FF) by the social security administration, self-funded by GPs' revenues (Self-Funded, SF) and half-funded by both the social security administration and GPs (Half-Funded, HF). GPs' likelihood to favour task delegation is estimated with a probit model that especially considers a GP's attitude towards risk (aversion or tolerance) among a set of covariates, such as age, gender, rural/urban area, GP density and funding scheme. This article shows that, first, GPs are more likely to favour delegation, when they share a lower proportion of the cost. Second, the effect of risk aversion on the likelihood of favouring delegation is not altered by the funding scheme.
M55|A Structural Model of a Multitasking Salesforce: Job Task Allocation and Incentive Plan Design|We develop the first structural model of a multitasking salesforce to address questions of job design and incentive compensation design. The model incorporates three novel features: (i) multitasking effort choice given a multidimensional incentive plan; (ii) salesperson’s private information about customers and (iii) dynamic intertemporal tradeoffs in effort choice across the tasks. The empirical application uses data from a micro nance bank where loan officers are jointly responsible and incentivized for both loan acquisition repayment but has broad relevance for salesforce management in CRM settings involving customer acquisition and retention. We extend two-step estimation methods used for unidimensional compensation plans for the multitasking model with private information and intertemporal incentives by combining flexible machine learning (random forest) for the inference of private information and the first-stage multitasking policy function estimation. Estimates reveal two latent segments of salespeople-a “hunter” segment that is more efficient in loan acquisition and a “farmer” segment that is more efficient in loan collection. We use counterfactuals to assess how (1) multi-tasking versus specialization in job design; (ii) performance combination across tasks (multiplicative versus additive); and (iii) job transfers that impact private information impact firm profits and specific segment behaviors.
M55|Clawback Provisions and Firm Risk|Panel OLS and GMM-IV estimates indicate that executives respond to the adoption of a compensation clawback provision by decreasing firm risk. The mechanisms that transmit incentives to decisions and decisions to risk appear to be more conservative investment and financial policies and preemptive management of ESG, legal, and cyberattack risks. The stock market reaction to the announcement of a clawback adoption, as well as post-adoption stock and accounting performance, are significantly and positively related to the actual and predicted reduction in firm risk. The reduction in firm risk, arising from adoption of a clawback policy, appears to benefit shareholders.
M55|Escaping Social Pressure: Fixed-Term Contracts in Multi-Establishment Firms|We investigate the impact of local social pressure against dismissals on the choice of employment contracts made by firms using French linked employer-employee data. Taking into account the potential endogeneity of plant location, we show that establishments located closer to headquarters have higher shares of fixed-term contracts in hiring than those located further away whenever firms' headquarters are located in self-centered communities. We also show that this relationship is driven by firms that are highly visible in the community of the headquarters and whose CEOs not only work but also live there. In contrast, when firms' headquarters belong to communities that are not self-centered, the impact of distance to headquarters on the share of fixed-term contracts turns out to be positive. We show that these findings can only be explained by local social pressure. When the local community at the firm's headquarters is self-centered, CEOs are under pressure to avoid dismissing workers close to headquarters. By adding to the adjustment costs associated with open-ended contracts, this creates an incentive for CEOs to rely more on fixed-term contracts, in an attempt to escape social pressure.
M55|French GPs’ willingness to delegate tasks: may financial incentives balance risk aversion?|Delegating tasks to paramedics is a fairly recent development in France. So far it has essentially been developed in hospitals and is incipient in general practice. This paper focuses on the willingness of general practitioner to do so. A 2012 survey of 2,000 GPs might help anticipate GPs' willingness to delegate. This paper tests whether a more favourable funding system might help increase GP willingness. We implement a quasi-experimental design wherein GPs are randomly selected to form three groups of equal size, each of them being exposed to a different funding scheme when declaring their willingness to delegate tasks to nurses: Fully Funded (FF) by the social security administration, self-funded by GPs' revenues (Self-Funded, SF) and half-funded by both the social security administration and GPs (Half-Funded, HF). GPs' likelihood to favour task delegation is estimated with a probit model that especially considers a GP's attitude towards risk (aversion or tolerance) among a set of covariates, such as age, gender, rural/urban area, GP density and funding scheme. This article shows that, first, GPs are more likely to favour delegation, when they share a lower proportion of the cost. Second, the effect of risk aversion on the likelihood of favouring delegation is not altered by the funding scheme.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M55|Zero Hours Contracts and Their Growth|This paper studies the prevalence and nature of zero-hours contracts (ZHCs) in the UK labour market. The headline count of ZHC workers based on the Labour Force Survey has long underestimated and continues to underestimate the number of workers in ZHC or ZHC-like jobs. ZHC jobs and workers are heterogeneous, but ZHC jobs have become increasingly concentrated among young workers, full-time students, migrants, black and minority ethnic workers, in personal service and elementary occupations, and in the distribution, accommodation and restaurant sector over time. Compared to other forms of employment, median wages in ZHC jobs have also fallen over time. The most common prior labour market state for ZHC workers is non-ZHC employment, particularly part-time employment, and we cannot reject that part of the reported growth in ZHCs has been driven by reclassification of existing employment relationships. Similarly, we cannot reject that growth in public awareness of ZHCs contributed substantially to recent growth in reported ZHCs, particularly over the period 2013/14.
M55|Does Workplace Competition Increase Labor Supply? Evidence from a Field Experiment|This paper develops a novel field experiment to test the implicit prediction of tournament theory that competition increases work time and can therefore contribute to the long work hours required in elite occupations. A majority of workers in the treatment without explicit financial incentives worked past the minimum time, but awarding a tournament prize increased work time and effort by over 80% and lowered costs of effort or output by over a third. Effort was similar with alternative (piece rate, low-prize tournament) bonuses. Men worked longer than women in the high-prize tournament, but for the same duration in other treatments.
M55|Mission, motivation, and the active decision to work for a social cause|The mission of a job does not only affect the type of worker attracted to an organisation, but may also provide incentives to an existing workforce. We conducted a natural field experiment with 267 short-time workers and randomly allocated them to either a prosocial or a commercial job. Our data suggest that the mission of a job itself has a performance enhancing motivational impact on particular individuals only, i.e., workers with a prosocial attitude. However, the mission is very important if it has been actively selected. Those workers who have chosen to contribute to a social cause outperform the ones randomly assigned to the same job by about 15 percent. This effect seems to be a universal phenomenon which is not driven by information about the alternative job, the choice itself or a particular subgroup.
M55|Zur Empfehlung von Abfindungsobergrenzen für Vorstandsmitglieder|In diesem Beitrag wird untersucht, ob Vorstandsabfindungen von börsennotierten Unternehmen durch die Empfehlung 4.2.3 Abs. 4 Satz 1 des Deutschen Corporate Governance Kodex in ihrer Höhe begrenzt werden. Die Analyse umfangreicher empirischer Daten zu Entsprechenserklärungen aller CDAX-Unternehmen und tatsächlichen Abfindungshöhen vorzeitig ausgeschiedener Vorstandsmitglieder von DAX-Unternehmen in den Jahren 2010 bis 2014 zeigt, dass die empfohlenen Obergrenzen trotz anderslautender Entsprechenserklärungen mehrheitlich überschritten wurden. Mithilfe institutionenökonomischer, rechtswissenschaftlicher und soziologischer Ansätze wird theoretisch erklärt, warum das Comply-or-Explain-Prinzip des § 161 AktG, das der Konzeption der Empfehlungen des DCGK zugrunde liegt, bei der untersuchten Empfehlung versagt. Auf dieser Basis wird eine Gestaltungsempfehlung für die Praxis abgeleitet, welche der Empfehlung zu einer stärkeren Wirkung verhelfen kann.
M55|Corporate governance reporting: Compliance with upper limits for severance payments to members of executive boards in Germany|This paper examines how corporate governance reporting corresponds to actual conduct regarding severance payment caps for prematurely departing members of companies' executive boards in Germany. For this purpose, we first evaluate the declarations of conformity for all companies listed in the CDAX between 2010 and 2014, which we use to determine conformity and deviation rates, and analyse reasons for deviation. In a further full survey, we assess the compensation amounts of all severance payments made and published by DAX companies to their executive board members who were prematurely terminated, which allows us to compare the respective severance ratio with the cap recommended by the German Corporate Governance Codex (GCGC). We find that more than 20% of companies listed in the CDAX declared deviation in the declaration of conformity, and one-third of all deviations were justified by a rejection of the normative decision of the recommendation. Moreover, in 57% of actual severance cases where DAX companies had previously declared their compliance, the cap was exceeded; yet, none of the companies that had exceeded the cap in a severance case disclosed this in the following declaration of conformity. In the years under review, for the majority of severance cases in companies listed in the DAX, the GCGC's cap did not have any factual binding effect. Finally, in most cases the corporate reports deviated from reality and therefore could not serve as a suitable basis for decisions by the capital market.
M55|Can Reputation Discipline the Gig Economy? Experimental Evidence from an Online Labor Market|In two experiments, we examine the effects of employer reputation in an online labor market (Amazon Mechanical Turk) in which employers may decline to pay workers while keeping their work product. First, in an audit study of employers by a blinded worker, we find that working only for good employers yields 40% higher wages. Second, in an experiment that varied reputation, we find that good-reputation employers attract work of the same quality but at twice the rate as bad-reputation employers. This is the first clean, field evidence on the value of employer reputation. It can serve as collateral against opportunism in the absence of contract enforcement.
M55|Creativity Under Fire: The Effects of Competition on Creative Production|Though fundamental to innovation and essential to many industries and occupations, individual creativity has received limited attention as an economic behavior and has historically proven difficult to study. This paper studies the incentive effects of competition on individuals' creative production. Using a sample of commercial logo design competitions, and a novel, content-based measure of originality, I find that intensifying competition induces agents to produce original, untested ideas over tweaking their earlier work, but heavy competition drives them to stop investing altogether. The results yield lessons for the management of creative workers and for the implementation of competitive procurement mechanisms for innovation.
M55|Upworkers in Finland: Survey Results|Abstract Upwork is the world’s largest online labor market platform connecting clients with freelance professionals from various disciplines ranging from administrative support to web development. This study documents the main findings of the Upworkers in Finland survey conducted in December 2017. The survey targeted all freelancers listed on the platform who (a) claimed to reside in Finland and (b) had earned at least $1 since signing up. Of the 207 such freelancers found publicly listed on Upwork on 8 December 2017, 58.9% responded to our online questionnaire. Most Upworkers in Finland are translators, followed by designers and coders. They are typically less than 30 years old, involved in higher education or training (or already have at least a college-level degree), and live in the capital region or another urban area. Approximately one-third are immigrants or other nonnative speakers. They have a strong preference for entrepreneurship/self-employment over paid/salaried employment. Independence, flexibility, and extra earnings are particularly motivators for online work engagement. The respondents are both quite fond of the platform and satisfied with their current online work arrangement.
M55|Study on the Development of Quality Measurements Models for Steering Business Services in Relation to Customer Satisfaction|The growing competition in the market, higher customer demands and globalisation forces the business service providers to improve their services much faster. Nowadays, it is not enough to provide good quality it is more important to delight the customers and to deliver more than they expect. Likewise, renowned research companies predicted that customer satisfaction will become the competitive differentiator within the next years. Thus, the main reasons of the present study are at first, establishing a common understanding on the term “quality” and presenting the relationship between customer satisfaction and service quality. Secondly, the study summarizes the identified factors, which mostly influence the customer satisfaction, as well as the common methods used to measure service quality in relation to these factors. Thirdly, the authors introduce and explain the newly developed six step model for establishing an effective measurement method for service quality and the proposed three level service quality model with the related measurements and outcomes. Both models will assist business service providers to protect and improve their service quality and with that their customer satisfaction. The methodology used for this research is a systematic literature review focused on subjects of quality, customer satisfaction and best-practice metrics for service quality. In addition, surveys and studies from well-known research companies were evaluated. The outcome of the study is always focused on the business service area.
M55|Contracting over the disclosure of scientific knowledge: Intellectual property and academic publication|This paper provides a theoretical investigation of the tension over knowledge disclosure between firms and their scientific employees. While empirical research suggests that scientists exhibit a “taste for science,” such open disclosures can limit a firm's competitive advantage or ability to profitably commercialize their innovations. To explore how this tension is resolved we focus on the strategic interaction between researchers and firms bargaining over whether (and how) knowledge will be disclosed. We evaluate four disclosure strategies: secrecy, patenting, open science (scientific publication) and patent-paper pairs providing insights into the determinants of the disclosure strategy of a firm. We find that patents and publications can be complementary instruments facilitating the disclosure of knowledge-providing predictions as to when stronger IP protection regimes might drive openness by firms.
M55|Match Quality, Contractual Sorting and Wage Cyclicality|"This paper studies the role of match quality for contractual arrangements, wage dynamics and workers’ retention. We develop a model in which profit maximizing firms offer a performance-based pay arrangement to retain workers with relatively high match-specific productivity. The key implications of our model hold in data from the NLSY79, where information about job histories and performance pay is available. We relate our findings to the literature on occupation heterogeneity and provide evidence that jobs in ""cognitive"" occupations have better match quality, exhibit higher prevalence of performance pay, display significant sensitivity of wages to business cycle conditions and last longer."
M55|Digital Labor Markets and Global Talent Flows|Digital labor markets are rapidly expanding and connecting companies and contractors on a global basis. We review the environment in which these markets take root, the micro- and macro-level studies of their operations, their ongoing evolution and recent trends, and perspectives for undertaking research with micro-data from these labor platforms. We undertake new empirical analyses of Upwork data regarding 1) the alignment of micro- and macro-level approaches to disproportionate ethnic-connected exchanges on digital platforms, 2) gravity model analyses of global outsourcing contract flows and their determinants for digital labor markets, and 3) quantification of own- and cross-country elasticities for contract work by wage rate. Digital labor markets are an exciting frontier for global talent flows and growing rapidly in importance.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M55|Work-sharing from Different Angles: A literature review|Could work-sharing solves the problems of unemployment, inequality and global warming, and yet produce a happier world? This literature review takes a multidisciplinary view of the problem. We find that theoretically work-sharing can do all these things, but the existing evidence of its performance is debatable and there are hesitations from industry to implement it. We recommend a global initiative, riding on the sustainable development wave, with an appealing narrative to create a just distribution in today's world.
M55|Competition Between For-Profit and Non-Profit Firms: Incentives, Workers’ Self-Selection, and Wage Differentials|We study optimal non-linear contracts offered by two firms competing for the exclusive services of workers, who are privately informed about their ability and motivation. Firms differ in their organizational form, and motivated workers are keen to be hired by the non-profit firm because they adhere to its mission. If the for-profit firm has a competitive advantage over the non-profit firm, the latter attracts fewer high-ability workers with respect to the former. Moreover, workers exert more effort at the for-profit than at the non-profit firm despite the latter distorts effort levels upwards. Finally, a wage penalty emerges for non-profit workers which is partly due to compensating effects (labor donations by motivated workers) and partly due to the negative selection of ability into the non-profit firm. The opposite results hold when it is the non-profit firm that has a competitive advantage.
M55|HR Practices in the Soccer Industry: Promising Research Arena|Human resources (HR) practices have been extensively researched in the management arena, mostly in firms’ context. Yet, there are many other contexts that have enormous potential for more investigation with regard to selection, pay, and turnover intention. One of these contexts is soccer teams, a game that has enormously grown in the last 50 years, and it continues to grow at even larger scales, exceeding all national, religious, and ethnic considerations. This paper considers the possibility of varying ways that HR-related practices may differ in soccer teams depending on factors such as race and tenure. The growing numbers of non-European players in European teams represent a phenomenon that deserves some attention, especially as to how teams in Europe select their players, what factors influence their decisions, how pay is allocated, and what are the mechanisms through which career mobility for soccer professionals occur. In this paper, I present a framework for soccer teams’ HR practices and the theoretical arguments underlying their acts to improve our understanding of these practices in soccer context. My hope is to start a discussion that would continue to develop overtime so we can reach a mature and well-developed framework for the recruitment practices and their outcomes in the soccer context.
M55|What determines volunteer work? On the effects of adverse selection and intrinsic motivation|We analyse the screening problem of a firm hiring workers without knowing their ability while observing their intrinsic motivation. We show that volunteerism is the contractual outcome when workers are low-skilled, have high motivation, and are protected by limited liability.
M55|Optimal sales force compensation|We analyze a dynamic moral-hazard model to derive optimal sales force compensation plans without imposing any ad hoc restrictions on the class of feasible incentive contracts. We explain when the compensation plans that are most common in practice – fixed salaries, quota-based bonuses, commissions, or a combination thereof – are optimal. Fixed salaries are optimal for small revenue-cost ratios. Quota-based bonuses (commissions) should be used if the revenue-cost ratio takes intermediate (large) values. If firms face demand uncertainty, markets are rather thin, and the revenue-cost ratio large, firms should combine a commission with a quota-based bonus. If word-of-mouth advertising affects sales, a dynamic commission that increases over time can be optimal. When entering a new market or launching a new product, firms should install long-term bonus plans.
M55|Workers’ participation in wage setting: A gift-exchange experiment|This study analyzes the consequences of workers’ participation in the wage setting process on effort exertion. The experimental design is based on a modified gift-exchange game with firms specifying contract alternatives and workers deciding about the finally implemented alternative. The experimental data reveals that workers with participation rights are more sensitive to differences in wage offers: Low wage offers trigger negative reciprocity which dominates the positive incentive effects from high wage offers. On average, participation in the wage setting process leads to a decline in effort exertion.
M55|Measuring the use of human resources practices and employee attitudes: The Linked Personnel Panel|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to introduce a new data source available for researchers with interest in human resources management (HRM) and personnel economics, the Linked Personnel Panel (LPP). Design/methodology/approach - – The LPP is a longitudinal and representative employer-employee data set covering establishments in Germany and a subset of their workforce and is designed for quantitative empirical human resource research. Findings - – The LPP employee survey applies a number of established scales to measure job characteristics and job perceptions, personal characteristics, employee attitudes towards the organization and employee behaviour. This paper gives an overview of both the employer and employee survey and outlines the definitions, origins, and statistical properties of the scales used in the individual questionnaire. Practical implications - – The paper describes how researchers can access the data. Originality/value - – First, the data set combines employer and employee surveys that can be matched to each other. Second, it can also be linked to a number of additional administrative data sets. Third, the LPP covers a wide range of firms and workers from different backgrounds. Finally, because of its longitudinal dimension, the LPP should facilitate the study of causal effects of HRM practices.
M55|The role of financial reporting and transparency in corporate governance|The authors review recent literature on the role of corporate financial reporting and transparency in reducing governance-related agency conflicts between managers, directors, shareholders, and other stakeholders—most notably financial regulators—and suggest some avenues for future research. Key themes include the endogenous nature of governance mechanisms with respect to information asymmetry between contracting parties, the heterogeneous nature of the informational demands of contracting parties, and the corresponding heterogeneity of the associated governance mechanisms. The authors also emphasize the role of credible commitment to financial reporting transparency in facilitating informal multiperiod contracts among managers, directors, shareholders, and other stakeholders. Finally, they discuss the importance of regulatory supervision and oversight as a class of governance mechanisms that is particularly important for banks and financial institutions.
M55|Performance feedback in competitive product development|Performance feedback is ubiquitous in competitive settings where new products are developed. This article introduces a fundamental tension between incentives and improvement in the provision of feedback. Using a sample of four thousand commercial logo design tournaments, I show that feedback reduces participation but improves the quality of subsequent submissions, with an ambiguous effect on high-quality output. To evaluate this tradeoff, I develop a procedure to estimate agents' effort costs and simulate counterfactuals under alternative feedback policies. The results suggest that feedback on net increases the number of high-quality ideas produced and is thus desirable for a principal seeking innovation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M55|The Outsourcing In The Southeast Region Of Coahuila Mexico: Quality Of Work And Precarious Employment In The Automotive Industry, La Subcontratacion En La Region Sureste De Coahuila, Mexico: La Calidad De Los Empleos Y La Precarizaciã“N Laboral En La Industria Automotriz|The competitiveness in the global markets, forces companies to incorporate efficient methods, which seek increasing production capacity, reduce time-to-market, reduce costs, increase customer satisfaction and make more efficient the use of resources. This can be done by outsourcing excluding everything out of the core of business. This research identifies variables with more influence in precariousness and quality employment in outsourcing companies in the automotive segment. We wish to identify reason for high worker turnover. These constant changes are costs that affect market competitiveness. A questionnaire is applied to outsourcing company employees of Southeast Coahuila. The outsourcing rate increased 186 percent from 2004 to 2014. According to national statistics 16% of the labor force works in thesecompanies. These numbers illustrate the importance of the activity, that justifies improving in measurement and knowledge of human resource management. The results show a lack of quality and precariousness employment producing the work. There is no written contract indicator and low salaries are received. In Mexico there are regulations for outsourcing companies, but lack clarity regarding how the rights of the workers are safeguarded and protected. In the Mexican case, the current laws shows its limitations.
M55|Syndicalisme Québécois Face à l'Enjeu des Partenariats Public-Prive : Le Cas de la Sous-traitance<BR>[Unionism Quebecers Facing the Public-Private Partnerships: The Case of Outsourcing]|Recent developments in labor relations in Quebec inclined several controversies. The public sector has undergone major changes and has had to adapt and reposition. Like the private sector, subcontracting is normalized with the progress of the neoliberal discourse in public space. This article compares the existing literature between public-private partnerships and outsourcing, trying to prove potential links. A theoretical design is appropriate to support the thesis of reconfiguration of labor markets. The article shows that outsourcing in the public sector is simply a pledge of confusion and inconsistency. Far from achieving its objectives, it has served a factor of tension and conflict between the Quebec government and the unions.
M55|Further Evidence on the Contribution of Services Outsourcing to the Decline in Manufacturing’s Employment Share in Canada|In October 2015, the Centre for the Study of Living Standards released a report examining how outsourcing of work from the manufacturing sector to the services sector contributed to the recorded decline in Canadian manufacturing employment over the past four decades. The evidence was mixed. An examination of the input-output structure of the economy suggested that the effect of services outsourcing was very small while a decomposition of employment growth by industry and occupation suggested that the effect may have been substantial. This report revisits these results using new custom data products provided by Statistics Canada. In particular, the earlier work examined an input-output structure based on current dollar data which may have skewed the results due to large price swings, particularly in the oil and gas sector. This report uses chained dollar estimates to avoid this problem. Similarly, the employment decomposition used highly aggregated occupational data which may have overstated the contribution of outsourcing to manufacturing’s declining employment share. We use more detailed occupational data from the Census / National Household Survey. We find that the results regarding the contribution of services outsourcing are fairly robust to the choice of data. Furthermore, we are able to reconcile the differing estimates of the importance of services outsourcing between the input-output and occupational decomposition methodologies by noting that much of the decline in manufacturing employment in services occupations might be expected to occur if the manufacturing sector shrank for reasons unrelated to services outsourcing. In particular, the expected share of the decline associated with service occupations in response to a negative shock to the manufacturing sector should be roughly equal to the share of service occupations in total manufacturing employment. Adjusting for this, we find that both exercises suggest the contribution of services outsourcing to the decline of manufacturing’s employment share was quite small, explaining no more than 8.3 per cent.
M55|Optimal Allocation of Decision-Making Authority and the Provision of Incentives under Uncertainty|Incentives for managers are often provided by offering them performance-based compensation schemes. The efficiency of such monetary compensations, however, depends on several factors, among them the quality of the employed performance measures, the information available for contracting purposes, and the allocation of decision-making authority which translates into either more centralized or more decentralized organizational structures. This article investigates a firm's decision whether to delegate or retain the authority to decide on a specific job design in a moral hazard environment with asymmetric information on effort costs. It provides conditions under which decentralization is the preferred organizational form. Moreover, it derives the result that the relation between incentives and the delegation of decision-making authority is not univocal, but depends on the quality of the employed performance measure. In this regard, it contributes to explaining the mixed empirical evidence on the relation between incentives and decision-rights.
M55|Altruism and Relational Incentives in the Workplace|" type=""main""> This paper studies how altruism between managers and employees affects relational incentive contracts. To this end, we develop a simple dynamic principal–agent model where both players may have feelings of altruism or spite toward each other. The contract may contain two types of incentives for the agent to work hard: a bonus and a threat of dismissal. We find that altruism undermines the credibility of a threat of dismissal but strengthens the credibility of a bonus. Among others, these two mechanisms imply that higher altruism sometimes leads to higher bonuses, whereas lower altruism may increase productivity and players' utility in equilibrium."
M55|The future of the German industrial relations model|The paper examines recent evidence on the erosion of the German industrial relations model. Although its coverage has declined, much of this has occurred in smaller and newer establishments, and compared with Britain, it has remained solid in the areas of Germany's traditional industrial strength. This is explained by the nature of high performance work systems that involve flexible working and on-the-job problem-solving. Both countries have modernised their work systems in recent decades, with German industrial firms maintaining higher degrees of worker autonomy and learning and British ones relying more on managerial control. The survival of the German model in this sector, as compared with services, is attributed to the role of such work systems in the high end of international competition. A model is developed to explain why stable cooperation within these work relationships is enhanced by means of a strong institutional framework. It is then used to explain why employers in the sectors using these systems have continued to work within these institutions. It is argued that employers’ increased focus on the match between commercial needs and workplace institutions has contributed to the growing segmentation within German industrial relations which has been widely documented, and represents a departure from the classical post-war German model. The article finishes by asking how far this can go before damaging social and political cohesion.
M55|Paid to Quit|Inspired by a recent observation about an online retail company, this paper explains why a firm may find it optimal to offer an exit bonus to recent hires so as to induce self-selection. We study a double adverse selection problem, in which the principal can neither observe agents’ commitment to the job nor their intrinsic motivation. A steep wage-tenure profile deters uncommitted agents from applying. An exit bonus can stimulate that –among the committed agents– those who discovered that they are not intrinsically motivated for the job discontinue employment with the principal. Our key findings are that offering an exit bonus increases profits when the first adverse selection problem is sufficiently severe compared to the second and that the exit bonus needs to come as a surprise for the agents in order to function well.
M55|The Future of the German Industrial Relations Model|The paper examines recent evidence on the erosion of the German industrial relations model. Although its coverage has declined, much of this has occurred in smaller and newer establishments, and compared with Britain, it has remained solid in the areas of Germany's traditional industrial strength. This is explained by the nature of high performance work systems that involve flexible working and on-the-job problem-solving. Both countries have modernised their work systems in recent decades, with German industrial firms maintaining higher degrees of worker autonomy and learning and British ones relying more on managerial control. The survival of the German model in this sector, as compared with services, is attributed to the role of such work systems in the high end of international competition. A model is developed to explain why stable cooperation within these work relationships is enhanced by means of a strong institutional framework. It is then used to explain why employers in the sectors using these systems have continued to work within these institutions. It is argued that employers' increased focus on the match between commercial needs and workplace institutions has contributed to the growing segmentation within German industrial relations which has been widely documented, and represents a departure from the classical post-war German model. The article finishes by asking how far this can go before damaging social and political cohesion.
M55|Was Sarbanes-Oxley Costly? Evidence from Optimal Contracting on CEO Compensation|This paper investigates the effects of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) on CEO compensation, using panel data constructed for the S&P 1500 firms on CEO compensation, financial returns, and reported accounting income. Empirically SOX (i) changes the relationship between a firm’s abnormal returns and CEO compensation, (ii) changes the underlying distribution of abnormal returns, and (iii) significantly raises the expected CEO compensation in the primary sector. We develop and estimate a dynamic principal agent model of hidden information and hidden actions to explain these regularities. We find that SOX (i) increased the administrative burden of compliance in the primary sector, but reduce this burden in the service sector, (ii) increased agency costs in most categories of the firms, and (iii) reduced the off-equilibrium loss from the CEO shirking.
M55|Budgeting, Psychological Contracts, and Budgetary Misreporting|This study examines the effect of psychological contract breach on budgetary misreporting. Psychological contracts are mental models or schemas that govern how employees understand their exchange relationships with their employers. Psychological contract breach leads to feelings of violation and can occur even when employees' economic contracts are fulfilled. We study the effects of psychological contract breach on three common types of employee participation in budgeting that differ in the degree of employees' influence over their approved budgets. These include affirmative budgeting (full influence), consultative budgeting (moderate influence), and authoritative budgeting (low influence). When organizations communicate that employees will be involved in budgeting, employees develop psychological contracts of affirmative budgeting. If employees subsequently experience authoritative or consultative budgeting, their psychological contracts are breached. Employees who experience psychological contract breach seek redress through budgetary misreporting. Experimental results indicate that psychological contract breach partially mediates the relation between budgeting type and budgetary misreporting. Results also indicate asymmetry in the effects of psychological contract breach versus repair. Effects of breach on budgetary misreporting persist even after the breach no longer occurs.
M55|The Working Conditions of Non-standard Workers and Their Transitions|"By using a unique dataset, ""the survey on non-standard experience and transition,"" in This Article, we examine the relation between the working conditions of non-standard workers and their transition to standard work. Especially, we focus on workers' experience; the changes in place of work as well as the changes in task assignment while they are employed as non-standard workers. We find, firstly, almost half of non-standard workers experienced a change in task or a change in workplace, that implies even non-standard workers are not pinned to a single task. Secondly, the non-standard workers who experienced multiple tasks and workplaces are more likely to search for the opportunities to transition to standard work. Thirdly, experience in multiple tasks, however, does not always enhance the transition to standard work; namely, the success rate is lower for those who experienced multiple tasks and workplaces than for those who experienced only single task and workplace. While experience in multiple tasks means continuity from non-standard work to standard work, such experience is not highly valued in the Japanese labor market. On the contrary, a single task and workplace assignment during non-standard work does not hinder workers' transition from non-standard work to permanent work."
M55|The future of the German industrial relations model|"""The paper examines recent evidence on the erosion of the German industrial relations model. Although its coverage has declined, much of this has occurred in smaller and newer establishments, and compared with Britain, it has remained solid in the areas of Germany's traditional industrial strength. This is explained by the nature of high performance work systems that involve flexible working and on-the-job problem-solving. Both countries have modernised their work systems in recent decades, with German industrial firms maintaining higher degrees of worker autonomy and learning and British ones relying more on managerial control. The survival of the German model in this sector, as compared with services, is attributed to the role of such work systems in the high end of international competition. A model is developed to explain why stable cooperation within these work relationships is enhanced by means of a strong institutional framework. It is then used to explain why employers in the sectors using these systems have continued to work within these institutions. It is argued that employers' increased focus on the match between commercial needs and workplace institutions has contributed to the growing segmentation within German industrial relations which has been widely documented, and represents a departure from the classical post-war German model. The article finishes by asking how far this can go before damaging social and political cohesion."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
M55|Outsourcing Strategies And Their Impact On Financial Performance In Small Manufacturing Firms In Sweden|Outsourcing, i.e., the strategic use of outside resources to perform activities traditionally handled by internal staff and resources, have received increased attention in management practice around the world over recent decades. However, even though the main goal of outsourcing must be assumed to be improved financial performance, few researchers have been able to empirically establish this relationship. Furthermore, because most studies have been focusing on large firms, there is also a lack of knowledge on how small firms adopt outsourcing strategies. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to explore outsourcing strategies among small manufacturing firms, and to test how these strategies can be linked to financial performance. The study is based on questionnaire and financial data collected through a stratified sample of 700 small (
M55|Disentangling the Role of Contract Types and Sector Disparities for Public Service Motivation|"The intention of ""doing good for society"" is regarded to be a crucial motivator for employees in the public sector in order for them to perform well. Recent research in the public sector literature calls for a deeper understanding of how this specific public service motivation (PSM) is shaped. In our paper, we analyze how different degrees of inclusion in the public sector impact PSM. We also investigate how prospects of employment relations (fixed-term versus permanent contracts), temporal differences (part-time versus full-time employment), and actual jobs (core versus subsidiary jobs) moderate PSM in public service. Our findings show that aspects of PSM are affected by these employment characteristics in various ways, suggesting that the factors influencing PSM are multifaceted and that actual employment conditions have to be taken into consideration when assessing PSM."
M55|E-Recruitment in Practice: A Study on Jobseekers’ Perception in Bangladesh|The rapid growth and use of the Internet over the last several years has changed the way companies’ conduct of business activities, including the activities of human resource management. To attract and recruit best employees is one of the great challenges for Human Resource Department. Today online recruiting has become a significant tool for Human Resource Department. Bangladeshi companies also can recruit with their websites, job boards or resume banks, newspaper classified ads, and job boards. Online recruiting processes increase firms' competitive advantage through increased efficiency and lower costs and offers benefits and opportunities to jobseekers. This paper investigates the perceptions and behaviors of job-seekers concerning the use of the Internet as a recruiting source. 204 survey questionnaires were distributed to job seekers who are almost regularly using Internet for various purposes. The results showed that perceived usefulness and perceived enjoyment are positively and significantly related to the behavioral intention to use Internet as a job search tool. The study implies that the developers of online job sites need to provide additional useful functionalities or tools in the sites to help users for job search. The paper provides an insight for jobseekers to find employment by using Internet as a job search tool.
M55|Can employability do the trick? Revealing paradoxical tensions and responses in the process of adopting innovative employability enhancing policies and practices in organizations|This study uses a ‘paradox lens’ to contribute to employability debates in HRM by examining the effectiveness of employability enhancing policies and practices (hereafter EP&Ps) in three case organizations. We identify three organizing paradoxes reflecting the complexities of the Dutch economic, political and socio-cultural contexts. In line with the EP&Ps’ competing goals, we label these: the ‘(inverted) flexibility/commitment paradox’; ‘self-management/(human-resource) management paradox’; and the ‘sustainability/effectiveness and efficiency paradox’. We further analyse how their underlying paradoxical tensions spill over and create role-performance, belonging and learning paradoxical tensions at the micro-level and how these cumulatively impact managers’ and employees’ responses to EP&Ps. We then explore how HRM tries to actively go beyond ‘reinforcing paradox cycles’ by creating awareness and stimulating contextual change to foster the wider adoption of EP&Ps. In conclusion, we argue that the paradox lens can inform HRM scholars and labour market stakeholders to search for innovative ways to study and govern contemporary employability issues.
M55|Explanations of the Decline in Manufacturing Employment in Canada|The objective of this report is to examine the reasons for the decline in manufacturing’s employment share in Canada, with particular attention paid to the roles of labour productivity growth, demand-side factors, and outsourcing. The results of the report suggest that above average labour productivity growth explains most of the decline in the manufacturing employment share before 2000, while below-average real output growth explains most of the decline after 2000. The slowdown in real output growth after 2000 reflects the sector’s poor export performance which is related to many factors, including: a loss in cost competitiveness linked to an appreciation of the Canadian dollar; increased competition in the U.S. import market; and a slowdown in domestic demand growth in the United States. However, the story becomes more complicated when manufacturing employment is broken down into its various components. In particular, the evolution of manufacturing employment was, in different periods, largely driven by the fortunes of specific industries.
M55|The Evolution of Manufacturing Employment in Canada: The Role of Outsourcing|The objective of this report is to examine the impact of outsourcing on manufacturing’s employment share in Canada. The report shows that outsourcing accounts for a small but significant part of the decline in the manufacturing employment share over the 1976-2008 period. Two approaches are used to determine the contribution of outsourcing to the evolution in manufacturing’s employment share in the report. The first approach uses input-output (I-O) analysis to estimate the impact of changes in the I-O structure of the economy on employment shares by industry. The second approach uses aggregate industry-by-occupation employment data to decompose changes in employment shares by industry in various ways.
M55|Team production benefits from a permanent fear of exclusion|One acclaimed role of managers is to monitor workers in team production processes and discipline them through the threat of terminating them from the team. We extend a standard weakest link experiment with a manager who can decide to replace some workers at a cost. We address two main questions: (i) Does the fear of exclusion need to be a permanent element of contractual agreements? (ii) Are the results robust to the introduction of noise in workers’ productivity? We find that the fear of exclusion strongly encourages cooperation among workers, but it does not generate the trust needed for cooperation once the fear of exclusion is lifted. That is, once some workers receive a permanent contract, effort levels steadily decrease. The results are robust to the introduction of noise in the link between effort and productivity.
M55|Leiharbeit im Profifußball: Sind Leihspieler stärker motiviert?|Bisherige Studien zur Leiharbeit haben sich primär mit den Arbeitsbedingungen sowie den strategischen Einsatzgründen der Leiharbeit befasst. In diesem Beitrag wird versucht, erste Erkenntnisse zum Leistungsverhalten von Leiharbeitnehmern zu erhalten. Der Arbeitsmarkt für Profifußballer bietet sich dafür an, da die Leistung der Spieler beobachtbar ist. Die durch eine Entleihung entstehende Unsicherheitssituation schafft Anreize für entliehene Spieler, ihr Leistungsniveau in den Entleihperioden zu erhöhen. Es zeigt sich empirisch, dass Leihspieler in Leihspielzeiten ein höheres Anstrengungsniveau aufweisen und dieses anschließend in langfristigeren Beschäftigungsverhältnissen nicht halten können. Neben der Leistungsentwicklung von Leiharbeitnehmern werden ebenfalls Einflussfaktoren auf das Verleihverhalten von Bundesligavereinen analysiert. Dabei zeigt sich, dass insbesondere Änderungen der institutionellen Rahmenbedingungen Einfluss auf die Verleihentscheidungen haben.
M55|Do agents care for the mission of their job? A field experiment|Economic theory suggests that agents care for the outcomes they produce. This paper studies the conditions under which a pro-social mission of a job affects workers motivation to perform well. In particular, we investigate whether it makes a difference if workers actively decide upon doing a mission-oriented job or are exogenously assigned. We find that a pro-social mission itself affects only a small group of workers in a positive way whereas self-selection into a mission-oriented job leads to a highly significant overall performance boost.
M55|Don't Kill the Goose that Lays the Golden Eggs: Strategic Delay in Project Completion|It's puzzling that most projects fail to complete within the predetermined timeframe given that timing considerations rank among the major goals in project management. We argue that when managers can extract private benefits from working on a project, project delay becomes optimal. We introduce a continuous-time framework for project management activities that incorporates this feature. A manager's unobserved effort cumulatively increases the project's success probability, but decreases the expected duration of the project and with it the expected flow of on-the-job benefits. A strict deadline limits incentives for effort delay, but also decreases the probability that the project will be terminated in due time. In this trade-off, the optimal deadline balances the increase in expected project value against the expected increase in project duration and costs. Because the manager does not want to ``kill the golden goose'' prematurely, he always prefers a stricter deadline compared to the principal. As a result, project completion is threatened by both effort provision over time \textit{and} contractual agreements on time.
M55|Explaining Job Polarization: Routine-Biased Technological Change and Offshoring|This paper documents the pervasiveness of job polarization in 16 Western European countries over the period 1993-2010. It then develops and estimates a framework to explain job polarization using routine-biased technological change and offshoring. This model can explain much of both total job polarization and the split into within-industry and between-industry components.
M55|The academic and labor market returns of university professors|This paper estimates the impact of college teaching on students' academic achievement and labor market outcomes using administrative data from Bocconi University matched with Italian tax records. The estimation exploits the random allocation of students to teachers in a fixed sequence of compulsory courses. We find that the academic and labor market returns of teachers are only mildly positively correlated and that the professors who are best at improving the academic achievement of their best students are not always also the ones who boost their earnings the most, especially for the least able students.
M55|Wage determination in China during the reform period|The purpose of this paper is to ascertain how wages are being determined in China during the reform period. The paper focuses on the development of the regulatory framework since 1978 and proceeds by examining official regulations regarding labor market institutions and wage setting, and by evaluating their potential implications for actual wage setting. JEL codes: J3, J30, J31, J4, J41, J45, M5, M52, M54, M55, P2, P23 Keywords: wage determination, labor market institutions, minimum wages, wage classification system, wage level and structure, labor contracts, collective bargaining, public sector wages, wage-performance link
M55|Competition and Screening with Skilled and Motivated Workers|We study optimal contracts offered by two firms competing for the exclusive services of one worker, who is privately informed about her ability and her motivation. Firms differ both in their production technology and in the mission they pursue and a motivated worker is keen to be hired by the missionoriented firm. We find that the matching of worker types to firms is always Pareto-efficient. When the difference in firms’ technology is high, only the most efficient firm is active. When the difference is not very high, then agent types sort themselves by motivation: the mission-oriented firm hires motivated types and the profit-oriented firm employs non-motivated ones, independently of ability. Effort provision is higher when the worker is hired by the mission-oriented firm, but a compensating wage differential might exist: the motivated worker is paid less by the mission-oriented firm. Such an earnings penalty is driven entirely by motivation, is increasing in ability and is associated to low power of incentives.
M55|Papel de gestión humana en procesos de flexibilidad numérica en organizaciones colombianas|El fenómeno de la flexibilización numérica en Colombia –referida a la autonomía de la empresa para vincular y desvincular trabajadores de acuerdo con las demandas del mercado– nace con la llegada de algunas multinacionales que implementaban, en sus países de origen, medidas de desregularización laboral. Hoy, después de 30 años, se ha convertido en una práctica común en todo tipo de empresas. Sin embargo, no existía en el país un estudio empírico que comprendiera el papel que asume gestión humana frente al escenario de flexibilización laboral numérica. Este trabajo lo hace, desde un enfoque cualitativo de estudio de caso, de tipo descriptivo a profundidad y sobre una muestra de 22 empresas de Colombia. Los resultados mostraron que gestión humana está asumiendo un papel pasivo, en un ambiente que desvirtúa los principios de la flexibilidad contractual, plantea retos para los distintos actores y contribuye a la literatura centrada en la relación entre flexibilidad numérica y gestión humana.
M55|The academic and labor market returns of university professors|This paper estimates the impact of university teachers on their studentsï¿½ academic achievement and labor market outcomes using administrative data from Bocconi University matched with Italian tax records. The estimation exploits the random allocation of students to teachers in a fixed sequence of compulsory courses. We find that the academic and labor market returns of teachers are only mildly positively correlated and that the professors who are best at improving the academic achievement of their best students are not always also the ones who boost their studentsï¿½ earnings the most, especially for the least able students.
M55|Empleo y carreras laborales en el servicio de Correos de España, 1890-1935|This paper studies the organization of the internal labour market of postal services in Spain from 1890 to 1935. The paper discusses the evolution of total employment in relation to postal traffic and average nominal and real wages. The paper then analyses the operation of the internal labour market for civil servants. There is an unsurprising steep wage-age gradient, in line with theories of deferred compensation in large, service firms. Voluntary or disciplinary separations were extremely rare. A career in the postal services offered higher entry wages, a growing wage over the life cycle and a secure job until retirement. There were two downsides to pursuing a career in the postal services. Firstly, entry and promotion depended crucially on the expansion of total employment for administrative personnel, which in turn depended on the fiscal position of the state. Secondly, nominal wages were upward rigid in the event of inflationary episodes, leading to substantial deterioration of real wages during the years of WW1.
M55|Beschäftigungsstruktur und Zufriedenheit von Zeitarbeitnehmern in Deutschland|Based on data from the German Socio-Economic Panel of the years 2001-2012, we investigate determinants of temporary agency work. Moreover, we explore possible explanations for differences between temp and regular workers as well as unemployed people regarding their work and life satisfaction. Our results show that previous spells in unemployment considerably increase the likelihood of being in temporary agency work. Temp workers often have jobs for which they are not appropriately trained. Their lower score of job satisfaction can be mainly explained by differences in individual characteristics as well as by a higher perceived job insecurity. Their score of life satisfaction, though, remains significantly lower compared to regular employees even if it is controlled for these factors. However, life satisfaction of temp workers is considerably better than that of unemployed people. Auf Basis von Daten des Deutschen Sozio-Ökonomischen Panels der Jahre 2001 bis 2012 untersuchen wir Determinanten einer Zeitarbeitsbeschäftigung sowie möglicher Erklärungsansätze für Unterschiede in der Arbeits- und Lebenszufriedenheit zwischen Arbeitnehmern in Zeitarbeit im Vergleich zu Normalbeschäftigten und zu arbeitslosen Personen. Unsere Ergebnisse zeigen, dass frühere Zeiten von Arbeitslosigkeit die Wahrscheinlichkeit einer Zeitarbeitsbeschäftigung deutlich steigern. Zudem führen Zeitar-beitnehmer eher Tätigkeiten aus, für die sie nicht passend qualifiziert sind. Die niedrigere Arbeitszufriedenheit von Zeitarbeitern im Vergleich zu Normalbeschäftigten lässt sich vor allem auf Unterschiede in individuellen Merkmalen und auf eine als deutlich stärker empfundene Arbeitsplatzunsicherheit zurückführen, während ihre Lebenszufriedenheit auch unter Berücksichtigung dieser Faktoren signifikant geringer ist. Jedoch äußern Zeitarbeitnehmer eine deutlich höhere Lebenszufriedenheit als arbeitslose Personen.
M55|The prevention of excess managerial risk taking|Executives with poor prior performance may be inclined to take excessive risk in the hope of meeting performance targets, in which case a compensation contract featuring severance pay can be optimal. While prior work has shown that severance can induce managers to take positive NPV risks, we show that it can also keep them from taking negative NPV risks. We show that severance should be contingent on results: complete failure should nullify any payments. We also show that mandating a firm size that is larger than first-best, while costly, can help screen for good managers.
M55|Evaluating students’ evaluations of professors|This paper contrasts measures of teacher effectiveness with the students’ evaluations for the same teachers using administrative data from Bocconi University. The effectiveness measures are estimated by comparing the performance in follow-on coursework of students who are randomly assigned to teachers. We find that teacher quality matters substantially and that our measure of effectiveness is negatively correlated with the students’ evaluations of professors. A simple theory rationalizes this result under the assumption that students evaluate professors based on their realized utility, an assumption that is supported by additional evidence that the evaluations respond to meteorological conditions.
M55|The effect of ambiguity aversion on reward scheme choice|We test the implications of ambiguity aversion in a principal–agent problem with multiple agents. Models of ambiguity aversion suggest that, under ambiguity, comparative compensation schemes may become more attractive than independent wage contracts. We test this by presenting agents with a choice between comparative reward schemes and independent contracts, which are designed such that under uncertainty about output distributions (that is, under ambiguity), ambiguity averse agents should typically prefer comparative reward schemes, independent of their degree of risk aversion. We indeed find that the share of agents who choose the comparative scheme is higher under ambiguity.
M55|Multitasking Incentives and Biases in Subjective Performance Evaluation|Subjective performance evaluation serves as a double-edged sword. While it can mitigate multitasking agency problems, it also opens the door to evaluators’ biases, resulting in lower job satisfaction and a higher rate of worker quits. Using the personnel and transaction records of individual sales representatives in a major car sales company in Japan, we provide direct evidence for both sides of subjective performance evaluation: (1) the sensitivity of evaluations to sales performance declines with the marginal productivity of hard-to-measure tasks, and (2) measures of potential evaluation bias we construct are positively associated with the incidence of worker quits, after correcting for possible endogeneity biases.
M55|Workers' Participation in Wage Setting and Opportunistic Behavior: Evidence from a Gift-Exchange Experiment|Our study analyzes the consequences of workers' participation in the wage setting process on effort exertion. The experimental design is based on a modified giftexchange game where the degree of workers’ involvement in the wage setting process is systematically varied among the workers. The experimental data reveals that workers' participation leads actually to a decline in effort exertion which can be explained by negative reciprocity of the respective worker. These results put some recently observed positive effects from workers' participation in experimental labor markets into perspective and are more in line with the ambiguous results from empirical studies.
M55|The Effect of Outsourcing Cost on Corporate Performance: A Study of Nigerian Brewery Industry|Outsourcing as common phenomena in the corporate world especially in the developing country and in industry where human resource development is at low ebb has its merit and demerit. This paper therefore examined the effect of outsourcing on corporate performance measured by profitability. Various objectives and reasons for outsourcing were highlighted. Data was collected from external and internal source. Two hypotheses were postulated and Regression analysis was run to determine the relationship between the variables. The result showed that outsourcing has a significant effect on corporate profitability. The study further reveal that despite the positive benefit of outsourcing which includes service standardization, increase in service quality and effectiveness, corporate organization need put a standard cost control policy in place to benefit fully from outsourcing practice.This paper opens up new insights for policy makers to improve corporate performance in Nigeria.
M55|Diasporas and Outsourcing: Evidence from oDesk and India|We examine the role of the Indian diaspora in the outsourcing of work to India. Our data are taken from oDesk, the world's largest online platform for outsourced contracts. Despite oDesk minimizing many of the frictions that diaspora connections have traditionally overcome, diaspora connections still matter on oDesk, with ethnic Indians substantially more likely to choose a worker in India. This higher placement is the result of a greater likelihood of choosing India for the initial contract and substantial path dependence in location choices. We further examine wage and performance outcomes of outsourcing as a function of ethnic connections. Our examination of potential rationales for the greater ethnic-based placement of contracts assesses taste-based preferences and information differences. This paper was accepted by Lee Fleming, entrepreneurship and innovation.
M55|Perceptions to climatic changes and cooperative attitudes toward flood protection in Bangladesh|Subjective performance evaluation serves as a double-edged sword. While it can mitigate multitasking agency problems, it also opens the door to evaluators' biases, resulting in lower job satisfaction and a higher rate of worker quits. Using the personnel records of individual sales representatives in a major car sales company in Japan, we provide direct evidence for both sides of subjective performance evaluation: (1) the sensitivity of evaluations to sales performance declines with the marginal productivity of hard-to-measure tasks, and (2) measures of potential evaluation bias we construct are positively associated with worker quits, after correcting for possible endogeneity biases.
M55|Globalization And Import Risks|Delocalization of production and diversification of the sources of offer in the global market place the issue of protection of consumer rights in major consumption centres, namely the European Union in a new light. A review of policies for the protection of consumer rights in the EU, USA and China, reveals major differences regarding the protection of consumer rights and the existence of gaps, and in particular the implementation of effective legislation in this regard. As such, the risks associated with imports have become a major concern in the European Union. The consumer has - one can say - a central role in the globalization process, which justifies the measures aimed at its protection. Although worldwide there are major differences in the degree of market regulation in matters of protection of consumer rights, the trend is the continuous adaptation of the offer to the requirements of global demand. However, one can still find significant gaps which translate into risks specific to the consumers in developed countries, namely in the EU. An important issue arises from this radical change of the localization of production centres in relation to the main consumption centres. While in the developed world, consumer rights protection has reached high levels both by creating an appropriate legislative framework and through consumer awareness and activism regarding their rights, in areas where much of the offer comes from the Western market (China, India, etc.) modern mentality on the protection of consumer rights is just emerging. A major requirement is therefore the provision of a status of the consumer compatible with the benefits and risks of globalization, a status defined by safety and protection of imports. This paper confirms the thesis that, ultimately, the main factor counteracting the risks in matters of protection of consumer rights is the consumer, its awareness of its rights.
M55|Essential themes in Personnel economics|In this paper are presented essential themes in the subject of personnel economics. In the first part analysis has been conducted on the impact of peer pressure on workplace behaviour. Then again models for compensation structures within firms, and their influence on the utility of work by employees. In the final section of the paper the productivity spillover effect has been analyzed, and the causes of existence of spillovers and their impact on workers’ productivity
M55|Stakeholder Analysis as a Tool for Systems Approach Research in HRD|The world is experiencing significant, largely economic and sociotechnical, induced change. These induced changes are meaningful with a function of people taking collective actions around common beliefs. These changes are more than jargon, cliché and hyperbole, and they are effecting major transformations. These transformations will impact on how human resources are developed and we need to be able to forecast its effects. In order to produce such forecasts, HRD needs to become more predictive - to develop the ability to understand how human capital systems and organizations will behave in future. Further development of systems models is required to allow such predictions to be made. Critical to the development of such models will be to understand that linear epistemology cannot be the dominant epistemology of practice and that dynamic complexity of challenges confronted by HRD professionals in their daily research and practice requires a nonlinear epistemology of practice, rather than reductive or linear thinking or processes of normal science. Although the adoption of a systems approach to research in HRD is not novel, methodologies and conceptual approaches underlying it use are not very well developed. In this paper, a stakeholder analysis methodology that was developed as a novel method in conducting systems approach research in human resource development, public policy and agricultural education is described.
M55|Reframing outsourcing through social networks: evidence from Infocert's case study|In an over-connected world where ICTs dominate firms' development and evolution, outsourcing is an increasingly adopted practice by IT firms facing a third-generation of inter-firm interactions: after the IT and business processes' outsourcing, and then the offshore outsourcing, now we face a sourcing ecosystem tagged as human cloud, where the online work and virtual workers are the center of the new system. Notwithstanding some relevant contributions to the literature about IT outsourcing, still few is known about how coordination between client and supplier can achieve superior outcomes through the development of collaborative practices. In particular, the use of IT tools devoted to sociality as a coordination mechanism has been under-investigated. This research provides insights about how a company can change attitudes and behaviors of client and supplier thanks to an IT tool deputed to collaboration: the social collaboration system. Through an explorative case study, our paper provides two main contributions to the literature about IT outsourcing: i) we show how the adoption of a social collaboration system improves ITO governance and performance, providing further empirical evidence on the role of social mechanisms in ITO relationships; ii) we show how the introduction of a social collaboration system in outsourcing management can influence and change the building blocks of its life-cycle.
M55|Essential themes in Personnel economics|In this paper are presented essential themes in the subject of personnel economics. In the first part analysis has been conducted on the impact of peer pressure on workplace behaviour. Then again models for compensation structures within firms, and their influence on the utility of work by employees. In the final section of the paper the productivity spillover effect has been analyzed, and the causes of existence of spillovers and their impact on workers’ productivity
M55|Freie Gewerkschaften|Gewerkschaften werden oft von Liberalen und Libertären kritisiert. Dabei sind sie Ausdruck grundlegender Freiheitsrechte, insbesondere der Vereinigungsfreiheit. Auch das Streikrecht ist innerhalb gewisser Grenzen ein legitimes Freiheitsrecht. Eine freie Gesellschaft ist mehr als Marktwirtschaft und diese geht über Kapitalismus im Sinne der Herrschaft des Kapitals bzw. kapitalgeleiteter Unternehmen hinaus.
M55|Job mission as a substitute for monetary incentives: experimental evidence|Are monetary and non-monetary incentives used as substitutes in motivating effort? I address this question in a laboratory experiment in which the choice of the job charac- teristics (i.e., the mission) is part of the compensation package that principals can use to influence agents' effort. Principals offer contracts that specify a piece rate and a charity - which can be either the preferred charity of the agent, or the one of the principal. The agents then exert a level of effort that generates a profit to the principal and a dona- tion to the specified charity. My results show that the agents exert more effort than the level that maximizes their own pecuniary payoff in order to benefit the charity, especially their preferred one. The principals take advantage of this intrinsic motivation by offering lower piece rates and by using the choice of the charity as a substitute to motivate effort. However, I also find that because of fairness considerations, the majority of principals are reluctant to lower the piece rate below a fair threshold, making the substitution between monetary and non-monetary incentives imperfect. These findings have implications for the design of incentives in mission-oriented organizations and contribute to our understanding of job satisfaction and wage differentials across organizations and sectors.
M55|Testing asymmetries in Central Bank preferences in a small open economy: A study for Brazil|The main objective of this article is to contribute to a better understanding of trust issues within organizations to expand and refine theoretical constructs. Trust is approached in the economic perspective as a social mechanism for management. We seek to understand the role of trust in the informal coordination of relational contracts. We approach trust as a critical element in the execution of diverse organizational tasks and its mediating relationship with organizational performance. We conclude that trust is central to a better understanding of relational contracts and that investments made in a management style based on trust should observe economic rationality.
M55|Trust as an element of informal coordination and its relationship with organizational performance|The main objective of this article is to contribute to a better understanding of trust issues within organizations to expand and refine theoretical constructs. Trust is approached in the economic perspective as a social mechanism for management. We seek to understand the role of trust in the informal coordination of relational contracts. We approach trust as a critical element in the execution of diverse organizational tasks and its mediating relationship with organizational performance. We conclude that trust is central to a better understanding of relational contracts and that investments made in a management style based on trust should observe economic rationality.
M55|Bidimensional screening with intrinsically motivated workers|We study the screening problem of a firm that needs to hire a worker to produce output and that observes neither the productive ability nor the intrinsic motivation of the job applicant. We completely characterize the set of optimal contracts according to whether motivation or ability is the main determinant of the worker’s performance. We show that it is always in the firm’s interest to hire all types of worker and to offer different contracts to different types of employees. Interestingly, when motivation is very high, incentives force the firm to pay higher informational rents, to increase effort distorsions for motivated workers, and to offer a strictly positive wage to workers enjoying a positive utility from effort provision, who thus become paid volunteers. These results suggest that, from the principal’s viewpoint, very high motivation might not be a desirable worker’s characteristic.
M55|Caracterization Of Assembly Plants Workers Located At Tehuacan At The State Of Puebla, Mexico, Caracterizacion De Los Trabajadores De Las Empresas Maquiladora Localizadas En Tehuacan Puebla, Mexico|This paper presents an analysis of the characteristics of workers who serve in the maquiladoras of the garment, located in Tehuacan, Puebla. To which is part of the review of some authors who have conducted studies on the border maquiladoras in northern Mexico. There is an area of opportunity to study the maquila located in the center of the country and specifically in Puebla, obeying not many investigations into the area and contributes maquila abundant sources of employment. The sample was 383 workers, a questionnaire of 20 questions, it is important to note that the field research was conducted in two phases, the first 183 questionnaires were applied and the second 200 questionnaires were applied. The objective of this research is to analyze the characteristics of workers who provide services in maquiladora companies making clothes located in Tehuacan. The research answers the question: What are the characteristics of workers who provide services in such companies?
M55|Exploitation aversion: When financial incentives fail to motivate agents|Studies of the principal-agent relationship find that monetary incentives work in many instances but that they can also backfire. Various mechanisms for this failure have been examined (e.g., intrinsic motivation, image concerns). We posit that an aversion to being exploited, i.e., being used instrumentally for another’s benefit, can also cause incentives to fail. Using an experiment we find that compliance is lower for exploitative principals compared to neutral ones despite using the same contracts. To corroborate our results we show that surveyed “exploitation aversion” mediates this effect. Our results have implications for the design and implementation of incentives within organizations.
M55|Use of the system of franchising as a means of development (on the example of the regional company LLC «City of Coffee»|This article analyzes the effectiveness of using of the franchising system on the example of a regional company «Ãîðîä Êîôå» (Perm region). The main content of this research is the analysis of the conversion of the organization to form a franchising business, examines the key stages of the introduction of this system.
M55|Contract Teachers: Experimental Evidence from India|The large-scale expansion of primary schooling in developing countries has led to the increasing use of non-civil-service contract teachers who are hired locally by the school, are not professionally trained, have fixed-term renewable contracts, and are paid much lower salaries than regular civil-service teachers. This has been a controversial policy, but there is limited evidence on the effectiveness of contract teachers in improving student learning. We present experimental evidence on the impact of contract teachers using data from an 'as is' expansion of contract-teacher hiring across a representative sample of 100 randomly-selected government-run rural primary schools in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. At the end of two years, students in schools with an extra contract teacher performed significantly better than those in comparison schools by 0.16σ and 0.15σ, in math and language tests respectively. Contract teachers were also much less likely to be absent from school than civil-service teachers (18% vs. 27%). Combining the experimental reduction in school-level pupil-teacher ratio (PTR) induced by the provision of an extra contract teacher, with high-quality panel data estimates of the impact of reducing PTR with a regular civil-service teacher, we show that contract teachers are not only effective at improving student learning outcomes, but that they are no less effective at doing so than regular civil-service teachers who are more qualified, better trained, and paid five times higher salaries.
M55|Ménage à trois – Die Relevanz des Kunden in der psychologischen Vertragsbeziehung bei projektfoermiger Wissensarbeit (Ménage à trios – The relevance of the customer in the psychological contract in project-based knowledge work)|Dieser Beitrag setzt sich mit dem psychologischen Vertrag in projektfoermigen wissensintensiven Beschaeftigungsarrangements, in denen die Erarbeitung kundenspezifischer Problemloesungen erfolgskritisch ist, auseinander. Es werden die Ergebnisse einer qualitativen empirischen Untersuchung zu den wechselseitigen Erwartungen und Verpflichtungen von Arbeitskraeften und Arbeitgebern in diesem Beschaeftigungskontext vorgestellt. Im Ergebnis zeigt sich, dass der Kunde als dritter Akteur in der Arbeitsbeziehung relevant ist, da er in den kognitiven Repraesentationen von Arbeitskraeften und Arbeitgebern adressiert wird. In der Folge treffen in ihren wechselseitigen Erwartungen unternehmerisches Handeln und Loyalitaet als sich bedingende Inhaltsnormen aufeinander, weil angenommen wird, damit das einer Dreiecksbeziehung inhaerente Konfliktpotential fuer alle Beteiligten balancieren zu koennen. (This paper deals with the psychological contract in knowledge-intensive employment arrangements where the project-based development of customer-specific solutions is decisive. We present results of a qualitative empirical study on the mutual expectations and obligations of workers and employers in this context. The results show that the customer is relevant as a third actor in the psychological contract for both contracting parties. Their mutual expectations of entrepreneurial behavior and loyalty are interdependent and considered as conducive to balance the assumed conflicts of triangular employment relationships.)
M55|Intrinsic Motivation in the Labor Market: Not Too Much, Thank You|We study the screening problem of a firm that needs to hire a worker to produce output and that observes neither the productive ability nor the intrinsic motivation of the worker applying for the job. We completely characterize the set of optimal contracts and we show that it is always in the firm’s interest to hire all types of worker, even the worst ones, and to offer different contracts to different types of employees. Interestingly, the highest social welfare attains when motivation is high but not so much as to become more significant than productive ability. Moreover, when motivation is very high, incentives force the firm to offer a strictly positive wage to workers who derive a positive utility from effort exertion and who become paid volunteers. These results prove that very high motivation is not a desirable workers’ characteristic.
M55|Leniency Bias in Long-Term Workplace Relationships|This paper studies how firms can efficiently incentivize supervisors to truthfully report employee performance. To this end, I develop a dynamic principal-supervisor-agent model. The supervisor is either selfish or altruistic towards the agent, which is observable to the agent but not to the principal. The analysis yields two key results. First, supervisor altruism sometimes provides a net incentive to report performance truthfully, rather than to bias evaluations upward. The intuition is that an altruistic supervisor values his job because of his good relationship with the agent, and puts his job at risk by overrating the agent's performance. Second, I show that by screening for one supervisor type, firms can incentivize the supervisor to truthfully report performance at the lowest possible costs. For this reason, screening may be optimal, even though it reduces the probability that vacancies are filled.
M55|Flexibility vs. screening : the performance effects of temporary agency work strategies|This paper empirically examines the impact of temporary agency work strategies on firm performance using panel data from German establishments. Thereby, special attention is devoted to the question, whether there are performance differences between establishments using temporary agency workers (TAWs) as a buffer stock (flexibility strategy) and establishments testing TAWs for permanent positions (screening strategy). Theoretically, there are good reasons for using one strategy as well as adopting the other. On the other hand, however, both strategies may also be associated with serious drawbacks to be borne by the establishments. Our empirical analysis suggests that establishments following the flexibility strategy perform significantly worse than establishments following the screening strategy. Hence, we conclude that employers act in their own interest, if they credibly consider temporary workers for permanent jobs instead of implementing a system of first- and second-class employees.
M55|Social Relations and Relational Incentives|This paper studies how social relationships between managers and employees affect relational incentive contracts. To this end we develop a simple dynamic principal-agent model where both players may have feelings of altruism or spite toward each other. The contract may contain two types of incentives for the agent to work hard: a bonus and a threat of dismissal. We find that good social relationships undermine the credibility of a threat of dismissal but strengthen the credibility of a bonus. Among others, these two mechanisms imply that better social relationships sometimes lead to higher bonuses, while worse social relationships may increase productivity and players' utility in equilibrium.
M55|El efecto de subvenciones e impuestos al capital físico y humano en la dinámica de modelos de crecimiento endógeno|En este artículo se estudia la dinámica de una amplia clase de modelos de crecimiento endógeno con dos sectores, externalidades agregadas e impuestos y subvenciones distorsionadores sobre el capital físico y el humano. El análisis incluye el estudio de la dinámica local evaluando la posibilidad de múltiples estados estacionarios y la estabilidad local de dichos estados estacionarios. Los resultados muestran que es posible la existencia de más de una solución estacionaria. También es posible la existencia de indeterminación en la senda de equilibrio, pero este caso es más probable cuando existen dos estados estacionarios.
M55|Variables determinantes de la satisfacción laboral en España|El trabajo analiza los nexos de unión potenciales entre salario, distintos activos intangibles y satisfacción laboral en las organizaciones. Para ello, contempla, por un lado, un análisis de la literatura científica que clarifica los conceptos clave del estudio y las variables determinantes de la Satisfacción Laboral y, por otro, un análisis empírico basado en la Encuesta de Calidad de Vida en el Trabajo (ECVT) realizada a los trabajadores ocupados referida al conjunto de España para el año 2010.
M55|Gift-exchange, incentives, and heterogeneous workers|By incorporating reciprocity in an otherwise standard principal–agent model, I investigate the relation between monetary gift-exchange and incentive pay, while allowing for worker heterogeneity. I assume that some, but not all, workers care more for their principal when they are convinced that the principal cares for them. The principal can be egoistic or altruistic. Absent worker heterogeneity, an altruistic principal signals his altruism by offering relatively weak incentives and a relatively high expected total compensation. However, the latter is not always required to credibly signal altruism. Furthermore, since some workers do not reciprocate the principalʼs altruism, the principal may find it optimal to write a contract that simultaneously signals his altruism and screens reciprocal worker types. Such a contract is characterised by excessively strong incentives and a relatively high expected total compensation.
M55|Make and buy: Balancing bargaining power|We analyze the optimal procurement of labor, which can be supplied either internally, based on wage negotiations, or acquired at terms negotiated with an external subcontractor. The novel feature of our model is that the subcontractor's bargaining power is a function of the proportion of output outsourced. We demonstrate analytically how multiple sourcing emerges as an organizational mechanism to balance cost advantages associated with outsourcing against a subcontractor's increased bargaining power. We find that the optimal proportion of outsourcing is lower with sequential negotiations than with simultaneous negotiations, if the supplier to first negotiate can foreclose subsequent negotiations.
M55|La qualité de l’ambiance au travail : quelle conséquence sur l’effort des salariés ?|Selon les travaux sur la qualité de l'emploi, l'environnement de travail peut avoir un impact sur la perception de l'emploi des individus et ainsi influencer leurs comportements d'activité. De ce fait, une bonne ambiance au travail devrait affecter positivement le niveau d'effort des salariés. Notre article examine cette hypothèse à partir de l'enquête Changements Organisationnels et Informatisation (COI, 2006), mais en distinguant effort quantitatif et effort cognitif. Nous avons recours aux méthodes d'appariements par le score de propension pour contrôler les effets de sélection. Nous concluons à une corrélation négative entre bonne ambiance au travail et effort productif; et aucun lien avec l'effort cognitif.
M55|Testing Canonical Tournament Theory: On the Impact of Risk, Social Preferences and Utility Structure|We use experiments to test comparative statics predictions of canonical tournament theory. Both the roles of principal and agent are populated by human subjects, allowing us to test predictions for both incentive responses and optimal tournament design. Consistent with theory, we observed an incentive effect from raising the winner's prize. However, we also observed several empirical puzzles that appeared to contradict theory. Controlling for social preferences did not resolve the puzzles, although social preferences do influence behavior. It turns out that the puzzles can be explained by the canonical model once the textbook assumption of separable agent utility is relaxed.
M55|The 2011 social balance sheet|In a context of slowing economic growth in 2011, growth in employment in the companies that filled a social balance sheet in 2010 and 2011 fell from an annual average of 1.5 % to 1 % by the end of the year. The health and social work branch made the biggest contribution to this trend, followed by business services and industry. The number of full-time workers rose by 0.9 % and the number of part-time workers by 1.3 %, with a portion of the former opting for reduced working time arrangements during the course of the year. Flanders had the strongest increase in employment, at 1.3 % ; the number of workers rose by 1 % in Wallonia, but was stable in Brussels. Growth in the workforce was above average at companies operating in only one region, and was negative in firms present in multiple regions. At companies which submit full-format accounts, the number of agency workers increased much more significantly than the number of workers recorded in the staff register, reaching 3.6 % of total employment. The finance and insurance branch, which represents close to 6 % of the workforce covered by social balance sheets, was the subject of a more detailed analysis based on the full 2010 results. Most staff in this branch are employees, and 98 % of workers have a permanent contract. The proportion of high-skilled workers is much bigger than in other activities. The rate of part-time work is below average, even though it has increased substantially, along with the rising proportion of female staff. The extent of staff turnover is more limited than in other branches of activity and, among firms submitting full-format accounts, the replacement rate for permanent workers is lower. The hourly costs related to full-time personnel, on the other hand, are the highest, whereas the amount of time worked annually by these workers is below average.
M55|A Study of the Extent and Potential Causes of Alternative Employment Arrangements|"The notion of regular, full-time employment as one of the defining features of the U.S. economy has been called into question in recent years by the apparent growth of alternative or ""nonstandard"" arrangements - part-time work, temporary help, independent contracting, and other arrangements. Identifying the extent of these arrangements, whether they are increasing, and where they occur is the first step for understanding their implications for the economy and the society. But this has been difficult to do because of the lack of appropriate data. We present estimates of the extent of these practices based on a national probability sample of U.S. establishments, evidence on changes in their use over time, and analyses that help us begin to understand why they are used."
M55|Employee Voice: A Transaction Costs Perspective|"Whether it is better to adopt voice or exit depends on the nature of the transaction for both parties. The strongest voice-sustaining equilibrium is where both parties see voice as preferable to exit. This is likely where both parties have substantial sunk costs. In other circumstances, there is no voice-sustaining equilibrium. We apply insights from transaction cost economics to voice and exit in the employment relationship. We consider which types of employment relationship are likely to sustain voice and which are not using a model of the employment contract that originates with Oliver Williamson. Based on this, we use a simple cost benefit model which deals with two related questions. First, where is voice likely to emerge and, second, what type of voice is it likely to be? We then apply the model empirically to workplace data for Britain to shed light on the size and composition of the ""no voice"" sector; the emergence of a sizeable ""non-union""voice sector; the persistence of unionization among existing establishments; and the economic outcomes associated with voice choice by firms."
M55|E-recruitment: Towards an Ubiquitous Recruitment Process and Candidate Relationship Management|Up to now, there has been little research on the impact of e-recruitment on the recruitment process as a whole. The present study fills part of this gap by investigating the effect of e-recruitment on the design of the recruitment process. Three explorative case studies were carried out in three large organisations in Denmark in 2008-2010. The findings indicate that e-recruitment transforms the traditional recruitment process into a time- and space-independent, collaborative hiring process. The most significant changes are recorded in the sequence and increased divisibility of main recruitment tasks and subtasks. For management, the main task is now that of communicating with candidates. In addition, a new on-going task of maintaining a corporate career website has become an integral part of the new recruitment process. The new design is presented in the following, and its implications briefly discussed.
M55|Social Relations and Relational Incentives|This paper studies how social relationships between managers and employees affect relational incentive contracts. To this end we develop a simple dynamic principal-agent model where both players may have feelings of altruism or spite toward each other. The contract may contain two types of incentives for the agent to work hard: a bonus and a threat of dismissal. We find that good social relationships undermine the credibility of a threat of dismissal but strengthen the credibility of a bonus. Among others, these two mechanisms imply that better social relationships sometimes lead to higher bonuses, while worse social relationships may increase productivity and players’ utility in equilibrium.
M55|Performance Pay and Multidimensional Sorting: Productivity, Preferences, and Gender| This paper studies the impact of incentives on worker self-selection in a controlled laboratory experiment. Subjects face the choice between a fixed and a variable payment scheme. Depending on the treatment, the variable payment is a piece rate, a tournament, or a revenue-sharing scheme. We find that output is higher in the variable-payment schemes compared to the fixed-payment scheme. This difference is largely driven by productivity sorting. In addition, different incentive schemes systematically attract individuals with different attitudes, such as willingness to take risks and relative self-assessment as well as gender, which underlines the importance of multidimensional sorting. (JEL C91, D81, D82, J16, J31)
M55|Prevención de la accidentalidad en la pequeña empresa: análisis de una experiencia|Este documento es elaborado desde el equipo de Trabajo del Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo(CID) de la Universidad Nacional de Colombia, que ha venido aportando la interventoría a un grupo decontratistas de Positiva Compañía de Seguros ARP responsables de llevar a cabo la Fase I del Programa deGestión en la Prevención de Incidentes y Accidentes de Trabajo en la pequeña empresa. La reflexión seencamina a identificar los aportes y limitaciones del proceso desarrollado con el fin de contribuir alfortalecimiento de la actividad preventiva que proteja la vida y la salud de los trabajadores así como losimpactos negativos que los accidentes de trabajo ocasionan a las empresas, a los trabajadores y susfamilias, y a la sociedad en general.
M55|The Effect of Transformational Leadership Behavior on Organizational Culture: An Application in Pharmaceutical Industry|In this study, conducted on 96 employees from production sector in a pharmaceutical company, the effect of transformational leadership behavior on organizational culture is investigated to determine statistically significant relations. The results of the study support the hypotheses. Transformational leadership behavior has a positive and significant correlation between the components of organizational culture such as long / short term orientation, masculinity / feminity, power distance, individualism / collectivisim and uncertainity avoidance.
M55|Employee’s View on Job Satisfaction: A Study on Garments Industry in Bangladesh|Purpose: This paper focuses on the job satisfaction of the employees of the ready-made garment industry in Bangladesh. Introduction: Almost every country irrespective of its stage of development is engaged in garment manufacturing and trading. This industry migrates from high-wage to low-wage countries like a “flying goose”. Almost, without any exception, historically, the readymade industry was the first industry a country was able to introduce, which eventually led to the development of other industries. Literature review: Literature review shows that after the liberation industrial base here in Bangladesh had to face a sudden vacuum of the entrepreneurs (who were mainly from West Pakistan). However, towards 1980’s a new industrial venture namely garments manufacturing factories started to grow with some favorable policy support from the Government and preferential treatment of major apparel importing countries by guaranteed share of their market. Methods: The data collection method is primary survey on employees of garment industry and experts of the same industry supported by secondary research on previous research, industry report, government paper, and interview of resource persons. Percentage analysis, hypothesis tests are the primary tools used for the data analysis. Conclusions: The findings show that garment workers are unhappy with their working environment and about pay package.
M55|Ambiguity aversion as a reason to choose tournaments|We test the implications of ambiguity aversion in a principal-agent problem with multiple agents. When output distributions are uncertain, models of ambiguity aversion suggest that tournaments may become more attractive than independent wage contracts, in contrast to the case where output distributions are known. We do so by presenting agents with a choice between tournaments and independent contracts, which are designed in a way that under uncertainty about output distribution (that is, under ambiguity), ambiguity averse agents should typically prefer tournaments, while ambiguity neutral agents prefer independent contracts, independent of their degree of risk aversion. This is the case, because the tournament removes all ambiguity about the equilibrium wages. We compare the share of participants who choose the tournament under ambiguity with the share of participants choosing the tournament in a control treatment, where output distributions are know. As the theory predicts, we find indeed that under ambiguity the share of agents who choose the tournaments is higher than in the case of known output distributions.
M55|The 2010 social balance sheet|The economic recovery which followed the Great Recession of 2008 was reflected in a 0.5 % average increase in the workforce according to the social balance sheets used for the analysis of the year 2010. That expansion gathered pace during the year to 1 %, pointing to the usual time lag between the revival of activity and the actual recruitment of new staff. The growth in the number of temporary workers was particularly strong, as was the rise in the number of agency staff. SMEs proved considerably more dynamic than large firms in terms of job creation. At regional level, the expansion of employment was stronger in Wallonia than in Brussels and Flanders. In Wallonia, almost all branches of activity contributed to the job creation, but the health and social work branch accounted for the largest share. In Brussels, it was mainly the information and communication branch and the health sector that supported the employment growth. In Flanders, the contraction of employment in trade and transport, information and communication, and especially industry was counterbalanced by the expansion in the health sector. In 2010, firms invested more in formal and informal training for their workers, who also participated in such training in greater numbers. Conversely, both the amount spent and the number of participants were in decline in the case of initial training (alternating study and work experience) – which remains marginal. Firms operating in more than one Region are considerably larger than the average and proportionately more numerous to report training activities in their social balance sheet. Moreover, there are evident differences in training policy between firms located exclusively in Brussels, Flanders or Wallonia. The health and social work branch, which has been growing steadily for a number of years, was analysed separately. Over half of the workers in this sector, of whom 80 % are female, work part-time. The percentage of temporary contracts is above the average, and substitution contracts account for a third of them. Conversely, agency work is less common. The level of staff costs varies considerably within this branch, while remaining below the average. Finally, workers in the health and social work branch have broad access to training, but the training provided is less expensive and of shorter duration than in other branches of activity.
M55|¿El origen socioeconómico y la raza pagan? Un estudio interdisciplinario sobre la discriminación racial y socioeconómica en el ámbito empresarial limeño”. El caso de los egresados de la Universidad del Pacífico|El objetivo de este estudio interdisciplinario fue explorar cuánto influye la raza y/o el nivel socioeconómico en la historia profesional de egresados universitarios; en particular, de qué manera afectan las posibilidades de acceso a puestos gerenciales de alto rango en el mercado laboral limeño. Para ello, se tomó como caso de estudio a los egresados de la Universidad del Pacífico. La metodología cuantitativa se administró a una muestra de 381 profesionales de un total de 1058 que dejaron las aulas entre 1990 y 1995; y como parte de la metodología cualitativa se aplicaron entrevistas en profundidad a 22 profesionales de ambos sexos. Los resultados de la investigación muestran que ser hombre, de raza blanca, haber pagado la pensión más alta en la Universidad —lo que implica un nivel socioeconómico alto—, y trabajar en una microempresa, aumentan la probabilidad de tener un alto cargo gerencial en la empresa, considerando un nivel de significancia de 1%. En particular, cuando se analiza cómo estas variables afectan la probabilidad de acceder a dicho cargo, se observa que el aporte de cada una de ellas es importante: 8.7%, 8.1%, 12.2% y 11.2%, respectivamente. Estos resultados corroboran la información recopilada en las entrevistas en profundidad. 3 Por otra parte, cuando se analiza el efecto de los apellidos en la línea de carrera, los resultados son poco claros: solo en el caso del análisis de los efectos marginales se observa que poseer un apellido andino disminuye en 7.4% la probabilidad de tener un cargo máximo en la empresa. Se podría argumentar que la clasificación utilizada no representa una categorización suficientemente fina, o que los apellidos como indicadores de posición social han ido perdiendo la importancia que tenían en el pasado. La información brindada por los egresados en las entrevistas reafirma la idea de que el apellido resulta un asunto relativo: puede ser una valla o una ventaja, pero nada determinante en la línea de carrera profesional. Los resultados académicos, medidos a través del promedio de calificación o la pertenencia al tercio superior dentro de los estudios de pregrado no tienen ningún efecto en la probabilidad de alcanzar un cargo máximo en una empresa.
M55|The perspective of Malaysian Manufacturing Organizations on Strategy, HR Outsourcing and HR Costs|The paper discusses the relationship between different types of human resource management (HRM) strategy and the human resource outsourcing, and impact on the size of human resource (HR) department. Three HRM strategies are considered: Facilitation, accumulation and utilization. The data for the study were obtained from survey responses from 232 organizations, of which 113 were engaged in HR outsourcing. The findings suggest that organizations tend to rely on outsourcing of HR functions when they espouse facilitation and utilization HRM strategy. Concurrently, by relying on HR outsourcing, the organizations manage to experience a reduction in the size of HR department. The results show that it is important for the organizations to better understand the implications of an increased reliance on outsourcing within HR. This allows them to focus on how HR functions are delivered within organizations with the interaction of HRM strategy and the size of HR department will tend to be smaller resulting from outsourcing activities.
M55|Netzwerkbasierte Kooperationen - ein neues Rahmenkonzept für das Personalmanagement?|Personalmanagement einmal aus der Perspektive der Netzwerkforschung betrachten, das ist der tiefere Sinn der vorliegenden Studie, die sich mit den weitgehend vernachlässigten personalen Aspekten des Managements von und in Unternehmensnetzwerken befasst. Behandelt werden Personalprobleme aus dem Bereich des intraorganisationalen Unternehmensnetzwerks mit dem Schwerpunkt Kooperation zwischen Personalabteilung und anderen Organisationseinheiten. Neu hinzugekommen sind Probleme des Personalmanagements in interorganisationalen Netzwerken, wenn das Personalmanagement die Grenzen des eigenen Unternehmens überschreitend aktiv wird und z.B. mit „freien MitarbeiterInnen“ und/oder mit MitarbeiterInnen externer Netzwerkpartner kooperiert.
M55|Siesta: A theory of freelancing|"I study the effect of fatigue and innate ability on performance in a model with incomplete contracts, lumpy tasks requiring multiple periods of work and stochastic productivity shocks. I find that increasing ability or reducing fatigue does not lead necessarily to more productive efficiency, since it may exacerbate the incentive for agents take ""too much"" on-the-job leisure. In a world with heterogenous agents, the problem may be ameliorated by the introduction of a dual labour market with free-lancers (who can take breaks at their discretion) and regular workers (who work on a fixed schedule)."
M55|Offshoring and Wage Inequality: Using Occupational Licensing as a Shifter of Offshoring Costs|No abstract is available for this item.
M55|Delivering Flexibility: Contrasting Patterns in the French and the UK Food Processing Industry|This article provides a comparative analysis of changes in numerical and functional labour flexibility in the French and the UK food processing industry. Based upon case study data, it explores the interaction between competitive pressures and institutional and regulatory structures and their impact on workplace practices. The findings indicate that, faced with a similar competitive environment, firms in both countries have sought to increase labour flexibility. However, the predominant forms of flexibility vary across the two countries, partly reflecting the characteristics of national labour market institutions. Numerical flexibility dominates in the UK, with high levels of paid overtime and temporary agency work. In contrast, French workplaces rely more on internal functional flexibility while also achieving numerical flexibility through seasonal variations in work schedules and a wide range of short‐term employment contracts.
M55|The end of national models in employment relations?|The erosion of a number of national systems of employment relations, and the evidence fromlarge scale workplace surveys has brought attention to the considerable diversity ofemployment systems within major economies. This essay applies the theory of evolutionarygames to explain the diffusion of different employment systems within national economies,and how they interact with established sectoral and national level institutions. This also helpsto explain potential tipping points in their expansion and retreat. Evidence to support theargument is taken from the British and French workplace employment relations surveys andthe European Working Conditions Survey.
M55|Reciprocity and incentive pay in the workplace|We study optimal incentive contracts for workers who are reciprocal to management attention. When neither worker's effort nor manager's attention can be contracted, a double moral-hazard problem arises, implying that reciprocal workers should be given weak financial incentives. In a multiple-agent setting, this problem can be resolved using promotion incentives. We empirically examine these predictions using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel. We find that workers who are more reciprocal are significantly more likely to receive promotion incentives, while there is no such relation for individual bonus pay.
M55|Social exchange and common agency in organizations|We study the relation between formal incentives and social exchange in organizations where employees work for several managers and reciprocate a manager's attention with higher effort. To this end we develop a common agency model with two-sided moral hazard. We show that when management attention is not contractible, the first-best can only be achieved by granting autonomy to employees together with incentive pay for both managers and employees. When neither attention nor effort are contractible, an 'attention race' arises, as each manager tries to sway the employee's effort his way. While this may result in too much social exchange, the attention race may also be a blessing because it alleviates managers' moral-hazard problem in attention provision. Lastly, we show how organizational structure can be used to motivate managers and employees in the absence of formal incentives.
M55|The End of National Models in Employment Relations?|The erosion of a number of national systems of employment relations, and the evidence from large scale workplace surveys has brought attention to the considerable diversity of employment systems within major economies. This essay applies the theory of evolutionary games to explain the diffusion of different employment systems within national economies, and how they interact with established sectoral and national level institutions. This also helps to explain potential tipping points in their expansion and retreat. Evidence to support the argument is taken from the British and French workplace employment relations surveys and the European Working Conditions Survey.
M55|Motivating Managers – Brief Analysis At S.C. Tasmania|Research’s goal is to show what managers should know in order to improve employees’ performance by guiding their behaviour and motivating them. To succeed, the manager must develop positive attitudes towards himself and the circumstances in which he is located.
M55|Implicit Contracts, Unemployment, and Labor Market Segmentation|We analyze the impact of imperfect contract enforcement on the emergence of unemployment. In an experimental labor market where trading parties can form long-term employment relationships, we compare a work environment where effort is observable, but not verifiable to a situation where explicit contracts are feasible. Our main result shows that unemployment is much higher when third-party contract enforcement is absent. Unemployment is involuntary, being caused by firms' employment and contracting policy. Moreover, we show that implicit contracting can lead to a segmentation of the labor market. Firms in both segments earn similar profits, but workers in the secondary sector face much less favorable conditions than their counterparts in primary-sector jobs.
M55|Evaluating the Effectiveness of National Labor Relations Act Remedies: Analysis and Comparison with Other Workplace Penalty Policies|The goal of this paper is to examine the implied penalty policies underlying the remedies created by the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) in terms of the policies' impact on employer and union behaviors. We present a simple model of deterrence as a means of evaluating workplace penalty policies in terms of their influence on employer behavior, particularly through deterrence effects. We also compare the remedies for violations embodied in the NLRA with penalty policies under other workplace legislation, such as the Fair Labor Standards Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act. We then evaluate the size of financial costs for violations against individuals of specific provisions of the NLRA by firms and unions for the period 2000-2009. We show that the implied penalties are modest, particularly in terms of providing sufficient incentives to comply with the law in a timely manner. Given this finding, we examine other potential remedies available under the NLRA, in particular, methods to address the impact of delays (the length of time from the filing of the charge or the issuance of the charge to the time of its adjudication before an administrative law judge at the National Labor Relations Board or through the federal courts) on workplace representation through unionization.
M55|Labor Outsourcing in the Globalization Process|"Currently, the sense of responsibility opposite to their own professional development is more important than ever due to potential relocation of many economic activities worldwide, leading to the assessment of each job in terms that create value and unique skills that you can stake. There are no ""American"" or ""European"" jobs in the globalized world, but there are jobs that will inevitably revert to the most able, intelligent, effective and cheap, regardless of where they come from or where they live. Experience proved that outsourcing labor is not only cheaper but more effective. On this basis, Friedman built the inequation CQ + PQ> IQ, which expresses an absolute truth that whenever a very curious and passionate individual would be preferred to one with endowed with intelligence. So for us to fold to this flat world, education, training and continuous transformation have an important role."
M55|Study on Agrarian Contracts in Bulgaria|This paper suggests a holistic framework for analysis of agrarian contracts and investigates the contractual structure in transitional Bulgarian agriculture. Firstly, it incorporates the interdisciplinary New Institutional and Transaction Costs Economics (combining Economics, Organization, Law, Sociology, Behavioral and Political Sciences) and describes major mechanisms of governance of agrarian activity – institutional environment, market competition, private, collective and public order; and defines features of agrarian sale-purchase, lease, employment, service, loan, insurance and coalition contracts; and identifies technological, institutional, behavioral, dimensional, and transaction costs factors for contractual choice and specifies effective modes for contractual arrangements in agriculture; and determines the effective boundaries and sustainability of farm and agrarian organizations. Secondly, it analyzes the post-communist institutional and organizational modernization of Bulgarian agriculture, and assesses the efficiency of various modes for governing of land supply, and labor supply, and service supply, and inputs supply, and finance supply, and insurance supply, and marketing of output in different type of farms.
M55|Logistics Outsourcing: Change from a service-provider to a business partner and Leveraging partnership models to create sustainable bottomline|A New model for „Partnership’ based Outsourcing: The growing emphasis on efficiency and integration between customers (shippers) and third-party outsourcing firms, has given rise to a unique collaborative model of Logistics outsourcing. Principle: “The focus on end-to-end supply chain effectiveness and optimization will lead to lower unit costs, which in turn will lead to lowest total costs”. Instead of an inward-looking focus on ownership of hard assets and „do-myself‟ approach; we need to focus on total supply chain effectiveness and process optimization by utilizing the extended value-proposition of the „logistics partner‟.
M55|The case for the virtual strike|No abstract is available for this item.
M55|The case for the virtual strike|No abstract is available for this item.
M55|Temporary agency work and firm performance : evidence from German establishment-level panel data|This paper empirically examines the impact of temporary agency work on firm performance using panel data from German establishments. Thereby, special attention is devoted to the question, whether there are performance differences between firms using temporary agency workers (TAWs) as a buffer stock (flexibility strategy) and firms using TAWs for screening purposes (screening strategy). While the theoretical discussion on this issue does not lead to clear–cut results, our empirical investigation provides the following results. First, we find an inverse U–shaped relationship between the share of TAWs and firm performance. Second, we obtain that firms following the screening strategy are significantly more productive than firms following the flexibility strategy. These results are found to be valid in both cross–sectional and panel data settings, so they are robust to unobserved firm heterogeneity.
M55|Fixed-term Employment, Work Organization and Job Satisfaction : Evidence from German Individual-Level Data|The present paper examines the joint effect of fixed-term employment and work organization on job satisfaction using individual-level data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (GSOEP). Specifically, we analyze whether workers who are heterogeneous in terms of the type of working contract (fixed-term vs. permanent) do also differ with regard to job satisfaction, when they perform under comparable work organizational conditions. Such information would be quite valuable for employers, because they can learn about the responsiveness of heterogeneous workers to innovative work organizational practices. For this purpose, we at first estimate a linear fixed effects model, thereby controlling for unobserved time-constant characteristics. In a second step, we account for potential remaining endogeneity by combining the fixed effects approach with a two-stage estimation strategy. Our empirical results show that in terms of job satisfaction fixed-term workers and their permanent counterparts respond differently to a number of organizational practices including task diversity, employee involvement, social relations at work, general working conditions, and career prospects. The results may be used by employers to improve their concept of diversity management and specifically the job design of heterogeneous workers.
M55|Contracting Out of Service Activities and the Effects on Sectoral Employment Patterns in South Africa|This paper develops a methodology and uses household and labour survey data to analyse the extent of intersectoral outsourcing of the employment of specific labour-intensive activities in South Africa from 1997-2007. It is shown that the relatively high growth in services employment is driven by an expansion of employment of cleaners and security guards and an outsourcing-type reallocation of these activities from manufacturing and the public sector towards private services. These activities have limited scope for cumulative productivity increases. The analysis has implications for understanding changes in the sectoral structure of middle income economies.
M55|Social Connections and Incentives in the Workplace: Evidence From Personnel Data| We present evidence on the effect of social connections between workers and managers on productivity in the workplace. To evaluate whether the existence of social connections is beneficial to the firm's overall performance, we explore how the effects of social connections vary with the strength of managerial incentives and worker's ability. To do so, we combine panel data on individual worker's productivity from personnel records with a natural field experiment in which we engineered an exogenous change in managerial incentives, from fixed wages to bonuses based on the average productivity of the workers managed. We find that when managers are paid fixed wages, they favor workers to whom they are socially connected irrespective of the worker's ability, but when they are paid performance bonuses, they target their effort toward high ability workers irrespective of whether they are socially connected to them or not. Although social connections increase the performance of connected workers, we find that favoring connected workers is detrimental for the firm's overall performance. Copyright 2009 The Econometric Society.
M55|The Case for the Virtual Strike. An Appraisal of the Italian Proposal|In this paper we outline the economic rationale behind the virtual strike, and workers’ incentives to use this bargaining solution rather than resorting to standard strike action. We show that, from a welfare perspective, a virtual strike always dominates a standard strike and it would be most needed precisely when workers have weaker incentives to adopt it. We then discuss the pros and cons of legally regulating the virtual strike rather than leaving it to self-regulation. Finally, we apply our findings to the analysis of Italy’s draft legislation on virtual strikes
M55|Multi-Tasking vs. Screening: A Model of Academic Tenure|"The paper develops a model of academic tenure based on multi-tasking and screening. A professor has two tasks, researching and teaching. We assume that researching performance is easy to measure but teaching performance is immeasurable. Then Holmtrom and Milgrom's (1991) classical muli-task principal-agent model implies that the only way for the the university to ""incentivize"" teaching activity is decreasing the incentive power to researching activity. This justifies the low-powered contract to tenured professors. However, with low-powered contract, the university will face serious informational problem in the process of enrollment, either transferring rents to the candidates with low ability if the wage level is high, or suffering from the potential occupational vacancy if the wage level is low. To this dilemma, the up-or-out contract is a possible solution."
M55|Franchise in Romanian tourism|Both on national and international scale, tourism business is improving continuously, by adjusting to the tourists' demands, resulting in modification and adaptation of organization and association forms in this area. One of these is the franchise affiliation, an original way of doing business that combines the entrepreneurs interest in keeping their own undertaking with that belongs to a group with well-known brand which aims to expand on national and international market. This paper will discuss two important areas of the Romanian tourism industry in which franchise agreement is applied: travel agencies franchise and hotel franchise. On a national scale, franchise was adopted as an expanding strategy by the travel agencies, on one hand, notorious tour-operators that has accumulated know-how and has proven its successful applicability, and, on the other hand, small and medium entrepreneurs who saw in the franchise affiliation an opportunity to develop faster and more reliable business. Also, the Romanian hotel owners with financial resources have seen in hotel franchise an easier way to obtain higher profits. In today's competitive and global hotel market, being part of a group of hotels that share a recognized brand and provide quality services might mean the difference between financial success and failure.
M55|Gift Exchange in The Workplace: Money or Attention?| We develop a model of manager-employee relationships where employees care more for their manager when they are more convinced that their manager cares for them. Managers can signal their altruistic feelings towards their employees in two ways: by offering a generous wage and by giving attention. Contrary to the traditional gift-exchange hypothesis, we show that altruistic managers may offer lower wages and nevertheless build up better social-exchange relationships with their employees than egoistic managers do. In such equilibria, a low wage signals to employees that the manager has something else to offer-namely, attention-which will induce the employee to stay at the firm and work hard. Our predictions are well in line\break with some recent empirical findings about gift exchange in the field. (JEL: D86, J41, M50, M54, M55) (c) 2009 by the European Economic Association.
M55|Virtual vs. Standard Strike: An Experiment|In this paper we compare - in the laboratory - stoppage and virtual strike. Our experiment confirms that higher wages offered by an employer lead to considerably more costly effort provision. The number of strikes, the level of efforts and average total payoffs are higher under virtual strike than under standard strike. However, when standard strike is associated with reciprocal externalities, it induces higher effort levels, higher payoffs and an extremely reduced number of strikes than virtual strike. It is unclear whether this behavior re?ects reciprocity or other forms of social preferences. However our results might explain why standard strikes rather than virtual ones are generally adopted by workers.
M55|The Case for Virtual Strike.An Appraisal of the Italian Proposal|In this paper we outline the economic rationale behind the virtual strike, and workers' incentives to use this bargaining solution rather than resorting to standard strike. We show that, from a welfare perspective, a virtual strike always dominates a standard strike and it would be most needed precisely when workers have weaker incentives to adopt it. We then discuss the pros and cons of legally regulating the virtual strike rather than leaving it to self-regulation. Finally, we apply our findings to the analysis of Italy’s draft legislation on virtual strikes.
M55|How Many US Jobs Might be Offshorable?|Using detailed information on the nature of work done in over 800 US Bureau of Labor Statistics occupational codes, this paper ranks those occupations according to how easy/hard it is to offshore the work â€“ either physically or electronically. Using this ranking, it is estimated that somewhere between 22% and 29% of all US jobs are or will be potentially offshorable within a decade or two. (No estimate is made of how many jobs will actually be offshored.) Since the rankings are subjective, two alternatives are presented â€“ one is entirely objective, the other is an independent subjective ranking. In general, they corroborate the rankings, albeit not perfectly. It is found that there is little or no correlation between an occupationâ€™s â€˜offshorabilityâ€™ and the skill level of its workers (as measured either by educational attainment or wages). However, it appears that, controlling for education, the most highly offshorable occupations were already paying significantly lower wages in 2004.
M55|Key-abilities for successful managers in competitive economies (II)|The following paper will try to explore the concept of a successful manager, as well as to evaluate whether there is one essential ingredient that managers are compelled to possess if they are to achieve performance; although emphasis will be placed on social and human skills, there will also be evidence in support of the ideas that effective managers need all three skills – conceptual, human and technical - and that each of these skills could prove, at some point or another, to be essential for survival, but also useless unless supported by the others two.
M55|Key-abilities for successful managers in competitive economies (I)|The following paper will try to explore the concept of a successful manager, as well as to evaluate whether there is one essential ingredient that managers are compelled to possess if they are to achieve performance; although emphasis will be placed on social and human skills, there will also be evidence in support of the ideas that effective managers need all three skills - conceptual, human and technical - and that each of these skills could prove, at some point or another, to be essential for survival, but also useless unless supported by the others two.
M55|Tournament Fever and the Perception of Strategic Uncertainty in Performance Contests|"As firms implement tournament bonus reward schemes, mainly the idea is to introduce competition amongst their agents in the order to promote their performance. Tournaments in which agents compete for a bonus by investing effort, are frequently applied, e.g., in development races, political contests, and promotion tournaments. The fallibility of evaluation processes and the inherent variability of competitors' effort choices introduce uncertainty to tournament settings with respect to the outcome. If heterogeneous agents interact in such a setting, experimental results suggest that increasing uncertainty leads to more excess of effort if compared to optimality (Avrahami et al., 2007). This paper experimentally investigates whether the observed overperformance in the tournament is similar to overbidding in auctions. Furthermore, it disentangles two possible sources of over-performance: either biased responses to, or wrong beliefs of, opponents' effort choices. We show that over-performance can be explained by ""tournament fever"": agents overreact to own beliefs, if compared to best responses, and mainly overestimate their opponents. Leveling uncertainty influences both overshooting and the precision of beliefs."
M55|Recruitment Restrictions and labor markets: evidence from the post-bellum U.S. south|"This paper estimates the impacts of labor-mobility restrictions on job-transitions and wages in the postbellum U.S. south. In particuliar, I estimate the effects of changes in criminal fines, collected from BLS commission labor reports, charged for ""enticement"" (offers made to workers already under contract) on sharecropper mobility, tenancy choice, and agricultural wages. I present three different pieces of evidence. The first is a retrospective work history panel of farmers from Jefferson County, Arkansas. The second is a state-year panel, using USDA agricultural wages as a dependent variable. The third is a cohort-state regresssion using the 1940 IPUMS census micro sample, estimating the effects of anti-enticement laws on the returns to experience in agricultural labor. I find that a 10% increase in the fine ($13) charged for enticement a.) lowered the probably of a move by black sharecroppers by 6 percentage points, a 12% decline, and b.) lowered agricultural wages, by reducing the exit probability to sharecropping, by 0.11 % (1 cent of daily wages), and c.) lowered the returns to experience in agriculture for blacks by 0.6% per year. These results are consistent with the on-the-job search model, where the enticement fine raises the cost of offering a job to employed workers."
M55|Gift Exchange in the Workplace|We develop a model of manager-employee relationships where employees care more for their manager when they are more convinced that their manager cares for them. Managers can signal their altruistic feelings towards their employees in two ways: by offering a generous wage and by giving attention. Contrary to the traditional gift-exchange hypothesis, we show that altruistic managers may offer lower wages and nevertheless build up better social-exchange relationships with their employees than egoistic managers do. In such equilibria, a low wage signals to employees that the manager has something else to offer -- namely, a lot of attention -- which will induce the employee to stay at the firm and work hard. Our predictions are well in line with some recent empirical findings about gift exchange in the field.
M55|Financialisation of strategies, risk transfer, liquidity, property and control (In French)|The financialisation of strategies, as mentioned in the introduction, may be correlated with the dominant link between investment and funding. The principle of selection no longer seems to focus essentially on investment funding methods, but on investments themselves, according to a financial profitability criterion. The first part of the text deals with the question of “risk transfer”. The second part examines financialisation from the point of view of the principle of liquidity by emphasizing the importance of the assessment which markets exercise on the firms’ financial performance, but also on their industrial. The question of the link between property and control is dealt with in the third part of the text. It is explored in two phases: the link between structure and property rights on the one hand; the link between governance structure and resource allocation on the other hand. The general conclusion suggests placing the financial capital issue between science and magic. The conclusion is organized in two phases: the first phase means to emphasize three transverse dimensions of the financialisation process; the second phase proposes to put that process into a sequence going from the production of representations to the production of norms, to the question of the financialised firm’s model.
M55|Marché boursier et gestion de l'emploi : Analyse sur données d'entreprises françaises|This article examines the influence of equity capital ownership on human resource management practices. The empirical analysis uses the 2004-2005 Workplace Industrial Relations Survey (REPONSE survey), based on a sample of 2,930 establishments with 20 workers or more, representative of the French private sector. Econometric analysis confirms the importance of equity ownership as a determinant of employment practices, considering labour mobilisation contracts (agency work, short term contracts and sub-contracting), wage policy (level of remuneration and use of variable pay), changes in the staff size and training expenses
M55|Incomes And Working Time – Support For Quality Of Work And Employment In Romania|This paper contains a comparative analysis between living and working conditions in Romania and EU Member States, taking into account the differences between the existing regulations and the economic and social realities in these countries. Survey-based research on working conditions can prove valuable at a certain time if complemented with other data and facts regarding the particular socio-economic context and its changes in time. A strenght of the surveys is their ability to show that working conditions do not automatically improve as a result of the implementation of the acquis communautaire or following the improvement of labour market regulations. Besides, levels of income constitute one of the main reasons for dissatisfaction among Romanian workers.
M55|Job losses, outsourcing and relocation, empirical evidence using microdata|Using microdata, we analyse the determinants of firm relocation and conventional outsourcing decisions as a way to reduce employment. The results for a sample of 32 countries show the relevance of factors not considered previously in the literature. Firms that are below average in quality or innovation have a higher propensity to externalise part of their production through outsourcing, while lower relative profitability and longer time to market for new products each imply a higher probability of relocation.
M55|On the Incentive Effects of Uncertainty in Monitoring Agents - A Theoretical and Experimental Analysis|When two or more agents compete for a bonus and the agents' productivity in each of several possible occurrences depends stochastically on (constant) effort, the number of times that are checked to assign the bonus affects the level of uncertainty in the selection process. Uncertainty, in turn, is expected to increase the efforts made by competing agents (Cowen and Glazer (1996), Dubey and Haimanko (2003), Dubey and Wu ( 2001)). Theoretical predictions were derived and experimental evidence collected for the case of two competing agents, with the bonus awarded to that agent who outperforms the other. Levels of uncertainty (sampling occasions of productions, 1 or 3), cost of production (high or low), cost symmetry (asymmetric or symmetric), and piece-rate reward were manipulated factorially to test the robustness of the effects of uncertainty. For control, a single-agent case was also theoretically analyzed and empirically tested. The results indicate that, for tournaments, greater uncertainty does indeed lead to greater than expected effort and lower unit variable costs.
M55|Marché boursier et gestion de l'emploi : analyse sur données d'entreprises françaises|This article examines the influence of equity capital ownership on human resource management practices. The empirical analysis uses the 2004-2005 Workplace Industrial Relations Survey (REPONSE survey), based on a sample of 2,930 establishments with 20 workers or more, representative of the French private sector. Econometric analysis confirms the importance of equity ownership as a determinant of employment practices, considering labour mobilisation contracts (agency work, short term contracts and sub-contracting), wage policy (level of remuneration and use of variable pay), changes in the staff size and training expenses.
M55|Subjective Evaluation of Performance Through Individual Evaluation Interview: Empirical evidence from France|Individual evaluation interviews have become a widespread practice. 52% of employees in French manufacturing firms over 50 employees declared an annual individual evaluation interview in 1997. However whereas the problem of constructing an optimal contract with subjective evaluation (which is defined simply as a signal in most papers) receives a large attention, firm-level evaluation interviews are strikingly left aside from economic analysis. This paper aims at identifying the underlying logics of individual evaluation interviews in the case of individual production and of team production. Especially, it aims at analyzing the relationships between effort, wage distribution within the firms and individual evaluation interviews. From a theoretical standpoint, three papers by Alchian and Demsetz (1972), by Che and Yoo (2001) and by MacLeod (2003) are closely related to our paper and from an empirical point of view, a paper by Engellandt and Riphahn (2004). Our theoretical analysis allows to derive testable predictions regarding the effect of individual evaluation interviews on productive and cognitive effort, on work overload and on wage setting. Using a matched employer / employee survey on computerisation and organisational change (COI), we are able to test part of these predictions and to corroborate them. First, evaluation interviews have a positive impact on productive and cognitive effort. Second, evaluation interviews increase effort through two effects: the classical incentive effect and also a selection effect. Third, the selection effect is stronger in the case of individual production compared with the case of team production. Fourth, evaluated employees earn more than employees in a classical incentive scheme and fifth, evaluated workers have a better knowledge of the rules driving wage setting.
M55|Some Considerations About It Outsourcing Process|IT outsourcing is the practice of contracting out the running of a part of an organization computer department. It is not a new phenomenon, but the scale and scope of its occurrence has greatly increased over the last decade. Due to the fact that IT outsourcing has no obviously and quantifiable benefits, most of the business entities choose not to do outsource their IT. The paper is based on the idea of incapability of exact determination of IT services costs. The purpose of this research regards the layout of the current approaches to outsourcing, description of different types of IT outsourcing and their advantages and the analysis of some models which might be used in order to facilitate the IT decision making process.
M55|Employee Poaching, Predatory Hiring, and Covenants Not to Compete|Poaching key employees from close competitors has become a prevalent and controversial issue. This paper examines the condition under which employee poaching can be either predatory or competitive, and discusses its implications for the enforcement of post-employment non-compete agreements. When poaching sufficiently injures the entrant’s ability to compete, predatory hiring can occur in the sense that the incumbent would have been unprofitable in the absence of the entrant’s exit. Some antitrust implications are discussed.
M55|Learning Paths to Offshore Outsourcing: From Cost Reduction to Knowledge Seeking| A corporation's offshore outsourcing may be seen as the result of a discrete, strategic decision taken in response to an increasing pressure from worldwide competition. However, empirical evidence of a representative cross-sector sample of international Danish firms indicates that offshore sourcing in low-cost countries is best described as a learning-by-doing process in which the offshore outsourcing of a corporation goes through a sequence of stages towards sourcing for innovation. Initially, a corporation's outsourcing is driven by a desire for cost minimization. Over a period of time the outsourcing experience lessens the cognitive limitations of decision-makers as to the advantages that can be achieved through outsourcing in low-cost countries: the insourcer/vendor may not only offer cost advantages, but also quality improvement and innovation. The quality improvements that offshore outsourcing may bring about evoke a realization in the corporation that even innovative processes can be outsourced.
M55|Entrepreneurship, Management Servicesand Economic Growth|We set out to model the joint production of entrepreneurs and workers assuming that the former contribute to the output of the firm by making entrepreneurial decisions (with increasing returns), and managing the productive resources (with decreasing returns). The model explains the equilibrium output of the representative firm and the equilibrium share of entrepreneurs in the working population, as a function of the quality of the entrepreneur and of the elasticity of output to the entrepreneur’s management services. The time dynamics of the solution imply that the contribution to labor productivity growth from increases in the quality of entrepreneurs over time is higher in countries with a larger starting share of entrepreneurs and higher in countries with lower starting labor productivity (convergence enhancing). The model predictions are tested with data from OECD countries for the period 1970-2002. We find that improvements in the quality of entrepreneurs can make a substantial contribution to economic growth by means of more productive management services.
M55|Dış kaynaklardan yararlanma’nın bir modeli olarak bayilik sisteminde sözleşme ve kontrol değişkenlerinin güven ve bağlılığa olan etkileri ve bayilerin işbirliğini artırma arzusu|Dış Kaynaklardan Yararlanma; bir işletmenin temel yeteneklerinden olmayan faaliyetlerini, konusunda uzmanlaşmış ve etkili başka işletmelere devretmesine dayalı bir yönetim stratejisidir. Bu çalışmada dış kaynaklardan yararlanma uygulamalarında önemli görülen sözleşme, kontrol, güven, bağlılık ve ilişkiyi artırma ve devam etme arzusu kavramları üzerinde tartışılmış ve bir model oluşturulmuştur. Teorik bölümde ortaya atılan hipotezler, 638 adet Türk Telekom AŞ bayisine yapılan anket çalışması ile test edilmekte ve sonuçların tartışılması ile makale sona ermektedir.
M55|Job losses, outsourcing and relocation: Empirical evidence using microdata|Using microdata, we analyse the determinants of firm relocation and conventional outsourcing decisions as a way to reduce employment. The results for a sample of 32 countries show the relevance of factors not considered previously in the literature. Firms that are below average in quality or innovation have a higher propensity to externalise part of their production through outsourcing, while lower relative profitability and longer time to market for new products each imply a higher probability of relocation.
M55|Dispelling Some Myths About Offshoring|Critics of globalization claim that firms are being driven to shift employment abroad by the prospects of cheaper labor. Yet the evidence for this, beyond anecdotes, is slim. In this article, we review evidence on whether firms that do business in foreign countries are substituting foreign for domestic labor. We review the results of previous studies and present new firm-level evidence showing that, in fact, increases in employment in low-income countries do hurt employment at home. The premise that foreign expansion of U.S. multinationals encourages employment at home is a myth, but the domestic employment costs of offshoring are probably fairly small in magnitude.
M55|Investment risk taking by institutional investors| According to theory, institutional investors face both risk-management and risk-shifting incentives. This article assesses the relevance of these conflicting incentives for Dutch pension funds and insurance firms over the period 1995 to 2009. Using a unique and extended data set, we observe a significant positive relationship between capital and asset risk for insurers, indicating that risk-management incentives dominate in the Dutch insurance industry. Risk-shifting incentives, however, also seem relevant, as stock insurers take more investment risk than their mutual peers. For Dutch pension funds, we conclude that overall neither risk-shifting nor risk-management incentives seem to dominate. Interestingly, we find that professional group pension funds take significantly less investment risk than other types of pension funds. This finding is in line with expectations, as in professional group pension funds potential incentive conflicts between pension fund participants and the employer are effectively internalized.
M55|Outsourcing and Technological Change|In this paper we argue that an important source of the recent increase in outsourcing is the computer and information technology revolution, characterized by increased rates of technological change. Our model shows that an increase in the pace of technological change increases outsourcing because it allows firms to use services based on leading edge technologies without incurring the sunk costs of adopting these new technologies. In addition, firms using more IT-intensive technologies face lower outsourcing costs of IT-based services generating a positive correlation between the IT level of the user and its outsourcing share of IT-based services. This implication is verified in the data.
M55|Sabotage in Tournaments: Making the Beautiful Game a Bit Less Beautiful|We exploit an incentive change in professional soccer leagues aimed at encouraging more attacking and goal scoring to obtain evidence on the effect of stronger incentives on productive and destructive effort. Using as control the behavior of the same teams in a competition that experienced no changes in incentives, we provide differences-in-differences estimates of the effect of the incentive change on the behavior of teams. We find that, although teams increased offensive effort, they also increased destructive effort (`sabotage') substantially, resulting in no net change in scoring. When ahead, teams became more conservative, increasing their defenders, scoring less goals, and allowing fewer attempts to score by their opponents. We also find that teams that engage more in sabotage activities depress the attendance at their rival's home stadiums, and that indeed attendance suffered as a result of the incentive change. Thus, teams responded to stronger incentives, but in an undesirable way.
M55|Plural Form in Franchising: An Incomplete Contracting Approach|Plural form franchising is modeled from an incomplete contracting perspective. Complete franchising is the unique, efficient governance structure only when the plural form externality is limited and the costs of investment are low for both franchisees. Governance structure choice is irrelevant when the costs of investment are high for all franchisees, because no franchisee will invest. Finally, a plural form governance structure is the unique, efficient equilibrium in all other cases because the power allocated to independent franchisees makes them confident that they will be able to recoup their investments. Not locational or other differences between units are necessary for the emergence of plural form franchising, but positive externalities being specific for the plural form.
M55|Subjective Stock Option Values and Exercise Decisions: Determinants and Consistency|Stock option programs constitute an important economic domain both for the issuing companies and for their employees. Little is known, however, about which individual variables actually drive exercise patterns and how employees value their stock options. We study the following set of research questions to provide a contribution to a better understanding of these topics: How do employees exercise and value stock options? What are the determinants of exercise decisions and subjective option values? Do employees exercise options from different grants in a consistent way? Are subjective option values consistent with individuals' exercise decisions? We are able to use a unique data set combining employee-level option exercises with subjective option values extracted by means of an internal survey. Furthermore, we can combine this data with a wide set of individual variables. We find that employees exercise their stock options well before expiration. The median individual sacrifices more than 90% of the option's lifetime by exercising early. Surprisingly, we also find that individuals substantially overvalue the options they received. We show that exercise dates and option values are unrelated with measures of risk aversion. Loss aversion, however, does a better job in explaining the heterogeneity in option values. We also document that optimism and overconfidence measures are significantly related to option values. We show that managers that are very optimistic about company stock place higher values on their options. This finding is consistent with the sentiment hypothesis presented in Oyer and Schaefer (2004) and Bergman and Jenter (2004). Some evidence for an intertemporal consistency of exercises decisions is also provided. However, we find only weak support for the hypothesis that higher option values are associated with later exercise decisions.
M55|Stock Options and Employee Behavior|Employee stock options (ESOs) are a widespread and economically highly significant phenomenon, both at the company and at the employee level. Stock options are not only relevant for CEOs, but also and increasingly for managers at lower grades in a corporation. Despite its economic importance, there exists very little empirical research that examines the behavior of employees in stock option programs. Our study attempts to fill this gap by empirically studying the behavior of option holders in a distinct ESO plan. We try to answer the following questions: How do employees exercise their stock options? How do employees dispose of company stock acquired in stock option programs? What rational and behavioral factors explain differences in observed exercise behavior? We study these questions by combining two data sets. The first data set consists of detailed individual-level ESO exercise transactions of senior managers from a large German corporation (transaction data). The second data set is based on an extensive questionnaire in which we asked these employees to answer a wide range of questions on employee-specific characteristics, beliefs and attitudes (questionnaire data). We find that employees exercise their options very early and in a few large transactions. A large majority of option recipients sell the shares acquired on exercise. Furthermore, our results suggest that, inconsistent with traditional ESO theories, exercise behavior is not driven by factors like risk aversion or individuals' holdings of company stock that are included in rational models of exercise. Our findings suggest that individuals' exercise decisions depend on the psychological factors miscalibration and mental accounting.
M55|Outsourcing and Technological Change|In this paper we argue that an important source of the recent increase in outsourcing is the computer and information technology revolution, characterized by increased rates of technological change. Our model shows that an increase in the pace of technological change increases outsourcing because it allows firms to use services based on leading edge technologies without incurring the sunk costs of adopting these new technologies. In addition, firms using more IT-intensive technologies face lower outsourcing costs of IT-based services generating a positive correlation between the IT level of the user and its outsourcing share of IT-based services. This implication is verified in the data.
M55|Outsourcing bij Vlaamse Ondernemingen: een Exploratief Onderzoek|In deze paper onderzoeken we hoe Vlaamse bedrijven beslissen over outsourcing. In dit verkennende onderzoek komen volgende aspecten aan bod: (1) de soort activiteiten die worden uitbesteed, (2) de voornaamste drijfveren om aan outsourcing te doen, (3) de gepercipieerde risico’s verbonden aan outsourcing, en (4) het verloop van het outsourcingsproces. De resultaten zijn gebaseerd op een vragenlijst, afgenomen bij 35 grote productiebedrijven, gevestigd in Vlaanderen. De resultaten tonen dat vooral activiteiten worden uitbesteed met een lage strategische waarde (zoals drukwerk, transport, loonadministratie, onderhoud, ...) wat overeenstemt met internationaal onderzoek (o.a. Quinn en Hilmer, 1994). Strategisch belangrijke activiteiten (zoals netwerkbeheer, onderzoek en ontwikkeling, productie) worden momenteel niet (of nauwelijks) uitbesteed en worden ook niet in aanmerking genomen voor de toekomst. Als voornaamste redenen om aan outsourcing te doen worden kostenbeheersing en verhoogde flexibiliteit aangehaald. De respondenten schatten het negatieve sociale klimaat in als voornaamste risico van outsourcing. Ondanks het feit dat kostenbeheersing reden nummer één is om aan outsourcing te doen, vinden Vlaamse ondernemingen het aangeboden kwaliteitsniveau iets belangrijker dan de te betalen prijs bij de selectie van een geschikte leverancier. Het hele selectieproces duurt gemiddeld genomen twee maanden en twee derde van de respondenten maakt gebruik van meerdere leveranciers.
M55|The Labor Market Effects of Indexing Unemployment Benefits to Previous Earnings|In most Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries, unemployment benefits are tied to previous labor earnings. The authors study the progressivity of this indexation with regard to its effects on employment, output, and wages in three non-Walrasian equilibrium models of the labor market. In the cases of decentralized union wage bargaining and search unemployment and Nash wage bargaining, employment, output, and wages increase with the degree of indexation. The indexation of unemployment benefits to previous earnings, however, has no effect in the case of efficiency wages. The results also suggest that a more progressive indexation of unemployment benefits is welfare enhancing if wages are bargained.
M55|Uitbesteden en innovatie in de bouw: Het toenemend belang van de regie- en handelsfunctie| De verplaatsing en outsorcing van productie vormt een actueel thema in het huidige beleidsdebat (zie b.v. Gorter, Tang en Toet, 2005). In feite is er niets nieuws onder de zon, maar is dit gewoonweg het gevolg van de voortgaande internationale specialisatie die bijdraagt tot een toename van de (arbeids)productiviteit en dus tot de economische groei. Dit artikel laat zien dat ook binnenlands, in de bouw, het gebruik is om steeds meer werk via onderaannemers uit te besteden. Zo daalde het eigen werk in de omzet van b&u bedrijven in 10 jaar tijd met ongeveer 16%, en in de gww met 20%. Het kaderpersoneel in de bouw, dat voor een belangrijk deel bij de regievoering en uitbesteding betrokken is, nam in de periode 1990-2001 met 80% toe. Deze verschuiving vergt wel dat het management zich bewust wordt van het belang van de regie- en handelsfunctie.
M55|Stock options and employee behavior|Employee stock options (ESOs) are a widespread and economically highly significant phenomenon, both at the company and at the employee level. Stock options are not only relevant for CEOs, but also and increasingly for managers at lower grades in a corporation. Despite its economic importance, there exists very little empirical research that examines the behavior of employees in stock option programs. Our study attempts to fill this gap by empirically studying the behavior of option holders in a distinct ESO plan. We try to answer the following questions: How do employees exercise their stock options? How do employees dispose of company stock acquired in stock option programs? What rational and behavioral factors explain differences in observed exercise behavior? We study these questions by combining two data sets. The first data set consists of detailed individual-level ESO exercise transactions of senior managers from a large German corporation (transaction data). The second data set is based on an extensive questionnaire in which we asked these employees to answer a wide range of questions on employee-specific characteristics, beliefs and attitudes (questionnaire data). We find that employees exercise their options very early and in a few large transactions. A large majority of option recipients sell the shares acquired on exercise. Furthermore, our results suggest that, inconsistent with traditional ESO theories, exercise behavior is not driven by factors like risk aversion or individuals' holdings of company stock that are included in rational models of exercise. Our findings suggest that individuals' exercise decisions depend on the psychological factors miscalibration and mental accounting.
M55|Subjective stock option values and exercise decisions : determinants and consistency|Stock option programs constitute an important economic domain both for the issuing companies and for their employees. Little is known, however, about which individual variables actually drive exercise patterns and how employees value their stock options. We study the following set of research questions to provide a contribution to a better understanding of these topics: How do employees exercise and value stock options? What are the determinants of exercise decisions and subjective option values? Do employees exercise options from different grants in a consistent way? Are subjective option values consistent with individuals' exercise decisions? We are able to use a unique data set combining employee-level option exercises with subjective option values extracted by means of an internal survey. Furthermore, we can combine this data with a wide set of individual variables. We find that employees exercise their stock options well before expiration. The median individual sacrifices more than 90% of the option's lifetime by exercising early. Surprisingly, we also find that individuals substantially overvalue the options they received. We show that exercise dates and option values are unrelated with measures of risk aversion. Loss aversion, however, does a better job in explaining the heterogeneity in option values. We also document that optimism and overconfidence measures are significantly related to option values. We show that managers that are very optimistic about company stock place higher values on their options. This finding is consistent with the sentiment hypothesis presented in Oyer and Schaefer (2004) and Bergman and Jenter (2004). Some evidence for an intertemporal consistency of exercises decisions is also provided. However, we find only weak support for the hypothesis that higher option values are associated with later exercise decisions.
M55|The 'network economy' and models of the employment contract: psychological, economic and legal|The emergence of the so-called ‘network economy’ and the development of project-based work pose a fundamental challenge to established methods of regulating the employment relationship. There appears to be an unsatisfied demand for its greater use, especially among employers, and it is argued that this may be blocked by the lack of suitable contractual forms, such as those that have underpinned the established open-ended employment relationship. Project-based work seeks to retain some of the open-ended flexibility of the standard employment relationship in relation to its task content but not its duration. The paper argues the success of the standard employment relationship owes much to the articulation of its psychological, economic/incentive, and legal aspects. As yet, this appears to be lacking for more transient forms of relationship.
M55|The Network Economy and Models of the Employment Contract: Psychological, Economic and Legal|The emergence of the so-called ¿network economy¿ and the development of project-basedwork pose a fundamental challenge to established methods of regulating the employmentrelationship. There appears to be an unsatisfied demand for its greater use, especially amongemployers, and it is argued that this may be blocked by the lack of suitable contractual forms,such as those that have underpinned the established open-ended employment relationship.Project-based work seeks to retain some of the open-ended flexibility of the standardemployment relationship in relation to its task content but not its duration. The paper arguesthe success of the standard employment relationship owes much to the articulation of itspsychological, economic/incentive, and legal aspects. As yet, this appears to be lacking formore transient forms of relationship.
M55|How Outsourcing Affects Bilateral Political Relations|One issue the literature neglects is how outsourcing stimulates trade (imports, exports and foreign direct investment), thereby affecting political relations. However, at least as far back as 1750, economic philosophers such as Baron de Montesquieu in his L’Esprit des Lois, argued, “peace is the natural effect of trade.” This paper first reviews this literature and then presents econometric evidence. The evidence integrates political international relations events data with economics data on bilateral trade. The resulting econometric models show that trade between nations fosters more peaceful dyadic relations.
M55|Asymmetric Monitoring: Good Versus Bad News Verification|We analyze a principal-agent setting with multiple sources of contracting information in which the signal from each source can be unmistakably interpreted as “good” or “bad” news. We then ask whether it is best to condition the acquisition of one of the information sources on whether the earlier reporting source has reported “good” or “bad” news. That is, is it efficient to “chase the good news” or to “chase the bad news”? The answer depends on whether the earlier source is publicly observed or self-reported by the agent. We also explore ties to institutional features, and in particular conservative accounting treatments.
M55|Management Incentives, Signaling Effects and the Costs of Vertical Integration|The costs of vertical integration are analyzed within a game-theoretic signaling model. It is shown that a company when being vertically integrated with a supplier may well decide to buy certain components from this supplier even at a lower quality than that offered by external sources. When the parent company decides to stop buying components from the integrated supplier, the value of the ownership share in the supplier is reduced: On the one hand, the supplier’s profit from the transactions with its parent is foregone. But on the other hand, other clients may decide against buying from this supplier as the latter’s reputation for providing an appropriate quality is damaged. The loss in value of the ownership share may outweigh the loss due to the lower quality. The anticipation of this effect leads to reduced ex ante incentives for the supplier’s management to raise quality. A spin-off may therefore be beneficial as it strengthens incentives. Costs and benefits of vertical integration are analyzed and consequences for vertically integrated companies organized in profit centers are discussed.
M55|Co-operative behaviour, productivity and income dispersion|We claim that in a world with friction in the agent's search process and stochastic job matching, the decision to undertake a private or a joint project may influence both income dispersion and average productivity of the economy under analysis. The paper shows how institurional and technological factors such as entry cost, serach cost and matching technology may affect the number of people that choose the risky market. The paper suggests a unifying framework to study the inequality between groups and the within group, or residual, inequality. The occupational choice of individuals affects the dimension of the modern sector, while the stochastic matching literature sugests that individuals with same skill can earn different incomes.
M55|Bringing the Market inside the Firm?|No abstract is available for this item.
M55|Intangible asset and value-creation reporting - increasing transparency at Skandia|Skandia, a 145 year-old company that’s transformed itself from a regional insurance company into a global financial services company in the last 15 years, presents an interesting case study of why increasing transparency into intangible asset management and value-creation leads to better long term value creation and human capital development.
M55|The Effect of Residential Location on the Wages of Black Women and White Women|No abstract is available for this item.
