M59|Psychological Resilience Predicted by Personality Traits, Locus of Control and Self-Regulation of Young Entrepreneurs in Pekanbaru|Objective - Entrepreneurs are one of the important contributors to increasing non-agricultural economic income and developing micro, small and medium enterprises. In Indonesia, entrepreneurial orientation has empirically proven that psychological factors affect individuals in improving the economy of society. The concept of psychological resilience as the development of models to predict the events and situations of failure. In certain circumstances difficulties cannot be avoided, a person with psychological resilience is able to reduce the problem by creating a new situation. Individuals who have strong personality characteristics thought to be one important factor in the process of creation and development of enterprises. Methodology/Technique - The scale used in this study consisted of a scale big five personality (Openness) McCrae & Costa (2004), The Self-Regulation Questionnaire (SRQ) by Brown et al (1999), The Work Locus of Control Scale (WLCS) by Spector (1988) as modified by Spector (2004), and Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) compiled by Connor & Davidson (2003) as modified by Manzano and Ayala (2013). A total of 238 micro businesses have voluntarily participated. Findings - The results of path analysis showed that the openness personality directly (ß = 0.131) was significantly associated with resilience. Similarly, the personality trait through self-regulation shows indirect influence on resilience (p1 p3 0.027 x 0.175 = 0.0047) significantly. Novelty - The contributions of personality openness and self-regulation of the resilience of 0.136 or 13.6%. It can be concluded that indirectly associated the entrepreneur's psychological resilience of the personality trait through self-regulation significantly.
M59|The Effectiveness of Leadership Training from Generation Me Perspectives|Objective – This study aims to further explore how leadership training processes are perceived by various generations in an organization. In looking at this phenomenon we use the perspective of the Me generation who are currently attending a wide range of leadership training organized by their own organization as well as outside of the organization. It is expected that this understanding will provide an outline of how the process of leadership training can effectively change behaviour, improve competence, and advance individual's careers in the future. Methodology/Technique – This study uses a qualitative methodology and a case study with exploratory approach is chosen as the researchers have limited knowledge on the research area. In addition, a case study is a more in-depth study. The procedures of data analysis consist of three actions based on research by Miles and Huberman (1994) that occur instantly: data reduction, data presentation, and conclusion drawing. The findings of this study are a development of skills and expertise which is currently proposed for the security of one's career within an organization. Findings – With career security, the ability to work is increased and people are not limited to working in the same job. Employees have the opportunity to improve their skills and adapt to their working abilities in a changing environment. This will also improve the company's image, not only from the loyalty of their employees, but also in terms of the achievement of their goal, development of skills, motivation, productivity, and performance. Novelty – The empirical implications of this study are in line with the trait theory and contingency model. This proposes that a leader must have various attributes to be effective. Effective leadership is characterised by a number of traits such as cognitive abilities, social abilities, and integrated disposition tendencies. Type of Paper: Review
M59|Accounting profession by the view of School of Business Administration students| With the growing importance of accounting information for the accounting entity's management in connection with its financial decision-making, the role of a quality professional accountant is growing. The aim of the article is to evaluate the view of the students of the economic university at the accounting profession in the Czech Republic. It was determined by a questionnaire survey how students of both full-time and combined forms of study at the School of Business Administration perceive the accounting profession in the Czech Republic. Based on the acquired nominal data, the dependence of the perceptions of the accountant profession to form, degree and field of study was examined using the Pearson chi-quadrate test in the contingency table. In addition, the intensity of this dependence was examined using the Pearson coefficient of contingency. It was found that the perception of entrepreneurial risk associated with the selection of a professional accountant does not depend on the form of university studies. On the other hand, it has been shown that the form of university studies influences the perception whether the level of qualifications of professional accountants is reflected in their salary assessment and whether the impact of the economic decline of past years has increased the importance of professional accountants for entrepreneurs. The results also showed that the perception of the accounting profession in the Czech Republic is independent on the degree of university studies.
M59|Health Workers' Behavior, Patient Reporting and Reputational Concerns: Lab-in-the-Field Experimental Evidence from Kenya|"We use a lab-in-the-field experiment to examine the effectiveness of accountability systems that rely on patient reporting in Kenyan health clinics. We recruit patients and health care providers from public and private health clinics to play a series of modified Trust Games. In the game, patients can send money to providers, who are then able to reciprocate. Patients can then file complaints if they are unhappy with the provider's level of reciprocity. We examine patient and provider behavior in a system where complaints lead to non-monetary consequences in the form of disclosing the complaints to professional peers, a system where complaints lead to monetary penalties, and a system where there are no direct consequences on providers, such as standard complaint boxes (our ""control""). We focus on provider reciprocity and patient reporting (or complaining) as our primary behavioral measures in the game. Combining the experimental variation in provider consequences with non-experimental variation in provider and client characteristics such as sector of work, and the existence of personal relationships between clients and providers, we find that: 1) disclosing patients' complaints to providers' professional peers increases providers' pro-social behavior toward patients as much as imposing monetary penalties based on patients' complaints; 2) when complaints lead to tangible consequences (either monetary or non-monetary) for providers, patients are less willing to file such complaints, mainly due to the existence of personal relationships with providers. Overall, our findings support the implementation of citizen reporting systems that leverage peer pressure and reputational concerns."
M59|The Impact of Sickness Absenteeism on Productivity: New Evidence from Belgian Matched Panel Data|We investigate the impact of sickness absenteeism on productivity by using rich longitudinal matched employer-employee data on Belgian private firms. We deal with endogeneity, which arises from unobserved firm heterogeneity and reverse causality, by applying a modified version of the Ackerberg et al's (2015) control function method, which explicitly removes firm fixed effects. Our main finding is that, in general, sickness absenteeism substantially dampens firm productivity. An increase of 1 percentage point in the rate of sickness absenteeism entails a productivity loss of 0.24%. Yet, we find that the impact is much diversified depending on the categories of workers who are absent and across different types of firms. Our results show that sickness absenteeism is detrimental mainly when absent workers are high-tenure or blue-collar workers. Moreover, they show that sickness absenteeism is harmful mostly to industrial firms, high capital-intensive companies, and small- and medium-sized enterprises. This overall picture is coherent with the idea that sickness absenteeism is problematic when absent workers embed high levels of firm/task-specific (tacit) knowledge, when the work of absent employees is highly interconnected with the work of other employees (e.g., along the assembly line), and when firms face more limitations in substituting temporarily absent workers.
M59|Managing Strategic Change and ERP Implementation under Distinctive Learning Styles: Quantitative case of Burberry PLC|This paper examines the effective strategic change management and Enterprise Resource Planning implementation under distinctive learning styles namely; diverging, converging, assembling, and accommodating learning styles through case of Burberry brand at Bicester Village, Cheshire Oaks, and Chatham Place. Additionally, paper investigates the strategic changes and organizational factors in relation with the ability to adopt change and successful ERP implementation. Total 87 respondents were approached through snowball, purposive, and convenience sampling. Findings revealed that accommodating learning style is the most influential learning style that significant positively affects the ERP implementation process. Interestingly, all learning styles (diverging, converging, assimilating, and accommodating) have statistically significant correlation with organizational change process. Additionally, complexity is the most critical organizational component affecting employees' ability to accept changes.
M59|Current trends of employers? brands and strategies to improve the attractiveness of employers|The article deals with the attitude of HR specialists to current HR trends. It addresses the question of building an employer's brand as a competitive advantage in the labor market. Companies have begun or are slowly starting to deal with the Employer Branding concept. They do not want to leave anything to chance and want to manage their business with a long-term perspective. With a long-term perspective which helps firms to promote themselves on the external labor market in front of potential candidates and on the internal labor market in front of their own employees. This promotion must be able to address, attract, retain and motivate talented and qualified employees and ensure the engagement of their own employees. It is and will be a major challenge in recent years. Employer brand should serve as a useful organizational framework for strategic human resources management.For the purpose of these findings, an online survey is conducted every year, involving HR specialists. Research was conducted in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. The analyzes of individual years were evaluated and the results are compared on a year-to-year basis. The results show four main recommendations for companies operating in the Czech Republic. This paper is a part of a research ? project IGA (Internal Grant Agency) No. PEF_DP_2018004, Department of Management, FBE, MENDELU in Brno.
M59|The Impact of Sickness Absenteeism on Productivity: New Evidence from Belgian Matched Panel Data|We investigate the impact of sickness absenteeism on productivity by using rich longitudinal matched employer-employee data on Belgian private firms. We deal with endogeneity, which arises from unobserved firm heterogeneity and reverse causality, by applying a modified version of the Ackerberg et al's (2015) control function method, which explicitly removes firm fixed effects. Our main finding is that, in general, sickness absenteeism substantially dampens firm productivity. An increase of 1 percentage point in the rate of sickness absenteeism entails a productivity loss of 0.24%. Yet, we find that the impact is much diversified depending on the categories of workers who are absent and across different types of firms. Our results show that sickness absenteeism is detrimental mainly when absent workers are high-tenure or blue-collar workers. Moreover, they show that sickness absenteeism is harmful mostly to industrial firms, high capital-intensive companies, and small- and medium-sized enterprises. This overall picture is coherent with the idea that sickness absenteeism is problematic when absent workers embed high levels of firm/task-specific (tacit) knowledge, when the work of absent employees is highly interconnected with the work of other employees (e.g., along the assembly line), and when firms face more limitations in substituting temporarily absent workers.
M59|Whistle-Blower Protection: Theory and Experimental Evidence|"Whistle-blowing by employees plays a major role in uncovering corporate fraud. Various recent laws aim at improving protection of whistle-blowers and enhancing their willingness to report. Evidence on the effectiveness of such legislation is, however, scarce. Moreover, critics have raised worries about fraudulent claims by low-productivity employees. We study these issues in a theory-guided lab experiment. Easily attainable (""belief-based"") protection indeed leads to more reports, both truthful and fraudulent. Fraudulent claims dilute prosecutors' incentives to investigate, and thereby hamper deterrence. These effects are ameliorated under more stringent (""fact-based"") protection."
M59|Whistle-Blower Protection: Theory and Experimental Evidence|"Whistle-blowing by employees plays a major role in uncovering corporate fraud. Various recent laws aim at improving protection of whistle-blowers and enhancing their willingness to report. Evidence on the effectiveness of such legislation is, however, scarce. Moreover, critics have raised worries about fraudulent claims by low-productivity employees. We study these issues in a theory-guided lab experiment. Easily attainable (""belief-based"") protection indeed leads to more reports, both truthful and fraudulent. Fraudulent claims dilute prosecutors' incentives to investigate, and thereby hamper deterrence. These effects are ameliorated under more stringent (""fact-based"") protection."
M59|The Manager in Specialized Institutions and Community Services|The social manager’s role in social services is becoming increasingly important in recent years. The object of study in this elaboration is social manager and the subject –his role in social services. The aim is to highlight the importance of social manager for the appropriate functioning of social services. Specific tasks in this exhibition are limited to disclosure of the essential characteristics and requirements which must meet social manager; style and method of social managers’ work; factors that cause stress in subordinates, and the social manager’s role in stress management in the workplace.
M59|How 'organizational factors' outclass 'personal factors' in retaining Female Employees in Indian IT SMEs|The article examines organizational and personal factors in relation to the retention of the female workers in the IT SMEs. The organizations operating in the business cities of India were targeted using convenience sampling technique. In addition to that, purposive sampling was used for reaching only female participants. Total 250 females out of 380 completed survey from 30 different software SMEs. The findings of this cross-sectional study reflects that the effectiveness of organizational factors such as work-life balance practices and policies, supervisory support, and technological assistance enable female workers to exhibit higher performance under stress. Interestingly, the myth of personal factor such as personality, well-being, and emotional intelligence previously found to be effective, in actual does not improve retention rate of female workers at operational level. In addition to that, detailed analysis revealed that supervisory support is most closely interlinked with retention, followed by policies and procedures of Work Life Balance, and lastly technological assistance. Moreover, societal norms have significant role to certain extent in the creating retention related perception of female workers.
M59|Effect of Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs) on the performance of Small business in Karachi|This paper examines the impact of employee stock ownership plans on the overall performance of the organizations. From the five decades literature, the conceptual underpinning formed includes variables of interest namely; employees' motivation, job commitment, employees' turnover, and productivity/profitability of the firms. The paper follows positivist philosophy with deductive approach to gain numerical significance. Total 280 respondents targeted using combination of probability (random) sampling and non-probability (convenience and snowball) sampling techniques. The statistical tests, which are used to test the hypotheses, are regression and correlation. Results showed that they exists statistically significant correlation between ESOPs and overall performance of the organization. Interestingly, the nature of relationship is positive but the strength is moderate to weaker. Employees' turnover has moderate positive significant correlation (r=. 541, p
M59|Leadership Styles and Job Satisfaction|Low compensation in the retail sector is adversely affecting employee satisfaction and turnover. Leadership style is important for motivating employees and increasing their satisfaction level. This study has examined the effect of transformational and transactional leadership styles on job satisfaction in selected retail outlets of Slough, United Kingdom. The adapted questionnaire was administered to the employees of the retail outlets. The sample size was 270 and the response rate was 85%. The study found that transformational leadership style has a positive effect on job satisfaction, whereas transactional leadership style has an insignificant effect on job satisfaction. Therefore, it can be argued that the transformational leadership style is more effective in the retail sector of Slough, United Kingdom.
M59|The Impact Of Expatriates’ Home Country Culture On Their Time To Proficiency: Empirical Evidence From The Indian Context|The time required by expatriates to become proficient in their new positions is important to both employers and employees. The existing literature on expatriate success is largely blind to what may be significant factors in the process of creating and sustaining job performance amongst the expatriate group: the effect of time and the effect of home country culture. In this study, we examined the impact of five organizational antecedents (role clarity, role discretion, supervisory support, coworkers support and perceived organizational culture dissimilarity) on corporate expatriates’ Time to Proficiency (TTP) in four home country cultures (HCC) samples. We specifically examine the direct impact of HCC on expatriates’ TTP and the moderating effects of HCC on TTP’s organizational antecedents. We used a self-administrated questionnaire on a sample of 224 expatriated managers in New Delhi, India, from four different home countries: France, Germany, Korea, and Scandinavia. To analyze the data, we used PLS Graph version 3.00, a component based Structural Equation Modeling technique. We tested the impact of HCC on TTP by examining the mean scores in TTP across HCC. Differences between path coefficients across the four HCC were analysed using path coefficients’ comparison. Our results show that 1) on the full sample, all five organizational antecedents have a significant impact on expatriates’ TTP, 2) TTP mean scores significantly vary across HCC and 3) the organizational antecedents of expatriate TTP and their relative importance vary across HCC. Our results are broadly consistent with the cultural studies: except for the Korean expatriates, the larger the cultural distance, the longer the TTP. Knowledge that HCC is a significant predictor of TTP suggests that organizations may need to reconsider their international staffing policies, especially in the fields of recruitment, staffing policies and support policies.
M59|Quality Work-Life as predictor to Organisational Commitment under contrasting Leadership Styles: I.T Responses from Pakistan's private software houses|This study investigate the dimensions of organisational commitment under transformational and transactional leadership style while considering the attributes of Quality Work-life prevailing in Pakistan's private software houses. Theoretical framework is developed by considering studies commenced in last three decades on similar topic. This study considers positivist paradigm with objective epistemology, realism ontology, and hyopthetico-deductive quantitative method to explore the relationship between research variables. The sample size for study is 408 participants from 10 mega cities of Pakistan through combining probability and non-probability sampling technique. Self-administered survey questionnaire was circulated through HR department of targeted firms. Results showed that transformational leadership has strong significant relationship with all dimensions of organisational commitment whereas transactional leadership has positive relationship with affective and continuance commitment. Employees prefer transformational leadership style and their level of commitment is driven by existing QWL programme. This paper contributes to expansion of body of knowledge regarding QWL and organisational commitment under considered leadership styles in developed economies. This paper is unique in terms of strategic approach such as deductive quantitative approach under scientific paradigm.
M59|Green Placement – An Innovative Concept & Strategy in Campus Placement Model|Campus Placements as we know today is a process involving interview of college students by recruiting companies utilizing institutional resources towards candidate job selection. The same campus placements which are being traditionally conducted by the arrival of HR Team to campus, their pre-placement talk about company and job description with the gradual interview rounds is slowly beginning to shift its perspectives towards a more greener stature. Especially now with the application of modern technology in hiring practices like E-Recruiting or On-line Recruitment, the entire campus recruitment process is also poised to leap towards a rapid change. Therefore, this research paper aims to construct an ideal strategy towards implementing campus placement process in parallel lines of E-Recruiting as well but with a more environment-friendly approach. This on-line campus placement process termed as 'Green Placements' will thrive as a conceptual model focused on to reduce resource wastages, save water, time, space, electricity by preserving the surrounding environment clean and green whilst the placement activity is being conducted at the college.
M59|How much does job autonomy vary across countries and other extra-organizational contexts?|This paper integrates the study of contextual influences on job autonomy as a key workplace practice with the growing literature on intra-country variation (ICV) versus between-country variation (BCV) in international HRM. While contexts such as industry or country are widely recognized to affect workplace practices such as job autonomy, the influences of different extra-organizational contexts are seldom examined simultaneously or their relative influence systematically compared. Similarly, while much research considers the importance of BCV vis-à-vis ICV in international HRM, little attention is paid to variation that occurs between sub-national or supranational contexts. To move forward on both these counts, we use multilevel analysis and empirically assess the comparative importance of industry as a sub-national context and politico-institutional clusters as a supranational context in addition to country context as sources of differences in job autonomy. Results indicate that inter-cluster variation can be substantially larger than inter-country variation, but that inter-industry dissimilarities tend to exceed both inter-cluster and inter-country dissimilarities. Hence, the main finding of our analysis is that dissimilarities in job autonomy associated with crossing country borders are not exceptionally large as employers and employees face larger dissimilarities in job autonomy when they move across industries. Implications of this finding both for international HRM and for international business and cross-cultural management more broadly are discussed.
M59|Family-friendly workplace: An analysis of organizational effects in the transition economy|Several transition economies have witnessed a decreased state support for work-life balance, which called for a more active role and increased support offered by employers itself. Consequently, companies started implementing a wide array of family-friendly practices, however there was very little understanding about the main organisational effects of introducing family-friendly practices in the context of a transition economy. We propose and test a model of the relationship between family-friendly practices at the organisational level and their effects on the organisation. We offer a detailed investigation of the impact of eight groups of family-friendly practices on the perceived improvement in organisational outcomes. We analysed data over the span of five consecutive years, following companies in Slovenia that had systematically implemented family-friendly corporate practices. We analysed the perceived changes in 20 identified organisational outcomes. Using a linear regression model, we tested which practices would be most able to explain the perceived improvement. We found that the introduction of family-friendly practices had a positive perceived improvement in most (70 percent) of the identified areas, though none of them exhibited a significantly greater impact. Practices affecting workplace arrangements, information and communication and services for families were the groups of practices that had the greatest effect on the perceived positive effects for companies.
M59|Dynamics of a facilitator’s role: Insights from the Danish construction industry|A facilitator is used in many different business capacities. In the construction industry, the role of facilitator is usually carried out by a stakeholder, often the architect. Facilitation embodies different roles, competences and activities. The present research addresses how a facilitator may have and make use of different roles during different phases of a process. This paper is based on a theory-building approach that combines existing theory and cases. Three cases demonstrate other stakeholders’ involvement in the process and the impact of this involvement on the facilitator’s role. The research in the three cases applied is based on workshops, interviews and observations. The cases are viewed from role and network perspectives, offering both possibilities and limitations for innovations in different stages of construction projects. Construction process facilitators fill the role of assisting and enabling the process. To achieve project success, they align the activities of various stakeholders. They reach alignment by influencing the other stakeholders, based on competences and the role taken and made. This paper contributes to the understanding of the facilitator’s role, the changes in this role over time and this role’s importance in construction industry projects.
M59|Messung der Wirksamkeit von Maßnahmen im wirkungsorientiertem Personalcontrolling|The stage model of the International Controller Association is a system for results-based communication controlling. In this paper, this model is shown in detail followed by an application transfer to the personnel controlling. In addition, other methods are presented that can be used to effect measurement and support the implementation of results-based approach.
M59|Chancen und Grenzen eines wirkungsorientierten Personalcontrollings|Dieser Beitrag zeigt die Chancen und Grenzen eines wirkungsorientierten Personalcontrollings auf und erläutert diese anhand von Beispielen. Den Abschluss bildet die Abwägungen zwischen den Chancen und Grenzen. Die Erkenntnis dieser Abwägung ist, dass die ermittelten Vorteile überwiegen und die Umsetzung des Konzepts eines wirkungsorientierten Personalcontrollings förder­ lich ist. This paper discusses the opportunities and limitations of an effect-oriented personnel controlling and illustrates both sides with examples. The paper concludes with an evaluation of the benefits and limitations, which shows that the advantages prevail and the concept of an effect­ oriented personnel controlling is beneficial.
M59|The Importance Awarded to Human Resources and Human Resources Department in Companies from West Region of Romania|In literature, works that have the theme of human resources are some widespread, long a subject being addressed. Given their irreplaceable role in any organization, certainly in the area will continue to be of interest to those in the field. This paper aims to conduct a research, which has two main goals: identifying the importance given to human resources in organizations in the West Region of the country, and whether the Human Resources Department acts as the strategic partner of top management. The study does not include all companies in the mentioned area, but only those large or very large (over 250 employees), regardless of the nature of capital (Romanian, foreign, mixed) or sector (public or private), but that are not subsidiaries of multinational companies, with independent position, being independent decision. The results obtained with this study confirms the change in terms of human resources and the role assigned to the Human Resources Department within organizations, namely those in the Western Region of Romania.
M59|Effects of Motivating to Sustain Commitment of the Sales Professionals|Motivation is an important tool which can have a signifi cant impact to improve the performance of employees in any organization and in the current competitive world, employees’ commitment is crucial in achieving the organizational goals. The current research is aimed at examining the role played by motivation in sustaining the commitment of sales professionals. Primary data has been collected among 100 sales professionals using the close-ended questionnaire. For the analysis purpose both descriptive and inferential analysis has been conducted. The fi ndings from the analysis show that most factors included in the model to measure the motivation show a signifi cant and positive impact. Similarly the coeffi cient for organizational support, psychological support and fi nancial support shows a positive and signifi cant impact. In examining the impact of increased motivation on employees’ commitment, the results were also statistically signifi cant and positive. On the basis of the fi ndings it can be concluded that the motivation has a signifi cant and positive impact on employees’ commitment so organizations should focus on motivating their employees; however, the method used for motivation can differ from one organization to another.
M59|Employment chances of immigrants and their children in Germany: does sense of personal control matter?|Abstract Labour market integration is a social process suggesting that personality traits are relevant. This paper explores whether immigrants with a higher belief in their ability to control outcomes tend to be more likely to be employed. This trait is known in psychology as the locus of control (LOC). I employ a model framework that allows LOC to depend on a set of observable determining variables. Results indicate that sense of personal control is correlated with employment probability and that there is a risk that immigrants and their children tend to have a more externalized LOC. Mother’s education is a key factor correlated with the sense of personal control.
M59|Repatriation outcomes affecting corporate ROI: a critical review and future agenda|Abstract Traditional corporate expatriate assignments play a crucial role in driving Multinational Corporations’ (MNCs’) business. While expatriate management literature long concentrated on facilitating the employees’ actual stay in the host countries, seminal research in the early 1990s demonstrated that their return home is entailed by crucial challenges as well. Scholarly interest in the topic of repatriation has increased considerably ever since. Over the past three decades, research has addressed a broad array of aspects to be considered upon the return of expatriates. Nevertheless, so far very few MNCs have formal repatriation strategies in place. However, by failing to manage the return of expatriates, firms jeopardize their corporate return on investment (cROI) of expatriation. Many of the repatriation outcomes discussed in existing research can have an effect on cROI as they create late but substantial costs and/or benefits for assigning MNCs. In order to further enhance the strategic integration of repatriation into the expatriate management process as well as to pave the way for future research on this important topic, this study reviews the current state of repatriation literature from a cROI-perspective. By examining 51 articles, we identify the range of cROI-affecting repatriation outcomes addressed so far in order to then classify the variables encountered according to their cost and benefit potential to assigning firms. We thereby outline potential shortcomings in existing literature to eventually deduce an agenda for future research on repatriation that aims at maximizing cROI in the long run.
M59|Whistleblowing: Incentives and situational determinants|Law makers increasingly try to capitalize on individuals having acquired knowledge of corporate crimes or other misconduct by inducing them to blow the whistle. In a laboratory experiment we measure the effectiveness of incentives on the willingness to report such misconduct to a sanctioning authority. We find that fines for non-reporting insiders, rewards and even simple commands increase the probability of whistleblowing. We find the strongest effect for fines. Situational determinants also influence the willingness to blow the whistle: Insiders who are negatively affected by the misconduct are more likely to blow the whistle than non-affected or profiting insiders. Those (negatively affected) victims are also sensitive to the misconduct's impact on the authority sanctioning the misconduct (public authority or employer): Whistleblowing is more likely if the enforcement authority is negatively affected compared to positively or not affected.
M59|The Impact of Work Related Stress on Employees' Satisfaction|The aim of the present study is to identify the impact of work related stress events over employees’ job satisfaction. The article includes work with primary data collection based on a JSS (Job Satisfaction Survey) questionnaire survey applied in a multinational organization in Romania. The findings of this study may help to stimulate further empirical research on the relationship between managers and subordinates in order to encourage and motivate a career commitment and career satisfaction.
M59|Training Assessment: A Premise For Training Transfer In Enterprises|The technical literature tackled the issues of training transfer and training assessment from two distinct research directions that sometimes happened to intermingle; in the light of recent discoveries, we considered these issues were interrelated via a causal connection. We used an analysis of the approach of these two topics in 30 enterprises that constantly provided their employees with training in the past two full years. The present paper demonstrated the fact that the training transfer rate is: a) strongly influenced by the extent to which training evaluation methods were used; b) moderately influenced by the support employees received when they returned to work in order to implement what they had learned; and c) it is not influenced by the proper training evaluation methods (which may be different depending on the specific of the training and the expertise of the human resources specialist who undertakes the assessment).
M59|Solutions to the problems of the work climate that are specific to the culture of the military organization|This study aims at itemizing the modalities of managing the organizational conflicts that appear because of pseudo-camaraderie at work. Colleagues are not a quick solution meant to solving such issues as those related to loneliness or career, or to love disappointments, illness or failure. The role of positive comrades is to enrich our lives, making us happier.
M59|The analysis of camaraderie at the work place, in the culture of military organizations|Friendship is the interhuman relation based on four main elements: 1) it emerges between two people who are not kindred; 2) it is optional and voluntary; 3) it is not founded on a legal agreement; 4) it is reciprocal. The aim of this paper is to analyse the situations in which friendship can emerge at the workplace and the situations in which it is even beneficial, in the culture of military organizations.
M59|Sequential Judgment Effects In The Workplace: Evidence From The National Basketball Association|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12186-abs-0001""> This study investigates the impact of past performance evaluations on future decisions involving judgment. I analyze the decisions of highly skilled and highly monitored referees regarding offensive fouls and violations in the National Basketball Association. After testing for equilibrium adjustments in player behavior, findings support a hypothesis of increased referee scrutiny on one team following a potentially questionable call on the opposing team. Results are inconclusive for subsequent changes in scrutiny toward the original violating team. The analysis provides a nonexperimental test of sequential bias on elite employees working under strict performance standards, and suggests a likely role for sequential judgment effects in other areas of economic activity. ( JEL D03, L83, J44, M59)"
M59|Peer pressure and productivity: The role of observing and being observed|Peer effects arise in situations where workers observe each others’ work activity. In this paper, we disentangle the effect of observing a peer from that of being observed by a peer, by setting up a real effort experiment in which we manipulate the observability of performance. In particular, we randomize subjects into three groups: in the first one subjects are observed by another subject, but do not observe anybody; in the second one subjects observe somebody else's performance, but are not observed by anybody; in the last group subjects work in isolation, neither observing, nor being observed. To assess the importance of payoff externalities in the emergence of peer effects, we consider both a piece rate compensation scheme, where pay depends solely on own performance, and a team compensation scheme, where pay also depends on the performance of other team members. Overall, we find some evidence that subjects who are observed increase productivity at least initially when compensation is team based, while we find that subjects observing react to what they see when compensation is based only on own performance.
M59|Leadership Style And Perception Of Their Effectiveness In Higher Education: Evidence From Mexico, Estilo De Liderazgo Y Su Percepcion De La Eficacia En Educacion Superior: Evidencias De Mexico|Based on the Leadership Model of Full Range, we examine leader effectiveness from the perception of the subordinate. The study was conducted at the Research Center of CIIDIR Durango. The Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (MLQ) was applied to sample of 93 employees. The results indicate that executives of CIIDIR have both behaviors, the Transactional Leadership style and Transformational. It is confirmed that the two styles are not mutually exclusive. The leadership style that had a higher correlation with the effectiveness of the leader was the Transformational Leadership, with a Pearson coefficient of 0.925. Transactional leadership, obtained a coefficient of 0.646. It is observed that passive behaviors of transactional leadership generate a negative correlation on the subordinate with respect to effectiveness of the leader. Active behaviors of transactional leadership generate a positive correlation. One possible reason for the high coefficient of correlation in the Transformational Leadership with the Effectiveness of the leader is deducted. This is due to the high educational level of both the boss and the subordinate, coinciding with the results of the work carried out in the community of Valencia, Spain of Alvarez (2009) police and Hersey and Blanchard (Keith and Newstrom, 2003).
M59|Does affective commitment positively predict employee performance? Evidence from the banking industry of Bangladesh|The role, effect and importance of affective commitment is predicted to be contingent to context in many extant literatures. However, no study has yet explored the disposition of contextual influence on affective commitment-job performance link. This study is designed to observe the difficulty of psychologically disassociating the affective commitment construct from other types of commitments (normative or continuance) among the respondents of a complex and rarely explored context of Bangladeshi banking industry. This case study is the first one to examine the institutional context for its possible influence on the link between affective commitment and job performance in two banks in Bangladesh for the purpose of literal replication. This study uses information from interviews and focus group discussions among 53 participants and survey results of 436 respondents from the selected banks. The qualitative findings preceded and informed the survey and helped to explain the quantitative findings in this multi-method study. The qualitative data has been analysed using recursive abstraction technique and thematic analysis. Structural equation modelling (in AMOS21) has been used to analyse the quantitative survey data. The results show that the external and internal contexts of the banks have considerable impact on the nature, perception and effect of affective commitment among the respondents on their job performance. Moreover, it is observed that affective commitment does not positively predict employee performance in the case study banks. Qualitative findings from interview and focus group discussions have explained why committed employees may not be the high performers and high performing employees may not be committed. The policy implication for the HR practitioners is that, adopting unfair HR systems may lead to undesirable retention of a genuinely committed but mediocre workforce incapable to get other job offers or low affective commitment and retention rate of high performing employees. Essentially, the banks should avoid unsystematic and non-transparent recruitment and selection practices, performance management system and compensation policy. In addition, the management should strategically align the career development opportunities to the organisational goals in order to ensure meaningful affective commitment that may lead to higher job performance.
M59|Does affective commitment positively predict employee performance? Evidence from the banking industry of Bangladesh|The role, effect and importance of affective commitment is predicted to be contingent to context in many extant literatures. However, no study has yet explored the disposition of contextual influence on affective commitment-job performance link. This study is designed to observe the difficulty of psychologically disassociating the affective commitment construct from other types of commitments (normative or continuance) among the respondents of a complex and rarely explored context of Bangladeshi banking industry. This case study is the first one to examine the institutional context for its possible influence on the link between affective commitment and job performance in two banks in Bangladesh for the purpose of literal replication. This study uses information from interviews and focus group discussions among 53 participants and survey results of 436 respondents from the selected banks. The qualitative findings preceded and informed the survey and helped to explain the quantitative findings in this multi-method study. The qualitative data has been analysed using recursive abstraction technique and thematic analysis. Structural equation modelling (in AMOS21) has been used to analyse the quantitative survey data. The results show that the external and internal contexts of the banks have considerable impact on the nature, perception and effect of affective commitment among the respondents on their job performance. Moreover, it is observed that affective commitment does not positively predict employee performance in the case study banks. Qualitative findings from interview and focus group discussions have explained why committed employees may not be the high performers and high performing employees may not be committed. The policy implication for the HR practitioners is that, adopting unfair HR systems may lead to undesirable retention of a genuinely committed but mediocre workforce incapable to get other job offers or low affective commitment and retention rate of high performing employees. Essentially, the banks should avoid unsystematic and non-transparent recruitment and selection practices, performance management system and compensation policy. In addition, the management should strategically align the career development opportunities to the organisational goals in order to ensure meaningful affective commitment that may lead to higher job performance.
M59|Mikropolitik am Arbeitsplatz. Qualitative Studien zur Anwendung von Taktiken in Unternehmen|Wird die Arbeitswelt aus mikropolitischer Perspektive betrachtet, geraet das Ringen um Ressourcen und Spielraeume auf der Handlungsebene in den Blick. Wie werden organisationale Change-Prozesse – ob innerbetriebliches Delayering oder die fortschreitende Digitalisierung – strategisch genutzt? Wie funktioniert die Zusammenarbeit abhaengig Beschaeftigter zwischen Konkurrenz und Solidaritaet, wenn variable Entgeltbestandteile an interne Rankings geknuepft werden? Und wie gelingt die eigene Positionierung als Fuehrungskraft, wenn aus Kolleg/innen im Zuge des Aufstiegs Untergebene werden oder unternehmenskulturelle Erwartungen nicht erfuellt werden koennen? – In den Beitraegen des vorliegenden Bandes wird diesen und weiteren Fragen nachgegangen. Deutlich wird, wie Prozesse organisationaler Veraenderung mikropolitische Arenen eroeffnen, in denen die Beschaeftigten mit Hilfe unterschiedlicher mikropolitischer Strategien versuchen, ihre Ressourcen zu wahren und nicht zu ‚Verlierern‘ zu werden, und wie sie sich – unter Bezugnahme auf die lokalen Uebereinkuenfte und spezifischen Rahmenbedingungen – im Spannungsfeld zwischen den eigenen Interessen und den Interessen anderer immer wieder neu positionieren.
M59|Anforderungen an ein wirkungsorientiertes Personalcontrolling|In dieser Veröffentlichung geht es um die Darstellungen der Grundvoraussetzungen bei der Konzeption eines wirkungsorientierten Personalcontrollings. Hierzu zählen die Faktoren Zielkaskadierung, Maßnahmenorientierung, Stakeholder-Orientierung und Anschlussfähigkeit an etablierte Controllingsysteme. Diese Konzeptionsüberlegungen bauen auf das Grundmodell des Kommunikations-Controllings des Internationalen Controller Vereins von 2010 auf, unter dem Transfer der Anwendung ins Personalcontrolling.
M59|Flexible Labor Market In Romania - Tactical And Strategic Coordinate|In the European Union had emerged flexicurity strategies to increase by increasing in tandem flexibility and safety. In Romania flexicurity will be achieved by rebalancing the relationship between flexibility and security in the sense of increasing flexibility that ultimately seems to have understood, the decision makers as a real job security can not be achieved by ignoring the interests of employers. This is exactly the sense that we can understand the analysis changes in labor legislation in recent years, when concerns about labor market flexibility have emerged.
M59|Theories And Methods Regarding Employee Motivation|Nowadays, more and more companies from the international business environment, are starting to consider their own employees as a more important resource than the financial capital or the physical assets. This is why the employee motivation is becoming one of the main focuses amongst the companies who want to maintain a competitive position in the market. Motivation, as an instrument used for the increase of human resource productivity, can take different shapes, according to the psychosocial profile of each employee. Thus, the managers should build a personal relationship with their employees and try to understand their expectations regarding to what the company can offer then. Moreover, managers should understand which are the best methods through which they can increase their employee’s satisfaction, so they can fulfill their task at an optimum level. This paper aims to present a series of theories and methods employee motivation, their advantages and disadvantages and the situations in which these theories can be successfully applied.
M59|When Do Companies Fund Their Defined Benefit Pension Plans?|This paper extends the accounting academic literature on pension funding strategy by looking at a more recent data set, directly examining contributions to defined benefit pension plans, and considering the effect of changing economic conditions over time on pension plan funding. I find that the average funded status of defined benefit pension plans has changed over time in response to changing market conditions. In addition, managers respond to these changes differently depending on firm specific incentives to make contributions to their pension plans. I find that companies that have employees protected by unions, more costly plans, higher levels of cash from operations, higher levels of plan underfunding, tax incentives, and debt contracting incentives contribute more to their pension plans. In contrast, I find that companies with other investment opportunities for their free cash, and companies with pension plans assets earning higher returns contribute less to their pension plans. This paper has implications for regulators and standard setters considering how to deal with pension funding shortfalls, accounting professionals auditing companies with pension plans, CFOs determining their companyâ€™s pension funding strategy, and investors and creditors evaluating the risks that companies with defined benefit pension plans are taking on.
M59|A Standardized Net Income Shares Model To Develop Basic Child Support Guidelines|Research regarding child support typically focuses on the effects of child support awards and its underlying principles within child support models. However, researchers have invested little effort in the analysis of child support guideline comparisons or in the development of analyses to determine whether state adopted guidelines seem reasonable based on state-specific macroeconomic variables. This analysis intends to develop a model to determine the reasonableness of child support guidelines for states that use the income shares method based on the net income of both parents. Further, it intends to suggest that the development of a standard model is possible and, to a certain extent, needed, to obtain interstate uniformity. Findings suggest that the implementation of such a model could lead to more equitable and uniform basic child support awards.
M59|Strategic Importance Of Capital Intellectual In Manufacturing Of Southeast Region Coahuila State, Mexico, Importancia Estrategica Del Capital Intelectual En La Industria Manufacturera De La Region Sureste Del Estado De Coahuila, Mexico|During Mexico's economic crises of the last century the economy experienced reduced salaries, benefits and training, triggering inefficiency, lack of motivation and job insecurity, and first measure skills and knowledge. In the XXI century organizations face a challenge in terms of evaluating intellectual capital. This research carried out at the beginning of 2012, arises because in the Southeast region of the state of Coahuila (Saltillo, Ramos Arizpe, and Arteaga Parras) are a large number of developing manufacturing firms, in which management knowledge and application of new technologies is difficult. This makes them less competitive and less successful. We propose improvements to processes used in the management of knowledge to generate skilled manpower and increasing rates of effectiveness. A questionnaire was applied in three blocks. The results indicate that employees are experts in their work, are highly trained in industrial safety and ecology, is a compensated innovative staff, promotes and invests in knowledge management and research & development, and enjoys a reputation for quality management and innovation.
M59|Organización Laboral Y Sistemas De Participación En La Industria Auxiliar Del Automóvil En Cataluña / Work Organization And Employee Participation In Catalonia Automotive Auxiliary Industry|El objetivo del artículo es conocer en las empresas localizadas en Cataluña, proveedoras de los OEM, el grado de implantación individual y conjunta de ciertas prácticas laborales de los modelos de la producción ajustada y la producción reflexiva. Se presentan los resultados de una encuesta, analizando ítems sobre el grado de autonomía del operario, la delegación de trabajo indirecto, características de los puestos de trabajo, modalidades de remuneración variable, incorporación del trabajo en equipo y ciertos sistemas de participación. Se analiza si hay diferencias significativas en la mediana de los ítems al segmentar por la nacionalidad del capital y el grado de implementación del JIT y del trabajo en equipo. Se verifica un escaso rediseño del trabajo, elevada utilización individual de algunas prácticas de la producción ajustada, más intensas en las de capital extranjero. Falta una mayor integración en la mayoría de empresas. Se obtiene una tipología con 7 grupos de empresas. / The aim of this paper is to determine the degree of implementation of certain work practices of reflexive production and lean production, individually and jointly, in Catalonia direct suppliers firms of OEM. We present the results of a survey, which examines various items about the degree of work autonomy and indirect labor delegation to the operator, characteristics of jobs, wage compensations, if teamwork and certain participation systems are implemented. We analyze whether there are significant differences in the median of the items by segmenting the nationality of capital, degree of implementation of JIT and teamwork. It is verified a small job redesign, as well an important individual use of some practices of lean production, more intensely on foreign capital firms. Lack greater integration in most firms, so there should be more joint implementation. It identifies a typology with seven groups of firms.
M59|Performance of Agricultural Capital Formation in India during To Regime: An Impact of AOA|World Trade Organization (WTO), the modified transformation of GATT 1947 including new package of various agreements, has made easier way to flow the trade among the member countries. As India is an agro-prime country, Agreement on Agriculture (AOA) becomes very important and sensitive issue for India. But with trade openness factor some paradoxical things are included in this agreement like green box and blue box arrangement which exist especially in developed countries. Through this way developed countries may block the imports from the developing countries according their welfares without any objection of other countries. So Indian farmers are unable to compete with the cheap subsidized product of developed countries and finally they have no choice except low priced selling of their agricultural products. Thus this loss of income of farmers decreases the agricultural investment. We analyzed that the annual average of Gross Capital Formation (GCF) in agriculture & allied sectors as percentage of Gross Domestic Capital Formation (GDCF) and as percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) decreased from 21.57% and 2.55% in pre WTO period to 6.22% and 2.16%, respectively, in post WTO period in India.
M59|Organisational Stress and Employee Dissatisfaction at Work: A Case Study to Boost Employee Satisfaction|Employee satisfaction is the terminology used to describe whether employees are happy and comfortable and fulfilling their desires and needs at work. Many measures purport that employee satisfaction is a factor in employee motivation, employee goal achievement, and positive employee morale in the workplace.Employee satisfaction, while generally a positive in your organization, can also be a downer if mediocre employees stay because they are satisfied with your work environment.Employee satisfaction or job satisfaction is, quite simply, how content or satisfied employees are with their jobs. Employee satisfaction is typically measured using an employee satisfaction survey. These surveys address topics such as compensation, workload, perceptions of management, flexibility, teamwork, resources, etc. This paper tries to identify the various measures for increasing employee satisfaction at work.
M59|Analyzing Engagement Effects for Repatriate Retention|Due to the nature of globalization and increased competition levels more and more companies send their employees abroad to gain experience and knowledge. However, at some point, these companies need to repatriate their employees and bring them back into the fold. Currently there exists a very high turnover rate for repatriates and the loss of the knowledge and experience gained is a serious setback for an organization. Further research in examining the antecedents of turnover intention with the aim of reducing this behavior is needed to enhance future competitive capabilities. The main goal of this paper is to set the stage for an empirical analysis of factors that may lead to an increase in turnover intention for both general and repatriated employees. The implications suggest that further research into turnover intention for repatriates could lead to a better understanding of strategic planning in terms of human resources and ease the transition of repatriates back into their organizations.
M59|Matchingtools und Matchingprozesse im Kontext von Junior und Senior Entrepreneuren<BR>[Matching Tools and Processes in the Context of Junior and Senior Entrepreneurship]|In diesem Beitrag wird ein Matchingprozess zwischen Junior und Senior Entrepreneuren dar-gestellt, wie er im Kontext der Teambildung für Unternehmensgründungen gestaltet werden kann. Dabei wird auf die Prozesse und die eingesetzten Tools eingegangen. Die Darstellung bezieht sich auf das Projekt „Gründungstandem“ zur Anbahnung von Unternehmensneugründungen, welches in Sachsen-Anhalt von 2012-2014 durchgeführt wird. This paper describes a matching process between junior and senior entrepreneurs in the context of team formation. Such a matching process can be initiated in the context of setting up a new enterprise. The authors describe the tools used in the matching process of team formation. The paper is based on experiences from the project Gründungstandem whose objective is to promote the founding of new businesses and is in operation in Saxony-Anhalt in the timespan 2012-2014.
M59|Możliwość i użyteczność moralna kodyfikacji norm etyki zawodowej. Przegląd stanowisk etycznych<BR>[Possibility and Moral Usefulness of Professional Ethics Standards Codification. Overview of Ethical Positions]|Współcześnie obserwujemy popularyzację kodeksów zaadresowanych do różnych grup społecznych. Zasadne jest poszukiwanie odpowiedzi na pytania dotyczące przesłanek ich konstruowania i możliwości praktycznego ich wykorzystywania. Celem artykułu jest przedstawienie krytycznego przeglądu literatury przedmiotu w obszarze stanowisk szczególnie związanych z kwestią kodyfikacji etyk zawodowych. W pierwszej kolejności omówiono znaczenia przypisywane pojęciu kodeksu etycznego i podstawowe stanowiska etyczne. W dalszej części artykułuprzedstawiono analizę argumentów zwolenników i przeciwników kodyfikacji norm. Nowadays we observe the popularization of codes addressed to various social groups. It is reasonable to search for answers to questions about the conditions of their construction and the possibility of their practical use. This article presents a critical review of the literature in the field of positions specifically related to the issue of codification of professional ethics. In the first place the importance attributed to the concept of an ethical code and basic ethical positions are discussed. The rest of the paper contains an analysis of the supporters and opponents of codification standards arguments.
M59|Stakeholder Analysis as a Tool for Systems Approach Research in HRD|The world is experiencing significant, largely economic and sociotechnical, induced change. These induced changes are meaningful with a function of people taking collective actions around common beliefs. These changes are more than jargon, cliché and hyperbole, and they are effecting major transformations. These transformations will impact on how human resources are developed and we need to be able to forecast its effects. In order to produce such forecasts, HRD needs to become more predictive - to develop the ability to understand how human capital systems and organizations will behave in future. Further development of systems models is required to allow such predictions to be made. Critical to the development of such models will be to understand that linear epistemology cannot be the dominant epistemology of practice and that dynamic complexity of challenges confronted by HRD professionals in their daily research and practice requires a nonlinear epistemology of practice, rather than reductive or linear thinking or processes of normal science. Although the adoption of a systems approach to research in HRD is not novel, methodologies and conceptual approaches underlying it use are not very well developed. In this paper, a stakeholder analysis methodology that was developed as a novel method in conducting systems approach research in human resource development, public policy and agricultural education is described.
M59|A Research about Emotional Intelligence on Generations|"Success in the workplace takes a lot more than education, book knowledge or experience. Organizations and the conscious, achievement-oriented managers needs a high rate of ""emotional intelligence"" to be successful. Emotional intelligence is the ability to identify and manage personal emotions and the emotions of others. Emotional intelligence (EQ) matters just as much as intellectual ability (IQ). In the research Chan’s (2006) EI12 scale was used for the measure of emotional intelligence. The main question of the study is to analyze the emotional intelligence according to generations. In this study, it is proved that there is a no significant difference about emotional intelligence in different generations."
M59|Impact of lawyers' invisible disabilities on their professional challenges and their perception of their performance|The aim of the current study was to learn about the difficulties stemming from invisible disorders in the practice of law, what do lawyers with invisible disorders do to cope with their disorders, what are their considerations in choosing their job specialty, what is their motivation to choose law as their profession and practice it, and how do they define their professional success and failure. Practicing law is challenging in many aspects. First, one is at a position to be knowledgeable about legislation, which has a dynamic nature. There is a constant need for recognizing the issues at hand, while acting fast to find proper legislative solutions to represent the client as best as possible. To do this, a lawyer is ought to be able to properly analyze the case, be knowledgeable about relevant laws and legislation, be detail-oriented, be able to multi-task and manage large amount of information, to properly assess what the main issue at hand is, and efficiently manage the case. Practicing law also requires proper communication and having the ability to connect between details - all of which must be accomplished within a strict timeline. Therefore, to succeed as a lawyer, one should be focused, be able concentrate on a high level, and have good organizational and time management skills. Some lawyers are struggling with invisible disabilities, such as attention deficits and hyperactivity disorders, as well as learning disabilities, and for them practicing law is a double-challenge. Similarly to their colleagues, they are required to practice law as demanded by their profession, but (and mainly) cope with their invisible disorder to professionally succeed. Often individuals with invisible disabilities are unaware of their situation and to the fact that these may have been the source for their difficulties in school or at work. For example, they may have difficulties to carry through assignments from beginning to end, to focus on one task, and they may unsuccessfully try to concurrently engage in many tasks. During school they may overcome their disorder by creating coping mechanisms, such as studying in groups, rewriting assignments, and reading class' notes taken by classmates, to compensate for their disabilities. Usually such coping strategies masked their disorder from them and their surroundings. Nevertheless, other individuals with sucfh disorders are aware of their situation, thereby they have been getting accommodations to their disabilities while in school (e.g. time-adjustment during exams, fitting the type of exams to their capabilities, and tutoring). Like other students with invisible disabilities, law students with these kinds of difficulties may eventually do very well in school. The main challenge for these lawyers is in the workforce. Practicing law is a very competitive occupation. The institution of law, the clients and colleagues, and the community – all have high expectation from lawyers. In Israel there is not enough awareness for the possibility that professionals who practice law may be struggling with invisible disabilities.
M59|Organizational Changes within a Governmental Agency As It Becomes an Authority - Transition from Israel Land Administration to Israel Land Authority (Part 1)|"The Israeli Land Administration was established following legislation in order to manage lands owned by the State. This body was composed of two departments: a department for ""ownership and registration"" that was moved to the Administration for Registration and Development; and the department for ""land use"", which was moved to the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture. In my research towards a doctor's degree, I studied organizational changes within organizations that were the result of various constraints. Furthermore, I suggested a model that assists those organizations to make those necessary changes smoothly, with an effort to keep the human capital. This is a first paper that puts emphasis on the literature review (the initial research steps), the next one, in the next number of this review, being more relative to the model I developed."
M59|U.S. Navy Seals - A Role model for the modern leadership|The organization of military unit?s elite Navy Seals is a model with direct applicability in ensuring stability and development of the private financial sector. Applying some techniques from military management system can create premises for the development of commercial companies in order to ensure a healthy and sustainable economic system, based on indestructible principles. The purpose of this paper is to highlight the main elements of military leadership with impact in ensuring the sustainability of civil leadership model. At the same time I will highlight how this model can be translated into the daily civil managerial activity so that military discipline would lead to avoidance of errors in management of a civil organization by drawing the vision inside and outside it.
M59|"""Das große Ziel immer im Auge behalten"": Sportimmanente Indikatoren des Trainerstils von Jürgen Klopp - Transfermöglichkeiten für Führungskräfte in Genossenschaftsbanken"|[Vorwort zur Veröffentlichung] Aus der Perspektive der Führungsforschung gehört Jürgen Klopp zu den transformationalen Führungspersonen, deren Führungsstil auf vier Komponenten basiert: Charisma bzw. Vorbildfunktion des Führenden, Motivation durch Zukunftsvisionen, Anregung zur Eigenverantwortung und individuelle Berücksichtigung des Einzelnen (Riedelbauch, K.: 2011, S. 13). Mit Blick auf die identifizierten Erfolgsfaktoren hat sich Jürgen Klopp bewusst oder unbewusst nach diesen Prinzipien des Führungsansatzes gerichtet. Auf dieser Basis lassen sich weitere neun Erfolgsfaktoren benennen. Zielformulierung, Motivation, hoher Individualitätsgrad, Individuum versus Team, Selbstvertrauen, Fehlermanagement, Wir-Gefühl, Veränderung und Respekt sind die Erfolgsbausteine, die Borussia Dortmund in ihrem Geschäftsfeld zu einer der erfolgreichsten deutschen Mannschaft hervorheben. Diese Faktoren können auch den bankbetrieblichen Führungsalltag beflügeln und unternehmerischen Erfolg begünstigen.
M59|New Tools for Effective Marketing Communications|Successful companies are aware of the needs for long-term strategic development, which is based on relationship marketing with customers. That is necessary to touch the customers’ emotion and irrationality of purchase decision. For this touch, companies use marketing communication tools to increase own sales. Adequate communication could create optimal background for effective marketing. The article is focused on dependency between genders and marketing communication tools. The objectives of this research are to verify dependence intensity of marketing communication in connection with respondents and to identify impacts the marketing communication and to describe trend in communication. The research was aimed by random chosen group of young people in the Czech Republic.
M59|When Galatea cares about her reputation: How having faith in your workers reduces their motivation to shine|We develop a theory of leadership that focuses on the role managers play in motivating employees through their attitudes towards employees. We model a manager's attitude as her perception about employees' abilities of successfully completing challenging tasks. We show that a positive attitude motivates employees who are driven by monetary rewards. A negative attitude may motivate employees who are driven by concerns about their reputation for being able. When employees are driven by monetary rewards and care about their reputations, an increase in the reward for successfully completing challenging tasks may lead employees to shy away from these tasks.
M59|Critical Analysis Of Basic Child Support Awards In Puerto Rico,Analisis Critico De La Pension Alimentaria Basica En Puerto Rico|The responsibility to support offspring emanates from Natural Law and is certainly undelayable and indelegable. However, it must be subject to parameters of fairness which guarantee that children receive, from both parents, the resources needed for their support based on principles of proportionality, need, economic ability and reasonableness. This analysis reveals the Puerto Rico child support regime leads to the imposition of child support awards that overestimate, in most cases, the non-custodial parentsâ€™ responsibility for child rearing expenses thereby violating basic equity principles. This finding is based on a comparative evaluation of awards in state jurisdictions within the United States of America.
M59|La Adopción Del E-Gobierno En Entornos Voluntarios / The Adoption Of E-Government In Free-Media Environments|El desarrollo del e-Gobierno centrado en el usuario requiere conocer tanto las expectativas que este tiene respecto a su uso, como los elementos que favorecen su adopción. Chan et al. (2010) han planteado la existencia de diversos antecedentes de los componentes del modelo Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT) en un entorno obligatorio. El presente trabajo, a través del desarrollo de un modelo de ecuaciones estructurales mediante PLS, analiza la vigencia de tales antecedentes en un entorno voluntario. Los resultados muestran cómo las expectativas de resultado y las expectativas de esfuerzo inciden de forma significativa sobre la intención de emplear la plataforma de e-Gobierno, y también que esta y las condiciones facilitadoras influyen sobre el uso de la mencionada plataforma. Respecto a los antecedentes de los componentes del modelo UTAUT, cabe destacar el papel desempe˜nado por la conveniencia, asistencia, confianza y aversión a la interacción personal. / e-Government development requires a good knowledge of both users’ expectations and all the factors that may strength users’ adoption of the technology. Chan et al. (2010) proposed several variables that could act as antecedents of the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT) model’s components in the context of compulsory use environments. The present research addresses the validity of such antecedents when one is dealing with a free use environment instead that with a compulsory one. The methodology is based in building up a structural equation model by means of the PLS technique. Our findings show that the expectations about the result to be obtained and the effort expectations held by the user affect significantly the intention of use of the e-Government platform. In turn, the intention of use and the facilitating conditions have an influence on actual use of the platform. Furthermore, we found that convenience, assistance, trust and avoidance of personal interaction play important roles in terms of UTAUT model’s antecedents.
M59|Project Portfolio Management: A Pilot Survey on the Importance of 'Project Building Stones' of Corporate Life|Today portfolio management is a priority area. Unfortunately, there is a lack of information on this subject: portfolio management is not a prevailing element in corporate thinking, although the content and method of implementing projects are of key importance for companies. This paper presents a short, general theoretical introduction and the results of a pilot study. These represent the basis of defining future research directions.
M59|Establishing the individual and group motivation impact on employees in business organizations|The article describes the basic points of a new methodology to identify the individual and group motivation impact on employees in business organizations. The conclusions are based on studies of industrial enterprises in Bulgaria and identification of problematic areas in the current development of the science of human resourcesï¿½ motivation. A method is proposed to measure the motivation impact on employees, seeking to establish which factors-motivators have an impact on the needs of the employees and the extent to which their influence is fully exploited.
M59|An Analyze of Romanian Universities from the Organizational Values Perspective|The organizational culture of a university influences not only the relationships that exist between the members of the academic community but also the quality of the teaching process and students’ development. Based on these, we developed a research in which we focused on analyzing the values system from the oldest Romanian universities. We aimed to find out if the professional status influences the evaluation of the most dominated organizational values. In order to achieve our goal we used an ethical approach and applied our own methodology called “Organizational Values Inventory”. Therefore, through a survey based on questionnaire we evaluated students’ and academics’ perception on 37 organizational values. The research sample was represented by 1165 persons. The results have showed that both, academics and students, believe that the most important values that are promoted in the university culture are: quality, competence, tradition, responsible attitude, focus on results and competition.
M59|International Maritime Organisation’s Initiatives for Women Integration in the Maritime SectorAbstract:Despite many initiatives to promote equal chances of women access to the maritime sector, worldwide gender equality remains an issue of the XXI century’s maritime sector. This paper is a review of the most important initiatives and actions of the International Maritime Organisation in promoting integration of women in a traditionally maleoriented industry|No abstract is available for this item.
M59|The Profile of the Maritime LeaderAbstract:Regardless the current economic situation and the difficult work conditions offshore, a challenge for maritime leaders in the twenty-first century is not just to attract and retain the best seafarers and onshore employees but especially to motivate them to work with passion, energy and enthusiasm. Although there are very few people with intelligence, skill, charisma and initiative, continuing challenges of the real world is to help the less talented to overcome their limitations|No abstract is available for this item.
M59|Competency model as a tool of valuation of management capability|In the current business environment of constant change and turmoil occurs between businesses rivalry, which has an impact on their actual success and prosperity. Successful companies put primary emphasis on the quality of their managers’ defined competencies. Competencies are becoming a key building element for the success of these businesses. Businesses regardless of their size, legal form of business and branch, in which they operate, are highlighting the importance of competency models and their usage. Competency model in corporate practice is an instrument of valuation of the managerial competence, which contributes to the development of managerial competences and to creating and sustaining of competitive advantage in business. The aim of this paper is a comparison of the views of domestic and foreign authors on managerial competence perused through domestic and foreign literature. Based on the study of knowledge from literary sources we point out the nature of managerial competence. At the different kinds of competences as a valuation tool of managerial capability is highlighted the essence of the competency model, which in some way contributes to the improvement and refinement of management processes in companies. With the joining of several competences for a managerial position in the managerial triangle for a purpose we are talking about competency models in holistic management. With combining of several competences for a managerial position in the managerial triangle for a purpose we are talking about competency models in holistic management. We put the accent on different approaches and competency models from the view of several authors. The paper is a benefit in many of the recommendations and proposals for corporate and business practices that contribute to the creation, development and maintenance of the competitive advantages of the company owned by the company or in the future may become the owner.
M59|Importance and role of social maturity in the concept of holistic managerial competence|Social maturity becomes currently more and more important, because egoism, pursuit of wealth, shoddy and unscrupulous people are today dominating. Thanks to these qualities of humans, organizations and society as a whole, we can determine the nature of people and their personality. It also works in the professional life, because character qualities of management subjects constitute the top of social maturity. Social maturity is besides manager knowledge and application skills the key pillar of the holistic managerial competence. It is a conscious or unconscious observance of basic human principles of behavior, enabling them to maintain the holistic of personality. A man becomes social mature through qualities that he receives either through genetic heritability or the environment in which he raises and educates. Through questionnaire method, we examined opinions of management subjects on each of the three pillars of the holistic managerial competence. 300 respondents from Slovakia and Czech Republic belonged either to a group of managers, fulltime or part-time students. The aim of this paper is to outline the views of management subjects on the social maturity in the concept of holistic management and to make recommendations for improvement of the operation of the holistic model of managerial competence.
M59|Możliwość i użyteczność moralna kodyfikacji norm etycznych. Przegląd stanowisk etycznych<BR>[Possibility and Moral Usefulness of Ethical Standards Codification. Overview of Ethical Positions]|Współcześnie obserwujemy popularyzację tworzenia kodeksów zaadresowanych do różnych grup społecznych. Zasadne jest jednak poszukiwanie odpowiedzi na pytania dotyczące przesłanek ich konstruowania i możliwości praktycznego ich wykorzystywania. Celem artykułu jest przedstawienie krytycznego przeglądu literatury przedmiotu w obszarze stanowisk szczególnie związanych z kwestią kodyfikacji etyk zawodowych. W pierwszej kolejności omówiono znaczenia przypisywane pojęciu kodeksu etycznego i podstawowe stanowiska etyczne. W dalszej kolejności przeprowadzono dyskusję nad argumentami zwolenników i przeciwników kodyfikacji norm. Today we observe popularization of elaboration of codes addressed to various social groups. However, it is reasonable to search for answers to questions about conditions of their design and possibilities of their practical use. This article aims to provide a critical review of the literature in the field of opinions specifically related to the issue of codification professional ethics. Article first describes meanings attributed to the concept of a code of ethics and basic ethical positions. Next review leads to a discussion on supporters and opponents arguments on codification standards.
M59|Konsekwencje zalozen funkcjonalistycznych w epistemologii kultury organizacyjnej. Perspektywa nurtu krytycznego w naukach o zarzadzaniu (The consequences of functionalist assumptions in the epistemology of organizational culture. The perspective of Critical Management Studies)|The author presents the reflection about the consequences of assumptions characteristic for the functionalist paradigm in the epistemology of organizational culture in the management sciences. The study was conducted from the perspective of Critical Management Studies, which stands in opposition to the functionalist paradigm, offering theoretical and practical settlement of an emancipation.
M59|A Critical Analysis of the Main European Human Resource Management Models|Over time there have emerged a number of human resource management models, each with different characteristics and specificities. Starting with the Japanese model and up to the general European one, each has introduced a different perspective, not only into literature, but in practice also. This paper addresses the European model of human resource management in terms of a critical vision, comparing countries at the most important features of national models.
M59|MAPISER, the development of a social holding company. Seeking (and finding) social business opportunities|This paper presents the experience of the Work Integration Social Enterprise (WISE) named Manipulados y Servicios Picarral SL. (MAPISER). This social enterprise is focused on employment and social integration for people with physical, sensory, intellectual, and mental illnesses. MAPISER has been seeking employment niches in several areas (industrial handling, cleaning graffiti and painting fa�ades, wooden packing, logistics and distribution, information and data services, etc.), becoming a social holding company whose enterprises complement each other in maintaining a balance between social objectives and the need to be economically viable. MAPISER demonstrates the benefits of maintaining a willingness to pursue business opportunities in the real market. These market opportunities suppose employment niches for the target population of the WISEs if these organizations are able to adapt the opportunities for satisfying the needs of these groups. Furthermore, collaboration and business cooperation are keys for creating and strengthening the networks serving these groups and gaining long-term viability.
M59|Theoretical Approach Regarding the Bases of Success and Reasons that May Lead to Failure in Project Management|The present paper work deals with theoretical concepts regarding the reasons that may lead to a project’s failure or success. The primary aim of the work paper is to help readers to get a view of conceptualizations of project management and its phases, while providing an opportunity to see the interferences of factors that may determine project’s success. This work paper also contains some aspects regarding key-factors and elements that may assure a good management of projects. The present subject was chosen because -in authors’ opinion- the ability to demonstrate yourself as a cooperative, contributing, and constructive project manager is critical for long-term career success in any domain.
M59|Knowledge context and entrepreneurial intentions among students|The current paper analyzes the role of the individual and regional knowledge context in forming university students’ entrepreneurial intentions. As access to knowledge resources is crucial for the growth and survival of knowledge-based start-ups, we argue that an individual’s decision in favor or against becoming an entrepreneur should critically depend on the multilevel context providing her with access to strategically relevant knowledge. A unique dataset for German students and regions allows us to analyze a variety of personal and regional determinants of entrepreneurial intentions among students. At the individual level we find that role models facilitating the transfer of tacit knowledge and the expectation that strong ties will provide know-how and know-who positively impact entrepreneurial intentions. At the regional level we find that a high regional start-up rate in knowledge-based industries and a high growth rate of regional knowledge production positively influence entrepreneurial intentions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2012
M59|Campaign Contributions over CEOs' Careers|Individuals dominate money in politics, accounting for over 90 percent of campaign contributions, yet studies of drivers of individuals? giving are scarce. We analyze data on all contributions made between 1991 and 2008 by all 1,556 people who became S&P 500 CEOs during that interval. We exploit variation in leadership status over these individuals? careers to identify that being an S&P 500 CEO causes a $4,029 or 137 percent jump per election cycle in personal giving. While some fraction of CEOs? contributions can be attributed to long-standing preferences, the striking changes in behavior cannot be explained by these factors alone.
M59|Zvyšovanie výkonnosti manažérov a zamestnancov prostredníctvom kognitívneho vylepšenia<BR>[Improvement of the performance of managers and employees by cognitive enhancement]|From the Western countries a new dangerous phenomenon is approaching the Central and Eastern Europe. The pressure on psychical performance while studying and at work is becoming that hard that many individuals are reaching for stimulants. When cigarettes, coffee and energy drinks do not help anymore, the next in row are compulsory prescription drugs, which have been developed for entirely different purposes and which can sometimes have far-reaching lifelong consequences for the health. This phenomenon is called brain doping or prettier cognitive enhancement.
M59|Emocionálna inteligencia ako významný faktor ohodnocovania celostnej kompetentnosti manažéra<BR>[Emotional intelligence as an important factor of valuation of the holistic competence of a manager]|So a man could grow in his professional careers, he must prove he they has better skills, abilities and knowledge than his colleagues or competitors in the field. Access to the building of a man's own emotional intelligence has an effect on the level of his application in the company itself. The aim of this paper is to examine a business manager in a selected company in terms of his personality and the degree of influence of the personality on the performance of his work. We pay attention to the necessary knowledge and skills that a manager in the performance of his duties should apply in respect of his subordinates. In this paper we refer to emotional intelligence as a significant factor in the valuation of the holistic competence of a manager; sometimes we point out the deficiencies in corporate governance and the elimination of these shortcomings, to enable the enterprise to operate efficiently in the future and be competitive in a constantly changing business environment.
M59|Teoretické pohľady na manažérsku spôsobilosť a jej ohodnocovanie<BR>[Theoretical perspectives on managerial competence and its valuation]|It is generally known that companies which are subjects of external pressure in a dynamic and turbulent business environment have a strong demand for managers, for managing workers, entrepreneurs, and project and production directors. The focus is getting not only on their professional expertise but also on personal skills and on a balance-oriented work environment. We can conclude that management development is becoming an integral part of Slovak enterprises regardless of their size, the type of business they do and the industry in which they operate. The aim of this paper is to outline the theoretical perspectives on managerial competence through perused domestic and foreign literature and point out its substance. For each type of competence with which we can encounter in working life we point out also on the need for its valuation. We put emphasis on various approaches and methods from different authors.
M59|Entrepreneurship, Challenges & Opportunity: The Indian Picture|Abstract The entrepreneurs are resourceful, passionate and driven to succeed and improve. They're pioneers and are comfortable fighting on the frontline. The great ones are ready to be laughed at and criticized in the beginning because they can see their path ahead and are too busy working towards their dream. An entrepreneur is a businessperson who not only conceives and organizes ventures but also frequently takes risks in doing so. Different degrees or levels of entrepreneurial intensity and drive depend upon how much independence one exhibits, the level of leadership and innovation they demonstrate, how much responsibility they shoulder, and how creative they become in envisioning and executing their business plans. This paper focuses and provides an insight into the meaning, qualities required for an entrepreneur, opportunities and challenges faced by them. This paper also emphasises women entrepreneurs in India and their role in economic development and transformation of the society.
M59|E-recruitment: Towards an Ubiquitous Recruitment Process and Candidate Relationship Management|Up to now, there has been little research on the impact of e-recruitment on the recruitment process as a whole. The present study fills part of this gap by investigating the effect of e-recruitment on the design of the recruitment process. Three explorative case studies were carried out in three large organisations in Denmark in 2008-2010. The findings indicate that e-recruitment transforms the traditional recruitment process into a time- and space-independent, collaborative hiring process. The most significant changes are recorded in the sequence and increased divisibility of main recruitment tasks and subtasks. For management, the main task is now that of communicating with candidates. In addition, a new on-going task of maintaining a corporate career website has become an integral part of the new recruitment process. The new design is presented in the following, and its implications briefly discussed.
M59|Assembling a Big Mosaic – A Review of Recent Books on Electronic Human Resource Management (e-HRM)|This paper aims to review recent academic books on general e-HRM. Mapping major academic responsibilities, books on researching, teaching and also practicing e-HRM are reviewed. To this end, brief outlines of the current states of researching, teaching and practicing e-HRM are given and books are reviewed referring to their contributions to the respective state of knowledge.
M59|Theoretical Fundamentals of Human Factor|The purpose of this paper is to identify the theoretical approaches presented by the literature on the human factor. In order to achieve such objective we have performed a qualitative research by analyzing the content of several papers published in internationally renowned journals, classified according to the list of journals' ranking provided by the Association of Business Schools (UK), in relation to the theories that have been approached within it. Our findings suggest that from all identified theories, the human capital theory, agency theory, signaling theory and organizational theory are the most frequently approached theories.
M59|Motivation as a determinant of starting a professional career and of being successful in the labour market (Motywacja jako determinant rozpoczecia kariery zawodowej i powodzenia na rynku pracy)|The article uses factual information to demonstrate that the students perceive motivation as a factor likely to facilitate their start into professional careers and making them successful. The article is structured as follows. The presentation of the research methodology and assumptions is followed by a discussion of the theoretical aspects of motivation and motivating. In the next section, factors causing young people to launch professional careers and determining their subsequent successes in the labour market are analysed based on factual information. The article ends with a summation of the discussion and major conclusions.
M59|Retention Of Human Resources In The Romanian Banking System|Employee retention is arguably the biggest issue corporate leader s as a result of the shortage of skilled labor, economic growth and employee turnover. Hiring knowledgeable people for the job is essential for an employer, but retention is even more important than hiring. Employee retention involves taking measures to encourage them to remain in the organization for the masimum period of time. The key to retention is to understand the employees expectations and achieve proper alignment of their expectations with those of the organization.
M59|Performance Tutoring, Coaching And Mentoring|If western countries currently use the full term career rediscovering, European countries, notably France, have kept the terminology of orientation and training. Why coaching and mentoring? You will recognise that to surive and prosper in these though times, your organization has to be performing at the highest level of effectiveness. This means leadership skills, decision-making, staff relations, creativity, stress and time management, meeting control or sensitive issue handling, has to be of the very highest order. Whatever your level of education or professional status, concern for the work done has any person. Desire for development, horizontal or vertical, it is generally human. Human aspirations are to evolution and not to inolution.
M59|What do we actually mean by talent in business? Does it really matter?|The conceptualization of talent has become increasingly relevant for scholars and practitioners as they seek to advance the study of talent management (TM). Indeed, confusion about the meaning of talent within the business field hinders consensus on the concept and practice of TM. In this theoretical study we review the talent concept in business to summarize what we have learned and to discuss the pros and cons of different approaches. We conclude by formulating an overall definition of this term, since an acknowledged interpretation of talent managementnot to mention the successful management of talent will depend on having a clear understanding of what is meant by talent in an organizational context. Moreover, with our definition of talent, we delimit the talent concept while avoiding problems uncovered in previous definitions (e.g. generality and tautology) and highlighting important variables that affect it and can make it more manageable.
M59|La responsabilité sociale de l'entreprise (RSE) comme discours ambigu|Corporate social responsibility (CSR) can be considered as a real discourse (creating the ‘elements of reality’ according to its content), but also as a ‘prison’ for big companies management, prisoners of this discourse in a circularity “signification built by the discourse – ‘elements of reality’ produced by the discourse”. And according to the existence of an important professional and academic literature on CSR, this literature is mainly zealot of a normative content because of the ‘elements of reality’ quoted in it. This text is built on the following argumentation: after having reminded the outlines of the ‘ethical evidence’ of the end of the 20th century, ‘ethical evidence’ which is founding the discourse on CSR, the main elements of the ideology of the ‘liberal period’ we live in will be presented, then the outlines of CSR before considering CSR as an ambiguous discourse. JEL Codes: M1, M38, M59
M59|La actividad empresarial del Graduado Neogranadino|Se presentan los resultados de una investigación cuyo propósito fue caracterizar la actividad empresarial de los graduados de los programas de pregrado de la Universidad Militar Nueva Granada entre 1982 y 2007. El estudio fue de tipo exploratorio en el que se realizó un muestreo aleatorio estratificado con base en la población de graduados de 12 programas de pregrado de la Universidad. Para ello se diseñó y aplicó una encuesta a 581 egresados. Los resultados arrojan que un 9% de los graduados son empresarios, con un mayor porcentaje en los programas de ingenierías y administración de empresas. El estudio sugiere articular las unidades programáticas curriculares y las actividades extracurriculares que buscan promover el espíritu empresarial. Se insiste en ofrecer este tipo de actividades de manera trasversal a los egresados de todos los programas, de tal manera que, estos cuenten con las herramientas básicas para crear empresa como una opción de inserción laboral y generadores de valor a la sociedad.
M59|Prevención de la accidentalidad en la pequeña empresa: análisis de una experiencia|Este documento es elaborado desde el equipo de Trabajo del Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo(CID) de la Universidad Nacional de Colombia, que ha venido aportando la interventoría a un grupo decontratistas de Positiva Compañía de Seguros ARP responsables de llevar a cabo la Fase I del Programa deGestión en la Prevención de Incidentes y Accidentes de Trabajo en la pequeña empresa. La reflexión seencamina a identificar los aportes y limitaciones del proceso desarrollado con el fin de contribuir alfortalecimiento de la actividad preventiva que proteja la vida y la salud de los trabajadores así como losimpactos negativos que los accidentes de trabajo ocasionan a las empresas, a los trabajadores y susfamilias, y a la sociedad en general.
M59|Deficiencias en el uso del FODA. Causas y sugerencias|"El uso del análisis FODA (DAFO, DOFA) se ha hecho muy popular"" entre los especialistas y consultores de temas gerenciales. Se utiliza, principalmente, para los procesos de análisis y formulación de estrategias. A pesar de su amplia difusión, en textos y artículos, es frecuente encontrar errores y limitaciones significativas en su utilización. Esta investigación recoge las experiencias del autor, en actividades de formación de directivos y en procesos de consultoría en diferentes países latinoamericanos, sobre los principales errores que ha identificado en su utilización, las causas principales que los generan y sugerencias para superarlos. Como complemento, se comentan algunos aspectos conceptuales y metodológicos sobre esta herramienta."""
M59|Las redes cientificas en los grupos de investigación de la Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana Sede Medellin - Colombia|En la actualidad, la generación de conocimiento y de nuevas tecnologías se ha convertido en uno de los principales dinamizadores de las economías mundiales. Es en este punto en donde las redes científicas como mecanismo de cooperación han tomado relevancia. Dichas redes hacen referencia a un conjunto de instituciones e investigadores asociados, los cuales tienen como interés mutuo la consecución de objetivos y resultados previamente acordados con relación a un problema científico específico. A través de esta investigación se realizó una caracterización de las principales redes científicas en las cuales participan los investigadores de la UPB Sede Medellín-Colombia con el fin de obtener un diagnóstico de cada una de ellas y medir su impacto en cuanto a producción científica. De igual forma se emplearon algunos indicadores bibliométricos con datos obtenidos de la base de datos Scienti de Colciencias, para establecerer el índice de colaboración de los investigadores bolivarianos en el periodo 2000-2009. Finalmente se estudiaron los resultados de Moya, F. (2010) quién también presenta estadísticas de cooperación para la UPB y se compararon con los estudios realizados constatando la diversidad de información y de posibilidades de interpretación y análisis
M59|Motivation And Performance At S.C. Tasmania – Optimal Performance|The paper deals with a research made for S.C. Tasmania involving the motivation of employees. A system of values is involved in motivation, values which give a precise meaning and influences the degree of individual freedom, the accession to certain values. Optimal performance gave the result that, in research, intrinsic reasons are leading to higher and more stable performance over time than extrinsic ones.
M59|The Effect of Evaluation on Performance: Evidence from Longitudinal Student Achievement Data of Mid-career Teachers|The effect of evaluation on employee performance is traditionally studied in the context of the principal-agent problem. Evaluation can, however, also be characterized as an investment in the evaluated employee's human capital. We study a sample of mid-career public school teachers where we can consider these two types of evaluation effect separately. Employee evaluation is a particularly salient topic in public schools where teacher effectiveness varies substantially and where teacher evaluation itself is increasingly a focus of public policy proposals. We find evidence that a quality classroom-observation-based evaluation and performance measures can improve mid-career teacher performance both during the period of evaluation, consistent with the traditional predictions; and in subsequent years, consistent with human capital investment. However the estimated improvements during evaluation are less precise. Additionally, the effects sizes represent a substantial gain in welfare given the program's costs.
M59|Cognitive enhancement. Current status and its impact on improving of the performance of organizations|From the Western countries a new dangerous phenomenon is approaching the Central and Eastern Europe. The pressure on psychical performance while studying and at work is becoming that hard that many individuals are reaching for stimulants. When cigarettes, coffee and energy drinks do not help anymore, the next in row are compulsory prescription drugs, which have been developed for entirely different purposes and which can sometimes have far-reaching lifelong consequences for the health. This phenomenon is called brain doping or cognitive enhancement.
M59|Talent manažment ako súčasť konkurenčnej výhody<BR>[Talent management as a part of competitive advantage]|The current period is one full of unforeseen changes. A major problem for most Slovak businesses, as well as foreign companies finding themselves in a difficult and turbulent business environment, is the difficulty to find good quality employees. Even after they found them, it is difficult to keep them, especially if they achieve excellent results at work. It is about managing talent, or talent management, becoming common and extremely popular on both domestic and foreign markets. The success of such businesses often depends on talent management, which tends to be very topical. The aim of the paper is to highlight talent management in corporate and commercial practice, which is also becoming a competitive advantage. The success and performance of those businesses often particularly depends on such a competitive advantage, which is the cornerstone for their foundation and further development.
M59|The concept of the holistic management as a new approach in the theory of management|The types of objects scientifically researched and the types of sciences used for research. The crisis of contemporary science. Classical and holistic management. The knowledge pillar of management, the application pillar of management, social pillar of management. Holistic intelligence (HQ), knowledge intelligence (KQ), application intelligence (AQ), social intelligence (SQ). Holistic management and its role in solving the contemporary problems of mankind.
M59|Outsourcing der Personalfunktion. Eine beschaeftigungssystemfundierte theoretische und empirische Analyse|Outsourcing der Personalfunktion als Sonderfall des „Make or Buy“ wird in dieser Arbeit primaer in Abhaengigkeit von den Merkmalen des Beschaeftigungssystems erklaert. Der Ausgangspunkt der Untersuchung liegt in dem Versuch, die unterschiedliche Neigung zum Outsourcing der Personalfunktion in westlichen und in asiatischen Laendern zu erklaeren. Die in den vorliegenden Untersuchungen dominierende Betrachtung der Kosten- und Ressourcenperspektive liefert zur Beantwortung dieser Frage keine befriedigenden Ergebnisse. Deshalb wurde ein neuer Weg durch die Einbeziehung des Beschaeftigungssystem-Ansatzes von Hendry gegangen. Am Beispiel Korea wurde untersucht, inwieweit das Beschaeftigungssystem auf die Outsourcing-Entscheidungen in den Unternehmen einwirkt. Die Verfasserin bezieht die bisher dominierenden Perspektiven der Kosten und der verfuegbaren Ressourcen sowie der Strategien in ihre Analyse mit ein und belegt die Plausibilitaet ihrer Aussagen anhand von zwoelf in koreanischen Unternehmen erhobenen Fallstudien. Die Untersuchungsergebnisse erhaerten die Annahme, dass das Beschaeftigungssystem einen relativ starken Einfluss auf die Entscheidung fuer oder gegen Outsourcing im Personalbereich hat.
M59|Professionalisierungsbestrebungen im Coaching. (Re-)Konstruktion von Forschungsansaetzen|Die spaetmoderne Gesellschaft verlangt nach Beratung. An der Schnittkante von organisationalem und gesellschaftlichem Leben ist ein breites Beratungsgeflecht entstanden, zu dessen bekanntesten Formen heute Coaching zaehlt. Ohne verbindliche Standards ist die Qualitaet von Coaching nicht ueberpruefbar, was unter dem Begriff des „Scharlatanerieproblems“ salonfaehig geworden ist. Um den weltweiten Siegeszug von Coaching als Beratungsform nicht nur marktlich, sondern auch akademisch – d.h. wissenschaftlich – erklaerbar zu machen, liegt eine professionstheoretische Auseinandersetzung mit Coaching nahe. Der heutige Forschungsstand kann aus verschiedener Hinsicht als defizitaer bezeichnet werden: Aufgrund einer weit zerkluefteten Coaching-Landschaft, einer fehlenden gemeinsamen Agenda sowie qualitativ hoechst unterschiedlichen Studien in Verbindung mit der erkenntnisproduktiven Konfliktspannung zwischen Wissenschaft und Praxis, warum ueberhaupt geforscht werden sollte, wird das „Scharlatanerieproblem“ gleichsam in sich verschraenkt. In diesem Buch wird der Versuch unternommen, eine Forschungsprogrammatik fuer Coaching auf dem Weg zu einer Profession aufzustellen. Dabei wird untersucht, inwieweit interessengeleitete Coaching-Forschung zu dessen Professionalisierung beitraegt, d.h. ob es fuer ausgewaehlte Coaching-Stakeholder ueberhaupt wichtig und notwendig ist zu forschen bzw. in welchen Feldern. Das Buch gibt einen detaillierten ueberblick ueber die Aktivitaeten der (internationalen) Coaching-Szene als ein Feld widerstreitender Interessen, aus dem klar wird, wie wenig selbstverstaendlich eine Verwissenschaftlichung ist, und richtet sich an Wissenschaftler, Coaching-Praktiker und -Interessenten gleichermassen.
M59|Interkulturelle Kommunikation in Ungarn taetiger Unternehmen aus dem deutschsprachigen Raum (Deutschland, Oesterreich, Schweiz). Konzeptionelle Grundlagen – Empirische Ergebnisse ? Gestaltungsempfehlungen|Wissenschaftler und Praktiker beschaeftigen sich seit mehreren Jahren mit den besonderen Herausforderungen, die sich aufgrund der inter- und transkulturellen Interaktionen zwischen den Gestaltern eines Unternehmens ergeben und Auswirkungen auf die Ausrichtungen der Gestaltungsparameter haben. Die Realisierung einer erfolgreichen interkulturellen Zusammenarbeit zeigt sich in der Praxis jedoch haeufig als schwierig. In diesem Zusammenhang wird die Identifizierung von Reibungspunkten und Verbesserungspotenzialen der interkulturellen Kommunikation zu einer wichtigen Aufgabe. Die Bildung einer Kompromisskultur als moegliche Erfolgsgroesse wird dabei diskutiert. Die vorliegende Dissertation untersucht die interkulturelle Kommunikation zwischen Vorgesetzten und ihren Mitarbeitenden in alltaeglichen Arbeitssituationen. Dabei erfolgt eine Fokussierung auf zwei europaeische Kulturgruppen, auf Ungarn und auf die Laender des deutschsprachigen Raumes (Deutschland, Oesterreich und die Deutschschweiz inkl. Liechtenstein). In den Vordergrund tritt die interkulturelle Kommunikation zwischen Mitgliedern dieser Kulturen innerhalb von Gesellschaften, die aus dem deutschsprachigen Raum stammen und sich in Ungarn ansiedelten.
M59|Netzwerkbasierte Kooperationen - ein neues Rahmenkonzept für das Personalmanagement?|Personalmanagement einmal aus der Perspektive der Netzwerkforschung betrachten, das ist der tiefere Sinn der vorliegenden Studie, die sich mit den weitgehend vernachlässigten personalen Aspekten des Managements von und in Unternehmensnetzwerken befasst. Behandelt werden Personalprobleme aus dem Bereich des intraorganisationalen Unternehmensnetzwerks mit dem Schwerpunkt Kooperation zwischen Personalabteilung und anderen Organisationseinheiten. Neu hinzugekommen sind Probleme des Personalmanagements in interorganisationalen Netzwerken, wenn das Personalmanagement die Grenzen des eigenen Unternehmens überschreitend aktiv wird und z.B. mit „freien MitarbeiterInnen“ und/oder mit MitarbeiterInnen externer Netzwerkpartner kooperiert.
M59|The Role Of Culture In U.S. Regarding Consumer Behavior|In our research, we are trying to reveal the importance of culture in the United States, regarding consumer behavior, viewed in terms of visible contradictions, as well as its role in spreading ideas and goods coming from another country. We have also completed an analysis on one of the most important key players in the worldwide marketplace of our time: Wal-Mart, America’s largest and most controversial company. This is a study about how culture in the U.S as a conglomerate of different cultures influences the consumer behavior in a society of changes, in a society of economic globalization.
M59|Adverse Selection in an Efficiency Wage Model with Heterogeneous Agents|This paper studies efficiency wages in the presence of heterogeneous workers and asymmetric information. It includes an incentive compatibility constraint (ICC) in the efficiency wage model with heterogeneous workers to show that the implementation of efficiency wages in the presence of heterogeneity faces the problem of adverse selection. Employees with a smaller effort aversion supply a smaller level of effort than what is optimal under perfect information due to hidden information. In this vein only a second best solution is obtained.
M59|Information, Uncertainty, and Subjective Entitlements in Bargaining|More often than not production processes are the joint endeavor of people having different abilities and productivities. Such production processes and the associated surplus production are often not fully transparent in the sense that the relative contributions of involved agents are blurred; either by lack of information about the actual performance of collaborators or because of random noise in the production process or both. These variables likely influence the surplus sharing negotiations following the production. By means of a laboratory experiment, we systematically investigate their role for the whole bargaining process from opening offers to (dis)agreements and find that uncertainties in surplus production and (even) a very coarse performance information lead to bargaining asymmetries. In addition, we find that bargainersâ€™ subjective entitlements are also influenced by performance information and the randomness inherent in the production process. These differences in subjective entitlements together with the differences in entitlements between better and worse performers influence the whole bargaining process and significantly contribute to the differences in bargaining outcomes. Keywords: bargaining; performance information; randomness in production process; entitlements; experiments.
M59|Experimentally Elicited Beliefs Explain Privacy Behavior|The privacy literature has recognized a dichotomy between reported values of privacy and actual behavior. People tend to say they value privacy highly, and then behave in ways which seem to contradict these statements. In this experiment, the consequences of privacy loss were controlled using a voluntary contributions mechanism that isolated personal information from the natural world. Elicited values were higher than what has typically been observed in the literature. The evidence does not support a “privacy paradox.” Subjective expected utility maximization explains the dichotomy. Trust and asymmetric beliefs are substantial determinants of (information) values.
M59|Motivating Managers – Brief Analysis At S.C. Tasmania|Research’s goal is to show what managers should know in order to improve employees’ performance by guiding their behaviour and motivating them. To succeed, the manager must develop positive attitudes towards himself and the circumstances in which he is located.
M59|The role of entrepreneurship education and regional context in forming entrepreneurial intentions|This study examines how the extent of entrepreneurship education within university departments influences students’ entrepreneurial intentions in three careers: computer science, electrical engineering, and business. Specifically, it proposes that the effect of such education is (1) contingent on its mode (active, e.g. business plan seminars, vs. reflective, e.g. theory lectures), (2) contingent on the regional context and (3) complemented by individual-level influences such as role models or work experience. Results show that active modes of entrepreneurship education directly increase intentions and attitudes, whereas the impact of reflective modes depends on the regional context. Parental role models and work experience are found to complement entrepreneurship education in different ways. The findings have important implications for theory building as well as for the practice of teaching entrepreneurship.
M59|Information, Uncertainty, and Subjective Entitlements in Bargaining|More often than not production processes are the joint endeavor of people having different abilities and productivities. Such production processes and the associated surplus production are often not fully transparent in the sense that the relative contributions of involved agents are blurred; either by lack of information about the actual performance of collaborators or because of random noise in the production process or both. These variables likely influence the surplus sharing negotiations following the production. By means of a laboratory experiment, we systematically investigate their role for the whole bargaining process from opening offers to (dis)agreements and find that uncertainties in surplus production and (even) a very coarse performance information lead to bargaining asymmetries. In addition, we find that bargainers’ subjective entitlements are also influenced by performance information and the randomness inherent in the production process. These differences in subjective entitlements together with the differences in entitlements between better and worse performers influence the whole bargaining process and significantly contribute to the differences in bargaining outcomes.
M59|The Quality of the Commercial Services|The implementation of a quality assurance system (SAQ) in a firm represents at the moment a necessity of the actual development context. Commercial services represent one of the main important components of the quality management systems in the retail activities. The services offered by all types of commerciants in their activities must themselves represent objectives of a quality approach, taking into consideration the customers exigency nowadays. The range of commercial services enregistered an explosive development in the last few years, being permanently adapted to the market demand. A special attention must be given in this respect to the human resources management involved in the quality assurance (AQ) activities, the human vector representing a major important item due to the activities specificity.
M59|The level of talent management usage at human resources management in enterprises in organizations of the Moravian-Silesian Region|The article is aimed at bringing information on the scope and the level of use of talent management by organizations in one of the Czech Republic regions, in the Moravian-Silesian Region. On the basis of data acquired by a questionnaire survey it has been found out that organizations in the above-mentioned region are implementing the system of talent management on a small scale: this approach is used by 3.8% of organizations only that is 9 from 237 (100 %) of the approached respondents. The main reasons why this approach is not used is either that organizations have no knowledge of it or there is lack of financial and personnel resources. Recommendations suggested by the author can be found useful for a wider application of talent management in the Czech practice.
M59|Bereitschaft zur Teilnahme an betrieblichen Freiwilligenprogrammen: Die Effekte von innerbetrieblichen Referenzgruppen und des regulatorischen Fokus (Inclination to Participate in Employee Volunteering Programs: The Effects of Organizational Reference Group Influences and Regulatory Focus)|Die vorliegende Studie analysiert, wie innerbetriebliche Referenzgruppen und der regulatorische Fokus von Kommunikationsbotschaften die Bereitschaft zur Teilnahme an betrieblichen Freiwilligenprogrammen beeinflussen. Die Ergebnisse einer experimentellen Studie zeigen, dass sich der Referenzgruppeneinfluss sowie der regulatorische Fokus von Kommunikationsbotschaften unterschiedlich auf verschiedene Facetten der individuellen Handlungsintention niederschlagen. Ferner wird auch gezeigt, dass die Referenzgruppeneinfluesse mit dem chronischen regulatorischen Fokus sowie mit dem regulatorischen Fokus von Kommunikationsbotschaften interagieren koennen. Handlungsempfehlungen fuer die Gestaltung der Kommunikation mit Mitarbeitern und Ansatzpunkte fuer die zukuenftige Forschung werden diskutiert. (This study investigates how organizational reference group influences and regulatory focus affect the willingness of individuals to participate in employee volunteering programs. The results of an experimental study reveal that organizational reference group influences and the regulatory focus of communication messages have an impact on different aspects of the willingness of individuals to participate in employee volunteering programs. Moreover, the current study shows that the effects of organizational reference groups interact with two facets of the regulatory focus. Implications for employee communication and avenues for future research are discussed.)
M59|Information, Uncertainty, and Subjective Entitlements in Bargaining|More often than not production processes are the joint endeavor of people having different abilities and productivities. Such production processes and the associated surplus production are often not fully transparent in the sense that the relative contributions of involved agents are blurred; either by lack of information about the actual performance of collaborators or because of random noise in the production process or both. These variables likely influence the surplus sharing negotiations following the production. By means of a laboratory experiment, we systematically investigate their role for the whole bargaining process from opening offers to (dis)agreements and find that uncertainties in surplus production and (even) a very coarse performance information lead to bargaining asymmetries. In addition, we find that bargainers' subjective entitlements are also influenced by performance information and the randomness inherent in the production process. These differences in subjective entitlements together with the differences in entitlements between better and worse performers influence the whole bargaining process and significantly contribute to the differences in bargaining outcomes.
M59|Volunteer Labour Supply: Micro-econometric Evidence from Italy|This essay examines the evidence in favour of different motivations for unpaid labour in volunteer service associations, using an Italian micro data-set constructed by the Italian National Statistical Institute, which allows use of a measure of household income to test the consumption against the investment thesis. The main finding is that the donation of unpaid activity to a volunteer service association is determined both by the consumption and by the investment motivation, confirming the evidence of studies for the US, Canada and the UK. Interestingly, however, regional patterns of volunteer labour reflect the pattern of participation described in the social capital literature. People who live in regions relatively well-endowed with social capital do significantly more volunteer labour.
M59|Effects of Leadership Roles on Team Effectiveness|In this study we aim to explain the patterns of leadership roles for team effectiveness in non profit organizations compared to economic organizations. For this purpose, we studied three successful organization types, i.e the amateur sports clubs (football, basketball), theater companies and, regional folk groups. Our basic hypothesis is that the relationship between the type of organization (specially teams) and the role of leadership is not random. Therefore, we believe that an empirical approach is necessary to test the assumptions about leadership and team effectiveness. Also these empirical results are supposed to lead to professional managers in economic organizations. First, we constructed thirteen key dimension variables for leadership behavior as follows: coaching, effective communication, encouraging teamwork, establishing high standards and getting results, effective delegation, rewarding performance, developing and releasing employees, building consensus, supporting reasonable risk- taking, forecast thinking, improving the organization, managing diversity, and overall effectiveness . Second, we defined team standards and effectiveness in twenty items. And finally, we tried to emphasize factors affecting leadership roles and team effectiveness. In this study, Natemeyer and Babko (1992) Management Practices Survey data are used. Data reliability are tested before the analysis and results are discussed at the end of the study.
M59|A Comparative Study for Employee Job Satisfaction in Aydin Municipality and Nazilli Municipality|This study was composed of a conceptual analysis of job satisfaction and an empirical research for the relationships between job satisfaction and a set of variables; pay, promotion, positive affectivity/encouragement, job involvement, potential of rest-day/off-day, relations with co-workers, health facilities, relations with supervisor, training and education facilities, autonomy, physical facilities, reconciliation role of supervisor, procedural justice, tangible aids, office tools, level of role clearness, participation in decisions, management style of supervisor. The results, based on a sample of 220 employees from Aydýn Municipality and Nazilli Municipality, indicated that 59% of the variance in job satisfaction was explained by the variables included in the regression test. The variable of management/democratic style of supervisor had the greatest effect on job satisfaction, followed by the variables of “level of role clearness”, “health facilities”, “autonomy”, “participation in decision”, “job involvement”, and “training and educational facilities”. The study found that satisfaction level for “tangible aids” and “potential of rest-day” was significantly higher for employees working in Aydýn Municipality than those working in Nazilli Municipality. But, satisfaction level for “health facilities”, “physical facilities” and “relations with supervisor” was significantly higher for employees working in Nazilli Municipality than those working in Aydýn Municipality. So, it is suggested that managers should apply additional/further researches in their organizations to investigate the underpinning variables of job satisfaction and commitment of employees.
M59|A Research on The Effect of Organizational Safety Climate Upon The Safe Behaviors|This study aims to investigate the relationship between the organizational safety climate and the safety behaviors of the employees. It is been accepted by many researchers that unsafe employee behavior at work place is one of the primary determinants of occupational accidents. More recently researchers suggest that safe/unsafe behaviors of the employees are affected by certain organizational factors. Recent studies accept organizational safety climate as one these factors that affects safe/unsafe behaviors of the employees. In this context, this study conducted in an active shipyard in Turkey, finds that there are significant relations between the four dimensions of the organizational safety climate and the safety behavior of the employees.
M59|Who values the status of the entrepreneur?|Parker and Van Praag (2009) showed, based on theory, that the group status of the profession 'entrepreneurship' shapes people's occupational preferences and thus their choice behavior. The current study focuses on the determinants and consequences of the group status of a profession, entrepreneurship in particular. If the group status of entrepreneurship is related to individual choice behavior, it is policy relevant to better understand this relationship and the determinants of the status of the entrepreneur. For reasons outlined in the introduction, this study focuses on (800) students in the Netherlands. We find that the status of occupations is mostly determined by the required level of education, the income level to be expected and respect. Furthermore, our results imply that entrepreneurship is associated with hard work, high incomes, but little power and education. Moreover, we find evidence that individual characteristics, such as entrepreneurship experience, vary systematically with the perceived status of occupations, thereby contributing ammunition to a fundamental discussion in the literature. Finally, we find a strong association between the perceived status of the entrepreneur and the estimated likelihood and willingness to become an entrepreneur.
M59|Who Values the Status of the Entrepreneur?|Parker and Van Praag (2009) showed, based on theory, that the group status of the profession 'entrepreneurship' shapes people's occupational preferences and thus their choice behavior. The current study focuses on the determinants and consequences of the group status of a profession, entrepreneurship in particular. If the group status of entrepreneurship is related to individual choice behavior, it is policy relevant to better understand this relationship and the determinants of the status of the entrepreneur. For reasons outlined in the introduction, this study focuses on (800) students in the Netherlands. We find that the status of occupations is mostly determined by the required level of education, the income level to be expected and respect. Furthermore, our results imply that entrepreneurship is associated with hard work, high incomes, but little power and education. Moreover, we find evidence that individual characteristics, such as entrepreneurship experience, vary systematically with the perceived status of occupations, thereby contributing ammunition to a fundamental discussion in the literature. Finally, we find a strong association between the perceived status of the entrepreneur and the estimated likelihood and willingness to become an entrepreneur.
M59|Risk-Increasing and Risk-Reducing Practices in Human Resource Management: Focus Group Discussions with Livestock Managers| Historically, managers in livestock production have focused on production management; however, as operations have grown they have spent more time managing employees. Increased time spent overseeing employees brings additional risks and challenges, and, hence, a greater need for human resource management (HRM) skills. This study investigated HRM practices in pork production and analyzed their risk attributes through six focus group discussions with managers. Results were compared to existing data from four dairy focus groups and to other research. The results have been used to develop and adapt educational workshops for managers in pork production.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M59|Risk-Increasing and Risk-Reducing Practices in Human Resource Management: Focus Group Discussions with Livestock Managers| Historically, managers in livestock production have focused on production management; however, as operations have grown they have spent more time managing employees. Increased time spent overseeing employees brings additional risks and challenges, and, hence, a greater need for human resource management (HRM) skills. This study investigated HRM practices in pork production and analyzed their risk attributes through six focus group discussions with managers. Results were compared to existing data from four dairy focus groups and to other research. The results have been used to develop and adapt educational workshops for managers in pork production.
M59|Merging Spirituality And Religion: Developing An Islamic Leadership Theory| Leadership has been much talked about in the literature of social sciences. Numerous theories seem to have confused researchers and therefore scattered ideas about leadership continue to emerge from time to time. These theories can be classified into behavioral studies, contingency studies, transactional studies, transformational studies, charismatic studies, and integrative studies. Very recently, researchers have introduced a new concept of leadership known as ‘authentic leadership.’ This author argues that Islam provides the most comprehensive understanding of leadership through its highly developed and modern ethical system that seeks guidelines from the Qur’OEn and Sunnah of Prophet Muhammad [p.b.u.h]. The author also argues that grounds for leadership have already been laid by Islamic teachings several hundred years back. Nevertheless, there is a need to understand and comprehend these teachings and integrate them into a comprehensive and elaborate theoretical model of leadership theory based on Islamic perspectives. The paper first summarizes the theological beliefs and fundamental socio-economic principles of Islam and cultural setup of society based on the Qur’OEn and Sunnah. It then presents a framework of Islamic Leadership Theory. The paper also discusses the theoretical and practical implications of the proposed framework. Recommendations are also made for further theoretical development of the proposed model.
M59|Vodcovstvo ako úspešný predpoklad pre dosahovanie zvyšovania konkurenčnej schopnosti podnikov<BR>[Leadership - a key to success in achieving higher competitiveness at companies]|The idea of leadership has fascinated people for centuries. Leadership, or leading, is an asocial process, where the leader is seeking for voluntary participation of the subordinated, thus striving to achieve the company's objectives. Leadership clearly proves to be more than exercising power and authority. It also covers a number of managerial abilities, such as susceptibility, motivation, scrupulousness, empathy and communication. Leadership has to be present at all levels of the organization, thus creating reasonable conditions for achieving higher competitiveness by companies. Concerning management, there are many theories of leadership defining the influence of managers on subordinates, and there the term management can be understood a synonym to the term leadership since those too are perceived identical in meaning. There are different theories providing a wide range of views on the topic of leadership and its effective application. Many authors consider leading an inseparable part, and one of the most important functions of a manager's job; others consider such ability to lead people a key quality in managers. It is difficult to find or exactly specify a complex definition of leadership. It is hard to define the best way of practicing it. The aim of this contribution is to describe top managers in the role of main strategy planners and present leadership in the light of successful precondition for achieving competitiveness in a selected sample of companies in Slovakia.
M59|Recruitment Restrictions and labor markets: evidence from the post-bellum U.S. south|"This paper estimates the impacts of labor-mobility restrictions on job-transitions and wages in the postbellum U.S. south. In particuliar, I estimate the effects of changes in criminal fines, collected from BLS commission labor reports, charged for ""enticement"" (offers made to workers already under contract) on sharecropper mobility, tenancy choice, and agricultural wages. I present three different pieces of evidence. The first is a retrospective work history panel of farmers from Jefferson County, Arkansas. The second is a state-year panel, using USDA agricultural wages as a dependent variable. The third is a cohort-state regresssion using the 1940 IPUMS census micro sample, estimating the effects of anti-enticement laws on the returns to experience in agricultural labor. I find that a 10% increase in the fine ($13) charged for enticement a.) lowered the probably of a move by black sharecroppers by 6 percentage points, a 12% decline, and b.) lowered agricultural wages, by reducing the exit probability to sharecropping, by 0.11 % (1 cent of daily wages), and c.) lowered the returns to experience in agriculture for blacks by 0.6% per year. These results are consistent with the on-the-job search model, where the enticement fine raises the cost of offering a job to employed workers."
M59|The New Pay System Requires Encouraging and Performance-oriented leaders: Experiences of performance related pay in three Finnish State Government Organizations|Performance related pay (PRP) intends to make the civil service perform better. It can foster individual motivation by recognizing efforts and achievements and rewarding them. PRP can help improve performance when it is applied properly in the right managerial context. In this article the PRP is viewed as a management tool. The leader is expected to facilitate change and adaptation for result-orientated culture, and to discuss about work performance and results. The leader should also create an improved employeemanager dialogue and a climate that supports organizational and individual learning. As a coach the supervisor helps subordinates constantly reaching better results.
M59|Los modelos de Capital Intelectual en las Empresas Españolas: Una aplicación práctica|Due to the increasing interest on knowledge and intellectual capital management analysis, both by enterprises and researchers, the aim of this work is double: Firstly, to explain what intellectual capital is, as well as present different classification and measuring models for it. Secondly, to analyze the accounting notes of big Spanish firms towards to detect the effect that intellectual capital can have in the Spanish field.
M59|Una metodología para medir la opinión del consumidor peruano sobre la responsabilidad social del marketing|Ante la evidencia que está arrojando las investigaciones más recientes, de la importancia que el público le está dando a la responsabilidad social de las empresas, éstas se están percatando de que las funciones tradicionales del marketing han quedado cortas a los ojos del consumidor, y que éstos esperan algo más o tal vez algo distinto del comportamiento de las empresas. Esta realidad hace necesario descubrir la opinión del consumidor sobre la responsabilidad social del marketing (RSM) de las empresas para saber qué tan bien o mal lo están haciendo las empresas ante los ojos del consumidor. Como no se cuenta con un instrumento adecuado para descubrir y registrar esa opinión, esta investigación tiene como objetivo construir un instrumento que permita medir el nivel de responsabilidad social de la actividad del marketing en el Perú. El documento que se presenta describe, paso a paso, el proceso seguido para la elaboración de una escala destinada a medir qué tan bien o tan mal lo está haciendo el marketing en el Perú, ante los ojos del consumidor limeño. El enfoque de este estudio es “generalista”, ya que no se pretende investigar la actitud del consumidor respecto de un tipo de producto o servicio en particular, ni de un sector específico de la economía. Lo que se quiere es averiguar lo que piensa el ciudadano peruano común y corriente, en tanto consumidor, de la RSM en general.
M59|Comparative analysis of working conditions in the European Union Member States|This paper presents the main findings of the author’s study of statistics as well as Eu-ropean surveys on working conditions. Such solutions enabled to compare the data and make the results more reliable. The collected data concerns all Member States of the European Un-ion, where it was impossible to collect data for newest Member States (Bulgaria and Roma-nia), they were omitted. Where it was possible, the author compared the situation in Member States to the situation in the USA. The paper aims to provide an overview of the state of working conditions in the European Union, as well as indicating the nature and content of changes affecting the workforce and the quality of work. The main aim of the paper is to compare basic working conditions within all Member States of the European Union in order to point out leaders and sluggers in this field. This paper is limited to a straightforward presenta-tion of the results.
M59|Determinants Of Outside Director Turnover|In this paper we provide evidence that independent director turnover is influenced by a series of economic factors. Directors, both independent and insider, are less likely to leave if they are paid well or if the firm has a director pension plan. They are also more likely to leave when the firm is performing poorly or when they expect it to perform poorly. They are more likely to leave when the firm is riskier, but are less likely to leave when they chair certain committees such as the audit and compensation committee, which may bring them more prestige, or perhaps an additional stipend. Differentially, the association between turnover and firm performance is weaker for inside directors. This is consistent with inside directors’ response to reputation concerns being lower than that of independent directors due to the bonding and compensation effects.
M59|Human Resource Management Risks: Sources and Control Strategies Based on Dairy Farmer Focus Groups| Human resource management in agriculture and associated risks are under-researched topics. To identify the sources of human resource management risks confronting dairy farms, gain insights into how dairy farmers perceive the impacts of these risks, and identify control strategies, four focus group discussions were held with dairy farm managers. Managers’ perceptions served to develop a framework for the analysis of human resource management risks in agriculture and derive recommendations for reducing these risks. Results of this study have been used to tailor educational programs for farmers and suggest strategies for future research.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
M59|Human Resource Management Risks: Sources and Control Strategies Based on Dairy Farmer Focus Groups| Human resource management in agriculture and associated risks are under-researched topics. To identify the sources of human resource management risks confronting dairy farms, gain insights into how dairy farmers perceive the impacts of these risks, and identify control strategies, four focus group discussions were held with dairy farm managers. Managers’ perceptions served to develop a framework for the analysis of human resource management risks in agriculture and derive recommendations for reducing these risks. Results of this study have been used to tailor educational programs for farmers and suggest strategies for future research.
M59|Desarrollo individual|El propósito de este artículo es mostrar una metodología que les permita a las personas realizar un proyecto de desarrollo personal, aplicando el modelo de planeación estratégica.
M59|El ser humano y la innovación|El propósito central de este artículo es develar el papel que ha jugado el ser humano en el proceso de innovación, utilizando como metodología para su desarrollo el esquema de Gusdorf, en el cual se representa la relación con el otro, con la organización, con la sociedad, y con el entorno. Se considera la tecnología, como un componente adicional en este esquema, dada su incidencia en el contexto de la función productiva y de servicios. Como eje transversal del texto, se quiere interrogar la responsabilidad y la ética que subyacen en cada uno de los componentes de la red de innovación. La conclusión parte del antecedente de que la innovación ha procurado aportar al progreso de la sociedad; sin embargo, en algunos casos, es y puede ser partícipe del aislamiento del hombre y su deshumanización; la tarea consiste en reorientar estas posiciones, dada la responsabilidad que otorga la condición de seres humanos.
M59|Digital express|Digital Express es el caso de una empresa familiar que como muchas ha crecido con base en las fortalezas y visión de su propietaria fundadora, pero que en su estructura administrativa no se ha acomodado a las situaciones de los nuevos mercados que está atendiendo y a los requerimientos de sus clientes. Digital Express muestra la situación poco productiva a que se enfrentan las empresas familiares cuando el fundador sin darse cuenta del crecimiento que viene alcanzando su empresa continúa centrando todo el poder y realizando labores en todas las áreas.
M59|La question des retraites action combinée de l’etat, de l’entreprise et de la famille (The question of pensions a combined action of the state, the entreprise and the family)|Le financement des retraites ayant pour finalité de fournir une réponse à une réalité sociale par définition mouvante, ne peut faire l’objet que de solutions évolutives, sous peine de remises en cause de situations présentées comme faussement stables. D’où le questionnement : avec la déstabilisation de la société salariale, de quelle façon l’Etat peut et doit agir pour donner à chacun une garantie maximale en matière de retraites ? Afin de remédier aux insuffisances des politiques sociales (les retraites n’échappent pas à cette logique), compléter et corriger leur action, et à côté de l’Etat au bénéfice de l’individu, trois instances sont alors sollicitées : le marché, l’entreprise et la famille. L’action sociale s’organise alors sur un mode pluraliste (Welfare mix) The problem of pensions financing is in relation with social reality which is by definition unstable. There is no progessive solution to this problem. Partial solutions risk to destroy the present situation wrongly presented as immutable. In the context of an unstable salarial society, how does State intervene? How can the State settle a maximal pension guaranty to everybody? In order to find solutions against the inefficiency of social policies (particularly the policy of pensions), to complete and to rectify the consequencies of State intervention on individual welfare, three institutions take part in pension financing: the market, the entreprise, the familly. Social action is organized according to a plural mode (welfare mix).
M59|Utilizarea Studiului De Caz În Demersul Pedagogic Al Formarii Specialistilor În Management|The complexity of economic life and the necessity to prepare the students for a very competitive environment has determined the members of the teaching body to find new teaching methods. An increasing importance was awarded to the study case method, successfully promoted by Harvard Business School. The case method is also used as recruitment technique or to test the abilities of employees. In our country this teaching method is used only seldom, by using copied cases from the prestigious universities that do not fit in the Romanian economic picture. In this paper we will present the features that recommend the case method as an excellent teaching tool.
M59|Las personas en la organización|Se pretende argumentar la importancia que tienen las personas en la organización, a partirde la definición del concepto de persona como individuo y de su visión a través de la historia.Se hace claridad con relación a su concepción como un recurso más, citando lo que variosespecialistas entienden por recurso y las razones por las cuales las personas, antes que unrecurso, deben ser vistas como un talento. De otra parte, se enuncian los elementos esencialesque le permiten a una persona actuar como socio estratégico de la empresa y la importanciade diseñar una estrategia de talento humano, alineada a la estrategia corporativa de laorganización. Finalmente se hace mención de los aspectos que permiten que las personas seconviertan en una ventaja competitiva sostenible.
M59|Ise Eleman Secme Yontemlerinde Orgutsel Farkliliklar ve Ozgunluk Tartismalari|Calisma, ise eleman secme surecinin cesitli asamalarinda adaylardan, toplanan bilgilerin yorumlanmasindaki farkliliklari belirlemeyi hedeflemistir. Bu baglamda, orgutlerin hangi secme yontemleri ile birbirlerinden farkliliklar gosterdiginin saptanmasi calismanin temel amacini olusturmaktadir. Yapilan alan calismasi ve niteliksel arastirma yontemleri ile elde edilen bulgulara gore, orgutlerin daha cok geleneksel secim yontemlerine bagli kaldigi, ancak secim suresince birbirlerinden anlamli farkliliklar gosterdigi bulunmustur. Bu bulgulara yonelik butunsel, katki saglayici ve elestirel tartismalar ve onermeler detayli bir sekilde ele alinmistir.
M59|Human capital in Unternehmen: unterschiedliche Ansätze zur Messung des Humankapitals|After a short review on the history of human capital measurement we describe and discuss different approaches that are in use to assess the intangible assetts of an organisation based on knowledge and behaviour. While deductive indicators help to rise the questions on the value of intangible assests, they are inapproriate to build any managerial decision on them. Inductive methods like the Intangible Assets Monitor or the Intellectual Capital Navigator pathed the way to a better understanding of human capital. In the future more holistic appraoches like Balanced Scorecard and the assessments based on the Business Excellence Model of EFQM seem to be even more promising. Nevertheless none of the approaches can yet fulfill the demands of accounting standards.
M59|Humanistik Bir Yaklasimla Ortulu Bilgi Analizi: Ortulu Bilgi Gelisimi ve Paylasiminda Duygusal Zeka ile Beden Dilinin Rolu ve Stratejik Kullanim Yollari|Bu makale bilginin kavramsal bir analiziyle birlikte ortulu bilgi, duygusal zeka ve beden dili arasindaki iliskileri ele almaktadir. Makalenin amaci duygusal zeka ve beden dilinin ortulu bilginin gelisim ve paylasim surecindeki rolunu vurgulamak ve bunlarin ortulu bilgi baglamindaki stratejik kullanim yollarini ortaya koymaktir.
M59|The Effect of Residential Location on the Wages of Black Women and White Women|No abstract is available for this item.
M59|Transparency, Career Concerns, and Incentives for Acquiring Expertise|An agent, who cares about signaling his ability, chooses among different projects that generate observable outcomes. The agent's information about which project delivers a good outcome depends on both his ability and his effort. This paper examines how the agent's incentives for effort change depending on whether or not the agent's project choice is observed. If this choice is publicly observed, the agent's project choice is distorted towards particular types of projects. When the outcomes of these advantaged projects are particularly sensitive to the agent's information, such transparency boosts the agent's information-gathering incentives. However, when public observation of project choice leads the agent to choose information-insensitive projects, then such transparency dampens incentives. This provides a more nuanced view of the implications of action transparency in the literature on career concerns for experts.
