N01|How Cliometrics has Infiltrated Economics – and Helped to Improve the Discipline|Fenoaltea (2019) argues that cliometricians have failed as economists, historians, and economic historians. His argument is based on what he sees as a failure to appreciate the fine art of data gathering and what he perceives to be the lax attitude towards measurement. He embodies these complaints in the history of the creation of national income statistics, and the unforgiveable sin of economic historians who attempt to take those measurements backward in time. He concludes his polemic with his dream, that “cliometricians can take history and the humanities as seriously as we take economics, and lead us to the promised land.” (2019: 12) We are unsure of exactly what the “promised land” might be, but argue that any recent issue of Cliometrica, and any article in the Handbook of Cliometrics will provide ample evidence that cliometrics is alive and well, takes both history and economics very seriously, and does so with a careful and critical eye toward context (clio) and measurement (metrics). Herewith we defend the accomplishments and current robust health of cliometrics.
N01|The Gold Standard and the Great Depression: a Dynamic General Equilibrium Model|Was the Gold Standard a major determinant of the onset and the protracted character of the the Great Depression of the 1930s in the United States and Worldwide? In this paper, we model the ‘Gold-Standard hypothesis’ in a dynamic general equilibrium framework. We show that encompassing the international and monetary dimensions of the Great Depression is important to understand what happened in the 1930s, especially outside the United States. Contrary to what is often maintained in the literature, our results suggest that the vague of successive nominal exchange rate devaluations coupled with the monetary policy implemented in the United States did not act as a relief. On the contrary, they made the Depression worse.
N01|Measuring Success: Clio and the Value of Database Creation|In a recent article Stefano Fenoaltea (2018) bemoaned the loss of respect and focus on the importance of creating databases, or “measurement” as he referred to it. Cliometrics has made and continues to make valuable contributions not just to the field of economic history, but economics in general. In particular, we focus on the contribution of cliometrics to the creation of datasets. We highlight several important cases in both the past and present, of recognized important contributions of new datasets to the economics discipline. We argue that Clio has continually focused on, and valued, the creation of new data sets and the clever and novel ways they have been exploited to further the frontiers of knowledge, and that these efforts are both appreciated and recognized.
N01|Teaching entrepreneurial families and family business history in Latin America, 1870s-2017|This paper aims to be an instrument for teaching family business history in Latin America in business schools. The focus is the story of the many failures and the few successful histories of Latin American family businesses, from the 1870s until our days. The choice of the dates responds to the willingness of the authors to focus the attention of students in a key historical period in the history of Latin America, with consolidated independent governments, and fast inclusion in the global economy. Those were years in which the region transformed its global position from being a destination of foreign products, labour, and capital, to becoming increasingly the cradle of innovative multinationals, some of which are today key players in global Foreign Direct Investment (Casanova 2016). The paper indicates the major trends in the external environment and the national politics, and the impact of such context in the creation, expansion, disappearance, or transformation, of family businesses, though the focus is in the large diversified family controlled business groups, for which the empirical evidence is more abundant to establish comparisons across borders, despite the diversity.
N01|La biblioteca de Economía de Manuel de Torres en la editorial Aguilar (1945-1960)|In 1945, two years after the creation of the first School of Economics and Political Science in Spain, La Biblioteca de Ciencias Económicas, Políticas y Sociales (Library of Economic, Political and Social Sciences) from the publishing house Aguilar was born. The Economics section was headed by Professor Manuel de Torres Martínez until his death in 1960. In this work, this Publication is studied during the years in which it was under his supervision. Throughout this time, together with the publishing house Fondo de Cultura Económica from Mexico, it became the main bibliographic resource for the first promotions of Spanish economists and for the students of economics of all the Spanish-speaking countries in the world.
N01|The Development of Modern Agricultural History within Economic History in Spain|This paper analyses the evolution of modern agricultural history in Spain within the framework of the development of the discipline of economic history. This analysis is divided into five thematic parts: production, productivity and technical change; the international insertion of Spanish agriculture; the institutional framework; long-term visions; and finally, recent developments and some deficits. It is interesting to emphasize that research on agricultural economic history in Spain has been carried out adopting methodologies, questions and developments similar to those of researchers from other advanced countries. Spanish agricultural economic history is one of the most powerful in the international context.
N01|Spleen: the failures of the cliometric school|This paper argues that we cliometricians have failed as economists, because we did not drag the profession out of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth; that we have failed as historians, because we do not take measurement seriously, and misapprehend “the data”; and that we failed signally as economic historians, because we backcast “GDP” as if it measured gross domestic product.
N01|The Economy in Leonardo da Vinci’s Time|This paper presents the main economic features, in quantitative terms, of the society in which Leonardo Da Vinci lived from the second half of the 15th century to the early 16th century. Using data from Florence’s Land Register of 1427 combined with new data on the household budgets of Leonardo and of his family, the paper proposes two hypotheses. The first regards the importance of the demand for goods linked to art and culture. The city’s economic élite managed to appropriate about two thirds of the economy’s surplus for itself (i.e. what was left after the population had been guaranteed a minimum level of subsistence) and it showed a growing demand for luxury goods that permitted and incentivized the work of talented individuals of the time. In this context, Leonardo’s genius fell on fertile ground. The second hypothesis regards pre-industrial social mobility (upward mobility in particular): Leonardo’s household accounts support the theory that the economic fluidity of renaissance Florence may have been considerably greater than the literature on economic history would have us believe.
N01|The Past’s Long Shadow. A Systematic Review and Network Analysis of Cliometrics or the New Economic History|During the interwar years, Japanese industrialisation accelerated alongside the expansion of industrial exports to regional markets. Trade blocs in the interwar years were used as an instrument of imperial power to foster exports and as a substitute for productivity to encourage industrial production. The historiography on Japanese industrialisation in the interwar years describes heavy industries’ interests in obtaining access to wider markets to increase economies of scale and reduce unit costs. However, this literature provides no quantitative evidence that proves the success of those mechanisms in expanding exports. In this paper we scrutinise how Japan—a relatively poor country—used colonial as well as informal power interventions to expand regional markets for its exports, especially for the most intensive human capital sector of the industrializing economy.
N01|An Act for the Abolition of the Slave Trade: The Effects of an Import Ban on Cape Colony Slaveholders|Few could have foreseen the consequences when the British Parliament, in 1807, passed the Slave Trade Act that sought to abolish slave imports into the British Empire. From population decreases in the British Caribbean to increased prices in the Cape Colony, historical evidence suggests that the eﬀects of the Act were felt far and wide even though commercialization of slaves was still possible within colonial territories. Using newly digitized historical datasets covering more than 40 years in two diﬀerent districts of the British Cape Colony, this paper measures changes in slave ownership and acquisition patterns from a longitudinal perspective. This approach allows me to tease out the eﬀects of the Act on farmers with diﬀerent types of agricultural outputs, most notably crop and livestock farming, agricultural types with very diﬀerent labor demands. The results show that livestock farmers, surprisingly, were more inelastic to the import ban in comparison to crop farmers. These results suggest that slaveholders could extract rents from the enslaved in a multitude of ways beyond agriculture production and calls for a broader theory of slavery as capital investment.
N01|The Blessings of Medicine? Patient Characteristics and Health Outcomes in a Ugandan Mission Hospital, 1908-1970|This paper sheds new light on the impact and experience of western biomedicine in colonial Africa. We use patient registers from Western Uganda’s earliest mission hospital to explore whether and how Christian conversion and mission education affected African health behaviour. A dataset of 18,600 admissions permits analysis of patients’ age, sex, residence, religion, diagnoses, duration of hospitalisation, and treatment outcomes. We document Toro Hospital’s substantial geographic reach, trace evolving treatment practices, and highlight significant variation in hospital-based disease incidence between the early colonial and early postcolonial periods. We observe no relationship between numeracy and health outcomes, nor religion-specific effects concerning hygiene-related infections. Christian conversion was associated with superior cure rates and shorter length of stay, and with lower incidence of skin diseases and sexually-transmitted infections (STIs). However, our findings indicate that STI-incidence was linked to morality campaigns and that clinicians’ diagnoses were influenced by assumptions around religious groups’ sexual behaviour.
N01|Industrial wages in mid-1880s Sweden: estimations beyond Bagge’s Wages in Sweden. Data, source and methods|Most researchers interested in Swedish wages during early industrialization have used the seminal work Wages in Sweden from the 1930s as their point of departure. Whereas the material in Wages in Sweden solidly tracks the movements of wages, it is not suitable for comparisons across industries or counties at a specific point in time. Nor should Wages in Sweden be used to estimate wages in absolute levels. Based on hitherto-unused source material from a large, nationwide public inquiry, we estimate industrial wages in the mid-1880s. The population consists of industrial workers with different experience, skills and firm attachment. Our estimations include a national wage as well as inter-industry and inter-regional wages in both absolute and relative terms, weighted by employment. The findings call for a substantial revision of relative wages across industries. They also indicate that the wage dispersion across industries and counties was lower than previously thought. We estimate the national wage for women as being half the size of that of men.
N01|Strikes and Lockouts in Sweden: Reconsidering Raphael’s List of Work Stoppages 1859-1902|This paper presents and discusses a recently digitized, dataset of strikes and lockouts in Sweden for the period 1859-1902. The dataset, which originally was collected by Axel Raphael by retrospectively browsing through newspapers, pre-dates the Swedish official statistics on work stoppages that began in 1903. Whereas Raphael’s data have been used to illustrate the long-run development of strikes, labour historians have been hesitant or completely dismissive towards the usefulness of his work. This paper reviews, and deepens previous assessments of Raphael’s data and compares his data with the official statistics for the period after 1903. This renewed assessment leads to three conclusions. Firstly, the coverage of the data is much better after 1885 than before. Trends and fluctuations in conflict frequency obtained from Raphael’s data for the later period are probably accurate. Secondly, there are also in the later period a lot of missing information in how conflicts are described, for example with regard to number of participants and outcomes. Thirdly, there are good opportunities to complement, and enhance, Raphael’s dataset by browsing through more newspapers or consulting other sources.
N01|Hur ekonomisk historia blev en egen disciplin vid de svenska universiteten|Economic history became a discipline with its own chair professors at the Swedish universities at the end of the 1940s. The well-known economic historian Eli Heckscher played a central role for the establishment and his work led to a stronger position for economic history in Sweden than in most other countries. However, his influence was not strong in the formation of the discipline. He always emphasized use of economic theory as essential for the economic-historical methodology. Nevertheless, traditional historical methods became dominating; historians –except for Heckscher –were experts at the appointments of the professors and all candidates were educated in history. Economists were not interested in promoting economic history. Thus, Heckscher’s methodological views did not gain acceptance and a bias towards traditional history came to dominate for a long time. In the 1960s, however, interest in theoretical and quantitative methods increased but then, paradoxically, the inspiration came from the USA and not from Heckscher.
N01|Combining Family History and Machine Learning to Link Historical Records|A key challenge for research on many questions in the social sciences is that it is difficult to link historical records in a way that allows investigators to observe people at different points in their life or across generations. In this paper, we develop a new approach that relies on millions of record links created by individual contributors to a large, public, wiki-style family tree. First, we use these “true” links to inform the decisions one needs to make when using traditional linking methods. Second, we use the links to construct a training data set for use in supervised machine learning methods. We describe the procedure we use and illustrate the potential of our approach by linking individuals across the 100% samples of the US decennial censuses from 1900, 1910, and 1920. We obtain an overall match rate of about 70 percent, with a false positive rate of about 12 percent. This combination of high match rate and accuracy represents a point beyond the current frontier for record linking methods.
N01|Decolonizing with data: The cliometric turn in African economic history|Our understanding of Africa's economic past -- the causes and consequences of precolonial polities, the slave trade, state formation, the Scramble for Africa, European settlement, and independence -- has improved markedly over the last two decades. Much of this is the result of the cliometric turn in African economic history, what some have called a `renaissance'. Whilst acknowledging that cliometrics is not new to African history, this chapter examines the major recent contributions, noting their methodological advances and dividing them into four broad themes: persistence of deep traits, slavery, colonialism and independence. We conclude with a brief bibliometric exercise, noting the lack of Africans working at the frontier of African cliometrics.
N01|Who writes African economic history?|Much has been said about the rise, or `renaissance', of African economic history. What has received far less attention is who is producing this research. Using a complete dataset of articles in the top four economic history journals, I document the rise in African economic history in the last two decades. I show that although there has indeed been an increase in papers on Africa, it has included little work by Africans. I then attempt to explain why this is so, and motivate why this should matter. The good news is that, mostly owing to efforts by the academic community, more is being done to encourage African inclusion. I conclude with a few suggestions on how to make more African scholars part of the renaissance of African economic history.
N01|How Cliometrics has Infiltrated Economics – and Helped to Improve the Discipline|Fenoaltea (2019) argues that cliometricians have failed as economists, historians, and economic historians. His argument is based on what he sees as a failure to appreciate the fine art of data gathering and what he perceives to be the lax attitude towards measurement. He embodies these complaints in the history of the creation of national income statistics, and the unforgiveable sin of economic historians who attempt to take those measurements backward in time. He concludes his polemic with his dream, that “cliometricians can take history and the humanities as seriously as we take economics, and lead us to the promised land.” (2019: 12) We are unsure of exactly what the “promised land” might be, but argue that any recent issue of Cliometrica, and any article in the Handbook of Cliometrics will provide ample evidence that cliometrics is alive and well, takes both history and economics very seriously, and does so with a careful and critical eye toward context (clio) and measurement (metrics). Herewith we defend the accomplishments and current robust health of cliometrics.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N01|Measuring Success: Clio and the Value of Database Creation|In a recent article Stefano Fenoaltea (2018) bemoaned the loss of respect and focus on the importance of creating databases, or “measurement” as he referred to it. Cliometrics has made and continues to make valuable contributions not just to the field of economic history, but economics in general. In particular, we focus on the contribution of cliometrics to the creation of datasets. We highlight several important cases in both the past and present, of recognized important contributions of new datasets to the economics discipline. We argue that Clio has continually focused on, and valued, the creation of new data sets and the clever and novel ways they have been exploited to further the frontiers of knowledge, and that these efforts are both appreciated and recognized.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N01|Un héritage des Annales, la cliométrie à Strasbourg|C’est par sa volonté de combiner la rigueur des modèles théoriques et mathématiques avec la prise en compte, de la façon la plus exhaustive possible, de la complexité de toutes les données (qualitatives et quantitatives) que l’Ecole cliométrique strasbourgeoise reste fidèle à l’esprit des Annales et prolonge le mouvement initié en 1929 par Marc Bloch et Lucien Febvre.
N01|The population question in a neoclassical growth model: A brief theory of production per capita|"This work seeks to answer the ""population question,"" i.e. the effect of population growth on production per capita. This question has lingered in economic thought for centuries and to this day two general lines of thought can be identified, which might be marked as the ""optimist"" and the ""pessimist"" view. While the optimists claim that an increase in population will - chiefly owed to concomitant specialization and technological progress - raise average production per capita, the pessimists maintain that the latter would decline as a result of resources becoming relatively more scarce. Integrating both approaches and using a neoclassical framework, this work intends to show that sustainably increasing productivity is predominantly the result of reducing too high fertility toward a lower level such that diminishing returns are outweighed by the benefits from labor division. The paper argues that the historical reduction of fertility can almost completely explain long-run development."
N01|Cliometrics|"Cliometrics has been defined and summarized in numerous scholarly articles. They all pretty much start with the obvious, that cliometrics is the application of economic theory and quantitative techniques to study history; and then move on to the origin of the name, the joining of Clio (the muse of history), with metrics (""to measure,"" or ""the art of measurement""), allegedly coined by economist Stanley Reiter while collaborating with economic historians Lance Davis and Jonathan Hughes."
N01|Agriocliometrics and Agricultural Change in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries|Before the industrial revolution, agriculture was the most important economic activity of traditional societies. The spread of industrialisation processes, first throughout a large part of the western world and later across many more countries, gave rise to an abundance of literature on the role of agriculture in these processes. The initial perspectives offered by economic history, particularly for the British case, and the approaches of development economics specialists, largely based on previous studies by economic historians, became subject to reconsideration when numerous studies emerged that, from a cliometric point of view, sought to evaluate the changes experienced by agriculture and their contribution to economic growth. In this context, the objective of this study is to use these contributions to analyse the profound transformations that have occurred in agriculture around the world over the last two centuries.
N01|El sector minero antioqueño en la segunda mitad del siglo XIX: construcción hacia una economía modernizadora|Con el fin de realizar un aporte a la teoría del desarrollo local, este trabajo pretende responder a la pregunta de cómo se articula el desempeño económico de Antioquia con la minería decimonónica. A partir de un análisis cualitativo entre las investigaciones que han tratado el tema, las fuentes primarias recolectadas y el estudio llevado a cabo en la empresa minera El Zancudo, enfocado en su impacto económico regional, se ha encontrado que la minería, como respuesta a los intereses extractivos de los empresarios y favorecida por el contexto político y económico, dinamiza los sectores productivos e impulsa la industrialización y formación de capital humano regional, promoviendo los elementos para el despegue económico antioqueño de la segunda mitad del siglo XIX.
N01|Los estudios en historia fiscal de Colombia sobre el siglo xx|Resumen: Este artículo ofrece un primer balance de los estudios en historia fiscal de Colombia sobre siglo XX. Como parte de la metodología se delimita el campo de los estudios en historia fiscal, y se concentra en resultados de investigación publicados desde 1970, cuando el sistema universitario colombiano se expande y consolida, hasta el 2018. En consecuencia, se seleccionan 40 estudios que se caracterizan cuantitativa y cualitativamente en tres grandes aspectos: metodología, autor, y divulgación. De esta manera, se encuentra un ritmo de producción moderado con un estudio por año, en promedio, desde 1980. La política fiscal ha sido el campo predominante desde el cual se da el encuentro con la perspectiva histórica (46%), seguido por los estudios propiamente en historia fiscal (28%), y los estudios desde el derecho público (12.8%) y la economía política (12.8%). Los enfoques cepalino y el keynesiano, más frecuentemente empleados en los años 80s y 90s, perdieron presencia a partir del año 2000 en favor de los enfoques neoclásico y neoinstitucional. El balance general indica un superávit con la emergencia de varios libros de calidad que ofrecen visiones de conjunto, análisis históricos de las décadas de 1920 y 1930, análisis sobre tributación, y la construcción de las principales series estadísticas de las finanzas públicas del Gobierno Nacional Central. También se detecta un déficit de estudios sobre finanzas públicas a nivel regional, en relación con el impacto del manejo fiscal sobre el desarrollo regional y sobre arreglos institucionales y control fiscal. Es deseable que el campo de la historia fiscal se amplíe y profundice a través de la entrada de más investigadores, la exploración de nuevas fuentes documentales y enfoques teóricos para ganar perspectiva histórica no sólo de los fenómenos fiscales, sino también del Estado colombiano durante el siglo XX y su relación con la economía. / Abstract : This article provides a first assessment of the studies on the fiscal history of Colombia of the 20th century. The methodology delimits the field of fiscal studies, and focuses on research results published since 1970, when the Colombian university system expands and strengthens, until 2018. Hence, it selects 40 studies characterized quantitatively and qualitatively in three major aspects: methodology, author, and divulgation. Thus, it finds a moderate production rate in the field with one study per year, on average, since 1980. Fiscal policy has been the predominant field from which the historical perspective is built (46%), followed by proper studies in fiscal history (28%), public law studies (12.8%) and political economy studies (12.8%). The cepalino and Keynesian approaches, most frequently used in the 80s and 90s, reduced their participation since the 2000 thus giving room to the neoclassical and neo-institutional approaches. The overall balance indicates a surplus with the emergence of several quality books that offer general views, historical analyses on the decades of 1920 and 1930, analysis on taxation, and statistical building of main fiscal series of the Central National Government. There is a deficit of studies on public finance at the regional level, regarding the impact of fiscal management on regional development, and institutional arrangements and fiscal control. It is desirable that the field of fiscal history expands and deepens through the entry of more researchers, the exploration of new documentary sources and theoretical approaches to gain historical perspective not only of fiscal phenomena but also of the Colombian state building during the 20th century and its relationship with the economy.
N01|Cosmographies for the discovery, development and diffusion of useful and reliable knowledge in pre-industrial Europe and Late imperial China: a survey and speculation|No abstract is available for this item.
N01|Standard Budgets in Spanish Economic History: a User’s Guide to Sources and Methods|In this paper the author documents a near absence of household budget microdata in the sources for nineteenth century Spain, both published and archival. The sources do however contain a rich set of standard budgets, which can contribute to a better understanding of the history of Spanish living standards. The paper is divided in three parts: first, the author describes standard budgets and their usefulness for cliometricians; secondly, he traces their history in the Spanish sources; finally, he sketches a few applications to issues in the period 1850-1905. The latter analysis suggests: a) a substantial variation in cost of living and expenditure patterns across provinces, sectors, and socioeconomic status; b) a sensible impact of alternative CPI weights on national price indices; c) poverty lines ranging between 1,110 and 1,300 euros per year – in 2016 prices – for the years 1850 and 1856.
N01|On the use of composite indices in economic history. Lessons from Italy, 1861-2017|We argue against the use of composite indices, such as the Human Development Index, in economic history. We show that composite indices can be interpreted as paternalistic social welfare functions (PSWF), and therefore are nothing more than a formal representation of the analyst’s ethical system. This contrasts with the use economic historians typically make of composite indices, as tools to lend objectivity to the measurement of multidimensional phenomena. We support our claim by introducing a new constant-elasticity-of-substitution SWF family, which a) encompasses all composite indices put forth by the literature, and b) identifies the analyst’s implicit preferences by means of standard tools, e.g. marginal rates of substitution and elasticity of substitution parameters. The theoretical framework is illustrated by an empirical investigation of the long-run evolution of Italians’ living standards (1861-2017). We show how any history based on composite indices is one where both data and history play a minor role, if any.
N01|Spleen: the failures of the cliometric school|This paper argues that we cliometricians have failed as economists, because we did not drag the profession out of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth; that we have failed as historians, because we do not take measurement seriously, and misapprehend “the data”; and that we failed signally as economic historians, because we backcast “GDP” as if it measured gross domestic product.
N01|Two stories, one fate: Age-heaping and literacy in Spain, 1877-1930|This study looks at human capital in Spain during the early stages of modern economic growth. In order to do so, we have assembled a new dataset on ageheaping and literacy in Spain for both men and women between 1877 and 1930 based on six population censuses with information for 49 provinces. Our results show that age-heaping was less prevalent during the second half of the 19th century than previously thought and did not decrease until the early twentieth century. By contrast, literacy increased throughout the whole period. Interestingly, age-heaping and illiteracy rates depict similar spatial patterns which confirm the stark differences in human capital within Spain. Lastly, we raise critical questions as regards sources, methods, and the interpretation of age-heaping.
N01|The Khohkoi Population: A Review of Evidence and Two New Estimates|Fourie and Green construct estimates of the Khoikhoi population over the 1652- 1780 period using benchmarks for the initial and terminal Khoi populations and benchmarks for the punctuated population declines from smallpox epidemics in 1713 and 1755. I review the evidence underlying each of the four population benchmarks and argue for a revised 1780 benchmark. Qualitative evidence also points to a higher rate of population decline between 1652 and 1723 and a smaller rate of decline between 1723 and 1780. Using the Fourie-Green methodology and adopting 3 of their 4 population benchmarks, I develop two revised estimates of the Khoi population to supplement the original Fourie and Green estimates
N01|Tax Compliance under Indirect Rule in British Africa|How states acquire the ability to raise taxes is a central question in the study of institutions and economic development in economic history. This paper uses new data on ‘Native Authorities’, or African local governments, to investigate tax compliance under indirect rule in British Africa. In theory, Native Authorities represented the integration of indigenous institutions into colonial rule. However, the relationships of African states with the colonial government varied, and African communities experienced considerable political and economic change during the colonial period. The paper investigates the relationship between tax compliance, the autonomy of African states within the colonial system, local levels of income and education, and Native Authority institutions. Understanding the dynamics of Native Authority tax collection helps address wider questions about African processes of state-building, the emergence of an ‘uneven topography’ of sub-national institutions during the colonial period, and the ways in which Africans shaped colonial rule.
N01|Tax Stabilisation, Trade and Political Transitions in Francophone West Africa over 120 Years|Contemporary African fiscal systems are usually portrayed as being subject to significant instability, which has negative consequences for public spending and development. However, this paper documents significant long-term fiscal stabilisation in Benin, Côte d'Ivoire, Niger and Senegal as measured by reductions in tax revenue instability and the responsiveness of tax revenue to trade over a 120-year period. This historical process of long-term fiscal stabilisation in francophone West Africa has not been properly acknowledged in the contemporary fiscal policy literature that tends to focus on recent decades. Moreover, it is shown qualitatively and econometrically that this fiscal stabilisation has been accompanied with a longterm reduction in the volatility of trade, a change in tax composition away from trade taxes to indirect domestic taxes, and major shifts in development policy paradigms. This points to the value of studying African fiscal systems over long periods of time to identify relationships not apparent from a short-term perspective and understand the intricate mechanisms and dynamics that characterize the development process.
N01|Was Slavery a Flexible Form of Labour? Division of Labour and Location Specific Skills on the Eastern Cape Frontier|The flexibility of slave labour as an economic institution has often been assumed as a given. In general, some capital investment is necessary to retrain novice slaves but essentially they could be substituted for any other form of labour. This paper refutes the claim of the flexibility of slave labour through employing a longitudinal study for the Graaff-Reinet region of the Cape colony. We calculate Hicksian elasticity of complementarity coefficients for each year of a 21-year combination of cross-sectional tax datasets (1805-28) in order to test whether slave labour was substitutable with other forms of labour. We find that khoe, family and slave labour are not substitutable over the period of the study. This lends credence to the finding that slave and settler family labour were two different inputs in the agricultural production process. Indigenous Khoe and slave labour also remain complements throughout the period of study even when Khoe labour becomes scarce after the frontier conflicts, confirming the notion that slave labour at Graaff-Reinet was not a flexible labour source. We argue that the lack of substitutability of slave labour was due to the need of the settlers to acquire labour with location-specific skills such as the indigenous Khoe.
N01|Record linkage in the Cape of Good Hope Panel|In this paper we describe the record linkage procedure to create a panel from Cape Colony census returns, or opgaafrolle, for 1787--1828, a dataset of 42,354 household-level observations. Based on a subset of manually linked records, we first evaluate statistical models and deterministic algorithms to best identify and match households over time. By using household-level characteristics in the linking process and near-annual data, we are able to create high-quality links for 84 percent of the dataset. We compare basic analyses on the linked panel dataset to the original cross-sectional data, evaluate the feasibility of the strategy when linking to supplementary sources, and discuss the scalability of our approach to the full Cape panel.
N01|The Shaping of a Settler Fertility Transition: Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century South African Demographic History Reconsidered|Using South African Families(SAF), a new database of settler genealogies, we provide for the first time, a description of female marital fertility in South Africa from 1700 to 1909. We find high and stable levels of fertility up to the mid-nineteenth century, typical of a pre-transition population, after which fertility declines. The usual correlates of a decline in fertility, namely, later starting and earlier stopping of childbearing, together with increased spacing between births, can be seen from the second half of the nineteenth century. The South African fertility transition mirrors to a large extent the pattern found in other settler communities, aswell as the European experience despite the somewhat different economic and social circumstances of the country, in particular relative to Europe.
N01|Consumption of Chinese silk fabrics in Marseille and Seville, 1680 – 1840|Historiography about Asian goods consumption in Early Modern Europe has advanced in the understanding of how these commodities changed consumption patterns and production in Europe. Global History indisputably has contributed with a theoretical perspective in this achievement. However, in this literature lacks more studies in the long term and in more specific geographical units. This research intends to contribute with a case study in two specific European ports: Marseille and Seville. The study is about the consumption of Chinese silk fabrics in 1680 – 1840 period and has as aim find the way like these commodities change the taste and pattern of consumption in local population preparing the receipt of Silk fabrics with Chinese taste made in Europe in an import substitution process. An innovation in the research is the use of Chinese sources and the database of GECEM project
N01|A Study on Consumption of European Red Wine in China (1680-1840): state of the art, questions, hypothesis, sources and methodology|The global history perspective and comparison research between Eurocentric and Sinocentric methods on economic history give us new perspective on the topic of European-Chinese trade during early modern period. Compared with the large number of researches on the consumption society of Western Europe around the 18th century about the goods from Eastern world like tea, silk, and porcelain, very few researches have been done about the European commodities in Eastern countries. Especially, the studies on consumption of European wine in China market during the 17th and 18th centuries is completely void. Therefore, based on the economic conditions of southern and eastern China, considered the geographical, political and cultural aspects, several questions and hypothesis are designed, including consumption groups of the European wine, the consumer volumes, consumption habits, wine market shares, the merchant groups’ role, etc. The research will be down upon the cross-referencing of primary data and the materials, along with the application of database.
N01|Tjong Yong Hian And the Development of The City of Medan, The Existence of Chinese The Economy Field in Indonesia|The domination of economy and trading by a Chinese group in Indonesia could not be separated from the ”open door policy” since colonial age. Politically, Chinese had been granted special privilege through vreemde oosterlingen system, which was the separation of foreign eastern people and native inhabitants. Besides the officer system, residential system, construction of the social order were the construction of power hegemony in order to achieve development objectives. Tjong Yong Hian was one of the prominent businessman in a colonial age that arose from the production of that colonial policy system. Position and status that were given to Tjong Yong Hian, as well as political policy that were given by the government to the Chines,e enabled Tjong Yong Hian to strengthen his existence in the economy field. His success in developing his business empire had given contribution in the development of the City of Medan since the beginning of the 20th century.
N01|La Historia Agraria contemporánea española en claroscuro|This study analyses the trajectory of the Spanish rural history in the last decades. For the aims of this work, we have limited to the rural history of the late modern period. Though the evolution of the discipline is analysed since the seventies, we presents special attention to the evolution of historiography during the last 15 years. Both historiographical changes and institutional dynamics of the profession are considered. In the first section, we analyze the path of the discipline up to the turning point of 2001. In the second section, we analyze the recent institutional changes and the problems arisen from the economic crisis and the reduction of the research budgets in Spain. In the last section, we show some of the topics and recent debates that, in our opinion, can be more promising for the future of the contemporary rural history research in Spain.
N01|The institutionalization of Economic History in England, c.1900|The paper presents the Economic History Society development, the world's first economic history association, taking into account the intellectual environment that was immersed the founding leaders and the debates between economic historians and economists in England. The economic history institutionalization in England, through the formation of its association, the organization of congresses and publications oriented to the community, should be seen not only as an indicator of the vitality of the area of the society of researchers, but also as an instrument of protection and appreciation of the area
N01|Record Linkage in the Cape of Good Hope Panel|In this paper we describe the record linkage procedure to create a panel from Cape Colony census returns, or opgaafrolle, for 1787-1828, a dataset of 42,354 household-level observations. Based on a subset of manually linked records, we first evaluate statistical models and deterministic algorithms to best identify and match households over time. By using household-level characteristics in the linking process and near-annual data, we are able to create high-quality links for 84 percent of the dataset. We compare basic analyses on the linked panel dataset to the original cross-sectional data, evaluate the feasibility of the strategy when linking to supplementary sources, and discuss the scalability of our approach to the full Cape panel.
N01|Cliometrics in South Africa|African economic history is experiencing a renaissance, and South African economic history likewise. Combining newly transcribed large historical datasets with econometric techniques now standard in the economics literature, economic historians have greatly improved our understanding of South Africa's development over the centuries. Yet many questions remain. This paper reviews the most recent contributions, and outlines the road ahead.
N01|Cliometrics|"Cliometrics has been defined and summarized in numerous scholarly articles. They all pretty much start with the obvious, that cliometrics is the application of economic theory and quantitative techniques to study history; and then move on to the origin of the name, the joining of Clio (the muse of history), with metrics (""to measure,"" or ""the art of measurement""), allegedly coined by economist Stanley Reiter while collaborating with economic historians Lance Davis and Jonathan Hughes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N01|Ninety years of publications in Economic History: evidence from the top five field journals (1927-2017)|The growing appeal of the long run perspective among economists and the fiftieth anniversary of the of the publication of the Conrad and Meyer article (1958), which signed the Cliometric Revolution, have attracted a lot of interest on the origin and the development of Economic history. This paper explores the evolution of the field with a new articulated database of all the 6,516 articles published in five journals (Economic History Review, Journal of Economic History, Explorations in Economic History, European Review of Economic History and Cliometrica) from their establishment to 2017. We show that these journals are the most important in the field, with a wide influence also outside it. Our main results are that the Cliometric Revolution took quite a long time to fully display its effects, which became evident only in the 1990s, when personal computer and software packages became available. Finally, as for the last two decades, we find that the process of integration of economic history into economics is, so far, slower than previously suggested and limited to US. On the other hand, the most striking and neglected change is the overall success of Continental European scholars within the field. Are these changes the harbinger of a new divergence between the two shores of the Atlantic with the rise of a new paradigm based on the “Historical economics” approach? It is too early to tell.
N01|A cliometric counterfactual: what if there had been neither Fogel nor North?|Abstract 1993 Nobel laureates Robert Fogel and Douglass North were pioneers in the “new” economic history, or cliometrics. Their impact on the economic history discipline is great, though not without its critics. In this essay, we use both the “old” narrative form of economic history, and the “new” cliometric form to analyze the impact each had on the evolution of economic history.
N01|Co-authorship in economic history and economics: Are we any different?|Over the last six decades there has been less co-authorship in leading economic history journals than in leading general economics journals. There has also been a strong, monotonic increase in co-authorship in economic history journals that roughly parallels general economics journals but sharply differs from leading history journals. Increased co-authorship cannot be explained by increasing use of econometrics or large data sets; rather, it is likely due to common changes in incentives facing economic historians and economists. Finally, co-authorships in economic history are more likely to be formed of individuals of different seniority compared to economics generally.
N01|Economic History Goes Digital: Topic Modeling the Journal of Economic History|Digitization and computer science have established a whole new set of methods to analyze large collections of texts. One of these methods is particularly promising for economic historians: topic models, statistical algorithms that automatically infer themes from large collections of texts. In this article, I present an introduction to topic modeling and give a very first review on the research using topic models. I illustrate their capacity by applying them on 2.675 articles published in the Journal of Economic History between 1941 and 2016. This contributes to traditional research on the JEH and to current research on the cliometric revolution.
N01|El origen del mercado laboral colombiano|El presente documento aborda el proceso que dio origen al mercado laboral colombiano en la segunda mitad del siglo XIX. Bajo la hipotesis de una economía dependiente se explica como la producción de bienes vinculados al mercado internacional, en conjunto con las reformas liberales que afectaron, especialmente, las posibilidades de la empresa privada, gestaron las condiciones económicas, políticas y sociales, necesarias para que el surgimiento de la demanda por mano de obra libre se correspondiera con una creciente oferta de fuerza de trabajo. De igual manera se analiza el marco institucional, la estructura de producción y distribución de los productos del auge exportador, y las corrientes de migración interna que caracterizaron este hecho, entre 1850 y 1870.
N01|Revisión general de la producción académica en historia empresarial colombiana publicada en revistas académicas 1984-2016|Resumen: En este documento de trabajo se realiza una revisión bibliográfica general en el área de Historia Empresarial de Colombia desde 1984. El objetivo es identificar las regiones geográficas, los periodos históricos y los sectores económicos investigados, y de esta manera establecer una imagen general del desarrollo de la historia empresarial del país y señalar los vacíos que aún persisten en este panorama. Se identificaron y revisaron 75 artículos propios de la historia empresarial, publicados en revistas institucionales (Banco de la República) y académicas (vinculadas con universidades del país). La revisión se hace clasificando los artículos a partir de criterios de contenido como temática, región y sector, además de criterios de publicación como autor, revista y año de publicación, entre otros. Al cruzar estos criterios se encontró que el 60% de los artículos tratan temas típicos de historia empresarial como biografías e historias de empresas, que las regiones más estudiadas son el Caribe y Antioquia, y los sectores más atendidos son el industrial y el comercial. También se identifican dos momentos de producción académica: antes y después del 2003, donde se destaca el papel del Banco de la República (banco central) como divulgador de estas investigaciones. Se concluye enfatizando la necesidad de continuar con esta revisión a través de la inclusión de otras revistas, libros y trabajos de grado para construir un panorama más completo de la producción disponible que permita señalar los temas y regiones sobre los cuales aún se desconocen sus procesos económicos y empresariales. / Abstract : This working paper is a general literature review in the area of business history of Colombia since 1984. The aim is to identify the geographical regions, historical periods and the sectors that have been researched in order to establish a general image of the development of Colombian business history, and point out the gaps that still persist in this scenario. 75 articles of business history published in institutional journals (Banco de la República) and academic journal (associated with national universities) were identified and reviewed. This review is made by classifying articles based on content criteria such as subject, region and sector, as well as publication criteria such as author, journal and year of publication, among others. Through these criteria it was found that 60% of the articles deal with typical subjects of business history such as biographies and histories of companies, that the most studied regions are the Caribbean and Antioquia, and that the most attended sectors are the industrial and commercial. Also two moments of academic production were recognized: before and after 2003, which highlights the role of the Banco de la República (central bank) in divulging these investigations. The paper concludes stressing the need to continue this review by including other journals, books, monographs and thesis to build a more complete picture of the available production thereby pointing out topics and regions whose economic and business processes are still unknown.
N01|Planteamiento de la cuestión agraria en la historiografía agraria colombiana: 1936 – 2016|Resumen: Este artículo hace una revisión del planteamiento de la cuestión agraria en la historiografía agraria colombiana durante el periodo 1936-2016. Para efectuar dicha revisión, el periodo objeto de análisis fue segmentado en cinco etapas así: 1936-1959, 1960-1979, 1980-1989, 1990-2011 y 2012-2016. La revisión permite corroborar la hipótesis según la cual la cuestión agraria cambia en el tiempo y, por tanto, la forma de plantearla varía según el contexto histórico en el que se la mire; cabe aclarar que al afirmar que la cuestión agraria cambia, lo que se quiere decir es que ella incorpora nuevos elementos, elementos que no tenía antes, dependiendo del contexto histórico en el cual se la enmarque. Concretamente, en el periodo 1936-1959, los ejes de la cuestión agraria fueron los derechos de propiedad, la concentración de la tierra y/o el mal uso de ésta. Para el periodo 1960-1979 la cuestión agraria adquirió un cariz político, al incorporarse al análisis la concentración del poder político; también tomó un cariz social, al ser resaltados fenómenos que afectan a las clases subalternas como la explotación y la pauperización. Para el periodo 1980-1989 el concepto de cuestión agraria comenzó a incorporar fenómenos como la violencia y la inseguridad en el campo. Por último, en las fases 1990-2011 y 2012-2016 se sumaron en la definición de la cuestión agraria elementos como la competitividad, la sostenibilidad ambiental y las políticas públicas. / Abstract : This article makes a review of the approaches to the agrarian question in the Colombian agrarian historiography during the period 1936-2016. To carry out this review, the period was segmented in five stages: 1936-1959, 1960-1979, 1980-1989, 1990-2011 and 2012- 2016. The review allows it to corroborate the hypothesis that the agrarian question changes over time, and therefore the way to tackle it varies according to the historical context in which it is studied; It should be clarified that by stating that the agrarian question changes, what is meant is that it incorporates new elements, elements that it did not have before, according to the historical context in which it is framed. Specifically, in the period 1936-1959, the main points of the agrarian question were property rights, land concentration and/or land misuse. For the period of 1960-1979 the agrarian question obtained a political tenor once the concentration of political power was taken into the analysis; It also took a social turn by highlighting phenomena that affected the subordinate classes such as exploitation and impoverishment. For the period of 1980-1989 the concept of the agrarian question began to incorporate phenomena such as violence and rural insecurity. Finally, in phases 1990-2011 and 2012-2016, elements such as competitiveness, environmental sustainability and public policies were added to the definition of the agrarian question.
N01|Instituciones y conflicto en Colombia: la metáfora del espejo|No abstract is available for this item.
N01|The Origins of the Italian Regional Divide: Evidence from Real Wages, 1861–1913|The historical origins of the long lasting Italian North-South divide have always been controversial, but the scholarly debate has been hampered by the dearth of actual data on the size of the gap and its historical evolution. In this paper, we fill this gap by estimating a new provincial data-set of welfare ratios (Allen 2001) from the Unification of Italy in 1861 to World War One. Italy as a whole was very poor throughout the period, with a rather modest improvement since the late 19th century. This improvement had started in the North-West regions, the cradle of Italian industrialization, in the 1880s, while real wages in other macro-areas (North-East, Centre, South and islands) remained stagnant until the early 20th century, rising sizably only in the pre-war years. The gap between North-West and the South, already substantial in 1861 widened until the very end of the period. The Continental South was poorer than the North East, but not always of the Centre, while real wages in the Islands (i.e. Sicily) were close to national average.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N01|How well did facts travel to support protracted debate on the history of the Great Divergence between Western Europe and Imperial China?|With the ongoing debate of the Great Divergence since 2000, a wide range of works have been published to compare economic performance of Western Europe with that of China. The upsurge in the divergence scholarship has however been dogged by an issue of reliability and compatibility of ‘facts’. A reason is that non-Chinese speaking academics tend to accept stylised facts from Chinese sources too readily without checking, which makes, more often than not, the Chinese part of the story a liability rather than an asset. We here challenge that well-circulated notion that ‘any number is better than no number’: No number does not make any number right.
N01|The ecological footprint of early-modern commodities Coefficients of land use per unit of product|Land availability and overseas trade have been central topics in economic history. The current paper contributes to this literature by setting the empirical foundations necessary for the calculation of the direct ecological footprints of more than eighty traded commodities throughout the 19th and early 20th century. The main focus is placed upon products which were heavily traded by and within the British Empire during this period. Various secondary sources have been reviewed and are critically discussed while the methodological steps that have been followed for the calculation of an acreage conversion factor for each product are analyzed in detail. The data presented here can be useful for researchers examining the importance of ghost acreages and ecological footprint historically but also the role of natural resources and land use in a long term perspective.
N01|Videotex in Sweden 1977-1993|A monopolist may be more restricted than a company subject to competition and also be less profitable – e.g. due to demands that it provide certain services at a loss. In this paper the Swedish Telecom monopoly, Televerket’s, Videotex projects are used to analyze this phenomenon. From the late 1970: and until the early 1990s, telecom operators across the world developed and deployed Videotex-systems; new public information services usually based on dumb terminals, of which the most well-known was the French Minitel. The systems were at the time of deployment regarded as the technology of the future but they almost universally failed commercially. In this paper, using a case study based on extensive archival sources from the Swedish Telecom monopoly Televerket, and using novel digital research methods, the origins and the introduction of Videotex systems are analyzed. It is also argued that the systems initially made sense in the context of contemporary computer development and market organization, but also that most of them would rapidly have been discontinued had it not been for the monopolist logic of telecom operators. Finally, I introduce the concept of the monopolist’s curse, to explain why this was the case.
N01|Regional GDP estimates for Sweden, 1571–1850| This paper provides regional GDP estimates for the 24 Swedish regions (NUTS-3) for the benchmark year 1571 and for 11 ten-year benchmarks for the period 1750–1850. The 1571 estimates are based on tax sources and agricultural statistics. The 1750–1850 estimates are produced following the widely used methodology by Geary and Stark (2002): labour force figures from population censuses at regional level are used to allocate to regions the national estimates of agriculture, industry and services while wages are used to correct for productivity differentials. By connecting our series to the existing ones by Enflo, Henning, and Schön (2014) for the period 1860–2010, we are able to produce the longest set of regional GDP series to date for any single country.
N01|Between Malthus and the industrial take-off: regional inequality in Sweden, 1571-1850|The causes and extent of regional inequality in the process of economic growth are at the core of historical economic research. So far, much attention has been devoted to studying the role of industrialization in driving regional divergence. But empirical studies on relatively unequal countries such as Italy or Spain show that inequality was already high when their modern industrialization began (Felice, 2011; Rosés et al., 2010). This paper studies the extent and drivers of pre-industrial inequality for the first time with reference to a pre-industrial European economy. Using new estimates of regional GDP for the regions of Sweden for the period 1571-1850 (Enflo and Missiaia, 2017), we find that regional inequality increased dramatically between 1571 and 1750 and stayed high until the mid-19th century. This result discards the view that industrial take-off was the main driver of regional divergence. Decomposing the Theil index for GDP per worker, we find that the bulk of inequality from 1750 onwards was driven by structural differences across sectors rather than different regional productivity within sectors. We then show that counties with higher agricultural productivity followed a classic Malthusian pattern in its population dynamics when experiencing technological advancement, while ones with higher industrial productivity did not. The difference in the two sectors is what boosted pre-industrial regional inequality. We suggest that institutional factors such as the creation of the Swedish Empire, the monopoly trading rights for Stockholm and the protective industrial policy explain this exceptional pattern.
N01|Some Remarks on the Causal Inference for Historical Persistence|A growing body of literature examines the relationships between historical events and contemporary economic outcomes. Recent studies estimate the causal effects using detailed historical data and contemporary microdata of individuals and/or households. In this paper, we discuss conceptual and econometric issues inherent in the causal inference following the potential outcomes framework. Using an empirical example, we also discuss a simple alternative approach to avoid these issues that is coherent with the potential outcomes framework.
N01|The integration of economic history into economics|Abstract In the USA today the academic field of economic history is much closer to economics than it is to history in terms of professional behavior, a stylized fact that I call the “integration of economic history into economics.” I document this using two types of evidence—use of econometric language in articles appearing in academic journals of economic history and economics; and publication histories of successive cohorts of Ph.D.s in the first decade since receiving the doctorate. Over time, economic history became more like economics in its use of econometrics and in the likelihood of scholars publishing in economics, as opposed to, say, economic history journals. But the pace of change was slower in economic history than in labor economics, another subfield of economics that underwent profound intellectual change in the 1950s and 1960s, and there was also a structural break evident for post-2000 Ph.D. cohorts. To account for these features of the data, I sketch a simple, overlapping generations model of the academic labor market in which junior scholars have to convince senior scholars of the merits of their work in order to gain tenure. I argue that the early cliometricians—most notably, Robert Fogel and Douglass North—conceived of a scholarly identity for economic history that kept the field distinct from economics proper in various ways, until after 2000 when their influence had waned.
N01|"A ""gung-ho"" Approach Towards Sophic Economy"|"The object of this study has been the Sophic Economy of Sergei Bulgakov ï¿½ an alternative and valuable philosophical-economic doctrine. At the beginning, facts-examples have been identified in a contemporary, social and purposely localized context (contemporary Italian society), demonstrating a certain potential sensibility towards the idea of Sophic Economy. Then, Bulgakovï¿½s thought has been expounded with a purposeful tone instead of the critical-purposeful frame originally used by Bulgakov himself in the volume Philosophy of Economy: the world as household. The quality of the examined content has raised the simple question, What about the dynamics of the diffusion of ideas like these? Employing what I call the ""gung-ho"" approach ï¿½ the researcherï¿½s imagination as a historical technique method that does not integrate the facts of the past but places them in a sort of laboratory-simulative environment model ï¿½ the idea of Sophic Economy has been inserted in NetLogoï¿½s Spreading Utopian Ideas Model. The popularization of an alternative philosophical doctrine and the proposal-experiment of an original method of historical research in Economics have been the main results of the present study."
N01|Accounting During the Austro-Hungarian Compromise and the Post-Communist Regime Change|The purpose of the article is to present Hungarian accounting regulations in two very important periods of Hungarian history: during the period of the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867 and after the fall of Communism. The study compares the two periods on the basis of the relevant domestic and international literature; it examines the economic history and legislative parallels, compares the recognition and measurement of asset components, and elaborates on the possibilities of accounting techniques with a focus on the lesser known first period. Key conclusions: the regulations have been adapted in both cases, taking special domestic features into consideration. Essentially, they were modern and delivered the requirement of presenting a true and fair view. At the same time, the regulation of the profession was greatly influenced by the contemporary system of socioeconomic institutions.
N01|How Well Did Facts Travel to Support Protracted Debate on the History of the Great Divergence between Western Europe and Imperial China?|This paper tackles the issue of how reliable the currently circulated 'facts' really are regarding the 'Great Divergence' debate. Our findings indicate strongly that 'facts' of premodern China are often of low quality and fragmented. Consequently, the application of these 'facts' can be misleading and harmful.
N01|How Well Did Facts Travel to Support Protracted Debate on the History of the Great Divergence between Western Europe and Imperial China?|This paper tackles the issue of how reliable the currently circulated 'facts' really are regarding the 'Great Divergence' debate. Our findings indicate strongly that 'facts' of premodern China are often of low quality and fragmented. Consequently, the application of these 'facts' can be misleading and harmful.
N01|The tragedy of modern economic growth: A call to business to radically change its purpose and practices|It is now clear that endlessly growing consumption of resources in the global human economy imperils Earth’s life-sustaining biosystem and threatens human existence as we know it. Long-term sustainability of human and non-human life can be achieved only by creating an entirely new economy that eschews the current economy’s pursuit of continuous growth and concentrates, instead, on re-focusing human activities from the global to the local level in organizations that exist to fulfill genuine and concrete human and non-human needs, not to maximize financial wealth of corporations, their shareholders and their top managers. However, impeding this move to a new economy is the widespread belief that “accounting is the language of business.” This article proposes that the concrete ecological principles underlying Earth’s life-restorative natural ecosystems provide a much more appropriate language to guide a sustainable human economy than the abstract language of accounting and finance.
N01|Economic philosophy of al-Mawardi: Review of economic behaviour in Islamic economic|Economic behaviour in the study of Islamic economics is the basis for the government to portray political ethics and ethical economic functions of individuals in functioning as a member of society. Secular ethics and religious ethics, according to al-Mawardi, as the code of conduct in conducting economic practices by the government and every member of society to uphold the principle of goodness. In the context of economic behaviour, the world ethics (adab al-dunya) and the religious ethics (adab al-din) became guidelines for economic actors in conducting business activities including other forms of cooperation or other muamalah practice.
N01|The baraccati of Rome: internal migration, housing, and poverty in fascist Italy (1924-1933)|"Newly discovered archival material is used to document the standard of living of slum dwellers in fascist Rome. As part of the regime's effort to suppress growing shanty towns in the capital, the Governorate of Rome conducted a census in 1933, gathering information on the identity and living conditions of their inhabitants, the ""baraccati"". The paper analyzes the mostly migrant families of the shanty towns, identifying their social and demographic characteristics."
N01|Historia Agraria. Revista de Agricultura e Historia Rural|This study analyses the trajectory of the journal Historia Agraria (HA) since it was established in 1991 until the present day. First, a detailed account will be made of the journal’s main landmarks throughout its history, with special emphasis on its internationalisation process. Second, a bibliometric analysis will be conducted using a varied series of indicators to attempt to determine the evolution of its quality and impact, comparing it with other Spanish or international academic publications. Third, the editorial process with respect to content management will be studied using a series of quantitative indicators. Finally, the study will briefly examine the principal challenges that the journal must overcome in the future.
N01|Patent Networks, Collaboration Patterns, and National Innovation Systems. Sweden and Spain during the Second Industrial Revolution|Sweden and Spain have developed very distinct systems of innovation over the long term. The former has a highly innovative economy while the latter drags serious problems in science and technology. However, during the first half of the nineteenth century both countries were latecomers to the industrial revolution in the European periphery with similar economic, technological, and institutional challenges ahead. In this paper, we hypothesize that one possible reason for this long-term divergence lies in the different collaboration patterns that emerge from interactions among innovative agents. To analyse such cooperation patterns we apply social network analysis methods and study co-patent networks in Sweden and Spain during the second industrial revolution (1878-1914). The results demonstrate that collaboration among innovators and openness to foreign influence was greater in Sweden than in Spain. This research opens new paths for further studies both on economic history and innovation networks dynamics.
N01|Producto Interno Bruto y los componentes del gasto en Uruguay, 1955-2016: propuestas de empalmes|In Uruguay, information of the System of National Accounts is available since 1955, but homogeneous time-series are only offered for a shorter period (since 1997). National accounts have been calculated using two approaches: the production and the demand approach. Official estimates are available for several base years: 1961; 1978; 1983; 1988 revision, 1997 and 2005, though each benchmark was constructed from different sources and methodologies. In our research, we accept the official series for 1997 onwards and used other techniques to link the different base series prior to 1997 and back to 1955. In this paper, we focus on the demand side and we pursue two objectives. On the first place, we propose homogeneous annual time-series of GDP, exports, imports, gross capital formation, household final consumption expenditure and consumption of general government between 1955 and 2016, at current and at constant prices. We employ two splicing techniques: retropolation and interpolation. On the second place, we discuss the differences of the spliced series, for each variable, in terms of levels, growth rates and expenditure structure of GDP. Finally, we suggest that interpolation may be a better procedure than retroplation to obtain homogeneous national accounts time-series for this historical period in Uruguay.
N01|From planning to policy: Half a century of the CDP|The United Nations Committee for Development Policy (CDP) comprises 24 independent specialists from a variety of disciplines. It advises the UN Economic and Social Council on emerging economic, social and environmental issues relevant to sustainable development and international co-operation. The paper argues that since its launch in 1965 the CDP has at times struggled to make an impact, but that it has been most effective when it has been at its most creative and when it has broken with convention. It helped put into practice the target that developed countries should devote 0.7% of their gross national income to official development assistance. The Committee created the least developed countries category and continues to monitor and update membership of the group. Its members were prominent in the genesis of the human development approach and continue to conduct new work in the areas of governance, productive capacity and sustainable development.
N01|Age heaping and numeracy: Looking behind the curtain|Age heaping-based numeracy indicators have served as valuable tools to derive basic human capital estimates, especially for periods where other indicators are unavailable. However, the accuracy of individual age statements usually remains unknown, and due to the lack of precise information it can only assumed that excessive occurrence of multiples of five in age distributions reflects inferior numerical skills. We address this lacuna by identifying 162 individuals in two independent data sources, self-reported age statements and independently kept records which are based on family heritage books and church registers. This method allows us to identify individual misreporting and the degree of accuracy of each individual. We find that not everyone who reports a multiple of five reports an incorrect age, nor everyone who reports an age that is not a multiple of five reports an accurate age. In an empirical analysis we show that the commonly used binary numeracy indicator is correlated with the observed degree of accuracy in age statements, and that a more sophisticated occupational background reduces this inaccuracy. Our tentative results suggest that the commonly used binary indicator measuring age heaping is a valuable proxy of the numerical skills and occupational background in a population.
N01|Spanish real wages in the Northern-Western European mirror, 1500-1800. On the timings and magnitude of the Little Divergence in Europe|The aim of this paper is twofold. First, to present a new estimation of real wages for Early Modern Spain with regard to a subsistence line -understood as a theoretical minimum of consumption necessary to meet basic human needs and to sustain an active life. Second, to contribute, with new evidence, to the debate on the economic divergence before the Industrial Revolution. In broad terms, our results describe a general picture of low real wages in Spain in the long run, although there are regional variations in levels and timings that challenge previous perceptions, particularly in the case of urban Castile. In terms of international comparisons, our data suggests different chronologies and magnitudes of the Spanish divergence. As we attempt to demonstrate, two issues conditioned the dimension of the gap on real wages between Spain and the European North-Western core, as displayed in the recent literature. The first is related to the available Spanish evidence; the second deals with some methodological choices in the composition of the subsistence baskets –namely, the “oatmeal effect’. The question we discuss here is whether the Spanish Little Divergence was as great and early as it has been suggested; or, turning it around, whether the European North-west was, in respect of real wages, so exceptional before 1800. Calculations will show that the divergence did not appear clearly until the early 18th century, and that North-western European real wages for labourers were not that far from the bare subsistence line as they appeared to be. Our paper provides some different responses to the issue of the timing of the Spanish divergence and questions the conventional wisdom on its magnitude.
N01|The Economic History of Alexander the Great Expedition|The philosophy of Economics and economic policy were developed by Xenophon in Ancient Greece. Alexander the Great was living a little later in the 4th century B.C. and we know him as a great Hellen king, civilizer, and “forerunner”; but, he was, an excellent economist because he had to manage the economy of his enormous campaign from Greece to India and to exercise an efficient and effective public policy for his vast Empire. Also, “he desired not pleasure or wealth, but only excellence and glory”, which was the moral and ethical Greek philosophy of his time. Alexander had said that “…I am grateful to gods that I was borne Hellen…” and had all these Hellenic values, which made him one of the most important person in human history. He had shown outstanding management capabilities, with rates of salaries, health and welfare, building projects, supplies, transports, reforms of the tax system, indirect taxes and donations, loans, minting of coins, even controlling financial scandals and other information useful for our policy makers, today. We measure his budgets by using the weights of gold and silver coins and determine and compare prices by taking these information from different historians of his time. Alexander economic policy with its surpluses is very useful for our current leaders and scholars. Also, the history and the role of this extraordinary man and the contribution of the Greek civilization and language in God’s plan, for His revolted and deluded creation and humanity to be in a position to understand and accept His revelation, which Greeks were expecting since the Golden Century of Athens, is discussed.
N01|House Prices in Italy, 1927-2012|In this paper we examine the dynamics of house prices and residential land prices from 1927 to 2012. We find that real house prices increased more than threefold in that period, and more than fivefold in large cities. This was considerably more than real construction costs, which only doubled. Over two thirds of the increase in house prices between 1950 and 2012 was due to higher residential land prices. The increase in the wealth-to-GDP ratio observed in Italy since the middle of last century is largely due to the rise in real house prices. Although higher prices make purchasing a home more difficult for first-time buyers, our findings lessen concerns about the potential distributive tensions arising from the growth of the wealth-to-GDP ratio.
N01|A Historical Reconstruction of Capital and Labour in Italy, 1861-2013|In this paper we spell out in detail the methodology underlying the construction of a new labour and capital stock dataset for Italy from 1861 through 2013. The existing seminal paper (Rossi, Sorgato and Toniolo 1993), much referred to in the literature, only covered the period 1911- 1990 for the former and 1890-1990 for the latter; moreover, it displayed little sectoral disaggregation. The labour dataset here presented includes both headcount (HC) and full-time equivalent (FTE) annual estimates of labour and is presented at a ten-sector level of disaggregation. Net capital stock annual estimates are instead broken down by asset type (means of transport; machinery and equipment; construction, in turn divided into residential and non-residential). Elaborations are conducted on the labour and capital series in order to gauge key features of the development and structural change of Italy's economy over more than 150 years of its unified history. The transparency and detail with which we here describe our methods and assumptions in our historical reconstruction open up the possibility of improvements and updates also by other scholars willing to take up the task. Meanwhile this dataset, combined with the new historical national accounts framework set up by a project coordinated by the Bank of Italy, finally makes a sectoral analysis of Italy's long-run development possible.
N01|Interpelaciones desde la condición posmoderna a la disciplina histórica|Nadie escapa a su tiempo y el tiempo todo lo transforma, las condiciones de existencia, los valores y las posturas subjetivas, así como las teóricas a partir de las cuales se vive y se interpreta la realidad. Los cambios de apreciación son desechados por algunos, por disolutos, confusos y faltos de referentes certeros; mientras que otros acogen la novedad por su apertura a otros mundos, vivencias y posibilidades. El debate sobre la posmodernidad no escapa a tal polémica, así como no es posible estar por fuera de la condición posmoderna. A partir de dos pares de conceptos se revisan grandes cambios paradigmáticos en las maneras de vivir, concebir y valorar la historia. De lo estructural a las particularidades y de lo singular a las pluralidades. ****** Nobody escapes to his time and the time change everything, existence conditions, the values and subjective stance, as well as the theoretical from which you live and you interpret reality. The interpretations changes are throw away by some, by dissolute, confused and lacking accurate references; while others welcome the novelty for its openness to other worlds, experiences, and possibilities. The debate on postmodernity does not escape such controversy, just as it is not possible to be outside the postmodern condition. From two pairs of concepts major paradigmatic changes in the ways of living, conceiving and valuing history are reviewed. From the structural to the particularities and from the singular to the pluralities.
N01|El problema del crecimiento económico en la Europa moderna: del eurocentrismo al asiacentrismo y policentrismo|La historiografía de los últimos treinta años ha modificado sustancialmente los conocimientos sobre la historia económica de los tiempos modernos. Los enfoques basados en la “excepcionalidad” del proceso histórico europeo, o el “milagro” económico, o “la vía única de la civilización occidental”, vienen siendo confrontados. Este artículo pretende dar cuenta del estado actual de las principales discusiones, a partir de identificar las principales contribuciones de los historiadores económicos que revierten los grandes constructos historiográficos establecidos por la historia económica de los siglos XIX y XX sobre el crecimiento económico durante la Edad Moderna.
N01|Economic Development In Africa And Europe: Reciprocal Comparisons|Los avances recientes en la historia de la contabilidad nacional han permitido comparaciones globales del PIB per cápita a través de espacio y tiempo. Los críticos de este enfoque han argumentado que el PIB per cápita no capta adecuadamente la naturaleza multidimensional del bienestar, y han desarrollado medidas alternativas tales como el índice de desarrollo humano (IDH). Si bien se reconoce que estos indicadores más amplios proporcionan una forma adecuada de evaluar los niveles de bienestar, en este trabajo sostenemos que el PIB per cápita sigue siendo una medida más apropiada para evaluar el potencial de desarrollo, centrándose en las posibilidades de producción y la sostenibilidad de consumo. El África del siglo XX y la Europa preindustrial se utilizan para mostrar cómo esos datos pueden guiar comparaciones recíprocas para proporcionar conocimientos sobre el proceso de desarrollo en ambos continentes.
N01|Cross checking the sound database with the french balance du commerce data|During the eighteenth century Europe set the cultural, political and economic conditions for its entry in the industrial era. While the role of international trade has been for a long time considered as a minor factor in the industrial revolution, the focus of economic history has changed somewhat during the last two decades. The emergence of a global perspective in economic history has led prominent scholars to account for the important role of international trade in the rise of Europe over other world regions 5 But whereas extra-European trade is comparatively well known and has been the object of recent syntheses,6intra-European trade has largely been neglected. The scarcity of works on foreign trade statistics of preindustrial times is all the more unfortunate as external trade flows are the single economic data that (some) early modern states have collected with the most care. Indeed, the first attempts at measuring foreign trade regularly can be dated back to the seventeenth century. From 1696 on, the English crown was able to collect a continuous series of customs data and release a yearly evaluation of the English balance of trade. The French royal administration created the Bureau de la balance du commerce in 1713. Its task was to produce a yearly document that detailed the French external trade and calculated its general balance. There was a pan European move towards a more extensive and better measurement of external trade throughout the eighteenth century, with various countries gathering the same data through their central administrations .
N01|What Are Analytic Narratives?|"The recently born expression ""analytic narratives"" refers to studies that have appeared at the boundaries of history, political science, and economics. These studies purport to explain specific historical events by combining the usual narrative way of historians with the analytic tools that economists and political scientists find in rational choice theory. Game theory is prominent among these tools. The paper explains what analytic narratives are by sampling from the eponymous book Analytic Narratives by Bates, Greif, Levi, Rosenthal, and Weingast (1998) and covering one outside study by Mongin (2008). It first evaluates the explanatory performance of the new genre, using some philosophy of historical explanation and then checks its discursive consistency, using some narratology. The paper concludes that analytic narratives can usefully complement standard narratives in historical explanation, provided they specialize in the gaps that these narratives reveal and that they are discursively consistent, despite the tension that combining a formal model with a narration creates. Two expository modes, called alternation and local supplementation, emerge from the discussion as the most appropriate ones to resolve this tension"
N01|Las haciendas coloniales del siglo XVIII y su impacto en el desarrollo económico de las entidades en México en el siglo XX|Sólo después de Chile, México es el segundo país con mayor desigualdad social dentro de los integrantes de la OCDE (OCDE, 2015). El tema de la desigualdad en México ha sido estudiado por varios investigadores, en orden de poder entender el mecanismo a través del cual la pobreza y la desigualdad prevalecen en el país. El objetivo de este trabajo es encontrar el efecto a través del cual la desigualdad en tierras establecida por las haciendas coloniales intervino en el desarrollo económico. De manera intuitiva esperaríamos que el impacto que las haciendas tuvieron en el nivel de desarrollo fuera negativo, dejando a su paso mayor desigualdad de ingreso y menor acceso a bienes públicos. Sin embargo, resultados encontrados en Colombia presentan un escenario opuesto (Acemoglu et al., 2008). Los resultados encontrados corroboran la hipótesis anterior para el caso mexicano; se encuentra un efecto positivo y persistente en el desarrollo económico en aquellos municipios dónde se localizaron las haciendas en la época colonial. A pesar de que no podemos asegurar el mecanismo a través de la cual las haciendas tuvieron un impacto persistente, sugerimos que es probable que sea un efecto de spillovers como consecuencia de las derramas económicas que se dieron en los sectores de agricultura, ganadería y minería en estas regiones.
N01|Cross-checking the Sound database with the French Balance du Commerce data|During the eighteenth century Europe set the cultural, political and economic conditions for its entry in the industrial era. While the role of international trade has been for a long time considered as a minor factor in the industrial revolution, the focus of economic history has changed somewhat during the last two decades. The emergence of a global perspective in economic history has led prominent scholars to account for the important role of international trade in the rise of Europe over other world regions 5 But whereas extra-European trade is comparatively well known and has been the object of recent syntheses,6intra-European trade has largely been neglected. The scarcity of works on foreign trade statistics of preindustrial times is all the more unfortunate as external trade flows are the single economic data that (some) early modern states have collected with the most care. Indeed, the first attempts at measuring foreign trade regularly can be dated back to the seventeenth century. From 1696 on, the English crown was able to collect a continuous series of customs data and release a yearly evaluation of the English balance of trade. The French royal administration created the Bureau de la balance du commerce in 1713. Its task was to produce a yearly document that detailed the French external trade and calculated its general balance. There was a pan European move towards a more extensive and better measurement of external trade throughout the eighteenth century, with various countries gathering the same data through their central administrations .<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N01|Sérier pour révéler une norme de comportement institutionnel : analyse croisée de trois juridictions|This article considers, from a methodological point of view, the way statistical analysis is used in both history and economics approaches, by comparing threee researches on french judicial data. These three projects differ according to the period considered (Middle age / nowadays), the jurisdiction studied (the royal Châtelet court / lawyers disciplinary courts / family law), and the scientific discipline they are attached to. However, they share the purpose of highlighting, through individual data considered as series, the norm of behavior of a judicial institution. This identical aim allows to compare the methodological choices of each research. Even for the contemporary time researches, this purpose indeed deprives the researcher from any ready-made database. More than the academic fields, this lack of information explains the methodological choices made in the seriation process both with the specificities of the institutional contexts studied. Moreover, the methodological routines followed when inferential statistics come into play reflect various conceptions of the articulation between theoretical models and empirical data, which go beyond the frontiers of both academic fields
N01|What Are Analytic Narratives?|"The recently born expression ""analytic narratives"" refers to studies that have appeared at the boundaries of history, political science, and economics. These studies purport to explain specific historical events by combining the usual narrative way of historians with the analytic tools that economists and political scientists find in rational choice theory. Game theory is prominent among these tools. The paper explains what analytic narratives are by sampling from the eponymous book Analytic Narratives by Bates, Greif, Levi, Rosenthal, and Weingast (1998) and covering one outside study by Mongin (2008). It first evaluates the explanatory performance of the new genre, using some philosophy of historical explanation and then checks its discursive consistency, using some narratology. The paper concludes that analytic narratives can usefully complement standard narratives in historical explanation, provided they specialize in the gaps that these narratives reveal and that they are discursively consistent, despite the tension that combining a formal model with a narration creates. Two expository modes, called alternation and local supplementation, emerge from the discussion as the most appropriate ones to resolve this tension"
N01|“Data to Die For”? Finnish Historical Household Budgets|This essay charts the history, nature and uses of Finnish historical household budget data. Three perspectives are discussed: that of the changing interests of the state in producing knowledge on households; that of the multiple interests of various societal actors in shaping household behaviour through budgeting, including the households themselves; and that of reanalysis for modern economic history. In this last instance, the main focus is on behavioural, microeconometric perspectives. In the process, an overview of the sources available – “data to die for” – will be presented. To conclude, historically generated bias and future research potential of the sources are discussed.
N01|The baraccati of Rome: internal migration, housing, and poverty in fascist Italy (1924-1933)|"Newly discovered archival material is used to document the standard of living of slum dwellers in fascist Rome. As part of the regime's effort to suppress growing shanty towns in the capital, the Governorate of Rome conducted a census in 1933, gathering information on the identity and living conditions of their inhabitants, the ""baraccati"". The paper analyzes the mostly migrant families of the shanty towns, identifying their social and demographic characteristics."
N01|What are production, work and consumption? Trans-historical re-conceptualisations|This paper argues for trans-historical reformulations of the basic economic concepts of production, work and consumption. The definition of the production boundary by System of National Accounts (SNA) is inconsistent from a scientific point of view. For example, while some non-market and illegal services are viewed as productive, others are not, and services and goods are treated differently. The definition proposed by feminist economics, the so-called third person criterion, is consistent, but in need for further development; furthermore, it is a definition of work and not of production. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether it is possible to formulate a non-eclectic set of logically consistent definitions that could be considered variations of a common underlying understanding across various theoretical traditions – mainly Classical, Neoclassical, Institutional, Marxist, Feminist and Keynesian Economics – of how humans consciously change external nature in order satisfy human needs. Important issues concern how to deal with violence, double counting of transaction costs, human capital formation, non-market activities and causation of final consumption. Production, work and consumption are defined as relations between events, the subject matter and the agent, and in the main definitions reduced to non-economic sentences. Even the utility concept is avoided. First-order logic is used, complemented with modal operators for some of the sentences. In this study, it is shown that production, work and consumption all share the common feature of intentional physical transformation of the intrinsic properties of the subject matter. The object transformed during the productive activity and work must at some point in time be external to the agent. For work, the purpose of transforming an external object must not lie in the transformation of the agent. A productive activity must potentially be able to cause the satisfaction of human needs, or final consumption, which is not a condition for work or required by the third-person criterion. Final consumption involves the transformation of the subject matter that is a final purpose for the consumer or serves as a purpose for transforming the consumer. Using a criterion applied by the institutional economist Cheung to identify transaction costs, this study defines social reproduction as an activity that would not occur in a Robinson Crusoe economy. Social reproduction occurs under an institutional setting. We can further differentiate between coercive and non-coercive social reproduction. In this study, eight different definitions of production are presented. The definition of agent external production is close to the third person criterion, but the possible causation of future final consumption is included as a condition for a productive activity. It is also related to the basic neoclassical model with its assumptions of no transaction costs. The definition of agent external non-coercive production entails that transformations of persons against their own will, whether legally or illegally performed, are unproductive activities. The definition of agent external non-social production entails that all socially reproductive activities are unproductive, and comes close to the distinction made by Classical and Marxist economists of productive and unproductive work. Humanity external production only includes the transformation of non-persons. The three definitions of time scale invariant production entails that human capital formation could be considered productive activities. Market production comes close to Keynesian theory and the present definition of SNA, with the difference that it excludes non-market goods production. The present study also opens for the possibility of unproductive work, for example failed production or professional murder, and productive final consumption that does not involve any work, for example hobby-hunting, play with children or research activity for own pleasure. Which definition of production is applied greatly affects the modelling and empirical application of growth theory and the analysis of the driving forces in economic history. For example, assume trade causes labour productivity outside of trade to increase four-fold due to specialisation, while the share of GDP in total working time increases from nil to half. With the same value added per productive hour and with total hours worked kept constant, the value added of agent external production then records a four-fold increase, while that of non-social production only a doubling. Similarly, during wars the SNA GDP often increases substantially, while the concept of agent external non-coercive production entails that all war expenses are treated as unproductive. Time frame invariant production grows faster than agent external production during expansions of the education system. Market production could serve important analytical purposes, for example to investigate the relation between money supply and inflation, but should be rid of inconsistencies such as the inclusion of non-market goods production.
N01|Notes on Comparative Economic Development|This paper will show two things: The first thing, in the first subsection, is to give a more general and comprehensive outline of economic development framework. The second thing, in the second subsection, is to answer where the originality of Japanese economy and organization came from as an application of our comprehensive economic development framework. Japanese society also has many common bases with other countries regarding various social aspects, but simultaneously the originality can be drawn from them as well. It means that the uniqueness of Japanese economy and organization has been formed through the many common social factors and different ways of the mixture. Its geographical/environmental condition (warm humid) and the agricultural mode (irrigated rice and fish catching), the village style and the way of people settlement (coastal and mountainous, family units) are originally generated. The religious culture (Confucianism, Buddhism and Shinto) grown and introduced to there, the political decision making system (collectivism, patriarchy or paternalism) and the bureaucracy also seem to be so unique. Such centralized power and collectivism social relation were involved to a modern production system and factors of economic development were also utilized fully, and then Japan succeeded his productivity rapidly in the very short run.
N01|Listening To Aid Recipients In ‘Aid-Development’ Debate: Findings From ‘The Listening Project’ And Jerge-Tal Village In Kyrgyzstan|Foreign aid is an important aspect in understanding human development in aid-dependent societies. Original assessments of aid are generally based on the viewpoints of aid agencies, while the opinions of aid recipients often remain ignored. This perpetuates inconsistencies in understanding foreign aid, leaving a knowledge gap. In-depth analysis of aid efforts and recipients’ perceptions can shed light on the advantages/limitations of such aid, and enable appropriate development-oriented strategies. This article brings new empirics to bear on the foreign aid debate. It builds on ‘The Listening Project’ (LP), which has explored the ideas and insights of those on the receiving end of foreign aid. Inspired by “listening to people” approach, this article demonstrates the central importance of explicating empirical data and including such findings in the debate on foreign aid and development. Presenting empirical evidence on aid reception in the village of Jerge-Tal, Kyrgyzstan, the author examines whether and how feedback from aid recipients is in line with the patterns and recommendations of the LP. Both these studies add to the growing literature on foreign aid for development by virtue of “listening to aid recipients” in donor–recipient relations. The conducted benchmark analysis reveals that the characteristics of aid provisions in Jerge-Tal village comply with the patterns and common assessments discovered by ‘The Listening Project’. Key findings relate to greater opportunities for public participation, ownership and coordination of the aid programs and development projects. Aid recipients of LP stress the issues of appropriate knowledge on aid-recipient societies; of aid as “business model” with irrational allocation of budget and recruitment of recipients that creates “project societies” instead of the intended civil societies. The study of aid recipients in Jerge-Tal village brings an example of aid-recipient empowerment and participation in development achieved through cooperation with international and local aid agencies together with the Kyrgyz state. Potential policy implications refer to the fostering of collaborative activities between aid agencies, aid recipients and state institutions as a condition for effective aid management and coordination.
N01|Pulin B. Nayak, Economic Development of India|The paradigm shift in economic policy in the 1990s elicited a tremendous interest in the pace and pattern of economic development of India. Indian economic policies as also the process of her development is being closely monitored and written about by academics, global institutions, think tanks, media, political analysts and civil society within and outside the country. The development issues of erstwhile British colonies did not attract adequate academic attention for the most part of the twentieth century. A four volume compendium of 75 papers giving a comprehensive account of the development process of the Indian economy by Pulin Nayak is a timely and valuable contribution to the pool of studies being carried out on India in different parts of the globe. Introduction to the four volume book reflects the scholarship of the author, which will be of immense academic value to anyone who is interested in the historical backdrop of the development path chosen by the Indian leaders after Independence of the country in 1947. It builds on the discourse of development economics for low income countries.
N01|Sérier pour révéler une norme de comportement institutionnel : analyse croisée de trois juridictions|This article considers, from a methodological point of view, the way statistical analysis is used in both history and economics approaches, by comparing threee researches on french judicial data. These three projects differ according to the period considered (Middle age / nowadays), the jurisdiction studied (the royal Châtelet court / lawyers disciplinary courts / family law), and the scientific discipline they are attached to. However, they share the purpose of highlighting, through individual data considered as series, the norm of behavior of a judicial institution. This identical aim allows to compare the methodological choices of each research. Even for the contemporary time researches, this purpose indeed deprives the researcher from any ready-made database. More than the academic fields, this lack of information explains the methodological choices made in the seriation process both with the specificities of the institutional contexts studied. Moreover, the methodological routines followed when inferential statistics come into play reflect various conceptions of the articulation between theoretical models and empirical data, which go beyond the frontiers of both academic fields.
N01|"Railroads and American Economic Growth: A ""Market Access"" Approach"|"This article examines the historical impact of railroads on the U.S. economy, with a focus on quantifying the aggregate impact on the agricultural sector in 1890. Expansion of the railroad network may have affected all counties directly or indirectly—an econometric challenge that arises in many empirical settings. However, the total impact on each county is captured by changes in that county’s ""market access,"" a reduced-form expression derived from general equilibrium trade theory. We measure counties’ market access by constructing a network database of railroads and waterways and calculating lowest-cost county-to-county freight routes. We estimate that county agricultural land values increased substantially with increases in county market access, as the railroad network expanded from 1870 to 1890. Removing all railroads in 1890 is estimated to decrease the total value of U.S. agricultural land by 60%, with limited potential for mitigating these losses through feasible extensions to the canal network or improvements to country roads. JEL Codes: N01, N51, N71, F1, O1, R1."
N01|Economic Philosophy of al-Mawardi: Economic Behavior in Adab al-Dunya wa-al-Din and al-Ahkam al-Sulthaniyah|Economic behavior in the study of Islamic economics is the basis for the government to portray political ethics and ethical economic functions of individuals in functioning as a member of society. Secular ethics and religious ethics, according to al-Mawardi, as the code of conduct in conducting economic practices by the government and every member of society to uphold the principle of mashlahah (goodness). By the middle or moderate principles, both ethical underpinning for anyone in private and institutional (government) in carrying out economic activities to realize the happiness of the world and the hereafter
N01|Cirebon as the Silk Road: A New Approach of Heritage Tourisme and Creative Economy|The tourism industry and creative economy in Cirebon can not be separated from the historical aspect of the city's growth and development as silk lines in the spread of Islam, trade, and acculturation is very smooth so that the ethnic diversification becomes a major part in tourist activities. With a qualitative approach that emphasizes the phenomenon of ethnic Cirebon with tourist objects that vary in every corner of this city, then this paper confirms that Cirebon is a tourist destination that is unique in terms of religion, culture, history, to the creative economy, especially religious tourism that will create this city as a friendly city for tourists.
N01|The Short Rise and Long Fall of heterodox Economics in germany After the 1970s: Explorations in a Scientific Field of Power and Struggle|In the context of ongoing criticisms of the lack of pluralism in economics, the present article aims to discuss the development of ‘heterodox’ economics since the 1970s. Following Lakatos’s concept of scientific research programs (srp), and concentrating on the situation in Germany, the article will discuss classifications of economics, and will specify the understanding of diversity in the light of ‘axiomatic variations’ of the economic mainstream. This will form the basis for the subsequent description of the development of heterodoxy in Germany, with special reference to the founding of new universities and the reform movements in the 1970s. It can be shown that the heterodox scene flourished in this period, but that this pluralization remained fragmented and short-lived; by the 1980s at the latest heterodoxy was again on its way to marginalization. The history of heterodoxy in Germany thus presents itself as an unequal ‘battle of the paradigms,’ and can only be told as the story of a failure.
N01|Příspěvek k časnějším odhadům hodnot čtvrtletních národních účtů<BR>[Contribution to the Earlier Estimations of Quarterly National Accounts]|Quarterly national accounts provide short-term macroeconomic information matched with those of the annual accounts. Their mission is to provide synthetic information as soon as possible after the end of the quarter. Due to the pressure, caused by Eurostat shortening deadlines on publishing this information, the task is more of creating a methodology to be used in the Czech Republic. Based on faster and more effi cient approaches, it should enable to perform and present estimates of aggregates of quarterly national accounts for the last quarter (and forecasts for the current quarter) at a satisfactory level of reliability. Basic considerations on the methods of quarterly estimation should therefore depend on indirect methods, ie., on mathematical and statistical models, that enable (given there is a system of short survey estimates) to accelerate and shorten publishing. The article off ers an original methodology of estimating quarterly national accounts values, based on time series analysis and presents the results on the data of national accounts of the Czech Republic.
N01|Introduzione (Introduction)|"The short note introduces to the issue of the journal and gives some personal memories of Paolo Sylos Labini as a student and then professor at “La Sapienza” University of Rome. Text of the introductory speech given at the conference ""Paolo Sylos Labini e la politica delle riforme"", held at Sapienza University of Rome on 04 December 2015, organized by the Accademia dei Lincei with Economia Civile."
N01|The Disintegrating Force of Rationalism on Economics: What it means for Islamic Economics|In the last of this three-part study, the impact of the two dominant epistemologies of modernity on economics is fully explained. The intrusion of their ideas profoundly shaped both the content and methodology of the discipline, eventually instigating the separation of the field from the other social sciences that invariably bear on economic decisions and outcomes. The economists, notwithstanding these interdisciplinary linkages, continued to pattern their field of study after the natural sciences, further alienating the discipline from the humanities. These developments set off several rounds of methodological controversies within economics, which split the profession into irreconcilable camps. These disputes are analysed, helping to clarify why deep divisions within the discipline persist up to this day. Mainstream economics then gravitated further towards quantification and mathematisation, the implications of which have been enormous for the discipline. Ethical and normative considerations were altogether explicitly banished from economic science. To overcome these limitations, Muslim economists attempted to erect a separate discipline of economics based on the ethical values of Islam, whilst remaining largely committed to the methodology of neoclassical economics. They have registered little success in this effort. The reasons for this are explained and an alternative framework, centred on the precept of Tawhid in the unity of knowledge, is then suggested.
N01|Looking at Piketty from the Periphery|This working paper discusses Piketty´s already famous book. It remarks some of the strong sides of the book, before critically discussing some aspects. It is argued that Piketty could have benefitted by using other theories of capital, different than the neoclassical one adopted. The note also places Piketty´s limited contribution, as seen in a more comprehensive context, in which international relations and reversal causality between growth and distribution are considered. The notes ends by pointing to the fact that Piketty presents modern development´s main stylized fact in a wrong way, because he is too narrowly focused on the developed regions
N01|Historicizing Entrepreneurial Imprinting: Sensitive Periods, Cognitive Frames and Resistance|"Literature in strategy and entrepreneurship resorted to the concept of imprinting to explain the resilience of firmsÕ traits. Nonetheless, it assumed such a process is at work rather than aiming at its explanation. This article advances a conceptual framework based on three main building blocks - cognitive frame, resource mobilization, and resisting entrepreneurs - combined in a historical perspective, overcoming the existing generalized confusion about ""what to study"" and ""how to study"" in the investigation of entrepreneurial imprinting. We offer an original definition of the imprints and a dynamic view based on resistance investigating the replication, substitution, and re-negotiation of imprints in time. The contribution of the present work is twofold: on the one side, it contributes to the ongoing debate on entrepreneurial imprinting by closing some of the gaps that characterized previous literature on the subject, and offering an innovative bridging between imprinting and resistance; on the other side, it answers to the recent call for a deeper integration between historical approaches and entrepreneurship literature."
N01|Did Gender-Bias Matter in the Quantity- Quality Trade-off in the 19th Century France ?|Recent theoretical developments of growth models, especially on unified theories of growth, suggest that the child quantity-quality trade-off has been a central element of the transition from Malthusian stagnation to sustained growth. Using an original censusbased dataset, this paper explores the role of gender on the trade-off between education and fertility across 86 French counties during the nineteenth century, as an empirical extension of Diebolt-Perrin (2013). We first test the existence of the child quantity-quality trade-off in 1851. Second, we explore the long-run effect of education on fertility from a gendered approach. Two important results emerge: (i) significant and negative association between education and fertility is found, and (ii) such a relationship is non-unique over the distribution of education/fertility. While our results suggest the existence of a negative and significant effect of the female endowments in human capital on the fertility transition, the effects of negative endowment almost disappear at low level of fertility.
N01|Un renovador de la economía de la empresa agraria en España| Breve reflexión personal sobre el papel que ha desempeñado el profesor Enrique Ballestero en la labor docente e investigadora de los autores y de otros muchos profesores de Economía de la Empresa Agraria en los últimos 40 años.
N01|La estadística de las exportaciones argentinas, 1875-1913. Nuevas evidencias e interpretaciones|Argentine export statistics from the last decades of the nineteenth century up until the First World War has been widely revisited over the years. This paper presents a reconstruction of an economic data series, contributing to well-documented debates around the reliability and limitations of existing official records. This new database adopts a systematic, multilateral and long-term approach. The level of granularity both, in terms of product breakdown and geographic distribution, is its main contribution. Through this work, we describe how original data was modified, and our results are compared with previous data series. Key highlights from our research include: the identification of export cycles, the performance of volumes vs. prices, the fragmentation trend of the Argentine international trade, a revaluation of the intermediate ports, and the diversification destinations. KEY Classification-JEL: F14. N01. N7. N76
N01|O wartosciowaniu dobr ekonomicznych/On the Valuation of Economic Goods|The presented study includes an analysis of the category of ‘good’ on the basis of philosophy and economics. Particular attention was paid here to the factors determining the monetary value (price) of an economic good. While achieving the assumed objective of the research, answers to the following questions were sought: What is the difference, therefore, in the interpretation of good as an axiomatic category and good which the economy deals with? What is the basis for the valuation of goods which are the subject of economic analysis? While seeking answers to these questions, an attempt was made to justify the thesis according to which contemporary understanding of the way of valuating goods by the market is limited to accepting the price understood as a variable representing a kind of relationship set in a given time period.
N01|Santa Marta Real y Republicana: El accionar económico y político de la Provincia de Santa Marta en los albores de la independencia, 1810-1830|El objetivo del presente artículo es analizar las circunstancias en que se dio el proceso de Independencia en las provincias del Caribe colombiano, centrado en las acciones ocurridas en la provincia de Santa Marta. Se busca conocer el accionar económico y político de los indígenas, los comerciantes catalanes, los militares venezolanos y los criollos de Santa Marta durante la guerra de Independencia y sus motivaciones para defender la monarquía española o la nueva República. En los albores de la Independencia, la historia de Santa Marta muestra que las autoridades coloniales favorecieron en ocasiones los intereses de los indígenas. Estas acciones generaron fidelidad de los indígenas ante el régimen colonial, el cual ya conocían y no les generaba grandes incertidumbres. La inclinación política de cada grupo estuvo mediada por su desenvolvimiento económico, que también se analizará en este documento. En el caso de Santa Marta, su economía giraba en torno a la actividad portuaria, el comercio interno y externo, así como a los cultivos de caña en las cercanías de la ciudad. En el resto de la provincia la actividad económica dominante fue la ganadería, principalmente en la zona de Valledupar, Valencia de Jesús y Plato.
N01|Ladislaus von Bortkiewicz—Statistician, Economist and a European Intellectual|" type=""main"" xml:id=""insr12083-abs-0001""> Ladislaus von Bortkiewicz (1868–1931) was a European statistician. His scientific work covered theoretical economics, stochastics, mathematical statistics and radiology; today, we would call him a cross-disciplinary scientist. With his clear views on mathematical principles with their applications in these fields, he stood in conflict with the mainstream economic schools in Germany at the dawn of the 20th century. He had many prominent students (Gumbel, Leontief and Freudenberg among them), and he carved out the path of modern statistical thinking. He was a true European intellectual with a career path from St. Petersburg via Göttingen to Straßburg and finally the Berliner Universität, now Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin. He is known for the precise calibration of insurance claims applying the—at that time hardly known—Poisson distribution to Prussian horse kick and child suicide data. He proposed a simple solution to the Marxian transformation problem and wrote numerous articles and books on the mathematical treatment of statistical (including radiological physical) data. In this article, we sketch his life and work and point out the prominent role that he has in today's statistical thinking."
N01|A Dainty Review of the Business and Economic History of Chile and Latin America|This introductory piece provides some context to the special edition on business and economic history of Chile and Latin America. It also provides an introduction to better understanding research and method in business history while inviting for this field to be further developed in Chile.
N01|El comportamiento de los precios en una economía preindustrial: Popayán, virreinato de Nueva Granada, 1706-1819|En este artículo se construyen y analizan series de precios para 38 productos en Popayán, entre 1706 y 1819. El estudio presenta tres constataciones importantes. La primera, que los precios en esta economía eran bastante dinámicos y que, por tanto, el mercado estaba lejos de ser estático, como sustentaron en su momento algunos especialistas. La segunda, que existió un cambio en los precios relativos que favoreció algunos sectores en detrimento de otros. Finalmente, el análisis del índice general de precios muestra la existencia de ciclos de inflación-deflación que presentaron una importante relación con la minería. Para explicar esta correspondencia, se construyó un modelo que permite observar la relación entre variables reales y nominales. ***** This article analyzes price series for 38 commodities in the city of Popayan between 1706 and 1819. The study has three important findings. The first is that the prices in this economy were quite dynamic. As a consequence, the market was far from being static as is sustained by some scholars. The second is that there was a change in relative prices favoring some sectors over others. Finally, the analysis of the general price index showed the existence of inflation-deflation cycles that revealed a significant relationship with mining. To explain this, the study proposes a model that exposes the link between real and nominal variables.
N01|Santa Marta Real y Republicana : El accionar económico y político de la Provincia de Santa Marta en los albores de la independencia, 1810-1830|El objetivo del presente artículo es analizar las circunstancias en que se dio el proceso de Independencia en las provincias del Caribe colombiano, centrado en las acciones ocurridas en la provincia de Santa Marta. Se busca conocer el accionar económico y político de los indígenas, los comerciantes catalanes, los militares venezolanos y los criollos de Santa Marta durante la guerra de Independencia y sus motivaciones para defender la monarquía española o la nueva República. En los albores de la Independencia, la historia de Santa Marta muestra que las autoridades coloniales favorecieron en ocasiones los intereses de los indígenas. Estas acciones generaron fidelidad de los indígenas ante el régimen colonial, el cual ya conocían y no les generaba grandes incertidumbres. La inclinación política de cada grupo estuvo mediada por su desenvolvimiento económico, que también se analizará en este documento. En el caso de Santa Marta, su economía giraba en torno a la actividad portuaria, el comercio interno y externo, así como a los cultivos de caña en las cercanías de la ciudad. En el resto de la provincia la actividad económica dominante fue la ganadería, principalmente en la zona de Valledupar, Valencia de Jesús y Plato.
N01|La Filosofía moral y el sistema de precios en Adam Smith y Friedrich Hayek. Una aproximación|El presente artículo contiene una reflexión que no pretende reproducir con fidelidad las ideas de Smith y Hayek, por el contrario intenta hacer una aproximación para poder comprender su contribución al tema de los precios desde la filosofía moral. Se sostiene tanto que Smith como Hayek, deben ser abordados como tutores del principio de la libertad individual, condición realista para acercar los mercados morales y los mercados económicos y desde aquí conocer el sistema de precios.
N01|Desigualdades regionales en la Argentina de la Belle Époque (1869- 1914)|En historia económica se ha resaltado el gran crecimiento económico de la Argentina durante su Belle Époque (1870-1914), colocándola entre las primeras economías del período que se describe como de gran modernización institucional y social. Sin embargo, la literatura no profundiza dicho proceso al interior de las regiones del país, sino que lo analiza como una unidad homogénea. Este trabajo focaliza el análisis de las diferencias interregionales, comparando, por regiones, las performances de las variables normalmente destacadas en la historiografía. Como resultado de dicho cotejo se confirma que las diferencias no sólo fueron significativas, sino que se profundizaron durante el período analizado. La construcción de un ranking que compara el nivel de vida entre las provincias, y considera los tres primeros censos de población (1869, 1895 y 1914) permite apreciar aunque la modernización fue innegable, la misma profundizó aún más las diferencias entre regiones.
N01|El acompañamiento institucional en el desarrollo del sector cafetero colombiano|RESUMEN En este artículo se hace una revisión del origen, la evolución, la consolidación y la pérdida de dinamismo del sector cafetero en Colombia. En cada uno de estos procesos se presentó un importante acompañamiento institucional, representado básicamente por la Federación Nacional de Cafeteros, que surge como un acuerdo de voluntades entre las dos zonas cafeteras por excelencia del país: la oriental, integrada por Norte de Santander, Santander, Cundinamarca y el oriente del Tolima; y la occidental, conformada por el sur de Antioquia, el Viejo Caldas y el occidente del Tolima. Este trabajo busca revisar y entender los inicios del café en estas zonas —regiones donde se inició la expansión cafetera del país— y las diferencias que se presentan entre ellas. También se intenta determinar la importancia de la Federación en el desarrollo cafetero, así como su papel a lo largo del siglo XX (después de 1930), periodo en que el café colombiano tuvo sus avances más significativos.******This article examines the origin, evolution, consolidation and loss of buoyancy in Colombia’s coffee sector. Each of these stages saw institutional accompaniment, basically in the form of the National Federation of Coffee Growers (Federación Nacional de Cafeteros), which emerged as an agreement between the two finest coffee producing areas in the country: the east, comprising Norte de Santander, Santander, Cundinamarca and eastern Tolima; and the west, made up of southern Antioquia, Viejo Caldas, and western Tolima. This study seeks to review and understand the beginnings of coffee production in these areas —the regions where coffee expansion started in Colombia— and the differences between them. It also attempts to determine the importance of the Federation in the development of this sector, as well as its role throughout the 20th century (after 1930), the period in which Colombian coffee made its most important advances.
N01|El imaginario de la crisis: caricatura económica en Colombia en la época de la Gran Depresión|En el presente documento utilizamos las caricaturas económicas que aparecieron en el principal periódico colombiano (El Tiempo) entre 1928 y 1937, como una fuente primaria válida para el análisis de las tensiones que los fenómenos y situaciones económicas generaron en Colombia en una época tensa para la economía mundial. A través de la caricatura económica es posible ver la percepción de la opinión pública respecto a las políticas económicas y el temor e incertidumbre que éstas causaban en el común de la gente.
N01|The Evolution of Economic History since 1950: From Cliometrics to Cliodynamics (La evolución de la historia económica desde 1950: de cliometría hasta cliodinámica)|Este artículo analiza la evolución de la historia económica en los últimos 65 años. Se argumenta que la historia económica ha pasado de un paradigma caracterizado por aplicar la economía estándar al pasado (cliometría) a reflexiones más generales sobre la historia social, basadas en herramientas más flexibles (cliodinámica). Mientras la cliometríra se basaba en la teoría neoclásica y los métodos econométricos, la cliodinámica parte de marcos teóricos no neoclásicos y métodos diferentes a la inferencia estadística. Con esto, este artículo respalda la idea de que la historia económica, a pesar de la decadencia de tradiciones particulares dentro de ella, ha mantenido su relevancia en economía
N01|Equity short-term finance under Philip II, with an option to long-term funded debt|Men of finance raised funds for loans, asientos, to Philip II by trading short-term financial instruments in credit markets and by selling long-term annuities, juros. These activities are illustrated by an asiento with the Maluenda brothers (July 13, 1595), where short-term credit secured by the equity of the fleets from the Indies were, for more than one half, converted into funded life annuities that were sold by the Maluendas. The new analysis of this asiento relies on its dossier of more than 400 pages in the archives of Simancas, including the contract, the monitoring attachments, and the final audit.
N01|Variations in the price and quality of English grain, 1750–1914: Quantitative evidence and empirical implications|Interpretation of historic grain price data may be hazardous owing to systematic grain quality variation — both cross sectionally and over varying time horizons (intra-year, inter-year, long run). We use the English wheat market, 1750–1914, as an example to quantify this issue. First, we show that bushel weight approximates grain quality. Then we show that cross sectional and intra-year variation are substantial and problematic, generating erroneous inference regarding market integration. Long run variation is significant, due to sharply declining international quality differentials, and this impacts estimated cost of living changes. By contrast, inter-year variation is smaller and controlled for more easily.
N01|Revisiting New Institutional Economics: Basic Concepts And Research Directions|In the last four decades there is a renewed interest within the economic theory for the institutional structures. Numerous, multiple and often unpredictable effects of institutions on economic process are differently reflected among the leading schools of economic analysis. Certainly, in this sense, the greatest attention should be given to the stream of economic thought known as institutional economics. This heterogeneous research orientation today is already clearly differentiated on Veblenian and the new institutional economics. The paper will make, in the light of its recorded achievements and the subjects of interest of its main protagonists, a general insight into the new institutional economics.
N01|Inequality and poverty in a developing economy: Evidence from regional data (Spain, 1860-1930)|Apart from measuring inequality and poverty at the provincial level in Spain between 1860 and 1930, this paper empirically assesses the relationship between economic growth and both inequality and destitution. The results, on the one hand, confirm the presence of a KuznetsÕ curve. However, although growing incomes did not directly contribute to reducing inequality, at least during the early stages of modern economic growth, other processes associated with economic growth significantly improved the situation of the bottom part of the population. On the other hand, growing incomes and lower inequality levels are shown to have been pro-poor.
N01|Equity short-term finance under Philip II, with an option to long-term funded debt|Men of finance raised funds for loans, asientos, to Philip II by trading short-term financial instruments in credit markets and by selling long-term annuities, juros. These activities are illustrated by an asiento with the Maluenda brothers (July 13, 1595), where short-term credit secured by the equity of the fleets from the Indies were, for more than one half, converted into funded life annuities that were sold by the Maluendas. The new analysis of this asiento relies on its dossier of more than 400 pages in the archives of Simancas, including the contract, the monitoring attachments, and the final audit.
N01|New Swedish Historical National Accounts since the 16th Century in Constant and Current Prices|This Working Paper presents and discusses Swedish Historical National Accounts back to 1560 in both current and constant prices. With current prices, this paper provides a major extension of our prior WP 123. It also presents some revisions and additions to earlier data. The main result from the earlier paper of a long secular cycle with troughs around 1600 and 1800 and a peak around 1700 still holds, but there are new aspects on long term development and structural changes from the analysis of both current and constant prices. Thus, the position of agriculture in the late 17th century looks even bleaker in current than in constant prices.
N01|Sharing Mare Nostrum: An analysis of Mediterranean maritime history articles in English-language journals|This discussion paper is a follow-up to a previous bibliometric analysis of articles published in The International Journal of Maritime History and maritime-themed articles published in other economic and business history journals over the last 25 years. The paper looks more closely at articles dealing with the Mediterranean and articles written by scholars from the Mediterranean countries. The article is structured around five propositions about current trends in Mediterranean maritime history publishing in English-language journals.
N01|The Great Escape: Intergenerational Mobility in the United States Since 1940|I develop a method to estimate intergenerational mobility (IM) in education on large cross-sectional surveys and apply the method to U.S. census data from 1940 to 2000. The method estimates IM directly for children age 26-29 who still live with parents and adjusts for independent children using a procedure that I validate extensively. Estimates imply large post-1940 gains in IM that were (1) driven primarily by large IM gains in the South for both whites and blacks, (2) larger for blacks due to their greater concentration in the South, and (3) driven by high school rather than college enrollment.
N01|Strategic Management: From Antiquity Until Today|The strategic management is a relatively new discipline in its own right, whose foundations were laid since antiquity. Many concepts borrowed from various areas had an outstanding contribution in the formation and evolution of strategic management until nowadays. The dual pendulum metaphor reflects the existing tensions over time between internal and external factors of the organization and the relationships that exist between the two types of factors, the strategic management being outlined also by the simultaneous movement of the two pendulums.
N01|On the mathematic prediction of economic and social crises: toward a harmonic interpretation of the Kondratiev Wave, revised and corrected, with a new appendix, February 12, 2015|In Part One of this paper we use the harmonic analogy of a musical octave to analyze mathematic ratios of U.S. real GNP. These ratios are generated by bringing together figures for U.S. real GNP over intervals of time – “spreads of years” – as numerator and denominator in a single fraction. Using a range of 7-year to 18-year “spreads,” we find that this approach provides strong evidence that American economic history is composed of four 14-year quarter-cycles within a 56 year circuit in the real GNP of the United States, 1869-2007. These periods correlate closely with analysis by Nickolai Kondratiev and provide a framework for predicting an annual steady state rate of growth for the United States falling between 3.4969% and 3.4995% per year. In Part Two of this paper we provide three postscripts including: (1) correlations / speculations on the political and social consequences of this model, (2) simplification / expansion of the geometries implied, and (3) analysis / prediction based upon this approach as concluded by a brief afterword and an extensive Appendix. These post-script refinements narrow the steady state rate of growth predicted to between 3.4969% and 3.4973% per year correlating closely with the 3.4971% rate for annualized quarterly data calculated for Okun’s Law, 1947-2007. The size and interconnectedness of world economies, and the virtually exact correlations provided herein, suggest that the dates predicted for future crises will see changes which are unexpectedly global, dramatic and fierce.
N01|An attitude of complexity: thirteen essays on the nature and construction of reality under the challenge of Zeno's Paradox|This book is about the construction of reality. The central aim of this study is to understand how gravity works and how it may be focused and manipulated. While I do not have an answer to this question, the discoveries along the way have been worth collecting into a single volume for future reference.
N01|(Mis)measuring Argentina’s Progress: Industrial Output, 1870s-1913|Evidence of dramatic industrialisation has been used to support the optimistic, staple theory-inspired account of Argentina’s late nineteenth century, which is central to the dominant (neo)liberal narrative of the country’s history. This narrative is here challenged by a discussion of the available evidence of industrial output in Argentina from the 1870s to the eve of the First World War. Issue is taken, in particular, with Roberto Cortés Conde’s widely used industrial output index, which has suggested an 8-9 per cent annual industrial growth rate during this period. It is argued that he has overestimated the growth rate by relying upon dubious data taken from Argentina’s inland revenue service. Rather than reflecting increased production, the rapid growth of Cortés Conde’s index is actually due to increased taxation. Alternative indicators suggest a significantly lower annual growth rate of around 5 per cent, although even this should only be considered indicative, given the lack of data. This is illustrated by the case of textile production.
N01|Kontribusi Sarjana Muslim bagi Peradaban Eropa: Melacak Akar Sejarah dan Perkembangan Ekonomi<BR>[Muslim Scholars Contribution for European Civilization: The Roots of History and Economic Development Tracing]|"The development of economic thought in the Islamic tradition started since the beginning of the first century of the Hijrah. This period is a time when the scientific works about how to achieve economic progress and strengthen the country through foreign trade intangibles movements in the West, known as mercantilism in the economic literature. At this stage of history, after the transmission of Greek ideas, the Muslim scholars to innovate and enrich life interpretations of thought in the world at large, then gradually those ideas into decline and forgotten in history. However, these ideas are not recognized by Western scholars, resulting in a missing link that led to the ""great gap"" in the history of the world economy."
N01|A Historical View on the Development of Czech Economy from 1970|The paper describes the changes in Czech economy in the period between 1970 and 2010 from the macroeconomic perspective. It is based on the detailed study of sources and uses of gross domestic product with respect to labour inputs. Used data sources come from recently published historical data on GDP combined with the data of offi cial statistics. The paper should provide an analysis of the main determinants of growth based on output and expenditure approach to GDP and employment including the industrial analysis of labour productivity. In this paper labour productivity is estimated as the ratio of gross value added in the constant prices over the input used. As we have the data of total employment in full time equivalent we used them as the only possible labour input for the productivity analysis for the period in question.
N01|Un ribelle jevoniano (A Jevonian Seditionist)|"The article is a reissue of 1983 Weintraub’s contribution to a series of “ ecollections"" and reflections on the professional experiences of distinguished economists, which the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro Quarterly Review started in 1979. In this autobiographic paper Sidney Weintraub recalls and comments upon his academic life and career."
N01|(Re)conociendo la enseñanza económica en Chile: Materiales para una Historia|Este trabajo trata la temática de la enseñanza de la economía en Chile, desde su nacimiento como nación independiente hasta el Golpe de Estado del año 1973. Explora las principales ideas que se hicieron más notorias sobre el tejido sociocultural de los siglos XIX y XX. No obstante, se abre paso en elementos más profundos, no evidentes a simple vista, y que predominan por sobre la enseñanza en las mismas aulas universitarias. Otras áreas de la investigación exploran las relaciones internacionales de las facultades de economía y de los economistas como sujeto que gravita en la dirección del desarrollo del país.
N01|Reforma curricular de Ingeniería Comercial en la U. de Chile: ¿Abrimos o no abrimos la mirada?|Un primer balance descriptivo y dinámico de las mallas curriculares para la Mención Economía de Ingeniería Comercial permite comparar los avances de las distintas universidades que la imparten. Con la Reforma Curricular (RC) implementada el 2012, la U. de Chile (UCH) acortó la carrera, fortaleció la formación en métodos cuantitativos, amplió el espacio electivo y la formación integral, reduciendo la cantidad de horas destinadas a teoría económica. De esta manera, la RC de la UCH refleja un interés genuino por orientar dicha mención en dirección al pluralismo, lo que se entiende por “abrir la mirada”. Igualmente resulta fundamental comenzar a pensar en instancias de largo plazo para la elaboración de una malla curricular verdaderamente pluralista y democrática.
N01|Enseñanza de la economía en la Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile: Un análisis comparativo|El presente artíceulo busca responder cómo son formados los estudiantes de economía en la Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile. A través del análisis de la malla curricular, se realizan comparaciones con respecto a otras universidades en Chile que se dedican a la enseñanza de la economía. Los resultados reflejan un alto porcentaje de esfuerzos dedicados a la formación en administración, en contraste a otras universidades, y un bajo porcentaje de cursos que abordan humanidades y ciencias sociales. Destaca la amplia cantidad de optativos de profundización y el debate en torno a la ética. Se sugiere como medida principal adelantar y potenciar la mención para agregar amplitud y profundidad de contenidos a los alumnos del área de economía.
N01|La formación académica de la economía en Chile: Experiencia de la Universidad de Santiago de Chile|Entendiendo la relevancia de reflexionar sobre la formación de los economistas, el presente artículo analiza la malla curricular vigente de Ingeniería Comercial mención Economía en la Universidad de Santiago, comparándola con su versión anterior y con las homólogas de las universidades del país que imparten la carrera. Se observa un énfasis en Matemáticas y Ciencias Sociales, mientras que las áreas Electivos de Especialidad y Administración quedan relegadas. Se anota la ausencia de ramos de Realidad Nacional, Historia del Pensamiento Económico, Filosofía Política y Epistemología, teniendo en consideración que otras universidades sí poseen estos ramos. Como recomendación, se propone aprovechar los Electivos de especialidad para suplir esas carencias.
N01|La no-reforma curricular en Ingeniería Comercial, Universidad de Concepción|Este artículo busca conocer cómo está compuesta la enseñanza de Ingeniería Comercial con Licenciatura en Ciencias Económicas de la Universidad de Concepción, analizando su plan curricular y el proceso de cambio de malla ocurrido recientemente con el objetivo de observar el nivel de pluralismo existente en su malla curricular y también comparar éste con otras universidades de Chile. En los resultados se observa que el cambio curricular realizado, esperado por más de una década, no fue el que se esperaba. Persiste la predominancia de Administración en la Licenciatura en Ciencias Económicas y en comparación con otras universidades la Universidad de Concepción es una de las que tiene mayor presencia en esta área. Una propuesta interesante de cambio estructural es que entre docentes y estudiantes se decida incorporar diferentes áreas de humanidades y ciencias sociales relacionadas a la economía en los planes curriculares, en miras de una formación económica más completa.
N01|La enseñanza de economía en una Universidad Jesuita: Un análisis comparativo|El objetivo es analizar la formación de los estudiantes de economía de la Universidad Alberto Hurtado. Dentro de la malla curricular existen vacíos con respecto a áreas como Filosofía, Ciencias Sociales o Realidad Nacional, en comparación con otras universidades donde se imparte la línea de economía dentro de la carrera de Ingeniería Comercial. A pesar de este déficit humanista, la carrera está muy bien posicionada con respecto a la formación ética. Se concluye que existe una necesidad de realizar cambios en la malla curricular que permitan una mayor interacción con otras disciplinas y corrientes de pensamiento. Si estos hechos motivan una reflexión seria, es importante que los diversos actores tengan una participación activa y cooperativa en el proceso.
N01|La UDP con nueva malla curricular, ¿Nueva economía o más de lo mismo?|El presente trabajo nos muestra la distribución de la nueva mención de la UDP con dirección a economía, permitiendo al lector comprender si realmente en Chile las universidades están respondiendo a un nuevo enfoque de enseñanza o si por el contrario los cambios no están respondiendo en la dirección apropiada. A grandes rasgos y como veremos se aprecia la inclusión de ramos en las categorías de micro y macroeconomía, pero se sigue manteniendo una fuerte cantidad de ramos administrativos para los estudiantes que egresan de la línea de economía. Se considera muy positivo la inclusión de cursos de la línea Cultura y Entorno. Se plantea finalmente la posibilidad de incluir ramos en áreas inexistentes en la malla como son Historia Económica, Ética y Epistemología, y que sí se encuentran presentes en otras universidades que ofrecen la mención economía dentro de Ingeniería Comercial.
N01|The Data Revolution in African Economic History|Big Data can be consequential for the field of history. The surge in computing power and access to data processing software and online resources have enabled historians over the past two decades to capture historical statistics on a much larger scale than before. Here I argue that the data revolution is especially valuable when applied to regions where written records are fairly scarce, such as sub-Saharan Africa. The tools of data transcription, augmentation, and collaboration have revealed much we did not know about the African past and its echoes in the present. The continuing projects to transcribe and digitize large numbers of colonial and post-colonial records are likely to teach us much more about Africaâ€™s economic past over the coming decade.
N01|La construcción de la calidad del café y del banano en Costa Rica. Una perspectiva histórica (1890-1950)|This essay argues that quality is a socio-historical construct. In Costa Rica, discourses about the historical construction of coffee and banana product quality appeared thanks to complex processes involving many factors, practices, actors, landscapes, institutions, and technologies in a transnational framework. Discourses on product quality may be studied from different points of view. In this paper, we analyse the discourse of both indirect and direct participants of the coffee and banana supply chains, and the discourse on the importance of the final quality of both products. We also high1ight the significance of agro-ecological particularities, post-harvest practices and marketing, along with changes in agricultural production and processing.
N01|Did Gender-Bias Matter in the Quantity-Quality Trade-off in 19th Century France?|Recent theoretical developments of growth models, especially on unified theories of growth, suggest that the child quantity-quality trade-off has been a central element of the transition from Malthusian stagnation to sustained growth. Using an original censusbased dataset, this paper explores the role of gender on the trade-off between education and fertility across 86 French counties during the nineteenth century, as an empirical extension of Diebolt-Perrin (2013). We first test the existence of the child quantity-quality trade-off in 1851. Second, we explore the long-run effect of education on fertility from a gendered approach. Two important results emerge: (i) significant and negative association between education and fertility is found, and (ii) such a relationship is non-unique over the distribution of education/fertility. While our results suggest the existence of a negative and significant effect of the female endowments in human capital on the fertility transition, the effects of negative endowment almost disappear at low level of fertility.
N01|A Review of Peter Temin's The Roman Market Economy|"Herein, I review Peter Temin's book, ""The Roman Market Economy"", and take the occasion to alert economists to the exciting work that is being done and could be done in the economic history of the ancient world. (JEL C80, N01, N13, N73)"
N01|GDP and convergence in modern times|In this chapter I discuss historical estimates of GDP at both the national and the regional level, and their application for assessing economic performance in modern times. Having been invented in (and conceived for) industrial capitalist societies, GDP has stronger informative power in those contexts where industry and services, and market exchange, retain the lion’s share of production. In modern times, when comparing the series available for different countries, there are three major methodological problems to be acknowledged and possibly addressed: the dissimilarity of the quantity series and related proxies; deflation through purchasing power parities distant in time; and the differences in the base year used to construct GDP constant price (Laspeyres) indices (the latter issue may be less widely recognized, but it may have a remarkable impact). The way the estimates are constructed also has a bearing upon the statistical tools and models we should use to interpret them; owing to the lack of reliable long-run series, cross-sectional techniques are often preferable to time series analysis; provided we have reliable estimates, growth accounting - decomposing GDP growth into productivity and industry mix effects - may provide important clues about the choice between theoretical approaches; not least for the quality of our data, cross-country convergence models based on conditioning variables should always be supplemented by historical information from qualitative sources and case studies. More generally, cliometricians should prove themselves capable of adapting their models to different historical contexts and relativizing findings to the limits of their estimates.
N01|The roots of Western societal evolution|Jenő Szűcs wrote his essay entitled Sketch on the three regions of Europe in the early 1980s in Hungary. During these years, a historically well-argued opinion emphasising a substantial difference between Central European and Eastern European societies was warmly received in various circles of the political opposition. In a wider European perspective Szűcs used the old “liberty topos” which claims that the history of Europe is no other than the fulfillment of liberty. In his Sketch, Szűcs does not only concentrate on questions concerning the Middle Ages in Western Europe. Yet it is this stream of thought which brought a new perspective to explaining European history. His picture of the Middle Ages represents well that there is a way to integrate all typical Western motifs of post-war self-definition into a single theory. Mainly, the “liberty motif”, as a sign of “Europeanism” — in the interpretation of Bibó’s concept, Anglo-Saxon Marxists and Weber’s social theory —, developed from medieval concepts of state and society and from an analysis of economic and social structures. Szűcs’s historical aspect was a typical intellectual product of the 1980s: this was the time when a few Central European historians started to outline non-Marxist aspects of social theory and categories of modernisation theories, but concealing them with Marxist terminology.
N01|Sixty Years of Development Economics: What Have we Learned for Economic Development?|Sixty years after its entry in academic circles, development economics has now been mainstreamed in economics. It has proven itself in placing articles in top economic journals, in mobilizing a vast membership of students and researchers, in receiving important financial contributions from development actors, and in influencing decision-making in economic development. We identify five lessons for its past successes to be reproduced in the future: maintain a strong engagement with policy advice, define research priorities to secure pertinence for development, push for discoveries on themes with greater importance, extend the identification of causal relations to the level of policy recommendations, and consolidate the capacity of the state to fulfill its functions in complement with those of the market and civil society. JEL?Classification: O10, N01, O47.
N01|De la critique des corporations à la libération des forces productives : l'économie politique de Jean-Baptiste Say|In the Traité d’Economie Politique and in the Cours Complet d’Economie Politique, Jean-Baptiste Say develops a criticism of corporations and other industrial regulations. According to him, these regulations are barriers to the entrepreneurial freedom and to the progress of arts. They are almost always tools of individual and collective oppression and at the origin of various economic, social and political ills. In this paper, we detail Say’s argumentation against corporations and show that it is part of more general framework based on the influence of institutions on the economy and of machines on commerce. His critical analysis leads us to present his conception of a necessary liberation of the forces of production, which requires the creation of a general framework favorable to the freedom to undertake and a blossoming of the forces of production (machines). These elements also constitute the foundations of his political economy. JEL Codes : A11, B12, B30, K11, N01, P14, P16
N01|Institutions and Economic Growth in Historical Perspective: Part 1|This is Part 1 of a two-part paper which surveys the historical evidence on the role of institutions in economic growth. The paper provides a critical scrutiny of a number of stylized facts widely accepted in the growth literature. It shows that private-order institutions have not historically substituted for public-order ones in enabling markets to function; that parliaments representing wealth holders have not invariably been favourable for growth; and that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 did not mark the sudden emergence of either secure property rights or economic growth. Economic history has been used to support both the centrality and the irrelevance of secure property rights to growth, but the reason for this is conceptual vagueness. Secure property rights require much more careful analysis, distinguishing between rights of ownership, use and transfer, and between generalized and particularized variants. Similar careful analysis would, we argue, clarify the growth effects of other institutions, including contract-enforcement mechanisms, guilds, communities, serfdom, and the family. Greater precision concerning institutional effects on growth can be achieved by developing sharper criteria of application for conventional institutional labels, endowing institutions with a scale of intensity or degree, and recognizing that the effects of each institution depend on its relationship with other components of the wider institutional system. Part 1 of the paper discusses public-order institutions, parliaments, the distinction between generalized and particularized institutions, and property rights.
N01|Institutions and Economic Growth in Historical Perspective: Part 2|This is Part 2 of a two-part paper which surveys the historical evidence on the role of institutions in economic growth. The paper provides a critical scrutiny of a number of stylized facts widely accepted in the growth literature. It shows that private-order institutions have not historically substituted for public-order ones in enabling markets to function; that parliaments representing wealth holders have not invariably been favourable for growth; and that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 did not mark the sudden emergence of either secure property rights or economic growth. Economic history has been used to support both the centrality and the irrelevance of secure property rights to growth, but the reason for this is conceptual vagueness. Secure property rights require much more careful analysis, distinguishing between rights of ownership, use and transfer, and between generalized and particularized variants. Similar careful analysis would, we argue, clarify the growth effects of other institutions, including contract-enforcement mechanisms, guilds, communities, serfdom, and the family. Greater precision concerning institutional effects on growth can be achieved by developing sharper criteria of application for conventional institutional labels, endowing institutions with a scale of intensity or degree, and recognizing that the effects of each institution depend on its relationship with other components of the wider institutional system. Part 2 of the paper examines how institutions are situated in wider institutional systems, explores alternative approaches to explaining institutions, and applies the arguments established in earlier sections to the institution of serfdom. It concludes by drawing the implications of both parts of the paper for institutions and economic growth in historical perspective.
N01|Der lange Schatten der Geschichte: Mechanismen der Persistenz in der Wirtschaftsgeschichte|Aktuelle wirtschaftshistorische Forschung belegt, dass vergangene historische Begebenheiten einen großen Einfluss auf aktuelle wirtschaftliche und soziale Entwicklungen haben. Auf der Konferenz »The Long Shadow of History« kamen international renommierte Wissenschaftler am Center for Advanced Studies (CAS) der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität in München zusammen, um über die historische Persistenz wirtschaftlicher Prozesse zu diskutieren. Mit dieser Konferenz wurde der Grundstein für den Aufbau eines Netzwerkes von Wissenschaftlern gelegt, die auf diesem Gebiet forschen. In diesem Beitrag werden ein Einblick in dieses neue Forschungsfeld gegeben und die Forschungsprojekte, die auf der Konferenz vorgestellt wurden, zusammengefasst.
N01|El auge económico antioqueño del siglo XIX desde un enfoque de desarrollo económico local|Este documento describe las principales características de la evolución de la economía antioqueña durante la segunda mitad del siglo XIX, tratando de identificar si ésta siguió un proceso de desarrollo económico local. Con ello, además de realizar una reinterpretación novedosa del despegue económico de Antioquia, basado en recientes fuentes recolectadas; este trabajo realiza un aporte dentro de la teoría del desarrollo local, ya que, presentando lo que podría considerarse como una versión generalizada de ella, se rescata la validez atemporal de sus principales consideraciones, normalmente reconocidas aceptables solo en el marco de sociedades postindustriales.
N01|Evolución del papel de la naturaleza en el estudio económico: desde los autores preclásicos hasta la Escuela Neoclásica|El presente artículo abordará desde una perspectiva histórica, el papel que la naturaleza y la energía han desempeñado en las construcciones teóricas de las principales escuelas del pensamiento económico, desde la perspectiva fisiocrática que les otorgaba un lugar central, hasta la marginación experimentada en la teoría neoclásica.
N01|Apuntes desde la ciencia económica ¿el sujeto racional o el sujeto complejo?|El siguiente artículo es un breve análisis del imaginario del sujeto racional del discurso hegemónico de la ciencia económica actual, en contraposición con el sujeto complejo propuesto por Morin, como ápice de una posible revolución científica denominada bioeconomía. La metodología es de tipo documental y exploratoria, en la cual se hace una revisión de literatura especializada por medio de matrices.The following article is a brief analysis of the imagery of the rational subject of the hegemonic discourse of the current economic science, contrary to the position proposed by Morin, as the apex of a possible scientific revolution called bioeconomy complex subject. The methodology is exploratory documentary, in which a literature review by specialized matrices is done.
N01|"The roots of ""Western European societal evolution"""|Jenő Szűcs wrote his essay entitled Sketch on the three regions of Europe in the early 1980s in Hungary. During these years, a historically well-argued opinion emphasising a substantial difference between Central European and Eastern European societies was warmly received in various circles of the political opposition. In a wider European perspective Szűcs used the old “liberty topos” which claims that the history of Europe is no other than the fulfillment of liberty. In his Sketch, Szűcs does not only concentrate on questions concerning the Middle Ages in Western Europe. Yet it is this stream of thought which brought a new perspective to explaining European history. His picture of the Middle Ages represents well that there is a way to integrate all typical Western motifs of post-war self-definition into a single theory. Mainly, the “liberty motif”, as a sign of “Europeanism” – in the interpretation of Bibó’s concept, Anglo-saxon Marxists and Weber’s social theory –, developed from medieval concepts of state and society and from an analysis of economic and social structures. Szűcs’s historical aspect was a typical intellectual product of the 1980s: this was the time when a few Central European historians started to outline non-Marxist aspects of social theory and categories of modernisation theories, but concealing them with Marxist terminology.
N01|Unemployment: natural rate epicycles or hysteresis?|This paper argues that the natural rate of unemployment hypothesis, in which equilibrium unemployment is determined by â€˜structuralâ€™ variables alone, is wrong: it is both implausible and inconsistent with the evidence. Instead, equilibrium unemployment is haunted by hysteresis. The curious history of the natural rate hypothesis is considered, curious because the authors of the hypothesis thought hysteresis to be relevant. The various methods that have been used to model hysteresis in economic systems are outlined, including the Preisach model with its selective, erasable memory properties. The evidence regarding hysteresis effects on output and unemployment is then reviewed.
N01|Measuring integration in the English wheat market, 1770–1820: New methods, new answers|We show that vector error correction models encompass different approaches to analysing market integration; we illustrate our method using English weekly wheat prices, 1770–1820. Price variation decomposes into: (i) magnitude of price shocks; (ii) correlation of price shocks; (iii) between-period arbitrage. Data frequency affects these components, but has the largest effect on between-period arbitrage, commonly measured by half-life. Since this measure has been generally employed, previous analyses should be interpreted with caution. We further show that estimated effects of better transport and communication depend on the model used to measure market integration. Notably, we observe market integration improvements, not in between-period arbitrage, but in the within-week behaviour of prices (i.e. over much shorter time periods). So transport impacted English market integration, but in a way not captured by half-lives.
N01|Institutions and Economic Growth in Historical Perspective|This chapter surveys the historical evidence on the role of institutions in economic growth and points out weaknesses in a number of stylized facts widely accepted in the growth literature. It shows that private-order institutions have not historically substituted for public-order ones in enabling markets to function; that parliaments representing wealth holders have not invariably been favorable for growth; and that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 in England did not mark the sudden emergence of either secure property rights or economic growth. Economic history has been used to support both the centrality and the irrelevance of secure property rights to growth, but the reason for this is conceptual vagueness. Secure property rights require much more careful analysis, distinguishing between rights of ownership, use, and transfer, and between generalized and particularized variants. Similar careful analysis would, we argue, clarify the growth effects of other institutions, including contract-enforcement mechanisms, guilds, communities, serfdom, and the family. Greater precision concerning institutional effects on growth can be achieved by developing sharper criteria of application for conventional institutional labels, endowing institutions with a scale of intensity or degree, and recognizing that the effects of each institution depend on its relationship with other components of the wider institutional system.
N01|Economic theory and economic history: Graziani’s vision|"After summarising the essay on economic history by Augusto Graziani, Il commercio estero del Regno delle due Sicilie dal 1838 al 1858, the article compares the idea which he had of the relationship between economic theory and economic history with those of other great economists and economic historians. From the comparison there emerge many points in common and, basically, that the economist needs the historian to obtain material on which to work, while - according to John Hicks - it is not the task of the historian ""to think in theoretical terms""."
N01|How did the capital market evaluate Germany’s prospects for winning World War I? Evidence from the Amsterdam market for government bonds|This study uses prices for the German 3 percent imperial loan issued in several tranches since 1890 and still traded during World War I to measure capital market players’ real-time perceptions of the prospects for Germany as the war proceeded. Price data are gathered from the Amsterdam market for government bonds; the Netherlands remained neutral throughout war. Focusing on the window from August 24th 1915 to August 11th 1919, ten (twelve) turning points are identified in a baseline (extended) model. Each implies a significant adjustment of lenders’ confidence in Germany being able, or willing, to service its debts in the future. Two turning points stand out. In early January 1916, the price plummeted by 14.3 percent between the first and eleventh of the month, which was most likely due to the Military Service Act discussed in the British parliament. On September 19th 1918, the price dropped by 17.5 percent compared to the last available price quote from the end of July. This coincides with the Allied Powers’ revival on all fronts since the summer, leading to the ultimate collapse of the German lines.
N01|War and democracy in ancient Greece|In the present paper we analyse some of the preconditions for the emergence of democracy in Ancient Greece. For democracy to emerge in Ancient Greece a combination of several enabling factors proved decisive: the development of new military tactic, the phalanx, marked by the appearance of a new type of heavy infantry warrior, the hoplite, who owned individually some property, i.e. land, sufficient to permit him to finance his weaponry and a city-state culture. We describe the emergence of this new type of warrior, link this emergence to the establishment of individual property rights and show how this brought about a military revolution, exemplified in a new tactical formation, the phalanx. We then proceed by showing how the attitudes and learning processes made necessary by this new type of warfare were transformed in the civic values and virtues that shaped democratic institutions. Our thesis can thus be briefly termed as the “military cum city-state” explanation of democracy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
N01|A közgazdasági adatforradalom és a panelökonometria<BR>[The revolution in economic data and panel econometrics]|Áttekintő tanulmányunk célja, hogy - a modern panelökonometria történetén és fejlődésén keresztül - bemutassa, milyen általános és módszertani következményekkel járhat a jelenleg zajló közgazdasági adatforradalom. Látni fogjuk, hogy a fejlődés valójában alulról építkezik: a paneltípusú adatok megjelenése különböző problémákat hoz felszínre, amelyekre elméleti és módszertani újításokat adó válaszok születnek, s az újítások aztán visszahatnak újabb és egyre bonyolultabb adatbázisok gyűjtésére. Ez a visszacsatolási mechanizmus a legfontosabb mozgatórugója a jelenleg zajló, úgynevezett big data adatforradalomnak, amelynek eredményeképpen mélyebb s egyszerre átfogóbb és részletesebb képet kaphatunk a gazdaság egészének működéséről. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: A11, B23, N01, O30.
N01|Caveat Lector: Sample Selection in Historical Heights and the Interpretation of Early Industrializing Economies|"Much of the research on height in historical populations relies on convenience samples. A crucial question with convenience samples is whether the sample accurately reflects the characteristics of the population; if not, then estimated parameters will be affected by sample selection bias. This paper applies a simple test for selection biased developed in Bodenhorn, Guinnane, and Mroz (2013) to several historical samples of prisoners, freed slaves, and college students. We reject the hypothesis of no selection bias in all cases. Using Roy's (1951) model of occupational choice, we interpret these findings as reflecting the economic forces that lead individuals to take the actions the led to inclusion in the sample. Our findings suggest that much of the evidence on the ""industrialization puzzle"" during the nineteenth century could reflect changing selection into the samples rather than changes in population heights."
N01|Economic History and Economic Development: New Economic History in Retrospect and Prospect|I argue in this paper for more interaction between economic history and economic development. Both subfields study economic development; the difference is that economic history focuses on high-wage countries while economic development focuses on low-wage economies. My argument is based on recent research by Robert Allen, Joachim Voth and their colleagues. Voth demonstrated that Western Europe became a high-wage economy in the 14th century, using the European Marriage Pattern stimulated by the effects of the Black Death. This created economic conditions that led eventually to the Industrial Revolution in the 18th century. Allen found that the Industrial Revolution resulted from high wages and low power costs. He showed that the technology of industrialization was adapted to these factor prices and is not profitable in low-wage economies. The cross-over to economic development suggests that demography affects destiny now as in the past, and that lessons from economic history can inform current policy decisions. This argument is framed by a description of the origins of the New Economic History, also known as Cliometrics, and a non-random survey of recent research emphasizing the emerging methodology of the New Economic History.
N01|Food for Thought: Comparing Estimates of Food Availability in England and Wales, 1700-1914|In The Changing Body (Cambridge University Press and NBER, 2011), the authors presented a series of estimates showing the number of calories available for human consumption in England and Wales at various points in time between 1700 and 1909/13. The current paper corrects an error in those figures but also compares the estimates of The Changing Body with those published by a range of other authors. The differences reflect disagreements over a number of issues, including the amount of land under cultivation, the extraction and wastage rates for cereals and pulses and the number of animals supplying meat and dairy products. The paper considers recent attempts to achieve a compromise between these estimates and challenges claims that there was a dramatic reduction in either food availability or the average height of birth cohorts in the late-eighteenth century.
N01|Retrospection Of Insurance: Origin, Evolution, Topicality|Any human activity implies the existence of certain dangers for life, health or property. The need to protect them has led to insurance. In this article we present the chronological evolution of the phenomenon of insurance from its origin in antiquity to the contemporary period. We also show the interdependence of development of human civilization and the diversification and development of insurance services in various historical eras.
N01|The Birth of Economic Thought and Specialized Economic Press among the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire in the XIX Century (A Mediterranean Perspective)|The study presents and analyses the major features of the Bulgarian economic thought at its inception in the 1850s through to Bulgaria’s Liberation from Ottoman rule in 1878. The authors examine the main intellectual figures and the publication endeavours of specialised economic periodicals in the same period and discuss their specific features highlighting the fact that articles on theoretical issues make their way through slowly and with difficulties even when popularisation is their aim. The authors’ main thesis is that the Bulgarian economic thought, at the point of its formation, was characterized by three basic features: liberalism, nationalism and ethical approach to economic problems. Finally, we should note two other basic features of economic thinking from that period in Mediterranean Europe and the Ottoman Empire which also had a Bulgarian dimension, i.e. the vivid and explicit presence of eclecticism in both the theoretical and the methodological aspect and the primary role of the French economists and the French economic thought. The last part of the paper makes an attempt to sum up and put the early Bulgarian economic thought and specialised economic periodicals into comparative Mediterranean and Balkan perspective. This allows an adequate analysis and adds to the knowledge about the spread and influence of economic ideas.
N01|Peru: La construccion nacional|No abstract is available for this item.
N01|Profilo di Giuseppe Toniolo (Giuseppe Toniolo's profile)|Giuseppe Toniolo is probably the most important exponent of the economical and social catholic thought between ’800 and ’900. He analyzed the genesys and the positive as well as the negative contribution of Capitalism to the modern economy dinamics; he noted the role of Socialism in defense of the «legitimate needs» and the «exemplary rights» of popular classes, but he also highlights the allencompassing and deterministic aspects, deriving from Hegel, as well as the the non-religious aspect. Alternatively, he proposes a «Christian way» to build a new free and righteous society, where ethics is an intrinsic factor of economics, wealthy is not the final aim but instrumental, the profit is subject to the centrality of the human being, to be is predominant on to have, and «democracy» express through its representatives those everlasting moral values always reviving as well as deeply renewed.
N01|Giuseppe Toniolo: bilancio bibliografico (Giuseppe Toniolo: Bibliographical analysis)|This essay examines Giuseppe Toniolo’s main bibliography, with particular attention to biographical events, different steps of his educational path, his works, his scientific method and spirituality, the role he played in nationalwide and worldwide Catholic movement. This bibliographical work also analyses the relationship between Toniolo and the Catholic hierarchy as well as the one between ethics and economics, Thomism and Neo-Scholastic, medievalism, corporatism, statistics, social, theological, legal, political and above all economic thought, without excluding academic activity and promoting cultural institutions.
N01|Ripensare oggi Giuseppe Toniolo (Rethinking Giuseppe Toniolo)|Toniolo was altogether an economist and a social thinker. As economist he constituted an objective obstacle for the introduction and development of neo-classical economic theory in Italy. As a social thinker Toniolo set the bases of the ‘economic doctrine’ of Catholic Church. This doctrine was then largely utilized for many decades, even during the years of the foundation of the Italian Republic Constitution. As the Toniolo’s heritage is still alive, the author is tempted to think that the idea in favour of a mixed economy not only is still wide-spread, but is also intended to survive.
N01|GIUSEPPE TONIOLO. ECONOMIA SOCIALE, DIRITTI, COOPERAZIONE A cura di Marco Bianchini e Fiorenza Manzalini. Introduzione. L'economia sostanziale di Giuseppe Toniolo (Introduction. The substantial economics of Giuseppe Toniolo)|Reading Giuseppe Toniolo means reading a page of Italian history and national identity post 1861 unification. His views still live in some passages of the Republican Constitution and in the Social Doctrine of the Catholic Church. With an institutionalistic framework his economic thought has its roots in the aristotelian-thomistic tradition.
N01|On the use of palynological data in economic history: New methods and an application to agricultural output in Central Europe, 0–2000AD|In this paper we introduce a new source of data to economic history: palynological data or, in other words, information about pollen grains which are preserved in the bottom sediments of various water basins. We discuss how this data is collected and how it should be interpreted; develop new methods for aggregating this information into regional trends in agricultural output; construct an extensive dataset with a large number of pollen sites from Central Europe; and use our methods to study the economic history of Greater Poland, Lesser Poland, Bohemia, Brandenburg, and Lower Saxony since the first century AD.
N01|Towards an economic architecture of the rings of Saturn: On the Political Economy Wave, Kaluza’s fifth dimension and an alternative derivation of the Roche Limit|This paper presents interesting correlations which exist between a model of long-wave economic activity and crisis in the United States – “the Political Economy wave” – and the structure of the rings of Saturn, one of the most confounding structures known to science. At the present time gaps appear between rings which are unexplained; dynamism within the rings which should disperse the rings does not do so; edges of the rings are not diffuse but well defined; satellites between rings appear to have an impact but this is uncertain. This paper explores the possibility that the mathematics of consciousness, taken as a fifth dimension and understood as incarnate in the study of economics, may assist in the understanding of physics, and possibly vice versa.
N01|On the architecture of the rings of Saturn: An “identity” theory of the distribution of gaps within rings|In the physical world the “identity” of something is taken generally as a given; an apple is an apple; this apple is this apple. When dealing with planetary structure and extension into space, however, the problem of the planet’s “identity” in the surrounding cosmos is writ large. What does a planet’s “identity” imply? What functions must it take on? What internal logic holds it together as a functional “being” in the universe? A model of long-wave economic activity and crisis in the United States – “the Political Economy wave” – portrays the quest for social and economic “identity” with three simple curves: a sine curve over 56 years (20,454 days), a damping cosine curve of one-half the period of the sine curve, and the addition of these two in a “Political Economy Wave.” The logic of this wave is a recurring structure which shapes social “identity” over time. This paper compares the main peaks, intersections and troughs of the Political Economy wave for the United States, 1800-to-present, with the structure of the rings of Saturn, one of the most confounding structures known to science. At the present time gaps appear between rings which are unexplained; dynamism within the rings which should disperse the rings does not do so; edges of the rings are not diffuse but well defined; satellites between rings appear to have an impact but this is uncertain. Comparing these gaps with the various “crises” which predictably impact the “self identity,” the self-understanding, of society, this paper explores the possibility that the mathematics of identity may assist in the understanding of astrophysics, and possibly vice versa.
N01|Методологические Возможности “Блумингтонской Школы”: И Перспективы Развития Современного Неоинституционализма<BR>[The Formation of the “Bloomington School”: Methodological Opportunities and Perspectives of Contemporary New Institutionalism Development]|В статье анализируются институциональные процессы формирования научной Блумингтонской школы за последнюю четверть века, которая тесно связана с концептуальным и методологическим наследием Элинор Остром, а также работами ее коллег и учеников. Автор подчеркивает значимость неоинституциональной методологии в современной социологической мысли, в исследованиях социальных дилемм, общих ресурсов, коллективных действий и идентичности. По мнению автора, исследования Блумингтонской школы попытались предложить решение проблемы социально-экономического развития традиционных сообществ в стабильности в условиях социетальной неопределенности, используя неоинституциональную методологию. Дальнейшее методологическое развитие Блумингтонской школы автор связывает с конкретизацией определений социальных дилемм и общих ресурсов, изучением проблем как устойчивости, так и распада институтов, и их трансформации из динамического равновесия с позитивными гнездовыми экстерналиями в девиантное неравновесие. In the article the institutional processes of Bloomington school formation are analyzed. Such processes are closely connected to the conceptual and methodological heritage of Elinor Ostrom and her colleagues and students. The author underlies importance of neo-institutional methodology in the contemporary sociological thought, in studies of social dilemmas, common-pool resources, collective actions and identity. In author’s opinion, by using neo-institutional methodology, studies of the Bloomington school have tried to find a solution of the problem of stable social-economic development of traditional societies. In author’s opinion, the further development of the Bloomington school is connected with further defining social dilemmas and common-pool resources, studies of institutional stability and institutional disintegration and transformations of institutions from dynamic equilibrium with positive nested externalities to dynamic non-equilibrium.
N01|Other Prominent Female Economists|The concluding episode briefl y introduces a few more important female celebrities in economics, who have not been described in the previous sections. There are many heterogeneous women authors worth bringing to mind. Their references and writings improve the economic science level similarly to many men colleagues awarded with most important economic prizes.
N01|Struktura spotřeby českých domácností 1970-2012<BR>[Household Consumption Expenditures between 1970 and 2012]|The paper describes the development of household consumption expenditures from a longer perspective. Currently, there are available data for more than forty years and it means that lots of information about changes in structure and main tendencies can be studied. Since the emphasis is put on the comparable time series, it was necessary to prepare transformation of original data into national accounts. Historical figures on private consumption were published in line with the Material Product System that is not fully comparable with the System of National Accounts. Data on private consumption reflecting only material part of consumption had to be transformed into household consumption expenditures covering both expenditures for material and non-material products. The process of transformation of original data reflecting socialist statistical system is briefly described, as well as main differences. Key points of transformation are illustrated on selected years. Finally, original data are compared with reconstructed ones and differences are explained. The analysis provides useful information about main changes in consumption expenditures by CZ-COICOP. Finally, some often discussed issues like the relative increase of expenditures connected with housing, decrease of the share of foodstuff etc. can be proven now.
N01|Carl Menger on the Theory of Economic History. Reflections from Bulgaria|Carl Menger founded the Austrian School of economics at the end of the 19th century. He rejected some of the main ideas of the German Historical School in his work Investigations into the Method of the Social Sciences with Special Reference to Economics (1881). The submitted paper presents the main implications of the investigations on the theory of economic history with a special reference to the economic history and history of economic thought of the Balkans. The emphasis is on the methodological subjectivism, spontaneous order, rejection of the teleological understanding of the process of economic development, and the application of mathematical models. These principles could be used as a theoretical base of the historical research, though they are widely underestimated in modern economic history
N01|Financial history and financial economics|This essay looks at the bidirectional relationship between financial history and financial economics. It begins by giving a brief history of financial economics by outlining the main topics of interest to financial economists. It then documents and explains the increasing influence of financial economics upon financial history, and warns of the dangers of applying financial economics unthinkingly to the study of financial history. The essay proceeds to highlight the many insights that financial history can potentially provide to financial economics. The main conclusion of the essay is that financial economics can potentially learn more from financial history than vice versa.
N01|The domestication of the economic mind: A response to the critics|The paper takes issue with the views expressed by Luis Bértola, Christopher Lloyd and Deirdre McCloskey in their commentaries. Many of the points raised are relevant and worth consideration. However, McCloskey's ill-informed critique is rejected along with her binary opposition between economy and society. There are no laws in economics. Faith in the inborn nature of the market economy is misplaced and due to cognitive distortions. KEY Classification-JEL: N00, N01
N01|New institutional economics: Foundations and latest trends|The study aims to briefly review the main directions and latest trends of new institutional economic theory (NIE) that puts institutions in the focus of its research as an alternative to neoclassical economics. We present the applied definitions of institutions, highlight the main steps in the evolution of the institutional perspective and review its three main directions (property rights, transaction costs and contracts). Institutional economic works from the empirical field that prove significant connections between institutional variables and economic performance are also presented. We highlight new directions elaborated in the latest research. As a conclusion we summarize the main characteristics of NIE in order to call attention to the usefulness and value of this economic theory.
N01|Professor Ivan Kinkel – theoretician in economic theory (critical analysis)|The theoretical views of Prof. Ivan Kinkel on the economic history are presented and analyzed. He established an original concept on the systematic presentation of the periods of the global economic development, dividing it in three cultural civilization cycles, each having four consecutive forms. The so called Malthusian Law is also considered in an original way. He intends to use it as a theoretical framework to analyse the past. The scientific weight of the theoretical views of Prof. Kinkel is somewhat discredited by his proximity to left and right totalitarian ideologies and by the scientific propaganda of the ideas of race hygiene and Eugenics.
N01|Is There a Long-Term Effect of Africa's Slave Trades?|Nunn (2008) found a negative relationship between past slave exports and economic performance within Africa. Here we investigate these findings and the suggested causal pathway in further detail. Extending the sample period back in time we reveal that the coefficient on slave exports did not become significantly negative until 1970, and that it was close to zero in 1960. While one potential explanation for this temporal pattern could be decolonization, we analyse other episodes of slave raiding outside Africa, and find evidence that questions the validity of such suggestion. In addition, our reading of the historical and anthropological literature differs from that of Nunn. For instance, taking a global rather than African perspective we find that the African slave trades cannot without difficulties explain the patterns of ethnic fractionalization that we observe today.
N01|LA PUERTA DE ÉBANO DEL PACÍFICO COLOMBIANO. El puerto de Buenaventura 1990-2011|El objetivo de esta investigación es describir la importancia económica del Puerto de Buenaventura, a partir de un análisis histórico durante las dos últimas décadas y su desempeño en la apertura económica de los años 90, además de establecer un punto de referencia ante nuevos desafíos de la economía colombiana como lo son TLC con los Estados Unidos y la conquista de los mercados de Asia Pacífico; de esta manera identificar al puerto como agente económico clave para el desarrollo económico y social de Colombia en la próxima década.
N01|Determinantes De La Dinámica Empresarial De Egresados De La Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana|Este trabajo tiene como objetivo construir la dinámica y los determinantes en la creación y desarrollo de empresas fundadas por egresados de la Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana en el período 1990-2006. Para ello se utilizó el método descriptivo inductivo, soportado en la teoría de la empresa y del empresario, así como en información primaria y secundaria obtenida en la construcción de bases de datos y entrevistas realizadas a egresados de este período, caracterizado por la presencia de nuevas tipologías empresariales derivadas de los aportes de la sociedad del conocimiento el cual se ha aplicado en ese caso, a la generación de riqueza incremental a través de emprendimientos universitarios.
N01|The Role of Space in Economic Research|The aim of the paper is to underline the role of space (understood as geographical location, neighborhood, distance between spatial units) in economic research. This article presents selected theories from disciplines such as spatial economy, new economic geography and regional science that gave an inspiration for development of contemporary spatial analysis methods and models.
N01|Privredna kriza u Hrvatskoj, uzroci, obilježja i mogucnosti prevladavanja|Medu ekonomistima koji pripadaju konvencionalnoj ekonomskoj teoriji postoje tri mišljenja o prirodi sadašnje krize. Prvo je da ce ona biti kratka i oštra (MMF, bankari i financijeri), drugo je da ce ona biti srednjerocna (makroekonomisti), a tek je americki ekonomist Nouriel Roubini ustvrdio da ce kriza trajati neodredeno vrijeme. No, sva je prilika da je ova sadašnja kriza jednaka onoj iz 1929. (Schumpeter) i da stoga zahtijeva specificnu politiku kako bismo je prevladali. Za Republiku Hrvatsku to stanje stvari znaci silan izazov s kojim ce se vrlo teško moci nositi
N01|Involutionary Growth in a Labour-Scarce Economy. A dialectic interpretation of the boom and bust of cocoa production in Ghana, c. 1890-1970|The use of the analytical tools of classic and neo-classic economics has played a significant role in the study of Africa’s economic history since the 1970s. In this paper, we summon this body of work under the paradigm of Smithian growth models. Although different in techniques and approaches, this work shares a use of markets as the organising principle of the study. The aim of this paper is to critically reflect on the validity of Smithian models. We use the boom and bust of cocoa production in Ghana as an example, and conclude that while Smithian approaches provide valid explanations for the initial expansion, but are less suitable for explaining economic decline. The latter is explained by factors that are found outside of the realm of economics and thereby detached from the economic forces that account for the initial boom. We present a different analytical framework – based on the concepts of involutionary growth and forest rents – and argue that the decline in cocoa production was endogenously driven by the specific structural conditions created by cocoa production. We argue that our tentative dialectic interpretation is theoretically more consistent and empirically more plausible than previous Smithian analyses.
N01|The Institutional Revolution: A review essay|This review essay discusses and appraises Douglas Allen’s The Institutional Revolution ( 2011 ) as a way of reflecting on the uses of the New Institutional Economics (NIE) in economic history. It praises and defends Allen’s method of asking “what economic problem were these institutions solving?” But it insists that such comparative-institutional analysis be imbedded within a deeper account of institutional change, one driven principally by changes – often endogenous changes – in the extent of the market and in relative scarcities. The essay supports its argument with a variety of examples of the NIE applied to economic history. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
N01|Coase on entrepreneurship|Following a short biography of Nobel Laureate economist Ronald H. Coase, this two part interview explores (1) Coase’s life history and thoughts on academic scholarship and (2) Coase’s perspective on the field of entrepreneurship. Coase describes his experiences during his visiting scholarship to America in 1932, early career at the London School of Economics, and government work during World War II. He discusses the virtues of scholarship and the role of technology. In the second part of the interview, Coase views entrepreneurship as a vital source of endogenous change in the economy and outlines the importance of investigating the structure of production, and other important research and policy questions. Coase elaborates on how entrepreneurship has changed over time, and describes his most recent work on entrepreneurship in China. The interview concludes with Coase’s thoughts on the evolution of scholarship and his efforts to advance the field. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
N01|World-System Analysis as a Basis of a Textbook on Economic History|"(On the book by G. D. Gloveli ""Economic History: Textbook for B.A. Students. Advanced Course "") The article deals with the problem of the world-system analysis as a methodological basis for writing a textbook on world economic history for universities. An attempt is made to formulate what a textbook on such a basis should be. Strong and weak points of this scientific approach are distinguished. A conclusion is made that the author of the textbook under study has successfully achieved the goal — to present a panorama of economic history from the ancient times to the early twenty-first century consistently using the world-system paradigm."
N01|¿Buscando Leviatanes? Las cambiantes perspectivas sobre el Estado liberal y el desarrollo en la historia peruana|Este ensayo examina las concepciones cambiantes del Estado y el desarrollo dentro de los recientes materiales de la historiografía peruana. Las amplias interpretaciones de una dependencia estructural de las décadas de 1970 y 1980 dieron paso a un «giro político» más difuso y creativo durante la de 1990 y después. Estas cambiantes ideas históricas, que todavía no se logran sintetizar del todo, se relacionan con diferentes concepciones globales y fases de liberalismo económico; el cambiante papel que se percibe de los Estados sobre el desarrollo; y la integración y disciplinamiento social de una nación peruana enormemente desigual. Algunos aspectos de estos debates históricos peruanos pueden ayudar a esclarecer controversias similares en gran parte de la región.
N01|Why business historians need a constructive theory of the archive|Archival records are a constitutive element of business historical research, and such research, in turn, is fundamental for a holistic understanding of the role of enterprise in modern capitalist societies. Despite an increasing debate within business history circles about the need to theorize the historian as author and creator of narratives, a fuller reflection on the uses and limitations of the archive in business historical research has not yet taken place. This article takes its lead from theories of organisational epistemology, and asks to what extent business historians are trapped by an outdated, realist methodology and epistemology which is in danger of ignoring the multiple roles that archives play in their knowledge production.
N01|Institusi Pasar dan Hisbah: Teori Pasar dalam Sejarah Pemikiran Ekonomi Islam<BR>[Markets and Hisbah Institutions: A Theory of Market in the History of Islamic Economic Thought]|This book describes hisbah as the official state agencies that play a role in solving problems or minor offences which by their nature do not require a legal process through the courts. The institute is the result of the transformation of the market supervisory agency, formerly known as the sahib al-suq (market inspector), which emerged with the development of cities at areas of Islam in the Middle East. In the works of hisbah, a muhtasib will act as a regulator of the market, especially to control the price and market conditions.
N01|Odhady zdrojů a užití hrubého domácího produktu ČR pro roky 1970-1989 v metodice ESA 1995<BR>[The Estimates of the Czech Gross Domestic Product for the Years 1970-1989 Based on ESA 1995]|The estimates of economic development in the countries of the socialist block were carried out in the framework of the so-called Material Product System (MPS). At that time the product was perceived more narrowly than today´s gross domestic product (GDP). It included only the material goods and productive services (services that accompanying the circulation of goods). Non-productive services and services provided on non-market basis were not included in the estimates. The authors present their own methodology for data transformation based on MPS into (today´s) System of National Accounts (SNA), on the basis of carrying out the reconstruction of the historical time series of the gross domestic product of the Czech Republic in the period between the years 1970 and 1989 in the current methodology. The results of this work will enable other users to perform analysis on significantly longer time series of gross domestic product, including the structure of its uses and resources. The authors primarily base the transformation of the original data on global product and national income (in the MPS methodology) contained in the balance of national income and symmetric input-output tables. Historical time series of GDP for the period has not been estimated for the Czech Republic yet.
N01|Zamyšlení nad několika otázkami naší novodobé hospodářské historiografie a poznámky ke dvěma podobným recenzím stejné publikace od A. Doležalové<BR>[Consideration about Several Questions of Our Modern Economic Historiography and Notes to Two Similar Reviews of the Same Publication by A. Doležalová]|The article is the authors´ polemic against the review of their book Economic and Social History of Czechoslovakia, Volume II 1945-1992, which was published by Antonie Doležalová in Politická ekonomie No. 3/2012. In this context, the article also deals with general issues of economic historiography, particularly with the development and object of investigation of economic history, periodization of the economic development of Czechoslovakia after World War II, external and internal impacts on the economy, construction of statistical data and terminological problems.
N01|Historie a vývoj vědního oboru podniková ekonomika<BR>[The History and Development of Business Economics Science]|The paper aims to show a comprehensive insight into the history of business economics science in the Czech Republic, marginally also on the European continent and worldwide. It depicts business economics in its beginning as a doctrine that was largely underestimated. This science was, for a very long time, a part of economics (national/public); only slowly has it gradually become an autonomous branch of science. This article shows historical attitudes to the theory of business in Bohemia as well as abroad since the end of the nineteenth century up to this day. It describes the period of statism in Bohemia within the context of business economics, it focuses on fundamentals of this science and depicts consecutively aspects from which the theory of business economics as a science arises in the transition period to free market economy. The paper discusses the future of business economics as a science that, considering current economic conditions worldwide, has a huge potential to grow. The article contributes to the worldwide discussion about its further development.
N01|La gran depresión en Chile: Lecciones macroeconómicas|La Gran Depresión tras la crisis bursátil de 1929 en Estados Unidos significó un impacto no sólo en cuanto a cifras económicas y de bienestar social, sino también en la mentalidad que imperaba en la aparentemente indestructible Civilización Occidental. La Gran Depresión supuso que Occidente no era perfecto, que el sistema que prometía el mayor bienestar en la historia de la humanidad pendía de un hilo frágil y era sumamente vulnerable a sus fallas inherentes. La Gran Depresión llegó cuando menos se la esperaba. La Gran Guerra había sembrado el pánico en el mundo y la breve tregua de los años veinte era el período para autoconvencerse de que lo peor había pasado. Son los locos años veinte y se alza el sueño dorado de Occidente: la economía vive un auge que se traduce en una difusión del consumo de automóviles, teléfonos y luz eléctrica, a la vez que Hollywood comienza su camino como la capital del cine. Y sí, parecía que lo peor ya había pasado, pero el sistema albergaba fallas que serían la base de una crisis que azotaría a todo Occidente.
N01|La economía, ¿Reina del tablero en la sociedad de Estado?|El presente documento tiene por objetivo dilucidar y poner en tela de juicio, el valor que la sociedad le ha dado a la economía como ciencia, o que se ha condicionado que esta le dé. Tal como el viejo dilema del huevo o la gallina, en la actualidad nos vemos enfrentados a la pregunta ¿es la humanidad la que modela la economía o es la economía la que modela a la humanidad? Esto ligado a la presencia de dos actores fundamentales de esta obra denominada “Gobierno”: un Estado que vigila y condiciona las vidas de sus gobernados gracias a ágiles herramientas (entre ellas la economía de mercado y las instituciones) y una sociedad que se deja dominar por magnificentes números, llamativos artículos de consumo y una tecnología que ni siquiera entiende a cabalidad respecto de sus infinitas funciones, sin dar cuenta que, gracias a dichas herramientas está siendo capturada cualquier posibilidad de pensamiento autónomo, independiente o anormal, pues tarde o temprano será acallado por fuerzas “pacifistas” de la corriente predominante.
N01|The Institutional Approach to Economic History: Connecting the Two Strands|"This essay examines the historiography of two episodes in history – the scattering of plots in the open fields in the Middle Ages and the transition to the factory system in the Industrial Revolution – to shed light on the uses of institutional economics in economic history. In both of these episodes, economic ""just-so"" stories advanced our understanding of history. What animated intellectual innovation in both cases was a bold conjecture about the raison d’être of a puzzling institutional structure. But what ultimately enriched our understanding was the process of conjecture and revision those conjectures set off. In both episodes, the revised conjectures that best withstood criticism and revision were those that saw the phenomena not as static snapshots of economic agents confronting an economic problem but rather those that embedded the phenomena within a larger economic problem and within a process of economic change. In the end it is an account of institutional change – what I call the good old New Institutional Economics – that connects the use of institutional economics to explain puzzling historical phenomenon with the role of institutional economics in addressing the big questions of economic growth."
N01|Historical Patterns Based on Automatically Extracted Data : The Case of Classical Composers|The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the potential for generating interesting aggregate data on certain aspect of the lives of thousands of composers, and indeed other creative groups, from large on-line dictionaries and to be able to do so relatively quickly. A purpose-built java application that automatically extracts and processes information was developed to generate data on the birth location, occupations and importance (using word count methods) of over 12,000 composers over six centuries. Quantitative measures of the relative importance of different types of music and of the different music instruments over the centuries were also generated. Finally quantitative indicators of the importance of different cities over the different centuries in the lives of these composers are constructed. A range of interesting findings emerge in relation to all of these aspects of the lives of composers, which might provide insight and productive lines of enquiry for further work as to why certain composers were so successful in different historical periods.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
