N14|Salarios y crecimiento económico durante el desarrollismo franquista|En este trabajo se analiza el crecimiento económico de la economía española durante el período 1957-1975, que cubre el segundo franquismo o etapa tecnocrática. El principal objetivo es contribuir a una explicación del crecimiento de la demanda interna que se produjo durante el período y que, a pesar de la gran atención que ha despertado el período, no cuenta con estudios hasta la fecha. Siguiendo los modelos de Bhaduri y Marglin, la tesis principal sostiene que el incremento en la retribución salarial, resultado de la movilización obrera, tuvo un efecto positivo en el crecimiento, la productividad y la inversión, i.e., un modelo guiado por los salarios (wage-led) así como los efectos de feedback que conlleva. El contraste de hipótesis se realiza siguiendo una metodología de ecuaciones simultáneas, concretamente mediante un modelo de Vectores Autorregresivos VAR, obteniendo que efectivamente se produce una situación de liderazgo de los salarios.
N14|The First Business Schools and the Corporate Elite in Spain (1958-2000)|Literature has highlighted the key role of business schools in spreading US management in Europe after the Second World War, but has not found how to quantify its impact on the economy. With such purpose, this article examines the relations between the two main Spanish private business schools, IESE and ESADE, and the national corporate elite. By combining an institutional approach and social networks analysis, it shows the incidence of business schools on the board of directors of the largest Spanish corporations during the second half of the 20th century, and explains their role as centers for elite reproduction.
N14|The effects of pension-related policies on household spending|This paper estimates the impact of pension-related policies on household spending. The identification strategy exploits the deviation in pensioner income and expenditure caused by the introduction of a new pension system during the 1980s and 1990s in Spain and constructs a new narrative series of legislated pension changes. I present a variety of estimates, some of them imply that increases in the average pension have a roughly one-for-one effect on pensioner spending. The strongest effects are on the pensioners with the highest levels of expenditure, income, and wealth. Estimates for different categories of expenditure indicate that benefit increases trigger these pensioners to spend more on durables. At the same time, pension-related policies targeted to pensioners with low income levels seem to affect the spending on non-durables and necessities such as food positively.
N14|The Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the emergence of the APR as a consumer protection policy tool|The ‘Crowther Committee’, in their report of 1971, proposed a fundamental change in consumer credit regulation in the UK. Among many aspects, they campaigned for the calculation and publication of the true cost of lending, i.e. the annualized percentage rate (APR), of all consumer credit products. The APR was introduced to reduce information asymmetries, thus improving consumers' rights and incentivizing competition among credit grantors. This report resulted in the enactment of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA74). This paper studies the effects of the CCA74 on the British economy, through the introduction of the APR. Moreover, it tests the presence of a structural break in the relationship between the price and volume of consumer credit. Furthermore, the paper analyses the effects of shocks to consumer credit on inflation and households’ savings. This article contributes to extending the data availability for consumer credit before 1975, and to debating the understanding of the role of consumer credit during a high-inflation period. There was evidence of a significant effect of the CCA74 on consumer credit, driven by the introduction of the APR. VAR models suggest that this law did not cause inflationary pressures, nor motivated households to dis-save, contrary to previous beliefs.
N14|Is the UK Productivity Slowdown Unprecedented?|We estimate trend UK labour productivity grow thusing a Hodrick-Prescott filter method. We use the results to compare downturns where the economy fell below its pre-existing trend. We find that the current productivity slowdown has resulted in productivity being 19.7% below the pre-2008 trend path in 2018. This is nearly double the previous worst productivity short fall ten years after the start of a downturn. On this criterion the slow down is unprecedented in the last 250 years. We conjecture that this reflects a combination of adverse circumstances, namely, a financial crisis, a weakening impact of ICT and impending Brexit.
N14|The Sources of British Economic Growth since the Industrial Revolution : Not the Same Old Story|This paper updates the classic growth accounting research of the early 1980s taking account of improved data that has subsequently become available. The picture of long-run growth which results from incorporating many revisions is considerably different. The long-run path of productivity growth is now that of a roller-coaster with twin peaks in the third quarters of the 19th and 20th centuries rather than a U-shape. Productivity growth appears to have been very slow to accelerate in the Industrial Revolution, the notion of an Edwardian climacteric is not persuasive and the current productivity slowdown stands out as unprecedented.
N14|The Euro Crisis in the Mirror of the EMS|Why was recovery from the euro area crisis delayed for a decade? The explanation lies in the absence of credible and timely policies to backstop financial intermediaries and sovereign debt markets. In this paper we add light and color to this analysis, contrasting recent experience with the 1992-3 crisis in the European Monetary System, when national central banks and treasuries more successfully provided this backstop. In the more recent episode, the incomplete development of the euro area constrained the ability of the ECB and other European institutions to do likewise.
N14|Fiscal Destruction: Confiscatory Taxation of Jewish Property and Income in Nazi Germany|Nazism got to power with the stated goal of destroying the economic livelihood of Germany's Jewish population. For the most part, dispossession of Germany's Jews was a highly bureaucratic process. This paper identifies the main fiscal instruments used in this process and assesses the quantitative impact. The principal finding is that the fiscal booty from the dispossession of Germany's Jews was small: the Jewish share of Germany's real wealth matched the Jewish population share quite well. I also find that together with prohibitive bureaucratic obstacles, punitive taxes on emigrants provided a substantial disincentive to emigrate and often rendered emigration outright impossible. This incentive was only mitigated when confiscatory capital levies were imposed also on the resident Jewish population in 1938. Nevertheless the spoils from Jewish dispossession were nowhere nearly large enough to warrant an economic interpretation of the Holocaust as in (Aly, 2007). Germany's Jews were on the whole better trained than the average German but not necessarily much richer.
N14|Before the Cult of Equity: New Monthly Indices of the British Share Market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
N14|Art Dealers' Strategy The case of Goupil, Boussod & Valadon from 1860 to 1914|Despite the existence of a large literature dedicated to the art market, the management of art galleries remains a black box as both buyers and sellers put a high value on discretion. This paper overcomes the traditional lack of quantitative data by analysing the complete books of one of the most successful French galleries at the end of the 19th century: Goupil, Boussod & Valadon. This original database covers the sale of more than 40,000 artworks that occurred between 1860 and 1914. Rapidity to sell artworks was a key element in Goupil's strategy. As a whole Goupil sold 71% of artworks bought. Out of the sold artworks, almost 80% were sold within a year (with 22% before the acquisition reflecting orders). Changes in ownership allow us to quantify changes in business strategy. The first owner required a lower mark-up for the artists in residence it was sponsoring and higher ones for nobles and art dealers. The second owner followed a similar strategy but also required a higher mark-up from former branches such as Knoedler.
N14|More Power to the People: Electricity Adoption, Technological Change and Social Conflict|There is a wide-spread concern that technical change may spur social conflicts, especially if workers are replaced with machines. To empirically analyze whether job destruction drives protests, we study a historical example of a revolutionary new technology: the adoption of electricity. Focusing on the gradual roll-out of the Swedish electricity grid between 1900 and 1920 enables us to analyze 2,487 Swedish parishes in a difference-in-differences framework. Proximity to large-scale water-powered electricity plants is used to instrument for electricity adoption. Our results confirm that the labor saving nature of electricity was followed by an increase of local conflicts in the form of strikes. But displaced workers were not likely to initiate conflicts. Instead, strikes were most common in sectors with employment growth. Similarly, we find that the strikes were of an offensive rather than a defensive nature. Thus, electrification did not result in rebellions driven by technological anxiety. It rather provided workers with a stronger bargaining position from which they could voice their claims through strikes.
N14|Financial destruction: confiscatory taxation of Jewish property and income in Nazi Germany|Nazism got to power with the stated goal of destroying the economic livelihood of Germany’s Jewish population. For the most part, dispossession of Germany’s Jews was a highly bureaucratic process. This paper identifies the main fiscal instruments used in this process and assesses the quantitative impact. The principal finding is that the fiscal booty from the dispossession of Germany’s Jews was small: the Jewish share of Germany’s real wealth matched the Jewish population share quite well. I also find that together with prohibitive bureaucratic obstacles, punitive taxes on emigrants provided a substantial disincentive to emigrate and often rendered emigration outright impossible. This incentive was only mitigated when confiscatory capital levies were imposed also on the resident Jewish population in 1938. Nevertheless the spoils from Jewish dispossession were nowhere nearly large enough to warrant an economic interpretation of the Holocaust as in (Aly, 2007). Germany’s Jews were on the whole better trained than the average German but not necessarily much richer
N14|Luxury relying on banking and finance (19th-21st centuries)|Luxury-specific production systems have expanded through upstream-downstream integration, from commodities (silk, precious metals, etc.) to processing industries and luxury houses themselves. Banks financed companies, trade, foreign exchange and flows of means of payment. Starting in the 1980s, business bankers supported companies building a capitalism of luxury firms: they helped them to integrate the game of financial markets. For managers of companies in the luxury sector, the challenge has always been to create strong self-financing capacities in order to be able to distribute dividends ensuring the loyalty of family shareholders, finance investments (workshops, shop networks), and contain indebtedness. When tensions were encountered, the dependence on bankers and investors, in the event of a stock exchange listing, often led to the takeover of control by leading groups.
N14|Economic Development in Spain, 1815-2017|In assessments of modern Spain’s economic progress and living standards inadequate natural resources, inefficient institutions, lack of education and entrepreneurship, and foreign dependency are frequently blamed for the poor performance up to mid-twentieth century, but no persuasive arguments are provided to explain why such adverse circumstances reversed, giving way to the fast transformation of the last half a century. It makes sense, hence, to inquire firstly how much economic progress has Spain achieved and what impact had on living standards and income distribution since the end of the Peninsular War to the present and, only then, to provide an interpretation. Recent research supports the view that income per person has improved remarkably, driven by increases in labour productivity, which derived, in turn, from a more intense and efficient use of physical and human capital per worker. Exposure to international competition represented a decisive element behind growth performance. In European perspective, Spain underperformed up to 1950. Thereafter, Spain’s economy caught up with advanced countries until 2007. Although the distribution of the fruits of growth did not follow a linear trend, but a Kuznetsian inverted U pattern, higher levels of income per capita are matched by lower inequality suggesting that Spaniards’ material well-being improved substantially during the modern era.
N14|Capital Flow Bonanzas as a Fundamental Ingredient in Spain’s Financial Crises, 1850-2015|Among the characteristics of Spanish financial crises over the last 165 years, we highlight their relatively high frequency and, since 1973, their severity (including 2008, the most severe crisis yet). By analysing monetary policy regimes, financial structure, and the main crisis determinants (factors associated with crises), as well as the resolution to the crises, we can conclude that capital flow bonanzas are a key factor in most financial crises; when a capital flow bonanza occurred, it increased both the probability of a subsequent crisis and its severity.
N14|Financial effects in historic consumption and investment functions|The global financial crisis has highlighted the importance of financial factors on economic performance. Most of the existing research analyses the post-World War 2 experience, and especially the 1980s onwards. This paper investigates the effects of stock prices, real estate prices and debt on consumption and investment expenditures by estimating consumption and investment equations for long historic datasets with about 100 years of data for Britain, France, Norway and Sweden. We find positive debt effects on consumption in three of four countries, but no consistent effects of share prices and house prices. We find positive effects of share prices on investment in all four countries. Effects are stronger in more market-based Britain than in more state-oriented France. For France, Sweden and Norway we find some evidence that effects of financial variables were weaker in the postwar period 1945-80. These findings suggest that the institutional context matters for how financial variables affect economic activity.
N14|Discipline or external balance? The choice of international monetary systems in Europe|While there is a huge literature on exchange rate systems since the classical gold standard, less research has been devoted to comparisons of the different arguments that guided the choices. While the origin of the international gold standard in the 1870s was a result of silver coins disappearing from circulation due to rising silver prices, the gold standard has later been interpreted as a quest for monetary discipline. This discipline argument was introduced by the end of WWI as a support for a restoration of the gold standard. Its failure led to an emphasis on the need to avoid external imbalances, which came to the fore in the preparations of the Bretton Woods system. The balance argument was also central in the early discussions of a monetary union in Europe, but with the critique of Keynesianism it was superseded by the disciplinary argument which became determinant for the design of EMU.
N14|The Origins of the Swedish Wage Bargaining Model|That export-led industry sets the wage norm for the whole economy, acting as the “wage leader”, is a celebrated part of the Swedish wage bargaining and labour market model. Export- led wage leadership is assumed to lead to controlled, non-inflationary wage increases, as wages are set with international competition in mind. This paper maps the origins of this export industry wage leadership model, showing that the conventional cross-class alliance story focusing on the 1930s does not square with the facts. Going through the central trade union wage bargaining protocols from 1939 to 1959, I show that industry wage leadership was non-existent in the 1930s. In fact, wage formation at the time was quite decentralized. Instead, industry wage leadership was created only in the 1950s. The driving force behind it was not a cross-class alliance between workers and employers in export industry against home market workers, but rather the integration of the trade union wage policy into a Social Democratic macroeconomic project.
N14|Baltic Integration and the Euro|Which have been the consequences of the euro for integration and economic performance in the Baltic Sea region? After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the three Baltic states and Poland have been rapidly catching-up with Western Europe. The Great Recession became a great setback for the former, while less so for Poland. A difference is the monetary policy: the Polish zloty depreciated in the critical moment of the crisis, while currency boards with the aim of joining the euro bestowed appreciation for the Baltics and Finland. Contrary to the purpose, monetary integration has not fostered integration in trade, and the share of the Eurozone in Baltic trade has stagnated. A comparison with other countries in the Baltic Sea region suggests that the euro provides “the golden fetters” of our time. Emigration, also a kind of integration, has become a safety valve with severe social and economic consequences for the Baltic states.
N14|Dirty float or clean intervention? The Bank of England in the foreign exchange market|The effectiveness of central bank intervention is debated and despite literature showing mixed results, central banks regularly intervene in the foreign exchange market, both in developing and developed economies. Does foreign exchange intervention work? Using over 60,000 new daily observations on intervention and exchange rates, this paper is the first study of the Bank of England’s foreign exchange intervention between 1952 and 1972. The main finding is that the Bank of England was unsuccessful in managing a credible exchange rate over that period. Running an event study, I demonstrate that betting systematically against the Bank of England would have been a profitable trading strategy. The Bank of England failed to maintain credibility in offshore markets and eventually manipulated the publication of its reserve figures to avoid a run on sterling.
N14|Nominal and Real Effective Exchange Rates for Europe, 1870-2016: Some methodological issues|This paper presents and discusses a new database on nominal and real effective exchange rates for an extensive range of European countries spanning 1870-2016. Indeed, with the exception of a few countries, such long run historical series have not been previously constructed. To gage the validity of these series, comparisons with the BIS and IMF indices are conducted. In addition to stretching further back in time, it is shown that the new indices are more consistent and transparent in construction, even over the recent period. Limitations of the new series, relating to both some underlying data and the index problem are considered. Supplementary to the effective exchange rate indices, is a collection of cost of living or CPI indices 1870-1990, which are based on a critical survey in this paper of those indices which are widely used and abused.
N14|Why Was Unemployment so Low in Postwar Sweden? An Analysis with New Unemployment Data by Manufacturing Industry, 1935-1948|Sweden is often cited as one of the starkest examples of a country where corporatist policy structures and centralized wage bargaining produced remarkable economic and social outcomes in the postwar golden years. Not surprisingly, previous explanations for Sweden’s full employment period have emphasized this set of labor market institutions which was in place from the 1950s. Alternatively, temporary demand-factors in connection with the Second World War have been stressed as a cause. In this paper, I examine the development of unemployment in Sweden in the 1930s and 1940s and establish two facts: i) unemployment fell continuously from the mid-1930s until immediately after the end of the Second World War, resulting in the low levels of unemployment that would characterize the postwar period, and ii) inflation did not spiral as a result, suggesting restraint in wages over the same period. The fact that unemployment fell before the establishment of Sweden’s postwar labor market institutions suggest that they were not the cause for the full employment economy. The absence of escalating inflation likewise rules out temporary demand-factors such as Keynesian economic stimulus and military conscription. The failure of these factors to explain the change suggests instead that exogenous forces shifted the relationship between wages and unemployment during this period, lining up with similar observations for the UK. The results have implications for the literature on the determinants of unemployment, indicating that neither corporatist institutions nor expansionary fiscal policy played a role in the shift to full employment in Sweden - one of the marking examples of postwar economic success.
N14|More Power to the People: Electricity Adoption, Technological Change and Social Conflict|There is a wide-spread concern that technical change may spur social conflicts, especially if workers are replaced with machines. To empirically analyze whether job destruction drives protests, we study a historical example of a revolutionary new technology: the adoption of electricity. Focusing on the gradual roll-out of the Swedish electricity grid between 1900 and 1920 enables us to analyze 2,487 Swedish parishes in a difference-in-differences framework. Proximity to large-scale water-powered electricity plants is used to instrument for electricity adoption. Our results confirm that the labor saving nature of electricity was followed by an increase of local conflicts in the form of strikes. But displaced workers were not likely to initiate conflicts. Instead, strikes were most common in sectors with employment growth. Similarly,we find that the strikes were of an offensive rather than a defensive nature. Thus, electrification did not result in rebellions driven by technological anxiety. It rather provided workers with a stronger bargaining position from which they could voice their claims through strikes.
N14|The Swedish Fiscal Framework – The Most Successful One in the EU?|This paper discusses the history and future of the Swedish fiscal framework. First, we claim that the fiscal framework has contributed to a sharp decline in the debt-to-GDP ratio, from one of the highest to one of the lowest in the European Union. Next, we focus on the future. Despite its success, we argue that the framework is unsustainable. Running large surpluses over the long run is not a steady-state solution. We recommend two changes to the framework. First, that the public pension system is excluded, and second that the Swedish fiscal authorities shift attention from maintaining a budget surplus of 1/3 percent of GDP over the business cycle to sustaining a stable debt-to-GDP ratio of 25 percent of GDP +/- 5 percentage points. A debt anchor at this level will provide sufficient insurance in case of a future major economic crisis judging from recent cross-country evidence. In addition, a debt anchor around 25 percent of GDP would contribute to political stability in time of crises. In a world, where populism and austerity fatigue are rampant, we stress the importance of a fiscal framework allowing successful consumption and tax smoothing in case of major negative shocks to the fiscal space. We conclude with a set of recommendations for the fiscal governance of the EU.
N14|The Financial Instability Hypothesis and the Financial Crisis in Eastern European Emerging Economies|The present paper applies the financial instability hypothesis in order to explain the financial crises of 2008-2010 in eleven emerging Eastern European economies Also, it seeks to map if institutional frameworks of these countries enabled them to stand against the factors leading into the financial crisis. The paper maps cycles of three macroeconomic indicators representing the real economy, and four indicators representing financial markets. A cycle analysis is conducted with the help of a Hoderick-Prescott filter, made to isolate cycles from trends in time series. The paper concludes that there were substantial positive financial cycles previous to the financial crisis mirrored by similar cycles in the real economy. Similarly, the results show negative cycles in the same parameters during the years of crisis. It seems as an uncontrolled increase in money and credit caused the economy to overheat and thereafter contract in both substantial financial and real economy crises. Also, the paper compiles twelve different indices of institutional development. These are standardized and presented in an institutional development matrix, showing that the institutional framework for the eleven economies was weak previous to and under the melt down of the economy. The construction of an integrated institutional development index on the basis of the same twelve parameters confirm institutional shortcomings, which may have made the economies less able to guard themselves from a crisis initiated by both domestically and internationally financial instability.
N14|The Role of Central Banks and the Political Environment in Financial Stability: A Literature Review|Financial instability and the subsequent credit crunches experienced by a number of countries following two decades of global structural reforms highlighted the importance of stabilizing credit supply and assigning a higher importance to financial stability. In this paper, I look at the independence of the Central Bank, the political environment and the impact of these factors on financial stability. I substantiate the literature review discussion with a brief empirical analysis of the effect of Central Bank independence on credit growth using an existing database created by Romelli (2018). The empirical results show that fluctuations in credit growth are larger for higher levels of Central Bank Independence and hence, in periods of financial instability or ultimately financial crises, Central Bank Independence would be reined back in an effort to reestablish financil stability.
N14|Cash is King - Effects of ECB's Conventional and Unconventional Measures|In this paper we distinguish the responses of conventional and unconventional monetary policy measures on macroeconomic variables, using a high frequency data set which measures the impact of the ECB's monetary policy decisions. For the period 2002:01 to 2019:06 we show that unconventional and conventional monetary policy measures dffer considerably with respect to inflation. While conventional measures show the expected response, i.e. an interest rate cut increases inflation and vice versa, unconventional measure appear to have no signicant influence. But this holds not for QE, which is found to have similar influence on inflation as conventional interest rate changes.
N14|Stable Money and Central Bank Independence: Implementing Monetary Institutions in Postwar Germany|Germany prides itself in having one of the most successful central banks and currencies with respect to independence and stability. I show that not only were both imposed on the country after 1945 but that there was also initial resistance to both among German experts and officials. This was then a rare case of successful imposition of institutions from abroad. Events are discussed in light of Peter Bernholz’s requirements for stable money and a successful central bank.
N14|Debt and Taxes: The Sale-Rent Housing Price Ratio in Dublin since 1945|The recent Great Recession highlights the importance of housing to the broader economy, yet few reliable long-run series exist for sale and rental prices of housing. Using hedonic methods, frequency conversion techniques, and a detailed dataset of over one million sale and rental listings from newspapers and online, we construct new quarterly indices of sale and rental prices for Dublin, Ireland for the period starting in 1945 and an annual panel for six areas of the city over the same period. The series show four major market cycles, as well as three distinct phases for housing yield, with downward shifts in the early 1970s and again in the late 1990s. There is some evidence of rents converging across markets within the city but sale prices have diverged over the same period. An error-correction econometric analysis confirms the predictions of economic theory, that credit conditions in the credit market and user cost drive changes in the yield over time.
N14|The Northern Ireland Economy: Problems and Prospects|This paper examines the performance of the Northern Ireland economy in recent decades and shows that it has suffered from very low productivity growth. This has meant that the regional economy has grown very slowly and this performance compares badly with that of other regional economies, such as Scotland and East Germany. The key factor behind the poor productivity performance in Northern Ireland has been the low investment in physical and human capital. The failure to reform the education system to reduce the number of early school leavers and increase the numbers of graduates is the single most important factor in the low growth. Large transfers from central government have ensured that the standard of living in Northern Ireland is close to the UK average and above that of Ireland. However, the dependence of Northern Ireland on these transfers leaves it very vulnerable to shocks. Brexit will, undoubtedly, have serious negative consequences for the Northern Ireland economy. Possibly more serious for Northern Ireland are the changes taking place in the politics of the UK which could see a reduction in transfers in the future. The best economic outcome for Northern Ireland is one where future UK governments commit to providing continuing large transfers to Northern Ireland for at least a further decade in return for a change in regional economic policy aimed at promoting economic growth. Public expenditure needs to be reallocated from sustaining consumption, especially public services, to investing in education and infrastructure. While painful initially, it would move the Northern Ireland economy onto a sustainable growth path. Another option, Irish unity, if it involved ending transfers to Northern Ireland, would produce a dramatic fall in the standard of living there. Alternatively, unification, where Ireland took over responsibility for the transfers to Northern Ireland, would necessitate a major cut in the standard of living in Ireland of 5% to 10% in order to allow Northern Ireland to maintain a standard of living between 10% and 20% above the Irish standard of living. Whatever form Irish unity took there would be a heavy economic cost for both Northern Ireland and Ireland.
N14|Before the Cult of Equity:New Monthly Indices of the British Share Market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
N14|Is the UK Productivity Slowdown Unprecedented?|We estimate trend UK labour productivity growth using a Hodrick-Prescott filter method. We use the results to compare downturns where the economy fell below its pre-existing trend. We find that the current productivity slowdown has resulted in productivity being 19.7% below the pre-2008 trend path in 2018. This is nearly double the previous worst productivity shortfall ten years after the start of a downturn. On this criterion the slowdown is unprecedented in the last 250 years. We conjecture that this reflects a combination of adverse circumstances, namely, a financial crisis, a weakening impact of ICT and impending Brexit.
N14|The Sources of British Economic Growth since the Industrial Revolution: Not the Same Old Story|This paper updates the classic growth accounting research of the early 1980s taking account of improved data that has subsequently become available. The picture of long-run growth which results from incorporating many revisions is considerably different. The long-run path of productivity growth is now that of a roller-coaster with twin peaks in the third quarters of the 19th and 20th centuries rather than a U-shape. Productivity growth appears to have been very slow to accelerate in the Industrial Revolution, the notion of an Edwardian climacteric is not persuasive and the current productivity slowdown stands out as unprecedented.
N14|Credit constraints and the propagation of the Great Depression in Germany|We evaluate the role played by loan supply shocks in the decline of investment and industrial production during the Great Depression in Germany from 1927 to 1932. We identify loan supply shocks in the context of a time varying parameter vector autoregression with stochastic volatility. Our results indicate that credit constraints were a significant driver of industrial production between 1927 and 1932, supporting the view that a structurally weak banking sector was an important contributor to the German Great Depression. We find further that loan supply shocks were an important driver of investment in the early phase of the depression, between 1927 and 1929, but not between 1930 and 1932. We suggest possible explanations for this puzzle and directions for future research.
N14|Before the cult of equity: New monthly indices of the British share market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
N14|Going Dutch: The management of monetary policy in the Netherlands during the interwar gold standard|Under what conditions can policymakers make demonstrably poor policy choices? By providing a new account of monetary policy management in the Netherlands during the interwar gold standard, we show how policymakers can fail to escape their long-held beliefs and refuse to consider available policy alternatives. Using high-frequency macroeconomic data, we are the first to document that the Netherlands' policymakers were able to conduct an independent monetary policy in the 1930s. We then show how this independence was squandered on fixing the guilder's exchange rate, a policy which led only to deflation, trade deficits, corporate bankruptcies and mass unemployment. We explain the government's policy stance by documenting the beliefs of politicians and central bankers, and then by investigating how business leaders and public intellectuals attempted to influence these beliefs.
N14|Crestere economica, acumulare ?i dezechilibre în România perioadei comuniste|The main economic results of the Romanian centralized planification and the dictatorial policy applied in Romania during the 1948-1989 period are analysed in this paper. During the first stage known as an extensive development, Romania was industrialized and almost the whole economic branches were modernized by a huge resource mobilization. In the circumstances of the obsession of high rates of growth, the heavy industry priority, the very high accumulation rates and the rejection of any elementary market mechanism, the socialist economic system was driven to a very deep and irreversible crisis.
N14|A Pull-Push Theory of Industrial Revolutions|Drawing from the only two known industrial revolutions, this paper present a theory of technological/structural/industrial revolutions based on pull and push factors. Specifically, generalizing from the first industrial revolution (FIR) in Great Britain and the U.S. post-bellum economic growth (1880-1900) and second industrial revolution (SIR), we show that two fundamental conditions appear to be necessary, namely the existence of a set of new market opportunities (pull) as well as the existence of a new set of process innovations/new technologies (push). In other words, the overriding, underlying shock (i.e. the ultimate cause) must induce push and pull factors, without which the revolution in question will not occur. In the case of the first industrial revolution, we argue that the migration of 100,000-140,000 French Huguenot refugees to the shores of England, Ireland and Scotland was among the causes, while in the case of the second industrial revolution, it was the steam engine which ultimately contributed to the opening up of the West, the creation of a national market and the resulting mass production.
N14|Euro Area Macroeconomics : where do we stand twenty years later ?|For almost 20 years, euro area countries have been sharing a single currency. The drawbacks of the euro area framework were highlighted by the widening of imbalances prior to the 2007 financial crisis, and thereafter by the huge impact of the financial crisis, the public debt crisis in Southern countries, and the great recession. Prior to and after the crisis, EU institutions and Member States have not been able to implement either a common economic strategy, or satisfactory economic policy coordination. This did lead neither to a burst of the euro area, nor to a substantial change in its functioning. Euro area institutions were adapted, through the European Stability Mechanism, the fiscal treaty,the “first semester”, the European Central Bank’s support to MS, the banking union. Theseadaptations were painful. In mid-2018, the economic situation had clearly improved at the euro area level. However, the following question remains unsolved: can the functioning of the euro area be improved, accounting for divergent situations, interests and views in MS? Section 2 recalls proposals from EU institutions and from MS. Section 3 presents and discusses several economists’ viewpoints and proposals to improve the euro area policy framework. Some economists rely on financial markets to control domestic economic policies, some are in favour of the introduction of a euro zone budget and minister of finance, some are in favour of moving towards a federal EU with increased democracy, some make original proposals to cut publicdebts, and last some advocate better economic policy coordination.
N14|Managing a Century of Debt|This paper provides a consistent series for the Irish national debt since the foundation of the state in 1922. It also provides a continuous series for bond yields over the same period. The paper examines the factors behind the fluctuations in the debt burden over almost a century. The management of the debt burden by the Irish authorities has evolved over time, seeking to minimise both the burden on the economy and the risks which the debt represented to the state. The paper also examines how the cost of borrowing for the Irish government compared to that for the UK and, since the break with sterling, for Germany. This cost of borrowing was, in turn affected by developments in the domestic economy.
N14|57 Channels (And Nothin On) - Does TV-News on the Eurozone Affect Government Bond Yield Spreads?|This paper empirically investigates the relationship between TV news coverage and the GIIPS countries’ bond yield spreads using daily data between January 1, 2007 and December 1, 2016. We employ 1,542,233 human coded news items from evening news shows of leading TV stations in 12 countries which include 37,859 news on the EU, on the Eurozone and on country-specific economic issues. We find that an increasing share of news about the Eurozone reduces yield spreads, especially when the news has a positive tonality. This hints at the effectiveness of political communication through the media by European institutions and in particular the European Central Bank (ECB). In conjunction with the tonality of the news, we find that country-specific news have a significant impact on GIIPS yield spreads. A higher share of positive/negative news is positively associated with a decrease/increase of the GIIPS yield spreads vis-à-vis Germany. Moreover, some news is not immediately and completely priced in by market participants when it is released. In addition, this peculiar effect of country specific news is stronger when the respective news is aired on the North American media market.
N14|Flight-to-safety and the Credit Crunch: A new history of the banking crisis in France during the Great Depression|Despite France's importance in the interwar world economy, the scale and consequences of the French banking crises of 1930-1931 were never assessed quantitatively due to lack of data in the absence of banking regulation. Using a new dataset of individual balance sheets from more than 400 banks, we show that the crisis was more severe and occurred earlier than previously thought, and it was very asymmetric, without affecting main commercial banks. The primary transmission channel was a flight-to-safety of deposits from banks to savings institutions and the central bank, leading to a major, persistent disruption in business lending. In line with the gold standard mentality, cash deposited with savings institutions and the central bank was used to decrease marketable public debt and increase gold reserves, rather than pursue countercyclical policies. Despite massive capital inflows, France suffered from a severe, persistent credit crunch.
N14|International Risk Management in BREXIT and Policy Options|BREXIT is a historical step for the UK and the EU27 which could bring a strong Pound deprecation, an increase in risk premiums for British bonds and a transitory rise of financial market volatility plus a long term reduction of economic growth in the UK. Macroprudential supervision thus is a crucial policy challenge for EU28 in the context of BREXIT and the European Systemic Risk Board thus should have a critical role in 2018 and the following years. The IMF’s FSAP as well as the ESRB thus should timely analyze the potential risk of BREXIT and consider adequate policy options to reduce or eliminate risks. As regards the ESRB this requires full cooperation of all EU28 actors in that organization. Moreover, the EU27 faces major problems in terms of prudential supervision after BREXIT since a very large part of EU27 wholesale banking markets are in the UK and thus not regulated by the EU after March 29, 2019. The EU Commission’s competence for EU trade policy as well as international investment treaties gives the EU the opportunity to offer the UK not only a – limited – Free Trade Agreement but an international investment treaty as well, including options for global cooperation. Contract continuity is a dangerous BREXIT challenge for EU-UK negotiations. The influence of US regulation on Europe will increase due to BREXIT. Several policy innovations are proposed.
N14|Lack of International Risk Management in BREXIT?|BREXIT is a historical step for the UK and the EU27 which could bring a strong Pound deprecation, an increase in risk premiums for British bonds and a transitory rise of financial market volatility plus a long term reduction of economic growth in the UK. Macroprudential supervision thus is a crucial policy challenge for EU28 in the context of BREXIT and the European Systemic Risk Board thus should have a critical role in 2018 and the following years. The ESRB should timely analyze the potential risk of BREXIT and consider adequate policy options to reduce or eliminate risks. Contract continuity as well as cooperation in prudential supervision between the EU27 and the UK stand for BREXIT-related problems that could create financial market stability – as is the BREXIT-induced UK deregulation pressure. EU prudential supervision post-BREXIT faces problems since a very large part of EU27 wholesale banking markets are in the UK and thus not regulated by the EU after March 29, 2019. The EU Commission’s competence for EU trade policy as well as international investment treaties gives the EU the opportunity to offer the UK not only a – limited – Free Trade Agreement but an international investment treaty as well, including options for global cooperation. Several policy innovations are proposed which could help to limit risk associated with instability.
N14|Banking Crises and Boom-Bust Dynamics: Evidence for Italy (1861-2016)|The financial crises of 2007-2008 and the subsequent worldwide recession show the importance of exploring the correlation between financial and real crises. Starting from our new estimation of the Italian business cycle (Bartoletto et al., 2017), we analyze the linkage between banking crises and the business cycle in Italy over the last two centuries. The vast literature on banking crises in Italy is dominated by the narrative approach. In this work we aim to advance the argument one step further by integrating the narrative approach with an empirical VAR analysis, distinguishing between slowdown and inner-banking crises according to the business cycle phase in which they occur. Our long-run analysis proves that not all the banking crises have a connection with real activity and that not all the crises occurring close to a GDP contraction were associated to a boom-bust mechanism.
N14|Uncertainty and Hyperinflation: European Inflation Dynamics after World War I|Fiscal deficits, elevated debt-to-GDP ratios, and high inflation rates suggest hyperinflation could have potentially emerged in many European countries after World War I. We demonstrate that economic policy uncertainty was instrumental in pushing a subset of European countries into hyperinflation shortly after the end of the war. Germany, Austria, Poland, and Hungary (GAPH) suffered from frequent uncertainty shocks – and correspondingly high levels of uncertainty – caused by protracted political negotiations over reparations payments, the apportionment of the Austro-Hungarian debt, and border disputes. In contrast, other European countries exhibited lower levels of measured uncertainty between 1919 and 1925, allowing them more capacity with which to implement credible commitments to their fiscal and monetary policies. Impulse response functions show that increased uncertainty caused a rise in inflation contemporaneously and for a few months afterward in GAPH, but this effect was absent or much more limited for the other European countries in our sample. Our results suggest that elevated economic uncertainty directly affected inflation dynamics and the incidence of hyperinflation during the interwar period.
N14|57 Channels (And Nothin On): Does TV-News on the Eurozone affect Government Bond Yield Spreads?|This article empirically investigates the relationship between TV news coverage on the eurocrisis and the GIIPS countries bond yield spreads with daily data between January 1, 2007 and December 1, 2016. We use 1,542,233 human coded news items from evening news shows of leading TV stations in 12 countries. These news items include 37,859 news on the EU, on the Eurozone and on country-specific economic issues related to the GIIPS countries and Germany. We find that an increasing share of news about the Eurozone reduces yield spreads, especially when the news has a positive tonality. This, at least in the short run, hints at the effectiveness of political communication through the media by European institutions and in particular the European Central Bank (ECB). In conjunction with the tonality of the news, we find some hints on country-specific news to have a significant impact on GIIPS yield spreads. A higher share of positive/negative news is positively associated with a decrease/increase the GIIPS yield spreads vis-`a-vis Germany. Despite these hardly surprising results, we find some evidence that some news is not immediately and completely priced in by market participants when it is released: we still find a significant effect of prior days news on the GIIPS bond yield spreads. In addition, we find that this peculiar effect of country specific news is stronger when the respective news is aired on the North American media market. We explain this higher coefficient as follows: North American TV news air only those news that are truly surprising and have thus a strong effect on yield spreads
N14|Uncertainty and Hyperinflation: European Inflation Dynamics after World War I|Fiscal deficits, elevated debt-to-GDP ratios, and high inflation rates suggest hyperinflation could have potentially emerged in many European countries after World War I. We demonstrate that economic policy uncertainty was instrumental in pushing a subset of European countries into hyperinflation shortly after the end of the war. Germany, Austria, Poland, and Hungary (GAPH) suffered from frequent uncertainty shocks – and correspondingly high levels of uncertainty – caused by protracted political negotiations over reparations payments, the apportionment of the Austro-Hungarian debt, and border disputes. In contrast, other European countries exhibited lower levels of measured uncertainty between 1919 and 1925, allowing them more capacity with which to implement credible commitments to their fiscal and monetary policies. Impulse response functions show that increased uncertainty caused a rise in inflation contemporaneously and for a few months afterward in GAPH, but this effect was absent or much more limited for the other European countries in our sample. Our results suggest that elevated economic uncertainty directly affected inflation dynamics and the incidence of hyperinflation during the interwar period.
N14|Flight-to-safety and the Credit Crunch: A new history of the banking crisis in France during the Great Depression|Despite France's importance in the interwar world economy, the scale and consequences of the French banking crises of 1930–1931 were never assessed quantitatively due to lack of data in the absence of banking regulation. Using a new dataset of individual balance sheets from more than 400 banks, we show that the crisis was more severe and occurred earlier than previously thought, and it was very asymmetric, without affecting main commercial banks. The primary transmission channel was a flight-to-safety of deposits from banks to savings institutions and the central bank, leading to a major, persistent disruption in business lending. In line with the gold standard mentality, cash deposited with savings institutions and the central bank was used to decrease marketable public debt and increase gold reserves, rather than pursue countercyclical policies. Despite massive capital inflows, France suffered from a severe, persistent credit crunch.
N14|The first twenty years of the European Central Bank: monetary policy|On 1 June 2018 the ECB celebrated its 20th anniversary. This paper provides a comprehensive view of the ECB’s monetary policy over these two decades. The first section provides a chronological account of the macroeconomic and monetary policy developments in the euro area since the adoption of the euro in 1999, going through four cyclical phases “conditioning” ECB monetary policy. We describe the monetary policy decisions from the ECB’s perspective and against the background of its evolving monetary policy strategy and framework. We also highlight a number of the key critical issues that were the subject of debate. The second section contains a partial assessment. We first analyze the achievement of the price stability mandate and developments in the ECB’s credibility. Next, we investigate the ECB’s interest rate decisions through the lens of a simple empirical interest rate reaction function. This is appropriate until the ECB hits the zero-lower bound in 2013. Finally, we present the ECB’s framework for thinking about non-standard monetary policy measures and review the evidence on their effectiveness. One of the main themes of the paper is how ECB monetary policy responded to the challenges posed by the European twin crises and the subsequent slow economic recovery, making use of its relatively wide range of instruments, defining new ones where necessary and developing the strategic underpinnings of its policy framework. JEL Classification: E52, E31, E32, E42, N14, G01
N14|The first twenty years of the European Central Bank: monetary policy|"On 1 June 2018 the ECB celebrated its 20th anniversary. This paper provides a comprehensive view of the ECB's monetary policy over these two decades. The first section provides a chronological account of the macroeconomic and monetary policy developments in the euro area since the adoption of the euro in 1999, going through four cyclical phases ""conditioning"" ECB monetary policy. We describe the monetary policy decisions from the ECB's perspective and against the background of its evolving monetary policy strategy and framework. We also highlight a number of the key critical issues that were the subject of debate. The second section contains a partial assessment. We first analyze the achievement of the price stability mandate and developments in the ECB's credibility. Next, we investigate the ECB's interest rate decisions through the lens of a simple empirical interest rate reaction function. This is appropriate until the ECB hits the zero-lower bound in 2013. Finally, we present the ECB's framework for thinking about non-standard monetary policy measures and review the evidence on their effectiveness. One of the main themes of the paper is how ECB monetary policy responded to the challenges posed by the European twin crises and the subsequent slow economic recovery, making use of its relatively wide range of instruments, defining new ones where necessary and developing the strategic underpinnings of its policy framework."
N14|David Kynaston's till time's last sand: a history of the Bank of England, 1694-2013: a review essay|This essay reviews Till Time's Last Sand, David Kynaston's history of the Bank of England from its foundation in 1694 to the present day. I focus on three themes running through his narrative. First, for much of that time the Bank was a private company playing a public role; how did it manage to do this and why was it eventually brought into public ownership? Second, I examine the various attempts to constrain the Bank's monetary policy to follow a simple rule; these almost invariably proved unsustainable unless the rule provided enough room for discretion. Finally, I cover the Bank's journey to becoming the lender of last resort, together with its evolving attitude to the associated risk of moral hazard.
N14|European goods market integration in the very long run: from the Black Death to the First World War|The paper examines price convergence and increases in the efficiency of wheat markets across Europe from the mid-fourteenth to the early twentieth century. The analysis is based on a new data set of prices from more than 500 markets. Unlike previous research, we find that convergence was a predominantly pre-modern phenomenon. It started in the late fifteenth and reached a first high point in the early seventeenth century - a level of integration that was surpassed only in the nineteenth century. In terms of market integration, the ‘little divergence’ between parts of North-Western Europe and the rest of the continent appears since about 1600. Long-term improvements in market efficiency began in the early sixteenth century, with advances being temporarily as uneven as in price convergence. We trace this to uneven institutional change and the non-synchronous spread of modern media and systems of information transmission that affected the ability of merchants to react to news.
N14|Euro Area Macroeconomics, where do we stand twenty years later ?|For almost 20 years, euro area countries have been sharing a single currency. The drawbacks of the euro area framework were highlighted by the widening of imbalances prior to the 2007 financial crisis, and thereafter by the huge impact of the financial crisis, the public debt crisis in Southern countries, and the great recession. Prior to and after the crisis, EU institutions and Member States have not been able to implement either a common economic strategy, or satisfactory economic policy coordination. This did lead neither to a burst of the euro area, nor to a substantial change in its functioning. Euro area institutions were adapted, through the European Stability Mechanism, the fiscal treaty, the “first semester”, the European Central Bank’s support to MS, the banking union. These adaptations were painful. In mid-2018, the economic situation had clearly improved at the euro area level. However, the following question remains unsolved: can the functioning of the euro area be improved, accounting for divergent situations, interests and views in MS? Section 2 recalls proposals from EU institutions and from MS. Section 3 presents and discusses several economists’ viewpoints and proposals to improve the euro area policy framework. Some economists rely on financial markets to control domestic economic policies, some are in favour of the introduction of a euro zone budget and minister of finance, some are in favour of moving towards a federal EU with increased democracy, some make original proposals to cut public debts, and last some advocate better economic policy coordination.
N14|Institutional integration and economic growth in Europe|The literature on the growth effects of European integration remains inconclusive. This is due to severe methodological difficulties mostly driven by country heterogeneity. This paper addresses these concerns using the synthetic control method. It constructs counterfactuals for countries that joined the European Union (EU) from 1973 to 2004. We find that growth effects from EU membership are large and positive, with Greece as the exception. Despite substantial variation across countries and over time, we estimate that without European integration, per capita incomes would have been, on average, approximately 10% lower in the first ten years after joining the EU.
N14|Labour Shares and Income Inequality: Insights from Italian Economic History, 1895-2015|This paper develops theoretical and practical motivations for studying the functional distribution of income in the past. Italy is adopted as a case study, by reason of the availability of long-run estimates on personal income inequality. The historical importance of self-employment and the recent increase in labour’s share make the Italian historical experience of further general interest. New estimates from 1895 show Italian workers accruing a low share of national income until 1945. By the end of the 1950s and the economic miracle, shares had rapidly converged to the European average. Italian history shows that studying the functional distribution of income deepens our understanding of long run distributional trends, as well as of key distributive episodes, and makes a compelling case for approaching income inequality by combining diverse sources and methodologies.
N14|A New Indicator for Describing Bull and Bear Markets|Abstract We present new short, medium, and long-run indicators to date and characterise expansions and contractions in financial and economic time series. These Bull-Bear Indicators (BBIs) measure the risk-adjusted excess return with respect to average, to different time horizons, expressed in standard deviations. We illustrate the benefits of this measure by describing the boom-bust cycle in the UK stock market between 1922 and 2015. We compare our results with those obtained from frequently used methodologies in the literature and find that our measures contain substantially more information than the usual binary sequences that describe expansions and contractions and allow for a more granular and nuanced description of time series.
N14|Uncertainty and the Great Slump|This paper investigates the impact of economic policy uncertainty on the macroeconomy of interwar Britain. A new index of economic policy uncertainty constructed from contemporary newspapers indicates that this was a period of great anxiety. Time series evidence suggests that this uncertainty reduced output, raised unemployment and contributed to macroeconomic volatility.
N14|Managing a Century of Debt|This paper provides a consistent series for the Irish national debt since the foundation of the state. It also provides a continuous series for bond yields over the same period. The paper examines the factors behind the fluctuations in the debt burden over almost a century. The management of the debt burden by the Irish authorities has evolved over time, seeking to minimise both the burden on the economy and the risks which the debt represented to the state. The paper also examines how the cost of borrowing for the Irish government compared to that for the UK and, since the break with sterling, for Germany. This cost of borrowing was, in turn affected by developments in the domestic economy.
N14|Wages, income distribution and economic growth in Scandinavia|Wage restraint plays an important role in the conventional economic history explanation of the post-war golden growth experience of industrialized economies. Conversely, wage increases harming investment and increasing unemployment have been proffered as explanations for some of the high unemployment during the interwar period. This article argues that the conventional account implicitly only considers effects of wage growth on investment and not the advantageous effects on consumption. Thus, the evaluation of the effects on GDP growth is lop-sided. We employ a Post-Keynesian model to estimate effects of growth in the wage share of national income on consumption, investment, exports and imports separately, and weigh the effects together to estimate total effects on GDP growth, in Scandinavia (Denmark, Norway and Sweden) 1900–2010. Furthermore, we estimate the positive effects of wage pressure on productivity, showing it to be significant and positive in all three countries. We show that the postwar wage push had small positive effects on GDP growth in Denmark and Sweden, and a small negative effect in Norway. Thus, wage restraint is not a valid explanation for the postwar growth miracle. We propose a more comprehensive macroeconomic framework for understanding the implications of labour-capital distribution.
N14|Without coal in the age of steam and dams in the age of electricity: An explanation for the failure of Portugal to industrialize before the Second World War|We provide a natural resource explanation for the divergence of the Portuguese economy relative to other European countries before the Second World War, based on a considerable body of contemporary sources. First, we demonstrate that a lack of domestic resources meant that Portugal experienced limited and unbalanced growth during the age of steam. Imports of coal were prohibitively expensive for inland areas, which failed to industrialize. Coastal areas developed through steam, but were constrained by limited demand from the interior. Second, we show that after the First World War, when other coal-poor countries turned to hydro-power, Portugal relied on coal-based thermal-power, creating a vicious circle of high energy prices and labor-intensive industrialization. We argue that this was the result of (i) water resources which were relatively expensive to exploit; and (ii) path-dependency, whereby the failure to develop earlier meant that there was a lack of capital and demand from industry.
N14|A continuous consumer price index for Norway 1492-2017|This manuscript presents a new combined annual cost of living and consumer price index for Norway covering the period 1492-2017. When previous Norwegian historical consumer price indices partly were constructed on the basis of very limited data, the new historical index is constructed on a significantly richer data material. This is made possible by the compilation of quantitative data from numerous sources, mostly originating from the eighteenth, nineteenth and early twentieth century.The new index makes it possible to follow annual living costs in Norway for 525 years. When comparing to existing price indices the new series reveals that it is needed to make some major revisions of Norwegian price history.
N14|Wages, income distribution and economic growth in Scandinavia|Wage restraint plays an important role in the conventional economic history explanation of the post-war golden growth experience of industrialized economies. Conversely, wage increases harming investment and increasing unemployment have been proffered as explanations for some of the high unemployment during the interwar period. This article argues that the conventional account implicitly only considers effects of wage growth on investment and not the advantageous effects on consumption. Thus, the evaluation of the effects on GDP growth is lop-sided. We employ a Post-Keynesian model to estimate effects of growth in the wage share of national income on consumption, investment, exports and imports separately, and weigh the effects together to estimate total effects on GDP growth, in Scandinavia (Denmark, Norway and Sweden) 1900–2010. Furthermore, we estimate the positive effects of wage pressure on productivity, showing it to be significant and positive in all three countries. We show that the postwar wage push had small positive effects on GDP growth in Denmark and Sweden, and a small negative effect in Norway. Thus, wage restraint is not a valid explanation for the postwar growth miracle. We propose a more comprehensive macroeconomic framework for understanding the implications of labour-capital distribution.
N14|Statistik und Organisation der NS-Kriegswirtschaft und der DDR-Planwirtschaft 1933-1949/50<BR>[Statistics and Organization of the NS-War Economy and the East-German Planned Economy 1933-1949/50]|Abstract: NS-War Economy 1933-1945 and Abstract: The Emergence of the Planned Economy in East-Germany 1945-1949/50 The major part deals with economic statistics as an instrument for warfare and war preparation. Firstly, the involvement of German Statistical Office (Statistisches Reichsamt) is described and analyzed: as soon as in 1934, plans emerged in the Office to conduct periodical industrial censuses as a means of a statistical information system to meet the demands of a planned or commanded economy for warfare. The comprehensive industrial census of 1936 became the main source for this purpose. Secondly, the statistical information is put forward. It was increasingly provided by mandatory reporting of private industrial firms and their organizations, which became instrumental in steering the German economy. Officially and privately organized economic statistics finally merged: during the war, the Ministry of Economics set up a statistical information system based on the collaboration between the German Statistical Office and the German Institute for Economic Research (Deutsches Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung). In 1943, the responsible department of the Ministry of Economics was incorporated into the Planning Office (Planungsamt) of Speer´s Ministry for Armament. Within this centre of economic command economic statistics became an essential tool for running the German economy during the last years of the war. In a separate chapter, plans of the Ministry of Economics during the last months of the war are highlighted which aimed at designing an institutional framework for centralizing and centrally steering German empirical economic research and economic statistics after the war. Finally, the use of the NS-statistics after the war is touched upon, thus forming a bridging chapter to East-Germany setting up its planned economy. A separate case study deals with a report of the Statistical Office asked for by the Ministry of Economics in 1936 to estimate the assets of German Jews. Immediately after the war, the commands of Soviet Military Administration for Germany (SMAD) endeavoured to re-establish and increase production in the Soviet Zone of Occupation (SBZ). For short term economic planning, they required regular statistical reports from business firms. Not before 1948, however, did the Central Statistical Office (StZA) founded in the fall of 1945 succeed in standardizing and centralizing the statistics reported by business firms. The federal structure of the SBZ with its strong position of the independent statistical offices of the individual states was to blame for the delay. It was finally overcome when the StZA became a major department of the newly created German Economic Commission (DWK), the centralized governmental body of the SBZ. Right from the beginning, the StZA drew on economic statistics of NS-Germany to obtain a basis for steering and planning the East German economy. Above all in 1947/48, the original files of the Industrial Census of 1936 were rearranged and evaluated for the Two-Years-Plan of 1949/50, the first elaborate planning scheme of the GDR. Until then the insufficient statistical reporting system of East Germany had not allowed such a planning.
N14|Studiu retrospectiv privind comerțul exterior al României în ultimii 100 de ani<BR>[A retrospective study on Romania’s external trade in the past 100 years]|Throughout the last century, Romania's economy has suffered major adverse costs, especially caused by external factors, with an adverse impact both on the volume of foreign trade and its commodity structure and geographical orientation. The study focuses on the evolution of Romania's foreign trade over the past 100 years trying to highlight the main features and trends in the different stages of the Romanian economy development, covering the periods 1918-1947, 1948-1989 and 1990-2017, marked by the the interwar economy particularities, the socialist political and economic regime, and the Romania's transition to the market economy, in the context of pre-accession and integration in the European Union. The presentation of the main coordinates of Romania's trade policies precedes the foreign trade quantitative and qualitative analysis for each of the above mentioned periods.
N14|New Frontiers in the Euro Debate in Iceland|The debate on currency arrangements and monetary policy frameworks in lceland has been motivated by developments in lceland and internationally in recent decades. Historically, lcelanders' colonial experience and struggle to retain control of vital natural resources made them hesitant participants in the European integration process. While sidestepping direct participation in the process leading to EU and EMU membership, they joined EFTA, the EEA and Schengen. Economic growth and development have been rapid, but the modernisation and liberalisation of the economy have been attended by signi:ficant volatility in nominal and real variables. At the same time, the European integration process has continued with its own set of challenges. It is in this context that a vibrant debate has taken place on the choice of currency and associated policies. The main emphasis has been on whether to adopt the euro (through EU membership) or retain the Icelandic króna with the most efficacious monetary policy framework possible. This article offers a review of salient contributions to the debate and the main lessons drawn from it. The key themes of the debate involve the impact currency choice would have on economic growth and resilience to shocks. While the early debate was mostly concerned with trade-theoretic issues, institutional factors have become increasingly important. A new theory concerning a heretofore overlooked policy variable, the evolution of inequality as measured by the wage-productivity gap, is discussed. It is shown to be potentially important for economic and financial outcomes, with implications for the debate.
N14|Evoluția capitalului în România în secolul 1918-2018 de la Marea Unire la tranziția la economia de piață<BR>[Romania’s capital developments during 1918-2018 century from the Great Union to the market economy transition]|The paper focuses on the evolution of the capital in Romania, in three extremely different periods during the last century, under the changes of internal / international context and political regimes, with special emphasis on the relationship with the country economic development. In the years 1918-1945, the share of foreign capital in the capital of joint-stock companies was higher compared to domestic capital, which is explained by the interest of foreign investors to seek relatively cheap resources and production factors in Romania. A certain role of foreign investments in this period to the development of several industrial sectors is broadly recognized in the special literature. In the socialist period, 1948-1989, characterized by the insignificant size of foreign capital in Romania (excepting some few failed joint venture companies), the accelerated accumulation of capital and the fast increase of fixed assets led to an excessive development of production overcapacities, with relatively low efficiency, energy-intensive and polluting, what created severe economic and financial imbalances, ended with the collapse of the system. During the transition period to the market economy, 1990-2018, marked, in the first decade, by a certain degradation of the domestic capital due to the bankruptcy and/or unsuccesful privatization of state-owned companies, after the year 2000, at the same time with the gradual integration in the euro-atlantic structures, the foreign investors have increased significantly their presence in Romania, entering in a competitive relationship with the domestic capital and production.
N14|Metal and machine industry in Serbia|The paper analyses status of metal and machine industry in Serbia, with short retrospect to previous period. Also, it presents the short review of the EU policies incentives and subsidies for industry development, especially through European Commission and their concept Horizont-2020. Bad conditions for industry of Serbia in last century quarter are not exceeded, arising trends are questionable. The development conception is not defined and established. Special interest of the paper is the status of the metal and machine industry, as very important branches for the economy of each country.
N14|The Postwar British Productivity Failure|British productivity growth disappointed during the early postwar period. This reflected inadequate investment in equipment and skills but also entailed inefficient use of inputs. Weak management, dysfunctional industrial relations, and badly-designed economic policy were all implicated. The policy framework was partly the result of seeking low unemployment through wage restraint by appeasement of organized labour. A key aspect was weak competition. This exacerbated corporategovernance and industrial-relations problems in the British 'variety of capitalism' which sustained low effort bargains and managerial incompetence. Other varieties of capitalism were better placed to achieve fast growth but were infeasible for Britain given its history.
N14|The Roots of a Dual Equilibrium: GDP, Productivity and Structural Change in the Italian Regions in the Long-run (1871-2011)|"This paper explores the evolution of Italy's regional inequality in the long run, from around Unification (1871) until our days (2011). To this scope, a unique and up-to-date dataset of GDP per capita, GDP per worker (productivity) and employment, at the NUTS II level and at current borders, for the whole economy and its three branches - agriculture, industry, services - is here presented and discussed. Sigma and beta convergence are tested for GDP per capita, productivity and workers per capita (employment/population). Four phases in the history of regional inequality in post-unification Italy are confronted: mild divergence (the liberal age), strong divergence (the two world wars and Fascism), general convergence (the golden age) and the ""two-Italies"" polarization. In this last period, for the first time GDP and productivity, as well as workers per capita and productivity, have been following opposite paths: the North-South divide increased in GDP, decreased in productivity."
N14|Business Cycles, Credit Cycles and Bank Holdings of Sovereign Bonds: Historical Evidence for Italy 1861-2013|We propose a joint dating of the Italian business and credit cycle on a historical horizon, by applying a local turning-point dating algorithm to the level of the variables. Along with short cycles, corresponding to traditional business cycle fluctuations, we also investigate medium cycles, because there is evidence that financial booms and busts are longer and persistent than the business cycle. After comparing our cycles with the prominent qualitative features of the Italian economy, we carry out some statistical tests for comovement between credit and business cycle and we propose a measure of asymmetry of this comovement, which proves to be weaker in recessions. We find evidence that credit and business cycle are poorly synchronized especially in the medium term, although, when credit and real contractions overlap, recessions are definitely more severe. We do not find evidence that credit leads the business cycle, both in the medium or in the short fluctuations. On the contrary, in the short cycle, we find some evidence that business cycle leads the credit one. Finally, credit and business cycle comovement increases when credit embodies public bonds held by banks, a bank financing to the public sector. However, in the post]WWII era, this financial backup to the public side of the economy has occurred at the expense of bank lending.
N14|Economic Crises and the Eligibility for the Lender of Last Resort: Evidence from Nineteenth Century France|This paper shows that a central bank can more efficiently mitigate economic crises when it broadens eligibility for its discount facility to any safe asset or solvent agent. We use difference-in-differences panel regressions and emulate crises by studying how defaults of banks and non-agricultural firms were affected by the arrival of an agricultural disease. We exploit the specificities of the implementation of the discount window to deal with the endogeneity of the access to the central bank to the arrival of the crisis and local default rates. We find that broad eligibility reduced significantly the increase in the default rate when the shock hit the local economy. A counterfactual exercise shows that defaults would have been 10% to 15% higher if the central bank would have implemented the strictest eligibility rule. This effect is identified independently of changes in policy interest rates and the fiscal deficit.
N14|Structural Change, Expanding Informality and Labour Productivity Growth in Russia|Recent decades have been years of intensive growth, structural change and expanding informality for many developing and emerging economies. However, in exploring the relationship between structural change and productivity growth, most empirical studies ignored informality. This paper explores how structural change in the Russian economy 1995–2012 affects aggregate labour productivity growth, taking into account the informal sector. Using a newly developed dataset for 34 industries and applying three alternative approaches aggregate labour productivity growth is decomposed into intra-industry and inter-industry contributions. All three approaches show that the overall contribution of structural change is growth enhancing, significant, and dumped in time. In turn, labour reallocation between the formal and informal sectors is growth reducing because of the extension of informal activities with low productivity levels. At the same time, sectoral labour reallocation effects are found to be highly sensitive to the methods.
N14|Dismantled once, diverged forever? A quasi-natural experiment of Red Army misdeeds in post-WWII Europe|I study the economic consequences of the Red Army’s misdeeds after WWII. I exploit differences in spatial economic activity across the arbitrarily drawn and only for 74 days lasting liberation demarcation line between the Red Army and the Western Allies in South Austria. Dismantling and pillaging, but also (sexual) crimes made regions liberated by the Red Army a less desirable place to live and to start economic activities compared to adjacent regions. Spatial regression discontinuity (RD) estimates show that the liberation causes a relative population decline by around 26 to 31 percent until the present day. Measures of labor productivity also lag behind in Red Army liberated regions. I explain persistence with the selective migration pattern across the demarcation line in the direct aftermath of WWII.
N14|Economic Crises and the Eligibility for the Lender of Last Resort: Evidence from 19th century France|This paper shows that a central bank can more efficiently mitigate economic crises when it broadens eligibility for its discount facility to any safe asset or solvent agent. We use difference-in-differences panel regressions and emulate crises by studying how defaults of banks and non-agricultural firms were affected by the arrival of an agricultural disease. We exploit the specificities of the implementation of the discount window to deal with the endogeneity of the access to the central bank to the arrival of the crisis and local default rates. We find that broad eligibility reduced significantly the increase in the default rate when the shock hit the local economy. A counterfactual exercise shows that defaults would have been 10% to 15% higher if the Bank of France would have implemented the strictest eligibility rule. This effect is identified independently of changes in policy interest rates and the fiscal deficit.
N14|EU Membership or Thatcher's Structural Reforms: What Drove the Great British Reversal?|This paper presents a dissonant view on post-war British economic performance. A defining feature is the decline of the UK relative to the six founding members of the European Union after 1945. However, this relative decline stopped. The conventional view is that a turning point occurs in the mid-1980s when Mrs Thatcher implements far-reaching structural reforms. This paper asks whether econometric evidence supports this conventional view and finds it does not. We then examine an alternative hypothesis: this turning point occurs around 1970 when the UK joined the European Community. We find strong econometric support for this view. The intuition we offer is that EU membership signalled the prominence of business groups that chose to compete at the high-tech end of the common European market against those business groups that preferred comparative advantage driven Commonwealth markets (mostly former colonies). Those pro-Europe business groups later become the constituency that provides support for Mrs Thatcher's reforms. Without this vital support, we argue, Mrs Thatcher's structural reforms would not have been nearly as effective, if proposed and implemented at all.
N14|The Gold Pool (1961-1968) and the Fall of the Bretton Woods System. Lessons for Central Bank Cooperation|The Gold Pool (1961-1968) was one of the most ambitious cases of central bank cooperation in history. Major central banks pooled interventions – sharing profits and losses – to stabilize the dollar price of gold. Why did it collapse? From at least 1964, the fate of the Pool was in fact tied to sterling, the first line of defense for the dollar. Sterling’s unsuccessful devaluation in November 1967 spurred speculation and massive losses for the Pool. Contagion occurred because US policies were inflationary and insufficiently credible as well. The demise of the Pool provides a striking example of contagion between reserve currencies.
N14|Indebtedness in the EU: a drag or a catalyst for growth?|We study the relationship between debt and growth in EU countries in the years 1995-2015. We investigate the debt-growth nexus in two alternative empirical set-ups: the traditional cross-county panel regressions and mean group estimations. We find evidence of a positive long-run relationship between private sector indebtedness and economic growth, and a negative relationship between public debt and long-run growth across EU countries. However, the more immediate impact of private sector debt on growth is found to be negative, and positive for the public sector debt. We find no conclusive evidence for a common debt threshold within EU countries, neither for the private nor for the public sector, but some indication of a non-linear effect of household debt. JEL Classification: O47, N14, H60
N14|Regional development under socialism: evidence from Yugoslavia|This paper analyses the patterns of regional growth and development in Yugoslavia, under the most decentralised socialist system that ever existed. My analysis reveals that despite government efforts to the contrary, socialist economic development in Yugoslavia resulted in divergence rather than in convergence between the constituent regions. I find that regional income divergence was caused by the failure of the less developed regions to converge towards the employment rates and total factor productivities of the more developed regions. I interpret these failures as symptoms of a single underlying problem: a capital intensity bias inherent to the governing objective of labour-managed firms. Socialist Yugoslavia moved from having one central plan, to having many mutually competitive plans. While on aggregate this may have created a net positive productivity outcome compared to other socialist economies, it created unique distortions. The decentralisation policies were implemented with the aim of enhancing regional cohesion and social stability. They led, however, to exactly opposite outcomes
N14|Socialist growth revisited: insights from Yugoslavia|We know little about the performance of socialist European economies. This paper fills the knowledge void by analyzing Yugoslavia using a diagnostic tool that identifies the mechanisms that drive economic growthâ€”business cycle accounting. The analysis provides novel findings. During the â€œGolden Ageâ€ of economic growth, total factor productivity became gradually more important in sustaining economic growth. Distorted labor incentives were a major constraint on growth since the mid-1960s, and explain the slowdown of the economy during the 1980s. In turn, labor incentives were distorted by the greater devolution of power to labor-managed firms.
N14|Un récit historique alternatif sur l’indépendance des banques centrales: la doctrine et les pratiques avant la théorie ou l’art avant la science|La fin des années 80 et les années 90 ont été marquées par une grande vague d’adoption de l’indépendance des banques centrales (IBC). Les manuels et les revues de la littérature adoptent souvent un récit historique standard la présentant comme une sucess story, comme l’application d’un consensus théorique. L’art aurait suivi le pas de la science. Cet article a comme finalité ultime de proposer un récit alternatif concernant l’IBC. Adoptant une perspective historique centrée sur la première partie des années 20, nous entendons démontrer que la doctrine des banquiers centraux et les pratiques, comprises en tant qu’adoption de l’IBC, précédent la théorie, l’art venant alors avant la science. Vue de façon normative par la littérature économique à partir des années 80, l’indépendance est pensée, dès les années 20, par les praticiens qui posent eux-mêmes les principes du central banking. Dans la nouvelle donne de l’après-guerre, marquée par l’absence de l’ancrage nominal autrefois fourni par l’étalon-or, l’IBC s’avère un arrangement institutionnel alternatif face à l’inflation. Elle est recommandée au niveau international et constitue un principe central de la doctrine du central banking avancé par le gouverneur anglais Montagu Norman. Comme pour le principe d’indépendance, les pratiques précèdent la théorie. On considère qu’il y a eu une première vague d’adoption de l’IBC dans la première moitié des années 20, bien avant la vague d’adoption de l’IBC de la fin des années 80 et des années 90. Suite à des expériences hyper-inflationnistes et dans le cadre de plans de stabilisation monétaire sous tutelle internationale, les banques centrales de l’Autriche (1923), de la Hongrie (1924) et de l’Allemagne (1922-24) deviennent légalement indépendantes.
N14|Origins and Pathways of Innovation in the Third Industrial Revolution: Sweden, 1950-2013|This study examines the factors that have shaped the long-term evolution of the ICT industry in Sweden, 1950-2013. Exploiting a new historical micro-database on actual innovation output, the driving forces and technological interdependencies in the third industrial revolution are chronicled. The results of this study support some stylized facts about innovational interdependencies in general-purpose technologies: a closely knitted set of industries have provided positive and negative driving forces for the development of ICT innovations. The historical evolution of the GPT surrounding microelectronics can in this perspective be described as a sequence of development blocks.
N14|Innovation Trends and Industrial Renewal in Finland and Sweden 1970-2013|We examine trends in innovation output for two highly ranked innovative countries: Finland and Sweden (1970-2013). Our novel dataset, collected using the LBIO (literature-based innovation output) method, suggests that the innovation trends are positive for both countries, despite an extended downturn in the 1980s. The findings cast some doubt on the proposition that the current stagnation of many developed countries is due to a lack of innovation and investment opportunities. Our data show that Finland catches up to, and passes, Sweden in innovation output in the 1990s. In per capita terms, Finland stays ahead throughout the period. We find that the strong Finnish performance is largely driven by innovation increase in just a handfull of industries. Both countries saw a rise in innovation during the dot-com era and the structural changes that followed. Since 2000 however, Sweden has outperformed Finland in terms of total innovations, especially in machinery and ICT, while the Finnish rate of innovation has stabilized. We suggest that these patterns may be explained by different paths of industrial renewal.
N14|Navigating through torpedo attacks and enemy raiders: Merchant shipping and freight rates during World War I|During World War I ocean freight rates rose to extraordinary levels. Using a new monthly dataset it is shown that freight rates can be well explained by economic activity, commodity prices, war risk and world tonnage in the period 1912 to 1916. In the first two years of the war part of the British merchant fleet was directly controlled by the Government but neutral shipping was basically free to operate as normal. In this period neutral shipping accounted for about one third of British imports. In the final two years of the war a much stricter regime of freight control was introduced that resulted in the withdrawal of a large proportion of neutral shipowners from British and Allied trade. Together with the mounting losses of tonnage due to the German submarine campaign this created an acute shortage of carrying capacity and reduced imports. It is argued that the policy of freight control may have rested on a misconception of the role of freight rates as a source of the high wartime in ation.
N14|Perspectives on the Transformation of the Organic Energy System in 19th Century Sweden|This article discusses the transformation from an organic to a mineral energy system from a Swedish historical perspective. Main arguments are that there was a dynamic interaction between the two systems during the Swedish industrialization process. For one, a diffusion of the mineral energy system contributed to opening previously inaccessible organic resources in the forest of northern Sweden. Secondly, the development of the pulp- and paper industry contributed to the switch from charcoal to coke in the iron industry. Thirdly, the development of hydropower, itself an organic source of energy, further contributed to the emergence of a mixed energy system. One can therefore see the Swedish transition from an organic to a mineral energy system as a shift from a traditional organic energy system to an industrialized organic energy system, which is to say an organic energy system which for its operation was depending on technologies and organizational structures of the mineral energy system.
N14|Structural change, expanding informality and labour productivity growth in Russia|Intensive growth, structural change and expanding informality has characterized many developing and emerging economies in recent decades. Yet most empirical investigations into the relationship between structural change and productivity growth overlook informality. This paper includes the informal sector in an analysis of the effects of structural changes in the Russian economy on aggre-gate labour productivity growth. Using a newly developed dataset for 34 industries covering the period 1995–2012 and applying three alternative approaches, aggregate labour productivity growth is decomposed into intra-industry and inter-industry contributions. All three approaches show that the overall contribution of structural change is growth-enhancing, significant and attenuating over time. Labour reallocation from the formal sector to the informal sector tends to reduce growth through the extension of informal activities with low productivity levels. Sectoral labour reallocation effects are found to be highly sensitive to the methods applied.
N14|Russia’s Informal Economic Growth: 1960–1990|This paper studies the historical GDP of Russia from perspective informal economy. We re-estimate nominal and real informal GDP in the period 1960–1990, using the expenditure approach and declassified archival materials of household budget surveys. The main findings are as follows. First, previously estimated values of Russia’s nominal GDP were underestimated, on average, by about 12.6% for 1960–1990, due to ignoring informal GDP. Second, after including informal GDP, we find that economic growth is 15–39 percentage points lower during this period, which corresponds to differences in the annual growth rate in the range of 0.24–0.38 percentage points.
N14|Supply‐Side Policies in the Depression: Evidence from France| The effects of supply‐side policies in depressed economies are controversial. We shed light on this debate using evidence from France in the 1930s. In 1936, France departed from the gold standard and implemented mandatory wage increases and hours restrictions. Deflation ended but output stagnated. We present time‐series and cross‐sectional evidence that these supply‐side policies, in particular the 40‐hour law, contributed to French stagflation. These results are inconsistent both with the standard one‐sector New Keynesian model and with a medium scale, multisector model calibrated to match our cross‐sectional estimates. We conclude that the New Keynesian model is a poor guide to the effects of supply‐side shocks in depressed economies.
N14|What Really Happened to British Inequality in the Early 20th Century? Evidence from National Household Expenditure Surveys 1890–1961|We estimate income/expenditure inequality in Britain, exploiting five household surveys, spanning the years 1890 to 1961, some of which we recovered and digitised. After adjusting for differences in scope and sampling, we find little change in inequality among worker households over the period and that the three decades after World War 2 were probably the low point of survey-based inequality measures in the eight decades since the late 1930s. Our findings are consistent with the evidence from wage censuses on the overall variance of earnings, which only falls marginally over the period. We argue this relative steadiness was the result of opposing proximate forces, one being the decline in manual skill differentials due largely to changing wage-setting institutions. On the other side was growth in the employment share of non-manuals, with their higher skill and wage variance. We also argue that two demographic factors also played their parts. The sharp decline in fertility in the early part of the century reduced inequality, while the emergence of pensioner households in the 1950s tended to increase inequality in the lower end of the distribution. Lastly, our work suggests a substantial downward revision in the estimated size of the fall in inequality through World War Two. We find a fall of between one and two Gini percentage points between 1937/8 and 1953/4, compared with the often-quoted Blue Book estimate of almost seven Gini percentage points.
N14|How Germany’s anti-Keynesianism has brought Europe to its knees| This paper investigates the (lack of any lasting) impact of John Maynard Keynes’s General Theory on economic policy-making in Germany. The analysis highlights the interplay between economic history and the history of ideas in shaping policy-making in postwar (West) Germany. The paper argues that Germany learned the wrong lessons from its own history and misread the true sources of its postwar success. Monetary mythology and the Bundesbank, with its distinctive anti-inflationary bias, feature prominently in this collective odyssey. The analysis shows that the crisis of the euro today is largely the consequence of Germany’s peculiar anti-Keynesianism.
N14|Partial Fiscalization: Some Lessons on Europe’s Unfinished Business|The recent Eurozone crisis of 2010-2013 has brought to the fore the argument that a successful monetary union needs to be combined with a fiscal union. The history of the U.S. monetary/fiscal union is often given as a template for Europe. In this paper we describe how the push towards creation of the American fiscal union was long and arduous—it took from 1790 to the mid 1930s. In the European case ,unlike the U.S. story, there is strong opposition to creating a fiscal union because members fear the loss of sovereignty that is entailed. As a compromise between the status quo and a U.S. style fiscal union we highlight a series of measures which amount to partial fiscalization. These include: a banking union; a tax union; a capital markets union; a social security union; an energy union; and a military union. These fiscalizations can be viewed as a variety of insurance mechanisms in which different risks for different participants are covered. Each taken by itself may produce substantial objections from those who fear that someone else’s risks are being covered at their expense. The answer to such objections may be to think not in terms of partial but comprehensive reform packages as are often negotiated in the sphere of international trade.
N14|The Gold Pool (1961-1968) and the fall of the Bretton Woods system. Lessons for central bank cooperation|The Gold Pool (1961-1968) was one of the most ambitious cases of central bank cooperation in history. Major central banks pooled interventions - sharing profits and losses- to stabilize the dollar price of gold. Why did it collapse? From at least 1964, the fate of the Pool was in fact tied to sterling, the first line of defense for the dollar. Sterling's unsuccessful devaluation in November 1967 spurred speculation and massive losses for the Pool. Contagion occurred because US policies were inflationary and insufficiently credible as well. The demise of the Pool provides a striking example of contagion between reserve currencies.
N14|Austerity and the rise of the Nazi party|The current historical consensus on the economic causes of the inexorable Nazi electoral success between 1930 and 1933 suggests this was largely related to the Treaty of Versailles and the Great Depression. Alternatively, it has been speculated that contractionary fiscal austerity measures contributed to votes for the Nazi party. Voting data from 1,024 districts and 98 cities shows that Chancellor Brüning’s austerity measures (spending cuts and tax increases) were positively associated with increasing vote shares for the Nazi party. We also find that the suffering due to austerity (measured by mortality rates) radicalized the German electorate. Our findings are robust to a range of specifications including an instrumental variable strategy and a border-pair policy discontinuity design.
N14|The Macroeconomic Effects of Banking Crises: Evidence from the United Kingdom, 1750-1938|This paper investigates the macroeconomic effects of UK banking crises over the period 1750 to 1938. We construct a new annual banking crisis series using bank failure rate data, which suggests that the incidence of banking crises was every 32 years. Using our new series and a narrative approach to identify exogenous banking crises, we find that industrial production contracts by 8.2 per cent in the year following a crisis. This finding is robust to a battery of checks, including different VAR specifications, different thresholds for the crisis indicator, and the use of a capital-weighted bank failure rate.
N14|Independent Ireland in Comparative Perspective| Abstract This paper surveys independent Irelandâ€™s economic policies and performance. It has three main messages. First, the economic history of post-independence Ireland was not particularly unusual. Very often, things that were happening in Ireland were happening elsewhere as well. Second, for a long time we were hampered by an excessive dependence on a poorly performing UK economy. And third, EC membership in 1973, and the Single Market programme of the late 1980s and early 1990s, were absolutely crucial for us. Irish independence and EU membership have complemented each other, rather than being in conflict: each was required to give full effect to the other. Irish independence would not have worked as well for us as it did without the EU; and the EU would not have worked as well for us as it did without political independence.
N14|Harmony of Games in Normal Form|Game harmony is a generic game property that can be used to predict cooperation in both generic and well-known normal form games. It describes how harmonious (non-conflictual) or disharmonious (conflictual) the interests of players are, as embodied in the payoffs. Pure coordination games are games of complete harmony, and constant-sum games of pure disharmony: the majority of games is somewhere in the middle. This paper provides measures of game harmony, analyzes their properties and reviews their use as predictors of cooperation in games. Framing effects increasing cooperation may work by increasing perceived game harmony.
N14|Looking Back On the Age of Checking in America, 1800-1960|The United States not only used bank checks the most but also clung to their use far longer than other developed nations. However, now in the twilight of the check, we trace the evolution of the checking system in the United States through its major phases from the founding of the nation through the modern period, including the rise of clearinghouses, the growth of the interbank clearing network, the Federal Reserve’s establishment of nation-wide central clearing, and the adoption of standardized magnetic imaging for easy processing of checks. Our empirical analysis examines the determinants of check clearing both at the aggregate and state-level in order to shed light on the nation’s dominant use of checks.
N14|Constitutional Bases of Public Finances in the Central and Eastern European Countries|The paper analyses and compares some constitutional examples, especially in the 29 NISPAcee countries, how the states settle the bases of the economy and public finance in their constitutions or fundamental laws. The main hypothesis can be formulated as, is there any correlation between the constitutional provisions (or other relevant law sources) and the performance of the economy (GDP growth), sound and sustainable fiscal policy (budgeting, government debt, taxation, audit), furthermore monetary policy (price and exchange rate stability); also after the amendments can any changes be identified or not.
N14|Други Канон И Маршалов План Као Модел Економске Политике<BR>[Other Canon and Marshall’s Plan as a Model of Economic Policy]|Serbian: Разматрају се основне карактеристике Маршаловог плана као типа економске политике. За разлику од политике саморегулишућег тржишта, која је заснована на (нео)либералној теорији и представљена Вашингтонским договором, политика маршаловског типа, активног уплива државе у привредне токове, заснована је на многовековној традицији и представљена Другим каноном. Обе врсте политика могу се историјски пратити до времена физиократа и меркантилиста, али у савременим условима потпуно адекватно могу да буду представљене плановима Моргентауа и Маршала, насталим за и примењеним у Немачкој после Другог светског рата. Моргентауов план одговара (нео)либералној политици и резултира деиндустриализацијом земље, док Маршалов план насупрот томе одговара политици Другог канона и резултира индустријализацијом земље. Из тих карактеристика следи да транзиционе земље за своје привреде треба да примене економску политику оваплоћену у Маршаловом плану. English: The paper considers the main characteristics of Marshall’s plan as an economic policy model. Unlike the self-regulating market policy, which is based on the neo-liberal policy and defined by the Washington Consensus, the Marshall-type policy, with its active state interference in economic processes, is based on the many centuries’ tradition and reflected in the Other Canon. Both policy types can be traced to the times of physiocrats and mercantilists, but in present circumstances they can be represented through Morgenthau Plan and Marshall Plan, originated after the World War Two and applied in Germany. Morgenthau’s Plan corresponds to the neoliberal policy and its consequence is the country deindustrialization, while Marshall’s Plan corresponds to the Other Canon policy and results in industrialization. Therefore, we deduce that transition countries need to apply the economic policy incorporated in Marshall Plan in order to develop their economies.
N14|Money and Credit: Lessons of the Irish Bank Strike of 1970|In Ireland, there was a bank strike that led to a complete shut-down of the main part of the banking system from May to November 1970. The effects of this strike were surprisingly limited. This had led some observers to conclude that trade credit can easily substitute for bank deposits as a means of payment. In this paper, it is shown how cash and cheques were used as substitutes and complements allowing for “business as usual” for an extended period of time. This paper argues that such a situation would not have prevailed much longer. The lack of a proper settlement mechanism implied that risks were rising for almost all transactors. In order to contain risks the use of trade credit would have declined and economic performance would have deteriorated progressively.
N14|Fluctua?iile cre?terii economice din România, în perioada 1990 - 2016|Iesirea prin explozie din cadrul rigid al regimului politic monopartid si al economiei de comanda, în decembrie 1989, a avut multiple consecinte asupra dezvoltarii economico-sociale a României, pe termen lung. Actiunea conjugata a factorilor interni si externi a impus, în urmatoarele circa trei decenii, realizarea unui proces de (re)implementare a mecanismelor concurentiale si ulterior de aderare si integrare în Uniunea Europeana. Implementarea programelor de reforma în contextul deschiderii economiei catre fluxurile externe de bunuri, servicii si factori de productie a generat atât oportunitati, cât si restrictii pentru dezvoltarea economica si valorificarea potentialului productiv si uman de care a dispus România în ultimul deceniu al secolului al XX-lea si în cea mai mare parte a primelor doua decenii ale secolului al XXI-lea. Astfel, s-a înregistrat o alternare a perioadelor de recesiune cu cele de boom economic. Din acest motiv, este necesar ca analiza dinamicii principalilor indicatori definitorii pentru cresterea economica sa fie realizata concomitent cu reliefarea particularitatilor fiecarui ciclu al evolutiei economiei.
N14|The Catalan economy: Crisis, recovery and policy challenges|Catalonia is one of the richest regions in Spain. Until the outbreak of the international financial and economic crisis in 2008, it enjoyed a phenomenal economic boom – which then turned into a very severe depression, from which the region began to exit only in 2014. Consolidating the recovery and making the economy more competitive and resilient, and less volatile, are some of the key challenges of economic policy in Catalonia. Also, to improve the region’s social cohesion, policymakers should make sure that economic prosperity is more widely shared, and transform it into an effective tool for social progress.
N14|Agricultural crisis in Spain (19th and 20th centuries)|Spanish agriculture over the last two centuries has been mostly analysed from the perspective of its evolution, on many occasions over the long term, and with respect to its contribution to Spain's economic development (or, on the contrary, its possible “responsibility” for the relative backwardness of Spain). Here, however, the emphasis is placed on the opposite case, on the difficulties or crises which have affected it. Agricultural crises are not only important for explaining difficult periods during which the population and the agricultural sector have faced problematic circumstances. They have also generated a sufficiently large impact so as to provoke a reorganisation of the agricultural sector and significant changes within it. The crisis of the Ancien Régime brought about a complete transformation of the predominant agrarian institutions. On occasions, technological change was fostered by crisis situations. The depression at the end of the nineteenth century gave rise to the introduction of new technologies which profoundly modernised the sector to maintain its feasibility. In the same way, international integration affected agriculture and profound changes were required in order to maintain leading positions in international markets. Therefore, without a clear understanding of the agricultural crises, it is difficult to obtain a clear and precise perspective of the profound transformations experienced by Spanish agriculture throughout history.
N14|Why did socialist economies fail? The role of factor inputs reconsidered|This article presents new estimates for investment and new growth accounts for three socialist economies between 1950 and 1989. Government statistics reported distorted measures for both the rate and the trajectory of productivity growth in Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland. Researchers have benefited from revised output data, but have continued to use official statistics on capital input, or estimated capital stock from official investment data. Investment levels and rates of capital accumulation were much lower than officially claimed and over‐reporting worsened over time. A setback in factor accumulation—both investment in equipment and labour input—contributed very significantly to the socialist growth failure of the 1980s.
N14|Un récit historique alternatif sur l’indépendance des banques centrales: la doctrine et les pratiques avant la théorie ou l’art avant la science|La fin des années 80 et les années 90 ont été marquées par une grande vague d'adoption de l'indépendance des banques centrales (IBC). Les manuels et les revues de la littérature adoptent souvent un récit historique standard la présentant comme une sucess story, comme l'application d'un consensus théorique. L'art aurait suivi le pas de la science. Cet article a comme finalité ultime de proposer un récit alternatif concernant l'IBC. Adoptant une perspective historique centrée sur la première partie des années 20, nous entendons démontrer que la doctrine des banquiers centraux et les pratiques, comprises en tant qu'adoption de l'IBC, précédent la théorie, l'art venant alors avant la science. Vue de façon normative par la littérature économique à partir des années 80, l'indépendance est pensée, dès les années 20, par les praticiens qui posent eux-mêmes les principes du central banking. Dans la nouvelle donne de l'après-guerre, marquée par l'absence de l'ancrage nominal autrefois fourni par l'étalon-or, l'IBC s'avère un arrangement institutionnel alternatif face à l'inflation. Elle est recommandée au niveau international et constitue un principe central de la doctrine du central banking avancé par le gouverneur anglais Montagu Norman. Comme pour le principe d'indépendance, les pratiques précèdent la théorie. On considère qu'il y a eu une première vague d'adoption de l'IBC dans la première moitié des années 20, bien avant la vague d'adoption de l'IBC de la fin des années 80 et des années 90. Suite à des expériences hyper-inflationnistes et dans le cadre de plans de stabilisation monétaire sous tutelle internationale, les banques centrales de l'Autriche (1923), de la Hongrie (1924) et de l'Allemagne (1922-24) deviennent légalement indépendantes.
N14|The curious case of the coexistence of two “access-orders”: Explaining the Italian regional divide|This paper uses the conceptual categories of Open Access Order (OAO) and Limited Access Order (LAO) developed by North, Wallis and Weingast (2009) to explain the origins and persistence of Italian North- South economic divide since the country unification in 1861. We argue that, despite the existence of the same set of formal institutions, historically the North of the country progressively developed into an OAO, while in the South only an “horizontal” transition took place whereby it remained a LAO, with aristocratic privileges being substituted by rents allocated to lobbies and political clienteles. Using original data on crime and participation to elections and referendums, we show that this evolution was the result of the failure of the State, in the South, to acquire the monopoly over the legitimate use of violence and to operate as an efficient and credible coordination mechanism. With the support of data on education and female labour participation, we claim that this led to a much more unequal access to resources and opportunities, leading to a gap in income per capita which persisted over time and it is still visible today being unparalleled in the Western world.
N14|Die Genossenschaftliche Institutssicherung – ein notwendiges Instrument zur Stärkung des Kundenvertrauens und des Risikomanagements im dezentralen Bankenverbund|Cooperative Institutional Protection – a Necessary Instrument for Strengthening Customer Trust and Risk Management in Local Banking Groups: The protection scheme of the cooperative financial network goes back to the guarantee funds of the German ‹Volksbanken›, the world's oldest privately-financed protection system for banks. The core task of institutional protection is to protect the cooperative banks and hence the protection of the member's and customers' deposits, investments and savings. The local roots of the credit cooperatives rest in the 19th century. During the so-called formative phase, protection schemes were established for the newly-created cooperative lending networks of ‹Volksbanken› and rural cooperative banks, which have been a joint cooperative financial network since 1972. Since that time, the cooperative banks' combined protection scheme has developed into a unique protection system with complex tools for risk management.
N14|How does the public perceive alliances? The Central and Allied Powers in World War I|World War I was fought by numerous countries siding together as the Central Powers and, respectively, the Allied Powers. The former established around the German Empire and Austria-Hungary and grew to four allies when the Ottoman Empire in late 1914 and Bulgaria in late 1915 entered the scene; the latter centered on the alliance between England, France, and Russia and was informally extended to many more countries as they entered into the war ad-hoc by signaling common interests with the core Allied Powers. This article addresses an oft-neglected dimension of the alliance formation phenomenon, namely how alliances were perceived by the public, in contrast to military leaders' perceptions of each other. Were the Central and Allied Powers perceived as credible alliances - monolithic blocks - right at the time? We seek to determine the degree of 'alliance integration' among pairs of countries by applying cointegration analysis based on securities prices. It is assumed that prices of countries perceived as 'integrated' should show signs of co-movement. More specifically, we focus on the Amsterdam market for foreign government bonds providing us with a neutral's view on that matter. Our analysis is based on the yields for 13 belligerent countries' representative bonds traded during the war, but also before and after. Among other things, we cannot corroborate that investors recognized two monolithic blocks simply fighting the war.
N14|Bis repetita non placent: Griechische Finanzkontrolle im 19. Jahrhundert und in der Gegenwart|No abstract is available for this item.
N14|90 years from the establishment of the Czechoslovak National Bank|The article commemorates the 90th anniversary of the foundation of the Czechoslovak National Bank. In the first part the Banking Office of the Ministry of Finance as the first Czechoslovak central monetary authority as well as a predecessor of the Czechoslovak National Bank is characterized. In the second part the circumstances of the establishment of the Czechoslovak National Bank are analyzed. In the last part the Czechoslovak National Bank as the first central bank in our territory is dealt with.
N14|Paolo Sylos Labini: Reflections on a classical economist|The article provides a summary of Sylos Labini’s memories collected in occasion of the tenth anniversary of his passing away. The author reports the proceedings of two conferences in memory of Sylos Labini held in Rome, respectively on 18 November 2015 at the Lincean Academy and on 4 December 2015 at Sapienza University.
N14|The Euro and the Battle of Ideas|Why is Europe’s great monetary endeavor, the Euro, in trouble? A string of economic difficulties in Greece, Ireland, Spain, Italy, and other Eurozone nations has left observers wondering whether the currency union can survive. In this book, Markus Brunnermeier, Harold James, and Jean-Pierre Landau argue that the core problem with the Euro lies in the philosophical differences between the founding countries of the Eurozone, particularly Germany and France. But the authors also show how these seemingly incompatible differences can be reconciled to ensure Europe’s survival. As the authors demonstrate, Germany, a federal state with strong regional governments, saw the Maastricht Treaty, the framework for the Euro, as a set of rules. France, on the other hand, with a more centralized system of government, saw the framework as flexible, to be overseen by governments. The authors discuss how the troubles faced by the Euro have led its member states to focus on national, as opposed to collective, responses, a reaction explained by the resurgence of the battle of economic ideas: rules vs. discretion, liability vs. solidarity, solvency vs. liquidity, austerity vs. stimulus. Weaving together economic analysis and historical reflection, The Euro and the Battle of Ideas provides a forensic investigation and a road map for Europe’s future.
N14|Financial and Economic Growth in Europe : Is the Euro Beneficial for All Countries?|We revisit the financial–economic growth nexus, accounting for differential effects of large-scale legislative frameworks, such as political and financial integrations, in Europe. Debt is introduced as an integral component, and potential triple endogeneity is investigated. Empirical findings show that neither political nor financial integration, namely the euro appears to have a direct impact on economic growth. In contrast, only monetary integration has a dual and indirect impact on economic growth. First, the Euro allows for improved access to financing, which enhances economic growth. This increases market values, which further accelerate economic growth. This is only evident within the Eurozone, highlighting a Euro effect, whereas political integration seems to be insufficient in engaging the country in a synergetic endogeneity. Second, improved access to financing induced by the Euro introduces an additional macroeconomic risk of over-borrowing. This reverses the above-mentioned spiral link by decreasing market values and therefore leads the economies to a spiral contraction. Consequently, the suitability of adopting the Euro should depend on each country’s ability to balance its dual role, i.e., the improved access to financing and the risk of over-borrowing.
N14|On the Discussion of the Economic Policy of Germany from Weimar to Hitler<BR>[К Дискуссиям Об Экономической Политике Германии От Веймара До Гитлера]|The article reviews the central themes of the discussion about economic policy of the Weimar Republic immediately before and during the worldwide economic crisis of the end of 1920s and the beginning of 1930s. The author uses for this purpose a collection of papers published as a Festschrift in honor of German economic historian Knut Borchardt. The article discusses such topics as the role of the German economic and in particular monetary policy in genesis and development of the crisis, anti-crisis policy options at the German government’s disposal, impact of wages’ rigidity and international monetary and economic relations on the economic situation in the period immediately preceding the establishment of the Nazi regime
N14|Greek Sovereign Defaults in Retrospect and Prospect|This article focuses on and critically reviews the four Greek sovereign defaults (1827, 1843, 1893 and 1932) and puts them into historical perspective. The argument is that each and every one of the defaults was not an isolated episode in the turbulent economic history of capitalism, but, rather, a manifestation of the internal weaknesses of the Greek economy magnified during the downturn phases of the 1815-1848, 1873-1896, and 1921-1940 long waves. Crucial for understanding the conditions that triggered these defaults were the short-sighted and often opportunistic policies adopted by the Greek governments of the time, which were eager to increase public spending based on borrowed money, thus contributing to a mounting public debt. As a consequence, Greek sovereign defaults of the past are worth studying in an effort to derive useful lessons and draw economic policy conclusions.
N14|The Poor and the Poorest, fifty years on: Evidence from British Household Expenditure Surveys of the 1950s and 1960s|We re-explore Abel-Smith and Townsend’s landmark study of poverty in early post WW2 Britain. They found a large increase in poverty between 1953-4 and 1960, a period of relatively strong economic growth. Our re-examination is a first exploitation of the data extracted from the recent digitisation of the Ministry of Labour’s Enquiry into Household Expenditure in 1953-4. First we closely replicate their results. We find that Abel-Smith and Townsend’s method generated a greater rise in poverty than other reasonable methods. Using contemporary standard poverty lines, we find that the relative poverty rate grew only a little at most, and the absolute poverty rate fell, between 1953-4 and 1961, as might be expected in a period of rising real incomes and steady inequality. We also extend the poverty rate time series of Goodman and Webb (1995) back to 1953-4.
N14|Growth, deregulation and rent seeking in post-war British economy| Post-war political consensus about the need for government action to rectify market failure began to unravel in the 1970s, and even the need for prudential control of banking and finance began to be challenged by the start of the 1980s. Regulatory oversight was relaxed in the belief that emerging techniques in financial engineering would render irrelevant fears of sharp periodic downturns that have historically been the consequence of lightly regulated finance. The outcome of this new policy, embracing the idea of unregulated markets to deliver greater prosperity, is disappointing. We find that the average growth rate of UK GDP and output per person employed for three decades from the start of liberalization was no greater than that in the previous three post-war decades. Cyclical fluctuations were deeper. A remarkable feature of the second period is the sharp rise in income inequality in favour of the very top earners. An illusion of greater prosperity for a wider segment may have been created in the second period due to asset price bubbles and housing inflation.
N14|The Old Connection Sundered? Ireland and the UK since 1916|Determined to be free from the oppressive control of an alien power, each nationalist thinker on the eve of the Easter Rising sought a new approach to economic structures and policies. But their visions differed. But the course followed by the Irish economy reflected neither the national self-reliance advocated by Griffith nor the socialism of Connolly. Instead, it was the liberal internationalism of the less-heralded Tom Kettle that best characterized Ireland’s eventually successful navigation of the global economy. Over the past half century growth rates have been on average high, but volatile, reflecting the opportunities and challenges of globalization; of embracing the continental rather than the insular. In opening to the global economy, Ireland did not turn its back on Britain. Strong economic influences remained. For example, the partial insulation of living standards in Ireland from market inequalities seems to reflect (albeit imperfectly) the degree and the ways in which Britain has addressed these issues over the past century. The old connection was not altogether sundered.
N14|Austerity in the European periphery: the Irish experience|Ireland has come to be seen as an exemplary case of the successful practice of austerity, both economically and politically. But these inferences would be misleading. The real story about fiscal adjustments in Ireland is more problematic, the reasons for recovery are more complex, and the political consequences are a good deal more nuanced. This paper sets the Irish experience alongside that of the other Eurozone periphery countries. It argues that these countries’ recovery prospects depend on the EU economic policy framework, but that Ireland’s connections to non-Eurozone economies also shape its growth prospects. Political stability is problematic in all the periphery countries, with the rise of challenger parties articulating values and priorities that may be difficult to accommodate within the current European policy regime. This is connected to a wider problem of the decay of older political identities and loyalties and the emergence of a new legitimation gap for EU member states.
N14|Independent Ireland In Comparative Perspective|This paper surveys independent Ireland’s economic policies and performance. It has three main messages. First, the economic history of post-independence Ireland was not particularly unusual. Very often, things that were happening in Ireland were happening elsewhere as well. Second, for a long time we were hampered by an excessive dependence on a poorly performing UK economy. And third, EC membership in 1973, and the Single Market programme of the late 1980s and early 1990s, were absolutely crucial for us. Irish independence and EU membership have complemented each other, rather than being in conflict: each was required to give full effect to the other. Irish independence would not have worked as well for us as it did without the EU; and the EU would not have worked as well for us as it did without political independence.
N14|Alternative interpretations of a stateless currency crisis|A number of economists warned that a political union was a prerequisite for a viable currency union. This paper disputes the feasibility of such a political union. A fully fledged federal union, which would likely please peripheral Europe, is impracticable since it implies a degree of fiscal solidarity that does not exist. A Hayekian minimal federal state, which would appeal to core Europe, would be refused by peripheral members, since residual fiscal sovereignty would be surrendered without any clear positive economic and social return. Even an intermediate solution based on coordinated Keynesian policies would be unfeasible, since it would be at odds with German ‘monetary mercantilism’. The euro area is thus trapped between equally unfeasible political perspectives. In this bleak context, austerity policies are mainly explained by the necessity to readdress the euro area balance-of-payments crisis. This crisis presents striking similarities to traditional financial crises in emerging economies associated with fixed exchange regimes. Therefore, the delayed response of the European Central Bank (ECB) to the sovereign debt crisis cannot be seen as the culprit of the euro area crisis. The ECB’s monetary refinancing mechanisms, Target 2 and the ECB’s belated Outright Monetary Transactions intervention impeded a blow-up of the currency union, but could not solve its deep causes. The current combination of austerity policies and moderate ECB intervention aims to rebalance intra-eurozone foreign accounts and to force competitive deflation strategy.
N14|Introducing Railway Time in the Balkans: Economic eﬀects of railway construction in Southeast Europe and beyond since the early 19th century until present days|Abstract In this paper we analyse the economic eﬀects of railway infrastructure at the national level for European countries as well as at the local level for Southeast European cities based on a novel railway database capturing decades of the 19th century up to the early 21th century. A panel ﬁxed eﬀects regression analysis at the country level indicates a positive economic impact emanating from railway infrastructure, whereby the eﬀect appears to be even stronger for less developed Southeast European countries. In addition, a linear spatially augmented multilevel model at the city level sheds light on the positive eﬀects resulting from railway infrastructure on urban development. Its positive spillover eﬀects occur within countries as well as across borders.
N14|Elusive Development in the Balkans: Research Findings|Summary Research findings of the latest round of the wiiw-GDN project on development in the Balkans are surveyed. Historical and structural deficiencies of development in the Balkan countries are discussed in detail with emphasis of the role of investment, integration, and structural and policy deficiencies. These structural features have led to policy challenges in particular after the crisis of 2008-2009. Which are investment- and export-led growth, which implies slower growth of consumption than national savings; slow growth of wages and incomes over the period of structural adjustment and for reasons of prevention of real exchange rate appreciation; and free access to foreign markets due to slower recovery of domestic demand. With the policy framework biased towards rigidity, and having in mind the needed structural adjustment, development policies that are compatible with them are infrastructure, physical and institutional, investments supported by the EU and regionally; trade integration – regional, European, and within the World Trade Organisation; financial and entrepreneurial cooperation within the manufacturing networks in the EU primarily; sustainable macroeconomic policies especially when it comes to external balances. A list of studies and of the relevant literature is included.
N14|Financial supervision to fight fiscal dominance? The gold standard in Greece and South-East Europe between economic and political objectives and fiscal reality, 1841-1939|We add a historical and regional dimension to the debate on the Greek debt crisis. Analysing Greece, Romania, Serbia/Yugoslavia and Bulgaria from political independence to WW II, we find surprising parallels to the present: repeated cycles of entry to and exit from monetary unions, government debt build-up and default, and financial supervision by West European countries. Gold standard membership was more short-lived than in any other part of Europe due to fiscal dominance. Granger causality tests and money growth accounting show that the prevailing pattern of fiscal dominance was only broken under international financial control, when strict conditionality scaled back the treasury’s influence; only then were central banks able to conduct a rule-bound monetary policy and stabilize their exchange-rates. The long-run record of Greece suggests that the perennial economic and political objective of monetary union membership can only be achieved if both monetary and fiscal policy is effectively delegated abroad.
N14|Still the queen of the social sciences? (Post-)Crisis power balances of 'public economists' in Germany|As an immediate reaction to the recent financial crisis, it has been criticized that many economists are still acting as economic advisers for Ministries or the bureaucracy, although they have not been able to foresee the crisis . Academic economists still hold central positions in policy making; they influence decisions in economic expert panels or research departments in national and supranational organizations. Beside their role as policy advisors, economists also engage in public debates in a more narrow sense as technical economic experts as well as in a broader sense as 'public intellectuals' in the process of the transmission of economic knowledge in public (economic) policy discourses. In spite of the manifold critique about the state of economics in the aftermath of the crisis, an even increasing presence of economists and economic experts can be observed in the pu blic sphere during the last years . On the one hand this reflects the still dominant position of economics in the social sciences as well as the sometimes ignorant attitude of economists towards findings of other social sciences. On the other hand this pape r shows that the public debate on politico - economic issues among economists is dominated by a specific sub group of economists, tightly connected to an institutional network of 'German neoliberalism'. This group of 'public economists' (i) is dominant in pub lic debates even after the financial crisis, (ii) reproduces the formative German economic imaginary of the Social Market Economy in a German neoliberal interpretation and (iii) has a good access to German economic policymaking, rooted in a long history of economic policy advice.
N14|Designing dynamic research contests|To assess the impact of interventions on well-being during war time, we analyze data from the birth records at the university maternity hospital of Basle in the period 1912-1920. Birth weight of children from medium SEP families decreased during the crisis years 1918 and 1919, but not for low and high SEP families. A potential explanation is access to food: while high SEP families could compensate for high prices, low SEP families received support, for which medium SEP families were not eligible.
N14|The Palmer Rule and the convertibility of bank notes in Spain|Research on banking systems has token as a frame of reference the English banking system. Precisely because the English banking system was early, it had opportunities to explore certain control mechanisms that favored the extension of the bill of bank. One such mechanism was known as Palmer Rule, a rule stating that a well-managed bank should keep in its cash box one third of its responsibilities. This rule allowed maintaining the convertibility of notes, giving confidence to customers and encouraging the spread paper money. In Spain it has been discussed about the convertibility of the note in the last quarter of the nineteenth century. This work includes to the discussion the Palmer rule, crucial to understanding why the ticket of the Bank of Spain ceased to be convertible de facto in the late nineteenth century, although the inconvertibility is not legally established until 1946.
N14|The mother of all sudden stops: capital flows and reversals in Europe, 1919–32|New data documenting European bond issues in major financial centres from 1919 to 1932 show that conditions in international capital markets and not just in borrowing countries are important for explaining the surge and reversal in capital flows. In particular, the sharp increase in stock market volatility in the major financial centres at the end of the 1920s figured importantly in the decline in foreign lending. This article draws parallels with Europe after 2008<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N14|Monetary Versus Macroprudential Policies: Causal Impacts of Interest Rates and Credit Controls in the Era of the UK Radcliffe Report|We have entered a world of conjoined monetary and macroprudential policies. But can they function smoothly in tandem, and with what effects? Since this policy cocktail has not been seen for decades, the empirical evidence is almost non-existent. We can only fix this shortcoming in a historical laboratory. The Radcliffe Report (1959), notoriously sceptical about the efficacy of monetary policy, embodied views which led the UK to a three-decade experiment of using credit policy tools alongside conventional changes in the central bank interest rate. These non-price tools are similar to policies now being considered or used by macroprudential policymakers. We describe these tools, document how they were used by the authorities, and craft a new, largely hand-collected data set to help estimate their effects. We develop a novel empirical strategy, which we term Factor-Augmented Local Projection (FALP), to investigate the subtly different impacts of both monetary and macroprudential policies. Monetary policy innovations acted on output and inflation broadly in line with consensus views today, but tighter credit policy acted primarily to modulate bank lending whilst reducing output and leaving inflation unchanged.
N14|EU-Osterweiterung: Anpassungsprozesse, Binnenmarktdynamik und Euro-Perspektiven|The adjustment processes in the context of EU enlargement are analysed and it is shown that institutional changes and economic adjustment dynamics differ across countries. EU eastern enlargement has generated some convergence effects. After a transition period there was considerable westward migration. Changes and sectoral output composition of Eastern Europe is partially related to the value-added chains of western EU companies. Until 2015 membership in the Eurozone has been completed by smaller accession countries only. Poland as the biggest economy of Eastern Europe still has no plans for a membership soon. EU eastern enlargement lags a consistent complementary EU neighbourhood policy. At the bottom line EU-eastern enlargement reinforces necessary EU reforms.
N14|Economic Analysis and Forecasting in the Global Economy and in Emerging and Developing Regions Including Africa: How Informative is the Ifo World Economic Survey (WES)?|Economists around the world rely in addition to official statistics on business (and consumer) surveys, which are more up-to-date. However, for many emerging and developing countries there is a lack of such surveys. This gap can, at least partly, be filled by the Ifo World Economic Survey (WES). In this paper we first describe this survey and also examine how helpful it is for macroeconomic analysis and short-term forecasting. We find that this survey provides important up-to-date information about the cyclical stage of the global economy and of major emerging and developing regions including Africa. Increasing the number of participating experts could further improve its usefulness for macroeconomic analysis in these regions.
N14|Why Did Socialism Fail? The Role of Factor Inputs Reconsidered|We present revised growth accounts for three socialist economies between 1950 and 1989. Government statistics reported distorted measures for both the rate and trajectory of productivity growth in Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland. Researchers have benefited from revised output data, but continued to use official statistics on capital input, or estimated capital stock from official investment data. Investment levels and rates of capital accumulations were, in fact, much lower than officially claimed and over-reporting worsened over time. Sluggish factor accumulation, specifically declining equipment investment and labor input, contributed much more to the socialist growth failure of the 1980s than previously thought.
N14|The Growth Effects of EU Membership for the UK: a Review of the Evidence|This paper reviews the literature on the implications of EU membership for the UK. It concludes that membership has raised UK income levels appreciably and by much more than 1970s’ proponents of EU entry predicted. These positive effects stem from the EU’s success in increasing trade and the impact of stronger competition on UK productivity. The economic benefits of EU membership for the UK have far exceeded the costs of budgetary transfers and regulation. Brexit is risky and its impact would depend heavily on the terms negotiated and the use made of the policy space that it freed up.
N14|Spain's Historical National Accounts: Expenditure and Output, 1850-2015|This essay offers a new set of historical GDP estimates from the demand and supply sides that revises and expands those in Prados de la Escosura (2003) and provides the basis to investigate Spain’s long run economic growth. It presents a reconstruction of production and expenditure series for the century prior to the introduction of modern national accounts. Then, it splices available national accounts sets over the period 1958-2015 through interpolation, as an alternative to conventional retropolation. The resulting national accounts series are linked to the ‘pre-statistical era’ estimates providing yearly series for GDP and its components since 1850. On the basis of new population estimates, GDP per head is derived. Trends in GDP per head are, then, drawn and, using new employment estimates, decomposed into labour productivity and the amount of work per person, and placed into international perspective.
N14|Spain's Historical National Accounts: Expenditure and Output, 1850-2015|"This essay offers a new set of historical GDP estimates from the demand and supply sides that revises and expands those in Prados de la Escosura (2003) and provides the basis to investigate Spain's long run economic growth. It presents a reconstruction of production and expenditure series for the century prior to the introduction of modern national accounts. Then, it splices available national accounts sets over the period 1958-2015 through interpolation, as an alternative to conventional retropolation. The resulting national accounts series are linked to the ""pre-statistical era"" estimates providing yearly series for GDP and its components since 1850. On the basis of new population estimates, GDP per head is derived. Trends in GDP per head are, then, drawn and, using new employment estimates, decomposed into labour productivity and the amount of work per person, and placed into international perspective."
N14|Max Weber and the First World War: Protestant and Catholic living standards in Germany, 1915–1919|We assess informal institutions of Protestants and Catholics by investigating their economic resilience in a natural experiment. The First World War constitutes an exogenous shock to living standards since the duration and intensity of the war exceeded all expectations. We assess the ability of Protestant and Catholic communities to cope with increasing food prices and wartime black markets. Literature based on Weber (1904, 1905) suggests that Protestants must be more resilient than their Catholic peers. Using individual height data on some 2,800 Germans to assess levels of malnutrition during the war, we find that living standards for both Protestants and Catholics declined; however, the decrease of Catholics’ height was disproportionately large. Our empirical analysis finds a large statistically significant difference between Protestants and Catholics for the 1914-19 birth cohort, and we argue that this height gap cannot be attributed to socioeconomic background and fertility alone.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N14|Breaking Promises: Hungarian Experience|The article analyzes the role of promises and obligations in economic life, delineates the major types of obligations and shows the devastating consequences of breaking the promises. Various additional circumstances are also considered that have to be accounted for in the balanced judgment of the situations in which the obligations are not met. The examples of breaking promises, logics of such a breaking and the factors precluding it are discussed in the ethical and political contexts as well.
N14|Solidarity with EU Countries in Crisis: Results of a 2015 Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) Survey|In response to the European sovereign debt and currency crisis, the EU has begun to implement measures toward fiscal solidarity at least for the euro area. Survey data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) study show that just under half of all adults in Germany generally support providing assistance to EU countries experiencing financial difficulties. Almost one in three respondents also advocate the idea of an individual solidarity contribution for countries in crisis. In return, the majority of people in Germany expect these countries to reduce public spending and forge ahead with privatization. Only a minority call for the crisis country to make cuts in its social spending.
N14|Solidarität mit in Not geratenen Ländern der Europäischen Union: Ergebnisse einer Befragung des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels 2015|"In response to the European sovereign debt and currency crisis, the EU has begun to implement measures toward fiscal solidarity at least for the euro area. Survey data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) study show that just under half of all adults in Germany generally support providing assistance to EU countries experiencing financial difficulties. Almost one in three respondents also advocate the idea of an individual solidarity contribution for countries in crisis. In return, the majority of people in Germany expect these countries to reduce public spending and forge ahead with privatization. Only a minority call for the crisis country to make cuts in its social spending. Als Reaktion auf die europäische Staatsschulden- und Währungskrise hat die EU zumindest für die Eurozone den Weg in Richtung einer fiskalischen Solidargemeinschaft eingeschlagen. Befragungsdaten des Sozio-oekonomischen Panels (SOEP) zeigen, dass knapp die Hälfte aller Erwachsenen in Deutschland Hilfeleistungen für in Finanzierungsschwierigkeiten geratene Länder der EU generell unterstützt. Knapp jede dritte befragte Person befürwortet darüber hinaus einen individuellen hypothetischen ""Solidaritätsbeitrag"" für Krisenländer. Im Gegenzug erwartet die Mehrheit der Menschen in Deutschland, dass Krisenländer Ausgaben im öffentlichen Sektor senken und Privatisierungen vorantreiben. Lediglich eine Minderheit fordert die Kürzung von Sozialausgaben im Krisenland."
N14|Estimation of historical inflation expectations|Expected inflation is a central variable in economic theory. Economic historians have estimated historical inflation expectations for a variety of purposes, including studies of the Fisher effect, the debt deflation hypothesis, central bank credibility, and expectations formation. I survey the statistical, narrative, and market-based approaches that have been used to estimate inflation expectations in historical eras, including the classical gold standard era, the hyperinflations of the 1920s, and the Great Depression, highlighting key methodological considerations and identifying areas that warrant further research. A meta-analysis of inflation expectations at the onset of the Great Depression reveals that the deflation of the early 1930s was mostly unanticipated, supporting the debt deflation hypothesis, and shows how these results are sensitive to estimation methodology.
N14|This time is different: Causes and consequences of British banking instability over the long run|This paper addresses three questions: (1) How severe were the episodes of banking instability experienced by the UK over the past two centuries? (2) What have been the macroeconomic indicators of UK banking instability? and (3) What have been the consequences of UK banking instability for the cost of credit? Using a unique dataset of bank share prices from 1830 to 2010 to assess the stability of the UK banking system, we find that banking instability has grown more severe since the 1970s. We also find that interest rates, inflation, lending growth, and equity prices are consistent macroeconomic indicators of UK banking instability over the long run. Furthermore, utilising a unique dataset of corporate-bond yields for the period 1860 to 2010, we find that there is a significant long-run relationship between banking instability and the credit-risk premium faced by businesses.
N14|Trading gains: new estimates of swiss gdp, 1851 to 2008|This paper revises Swiss GDP emphasizing the difference between single and double deflation, which depends on trading gains: i.e. gains from terms of trade and from the real exchange rate. These gains contributed significantly to Swiss economic growth between 1930 and 1990. Earlier series of Swiss GDP have neglected trading gains. In backward projections, this leads to overestimation of GDP (per capita) levels. The Maddison database (Bolt & Zanden 2014), for example, suggests that Swiss GDP per capita was 38 percent above that of the USA in 1875. My series shows that Swiss GDP per capita was still below the Western European average.
N14|Monetary Versus Macroprudential Policies: Causal Impacts of Interest Rates and Credit Controls in the Era of the UK Radcliffe Report|We have entered a world of conjoined monetary and macroprudential policies. But can they function smoothly in tandem, and with what effects? Since this policy cocktail has not been seen for decades, the empirical evidence is almost non-existent. We can only fix this shortcoming in a historical laboratory. The Radcliffe Report (1959), notoriously skeptical about the efficacy of monetary policy, embodied views which led the UK to a three-decade experiment of using credit controls alongside conventional changes in the central bank interest rate. These non-price tools are similar to policies now being considered or used by macroprudential policymakers. We describe these tools, document how they were used by the authorities, and craft a new, largely hand-collected dataset to help estimate their effects. We develop a novel identification strategy, which we term Factor-Augmented Local Projection (FALP), to investigate the subtly different impacts of both monetary and macroprudential policies. Monetary policy acted on output and inflation broadly in line with consensus views today, but credit controls had markedly different effects and acted primarily to modulate bank lending.
N14|Any lessons for today? Exchange-rate stabilisation in Greece and South-East Europe between economic and political objectives and fiscal reality, 1841-1939|"""We add a historical and regional dimension to the debate on the Greek debt crisis. Analysing Greece, Romania, Serbia/Yugoslavia and Bulgaria from political independence to WW II, we find surprising parallels to the present: repeated cycles of entry to and exit from monetary unions, government debt build-up and default, and financial supervision by West European countries. Gold standard membership was more short-lived than in any other part of Europe due to fiscal dominance. Granger causality tests and money growth accounting show that the prevailing pattern of fiscal dominance was only broken under international financial control, when strict conditionality scaled back the treasury’s influence; only then were central banks able to conduct a rule-bound monetary policy and stabilize their exchange-rates. The long- run record of Greece suggests that the perennial economic and political objective of monetary union membership can only be achieved if both monetary and fiscal policy is effectively delegated abroad."""
N14|Keynes and the European economy|We argue in this paper that Keynes was interested primarily in the world economy. We do not seek to diminish the innovative advances Keynes made in The General Theory; we instead want to expand the perceived scope of Keynesian economics. We make this argument by analysing Keynes's contributions at three points during his career: writing The Economic Consequences of the Peace just after the First World War, testifying before the Macmillan Committee at the outset of the Great Depression, and negotiating at Bretton Woods during and after the Second World War. We then show how international Keynesian analysis clarifies the economic problems of Europe today.
N14|How Keynes came to Britain|I explore how Keynesian ideas made their way into British public policy. I argue that the breakdown of pre-First World War macroeconomic conditions led to a â€˜blockedâ€™ system, where the adjustment mechanisms presupposed by classical economics were jammed, and that Keynesian economics offered an escape from this system. I explain the Keynesian response to the new problems in monetary and fiscal policy: the gold standard impeding credit control, and the tenacity of the balanced budget rule, respectively. Finally, I outline how Keynesâ€™s ideas took hold after the Great Depression via the events at the Macmillan Committee, and their policy implications.
N14|Trading gains: new estimates of Swiss GDP,1851 to 2008|This paper revises Swiss GDP emphasizing the difference between single and double deflation, which depends on trading gains: i.e. gains from terms of trade and from the real exchange rate. These gains contributed significantly to Swiss economic growth between 1930 and 1990. Earlier series of Swiss GDP have neglected trading gains. In backward projections, this leads to overestimation of GDP (per capita) levels. The Maddison database (Bolt & Zanden 2014), for example, suggests that Swiss GDP per capita was 38 percent above that of the USA in 1875. My series shows that Swiss GDP per capita was still below the Western European average
N14|La construction d'un système statistique : Le cas des statistiques du commerce intérieur en France, de 1945 à la fin des années 1960|This paper studies the construction of quantitative data for the French national trade between 1945 and the 1970s. Our purpose is to provide an account of the establishment of a statistical system specific to this economic sector. By statistical system we imply the apparatus and devices that were put together in order to produce statistical information, in particular political willpower, the professional and institutional actors involved, the accounting frameworks, and the tools and classifications used. In the first section we provide an overview of the transformations of French trade during the period studied, while in the second section We examine the production of statistical data for this sector. In the third section, we study the conditions of emergence of these data, examining the role that particular merchants and political regimes might have had to provoke biases, and questioning the possible political use of these statistics. We show that the construction of a statistical system is not exclusively an institutional or a technical matter, but also that political decisions and particular interests play an important role in the construction of such a system Classification-JEL: B00; N14; N74
N14|The Effect of a Massive Wage Push on Income Distribution and Employment. Evidence from the 1920 Eight-Hour Workday Reform in Sweden and Its Aftermath|In 1920, the working day in Swedish industry and services was cut from 10 to 8 hours without wages being cut correspondingly. This change resulted in a dramatic wage push, with real wages increasing by about 50 percent in the years from 1919 to the deflation of 1921–22. This paper studies the consequences of this wage push for real wages, unemployment, profits and investments. Since agriculture was not affected by the reform, we compare industry and services with agriculture to separate the effects of the reform from other factors. Furthermore, we distinguish between traded and non-traded sectors. We show that real wage effects were significant but that firms in non-traded industries and services faced more inelastic labour demand and thus could conserve profitability to a higher degree. In traded industries, on the other hand, wages relative to profits increased dramatically, and employers responded by increasing capital intensity, leading to jobless growth in the 1920s but continued low profits. We discuss the implications for the literature on interwar wages and employment, the more general inequality literature and the literature on the ‘Swedish model’.
N14|Shipping in dire straits: New evidence on trends and cycles in coal freights from Britain, 1919-1939|New monthly freight rate indices for 13 coal trade routes from Britain 1919-1939 are presented. The new indices form the basis of a review of the interwar freight markets and their relationship to the timing and severity of general business cycles. New time series of laid-up tonnage provide the background for this discussion. The Great Depression starting in the autumn of 1929 created a shipping cycle of unusual length and severity. Real freight rate indices used as a cross-check on productivity gains in shipping raise some doubt on previous estimates of productivity growth in British shipping in the interwar years.
N14|The business cycle in historical perspective: Reconstructing quarterly data on Swedish GDP 1913-2014|Although historical national accounts for Sweden belong to the most detailed in the world, hitherto no quarterly series of Sweden GDP has been published for the period before the 1960s. In this paper we present such a series back to 1913, using higher frequency series on manufacturing and private consumption as indicators, and standard methods for temporal disaggregation from annual GDP data. By applying the JDemetra+ software, we also estimate a deseasonalized volume time series. Based on this new quarterly data and the Bry-Boschan algorithm to identify peaks and troughs we present different chronologies of the classical business cycle in Sweden, indicating a somewhat new and more precise picture of the economic development for the last 100 years. We find that the new series provides new information on the business cycle, confirming its very irregular nature and detecting recessions that are not clearly indicated by annual data.
N14|Missing Men: World War II Casualties and Structural Change|This paper investigates the long-term consequences of violent conflict and the associatedhuman casualties on economic development. Using the World War II casualties suffered in Austrian municipalities as a natural experiment, I find a significant negative causal effect of human losses on economic activity, as measured by the current total wage bill in the affected communities today. The underlying determinants of this reduction in output are traced back to a lower number and density of firms, along with a smaller work force. However, this is only true for the service sector and not the manufacturing sector. As I demonstrate, the likely channel through which the effect persisted over time is through its impact on the structural composition of the work force. Specifically, greater human losses increased the fraction of employment in manufacturing at the expense of agriculture until the 1970s and services from then onwards. A simple model shows that structural change can translate a lower labor share in agricultural production into less participation of service sector growth at a later time.
N14|戦後期ロシアの非公式経済成長：歴史統計，1960－1990|本稿では，機密解除されたアーカイブ家計調査資料（「ロシア国立経済文書館」所蔵）を活用し，戦後期ロシアの非公式経済を家計面から検証した．さらに，非公式経済の規模推計に基づき，ロシアGDP歴史統計を支出面から再評価した．公式・非公式GDPの再推計は次の点を明らかにしている．第1に，既存GDP推計において非公式GDPが適切に考慮されなかったため，1960－90年のロシア経済の規模が期間平均で6.5％～12.6％過小評価されていた．第2に，非公式GDPの名目シェアは趨勢的な縮小傾向を示した．第3に，非公式経済を考慮した場合，ロシアの実質経済成長は下方修正される．1961年を基準とするロシアの実質経済成長は，ソ連崩壊直前の1990年において15～39ポイント低下する．これは年率0.24～0.38％の成長率の低下に相当する．以上は，推計起点の名目GDPが最も過小評価されていること，名目・非公式GDPシェアが趨勢的に縮小したこと，そして，価格が計画的・硬直的に設定された公式経済部門よりも，より柔軟な価格調整機能を有する非公式経済において，価格上昇が著しいことに起因する．公式経済における不足は価格調整を伴わず，それが非公式経済に転嫁されたため，非公式経済成長は鈍化した．
N14|Blooming Landscapes in the West? - German reunification and the price of land|Abstract: German reunification was a positive market access shock for both East and West Ger- many. Regions that for 45 years had experienced a decline in population due to their loss in market access following the division of Germany after WWII were most strongly aected by this positive shock. We use an entirely new data set to analyse the eects of German reunication on the value of land in West Germany. We nd that regions in the immediate border area experienced a relative rise in land prices compared to regions outside a 100km radius from the border. At the same time we conrm the absence of a population eect (Redding and Sturm, 2008) even including rural boroughs. We nd that land values have adjusted more quickly than population and in some cases even overshot predicted long-run levels within the rst decade of reunication. We attribute this nding to the information and expectation component of land prices. Land values incorporate expectations about long- run equilibrium adjustments following reunication more swiftly, but rms and households are slower to react due to the costs of relocating. The results are consistent with empirical work on the positive eects of infrastructure projects on land values (Yiu and Wong, 2005; Lai et al., 2007; Duncan, 2011).
N14|"Still the queens of social sciences? (Post-)Crisis power balances of ""public economists"" in Germany"|"In spite of the manifold critique about the state of economics in the aftermath of the financial crisis, an even increasing presence of economists and economic experts can be observed in the public sphere during the last years. On the one hand this reflects the still dominant position of economics in the social sciences as well as the sometimes ignorant attitude of economists towards findings of other social sciences. On the other hand this paper shows that the public debate on politicoeconomic issues among economists is dominated by a specific subgroup of economists, tightly connected to an institutional network of ""German neoliberalism"". This group of ""public economists"" (i) is dominant in public debates even after the financial crisis, (ii) reproduces the formative German economic imaginary of the Social Market Economy in a German neoliberal interpretation and (iii) has a good access to German economic policymaking, rooted in a long history of economic policy advice."
N14|Decision Making And Saint Petersburg Paradox: Focusing On Heuristic Parameters, Considering The Non-Ergodic Context And The Gambling Risks|The Saint Petersburg Paradox is still a contemporary issue because of the great impact on the probabilistic theory and decision-making. This article proposes some hints on avoiding the trap of the infinite expected value (EV). The highly stochastic mechanism and its EV have always to be contextualized in the limited period where we take our choices taking into account all possible limitations deriving from the theory (including the non-ergodic features and some inappropriate consequences we may attribute to the EV). This contextualisation is one of the most important factors to consider especially when we deal with infinite quantity coming from models that may misrepresent our field of application and therefore generate paradoxes.
N14|Entrepreneurship in the East German Transition Process: Lessons for the Korean Peninsula|This paper summarizes the role of entrepreneurship in the East German transformation process that followed the breakdown of the socialist regime and subsequent unification with West Germany. The main aim of this exercise is to derive conclusions and recommendations for a potential unification of the Korean Peninsula. We demonstrate that the formation of new businesses played a significant role, while efforts to adapt formerly state-owned firms were much less successful. In East Germany, newly emerging firms created the major share of employment opportunities, while incumbent socialist firms shed vast amounts of labor or disappeared completely. The main implication for a potential unification of the Korean Peninsula is that policy should have a special focus on entrepreneurship. In particular, it should try to utilize and strengthen the entrepreneurial abilities of the North Korean population and to create favorable conditions for the emergence of prospering new businesses.
N14|La construction d'un système statistique : Le cas des statistiques du commerce intérieur en France de 1945 à la fin des années 1960|This paper studies the construction of quantitative data for the French national trade between 1945 and the 1970s. Our purpose is to provide an account of the establishment of a statistical system specific to this economic sector. By statistical system we imply the apparatus and devices that were put together in order to produce statistical information, in particular political willpower, the professional and institutional actors involved, the accounting frameworks, and the tools and classifications used. In the first section we provide an overview of the transformations of French trade during the period studied, while in the second section We examine the production of statistical data for this sector. In the third section, we study the conditions of emergence of these data, examining the role that particular merchants and political regimes might have had to provoke biases, and questioning the possible political use of these statistics. We show that the construction of a statistical system is not exclusively an institutional or a technical matter, but also that political decisions and particular interests play an important role in the construction of such a system.
N14|A Model of the International Monetary System|We propose a simple model of the international monetary system. We study the world supply and demand for reserve assets denominated in different currencies under a variety of scenarios: a hegemon versus a multipolar world; abundant versus scarce reserve assets; and a gold exchange standard versus a floating rate system. We rationalize the Triffin dilemma, which posits the fundamental instability of the system, as well as the common prediction regarding the natural and beneficial emergence of a multipolar world, the Nurkse warning that a multipolar world is more unstable than a hegemon world, and the Keynesian argument that a scarcity of reserve assets under a gold standard or at the zero lower bound is recessionary. Our analysis is both positive and normative.
N14|Killer Incentives: Status Competition and Pilot Performance during World War II|A growing theoretical and empirical literature shows that public recognition can lead employees to exert greater effort. However, status competition is also associated with excessive expenditure on status goods, greater likelihood of bankruptcy, and more risk taking by money managers. This paper examines the effects of recognition and status competition jointly. In particular, we focus on the spillover effects of public recognition on the performance and risk taking of peers. Using newly collected data on monthly “victory” scores of more than 5,000 German pilots during World War II, we find that status competition had important effects: After the German armed forces bulletin mentioned the accomplishments of a particular fighter pilot, his former peers performed considerably better. This outperformance varied across skill groups. When a former squadron peer was mentioned, the best pilots tried harder, scored more, and died no more frequently; in contrast, average pilots won only a few additional victories but died at a significantly higher rate. Hence our results show that the overall efficiency effect of nonfinancial rewards can be ambiguous in settings where both risk and output affect aggregate performance.
N14|Aspects of Bulgarian Åconomic Policy and Development During and After the First World War (1914-1929)|The wars for national unity of Bulgaria at the beginning of the 20th century had severe consequences for its economy. Just in the course of seven years, the country had participated in three devastating wars and the peace treaties had damaging impact on its economy. The present paper analyzes the changes that had occurred in the Bulgarian economy during and after the First World War and the imposition of economic policy of protectionism by the state for the economic recovery after the war.
N14|Ideology, Class and Factional Struggles in the Mid and Late 1920s in Soviet Russia – Nikolai Kondratiev’s Tragic Fate|The introduction of the “socialist revolution, socialism, public property” paradigm and its ideological role for the establishment of the capitalist way of production in ÕÕ c. is studied. A situational analysis is made of the class and inter-factional struggles in Soviet Russia in the middle and in the second part of the 20s. The study analyses the class struggle between the large centralized state monopolistic capital on the one hand, and the small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises on the other, as well as their factional representation in the political life of that period. It reveals the advantages of the factional struggle of Stalin’s centrist faction and the importance of his ideologeme for the “establishment of socialism in a particular country”. It also shows how class struggle influences the tragic life of the outstanding Russian economist Nikolai Kondratiev.
N14|A (not so brief ) history of inflation in Austria|We analyze the eventful history of inflation in Austria over the past two centuries against the background of institutional, economic and political developments. Ultra-high inflation or hyperinflation resulted from repeated monetary financing of war expenses, war-related destruction of productive capacity as well as fear of short-term political and social consequences of anti-inflationary measures. Like other countries, Austria experienced the highest inflation during peaceful times in the 20th century when efforts were made to cushion the negative output effects of oil price shocks. Inflation volatility was high in the 19th century up to the Gründerzeit boom and in the 20th century during the Great Inflation; it was low in the half-century up to World War I and during the Great Moderation. Our frequency domain analysis for the pre-World War I and post-World War II periods finds that, in line with the economic literature, the correlation between money growth and inflation is considerably higher for long and very long frequencies than for business cycle frequencies. The varying correlation between money and inflation reflects changing monetary regimes. We cannot establish a stable empirical Phillips curve relationship; in the post-World War II period, the relationship breaks down once supply shocks (oil prices) are included. Deflation was quite frequent in 19th-century Austria and was not necessarily associated with recessions. By contrast, Austria’s 20th century Great Depression fits the textbook notion of deflation, high unemployment and economic slack. Formal central bank independence did not prevent the erosion of monetary value in “emergency situations” of wars. Hyperinflations and currency reforms repeatedly inflicted substantial and long-lasting damage on citizens’ trust in state money and in the state more generally.
N14|Two centuries of currency policy in Austria|This paper is devoted to currency policies in Austria over the last 200 years, attempting to sketch historical developments and uncover regularities and interconnections with macroeconomic variables. While during the 19th century the exchange rate resembled a kind of technical relation, since World War I (WW I) it has evolved as a policy instrument with the main objectives of controlling inflation and fostering productivity. During most of the 200-year period, Austrian currencies were subject to fixed exchange rates, in the form of silver and Gold standards in the 19th century, as a gold-exchange standard and hard currency policy in much of the 20th century, and with the euro as the single currency in the early 21st century. Given Austria’s euro area membership, national exchange rate policy has been relinquished in favor of a common currency which itself is floating vis-à-vis third currencies. Austria’s predilection for keeping exchange rates stable is due not least to the country’s transformation from one of Europe’s few great powers (up to WW I) to a small open economy closely tied to the large German economy.
N14|The financial relations between the Nationalbank and the government|The privilegirte oesterreichische National-Bank was founded in 1816, but the central government has held a major share in the Austrian central bank only since 1955. However, the government has always participated significantly in the Nationalbank’s profits via various channels. In this paper we analyze the financial relations between the Nationalbank and the Austrian (or Austro-Hungarian) government over the last 200 years. While today, the Austrian government’s share in the effective profit distribution of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank(OeNB) is 100% (and thus much above 19th-century levels), the OeNB’s holdings of Austrian government debt were relatively small from the mid-1950s until recently. The Eurosystem’s Public Sector Purchase Programme is currently leading to a significant increase in holdings of Austrian government debt recorded at OeNB’s balance sheet. It will likely go somewhat above the levels observed from the 1830s to the 1890s, when average inflation was around ½%.
N14|Florin, crown, schilling and euro: an overview of 200 years of cash in Austria|This article provides an overview of the supply and demand for cash in Austria over the past 200 years. After looking at the government, mint and central bank as cash providers and tracing the composition of cash supply, the article presents several stylized facts about the long-run evolution of cash demand. Results show a relatively stable currency-to-GDP ratio, which is remarkable, given the structural changes in the economy and advances in payment Technologies over the past 200 years. Among possible explanations is that innovations have significantly increased the use of close cash substitutes like deposits without, however, reducing the currency-to-GDP ratio. Second, factors like the increasing monetization of the economy during the 19th century might have compensated for the cash-saving impact of financial innovations. Moreover, most of the demand for cash might not be susceptible to payment innovations as it is driven by hoarding. Finally, large political disruptions i.e. times of elevated economic uncertainty, and systemic banking crises exert strong and persistent effects on the use of cash.
N14|Principles, circumstances and constraints: the Nationalbank as lender of last resort from 1816 to 1931|No abstract is available for this item.
N14|Female labor force participation, inequality and household well-being in the Second Globalization. The Spanish case|The 20th century has witnessed an increase in the female participation force in Western countries, especially since 1940s. Explanations behind the more intensive use of female labour are of different nature: globalization forces, the relative female/male wage linked to an increase in education and productivity, the tertiarization of the economy, and other institutional and cultural factors that allow women to control fertility, invest in assets other than the family ones and alter female bargaining power. Since these phenomena are complex and might respond to specific reasons and timing in different countries, it is important to advance on country case studies in a comparative basis. While in other Western countries the increase in female labor participation started to be significant in the 1960s and 1970s, Spanish female activity rates started to rise dramatically in the 1980s, concurrently with the deep integration of Spain in international markets, especially through the entry in the European Union in 1986. In this paper, we will analyze the reasons behind the decalage in female labor force participation in Spain after WWII in comparison with other Western countries, and the subsequent catching up from the 1980s in order to determine the level of influence of Spanish integration in international markets, as well as other economic, institutional and cultural factors.
N14|Back to the long-run: the “Development Operation” as a supply-side policy by the Italian Industrial Association during the Seventies|The aim of this paper is to stress the proposal made by the Italian Industrial Association against the stagflation during the Seventies, labeled “Development Operation”, which tried to give Italy a long-run growth path, through a strong reduction of public debt, boosting the supply-side in order to gain more productive independence; all of this in close connection with the European Community framework and in line with IMF/OECD directives. Moreover, this policy statement provided for a synthesis of different schools and joined the crowding-out debate occurring at that time in Italy.
N14|La politica economica della Democrazia Cristiana (1948-1963) e il dibattito all’interno del partito<BR>[The economic policy of Christian Democracy (1948-1963) and the debate within the party]|This paper aims to analyze, in a first part, the economic policy carried out by the Christian Democracy from the post WWII until the early Sixties; in a second part, the goal is to trace the debate inside this party to highlight the different positions taken by its members in order to understand why those kind of policies were achieved. We will see that, a first period of unity (largely) within the party, together with a second one where the left-wing component came out and succeeded to lead the party, made possible to design Keynesian based policies in order to boost growth and employment that our country needed.
N14|The Memornada trap and almost fall of the Greek economy|We analyse economic and political developments in Greece for the period 2010-2015, after the introduction of the memoranda agreements between Greece, the European Union (EU), the European central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). We suggest that a vicious cycle took place, whereby austerity measures, badly implemented programs, mistakes of economic policy, unwillingness on the part of the Greek governments to implement structural reforms, and political immaturity from both politicians and citizens led to the failure of the memoranda and furthered political instability. We introduce a game theoretical approach as a model for the “European game” played by Greece and the EU and the complex and confused situation and diverging aims among the major participants: Greece, Germany, the USA, France, the Baltic States, Finland, the IMF, etc. as well as a presentation of the June 5th referendum in Greece. We then present our estimations for the sustainability of the public debt, followed by our conclusions.
N14|Пољопривреда Србије: Сто Година Модернизацијских Напора<BR>[Agriculture of Serbia: One Hundred Years of Modernization Efforts]|Serbian Abstract. У раду се анализирају положај и значај пољопривреде у оквирима привреде Србије и Југославије током 20. и почетком 21. века. Разматрани су процеси развоја и модернизације пољопривреде у периоду од стварања заједничке државе јужнословенских народа после Великог рата до данашњих дана. Најпре се дају одређење и место овог сектора у оквиру целе привреде, а затим историјски преглед његовог развоја у Краљевини Срба, Хрвата и Словенаца, односно Краљевини Југославији, и у периоду социјалистичке југословенске државе. У наредном делу рада приказани су развој пољопривреде у периоду транзиције и њено актуелно стање, првенствено засновано на резултатима Пописа пољопривреде из 2012. године. English Abstract. The paper analyzes the position and importance of agriculture within the economy of Serbia and Yugoslavia during the 20th and 21st centuries. It ponders the processes of development and modernization of agriculture in the period since the creation of the common state of the South Slav peoples after the Great War until today. Firstly, a definition of this sector is exposed, thus giving it a specific position within the whole economy. Secondly, a historic overview is presented of its development in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, as well as in the socialist period of the Yugoslav state. Finally, it shows the development of agriculture in the transition period and its actual state, according to the results of the Agricultural Census from 2012.
N14|The political economy of churches in Denmark over 700 years|This paper reports new macro time-series for the number and size of churches in Denmark from year 1300 to 2000. Church densities are defined as the series per capita. The densities are interpreted as a proxy for religiosity. It is falling throughout all 700 years, but two events gave an extra fall: 1) The Reformation of Catholicism into Lutheranism in the first half of the 16th century caused a fall of 9%, and 2) modern economic growth after 1820 caused a fourfold fall as predicted by the theory of the religious transition. We suggest that similar data for all European countries would show the same strong reaction of church densities to modern economic growth.
N14|Seven Centuries of European Economic Growth and Decline|This paper investigates very long-run preindustrial economic development. New annual GDP per capita data for six European countries over the last seven hundred years paint a clearer picture of the history of European economic development. We confirm that sustained growth has been a recent phenomenon, but reject the argument that there was no long-run growth in living standards before the Industrial Revolution. Instead, the evidence demonstrates the existence of numerous periods of economic growth before the nineteenth century—periods of unsustained, but raising GDP per capita. We also show that many of the economies experienced substantial economic decline. Thus, rather than being stagnant, pre-nineteenth century European economies experienced a great deal of change. Finally, we offer some evidence that, from the nineteenth century, these economies increased the likelihood of being in a phase of economic growth and reduced the risk of being in a phase of economic decline.
N14|Total factor productivity, domestic knowledge accumulation, and international knowledge spillovers in the second half of the twentieth century|This paper analyses the relationship between total factor productivity (TFP) and innovation-related variables during the second half of the twentieth century. We perform this analysis for several European countries (France, Germany, UK, and Spain) and the USA, extending Coe and Helpman’s (Eur Econ Rev 39:859–887, 1995) empirical specification to include human capital. We use a new dataset of patents data for the past 150 years to calculate the stock of knowledge using the perpetual inventory method. Our time series empirical analysis confirms the heterogeneous relationship between innovation variables (domestic stock of knowledge, imports of knowledge, and human capital) and productivity. Our results reveal the extent to which observed differences in technology adoption patterns and the levels of endowment of such resources can explain differences in TFP dynamics across countries. The estimated coefficients confirm the considerable gap that still exists between the European countries and the USA in innovation-related variables. Furthermore, we obtain a finding that may have important implications for innovation policies: the higher the levels of human capital and domestic knowledge stocks, the higher will be the response of TFP to a 1 % increase in any of the aforementioned variables.
N14|The Pitfalls of External Dependence: Greece, 1829–2015|"Two centuries of Greek debt crises highlight the pitfalls of relying on external financing. Since its independence in 1829, the Greek government has defaulted four times on its external creditors - with striking historical parallels. Each crisis is preceded by a period of heavy borrowing from foreign private creditors. As repayment difficulties arise, foreign governments step in, help to repay the private creditors, and demand budget cuts and adjustment programs as a condition for the official bailout loans. Political interference from abroad mounts and a prolonged episode of debt overhang and financial autarky follows. We conclude that these cycles of external debt and dependence are a perennial theme of Greek history, as well as in other countries that have been ""addicted"" to foreign savings.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N14|Why Is Italy Doing So Badly?| We analyse the current Italian economic crisis as a phase of a major systemic decline. We argue that ‘Italy's system’ has forced the country to abandon a dynamic view of comparative advantage, crucial for sustained economic growth, in favour of a static view of specialisation. Creative destruction has been hampered and sectoral restructuring has not occurred, resulting in stagnation. The roots of this decline lie in collective action issues and an implicit contract between elites and civil society. We suggest that these issues must be resolved if the Italian economy and society are to revive.
N14|Norwegian gross domestic product by industry 1830 - 1930|The present paper offers new knowledge of historical national accounting in Norway in several ways. Firstly, a new and novel set of annual gross domestic product series by industry are presented for the period 1830-1930. Secondly, the new estimates suggest revision of the historical national accounts published by Statistics Norway. Thirdly, this may lead to necessary revisions of both Norwegian industrial history and business cycle history.
N14|Unemployment and inflation in Ireland: 1926-2012|Since the 1970s, the overarching view in the literature has been that a Phillips curve relationship did not exist in Ireland prior to the 1979 exchange rate break with Sterling. It was argued that, as a small open economy, prices were determined externally. To test this relationship, we study the determination of inflation between 1926 and 2012, a longer sample period than any previously used. We find that the difference between unemployment and the NAIRU is a significant determinant of inflation both in the full sample and in the subsamples spanning the periods before and after the Sterling parity link.
N14|Italy’s Modern Economic Growth, 1861–2011|By making the most of a newly-available large set of historical statistics, the paper outlines the main features of Italy’s modern economic growth from unification (1861) until the present day (2011). Alongside national GDP estimates, regional inequality, living standards and inequality of personal income distribution are also discussed. Over the long run, Italy successfully caught up with the most advanced economies, and did so in a virtuous manner: while the regional imbalance persisted, at the national level economic growth was accompanied by a secular decline in income inequality. This pattern has come to a halt: during the last two decades, stagnation in GDP per capita has been mirrored by an unprecedented decline in productivity; southern regions have further lagged behind the rest of the country, and income inequality is on the rise. Italy has entered a phase of rapid relative economic decline.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N14|A Stronger Union through Crisis? 25 Years of Monetary Integration in Europe|On July 1, 1990, when capital controls in the European Economic Community were removed, the path was paved for the introduction of the euro. This path was marked by a compromise between two schools of thought—those who assumed that the creation of the European Central Bank would be followed by greater economic convergence and political integration, and those who saw the single currency as the coronation of European cooperation and economic convergence. In the initial years following the introduction of the single currency, the compromise as set down in the Maastricht Treaty—the speedy introduction of the single currency, on the one hand, and better cooperation in fiscal policy matters on the other—neither strengthened the institutional foundations of the monetary union nor advanced the political integration process. This resulted in economic divergence and tension in the euro area, which in recent years culminated in a severe crisis. It was only in response to this crisis that some of the necessary changes to the institutional structures of the monetary union were made. There is much evidence to suggest that, when the monetary union was originally being created, such tension and even crisis situations were consciously tolerated because of the stimulus for deeper integration this would provide. Such political maneuvering is very risky, however, since it can lead to the loss of public support for the integration process, thereby threatening the very existence of the common currency. To advance the European project, it is imperative that governments do not rely on the momentum inherent in crisis situations, but instead press ahead with the next stages of integration and take an active approach to bolstering the institutional foundations of the currency union.
N14|Über die Krise zur Einheit? 25 Jahre monetärer Integrationsprozess in Europa|On July 1, 1990, when capital controls in the European Economic Community were removed, the path was paved for the introduction of the euro. This path was marked by a compromise between two schools of thought—those who assumed that the creation of the European Central Bank would be followed by greater economic convergence and political integration, and those who saw the single currency as the coronation of European cooperation and economic convergence. In the initial years following the introduction of the single currency, the compromise as set down in the Maastricht Treaty—the speedy introduction of the single currency, on the one hand, and better cooperation in fiscal policy matters on the other—neither strengthened the institutional foundations of the monetary union nor advanced the political integration process. This resulted in economic divergence and tension in the euro area, which in recent years culminated in a severe crisis. It was only in response to this crisis that some of the necessary changes to the institutional structures of the monetary union were made. There is much evidence to suggest that, when the monetary union was originally being created, such tension and even crisis situations were consciously tolerated because of the stimulus for deeper integration this would provide. Such political manoevering is very risky, however, since it can lead to the loss of public support for the integration process, thereby threatening the very existence of the common currency. To advance the European project, it is imperative that governments do not rely on the momentum inherent in crisis situations, but instead press ahead with the next stages of integration and take an active approach to bolstering the institutional foundations of the currency union. Am 1. Juli 1990 wurde mit dem Wegfall der Kapitalverkehrskontrollen in der Europäischen Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft die erste Stufe auf dem Weg zum Euro genommen. Der Weg dorthin war auch durch einen Kompromiss zwischen zwei Denkschulen gekennzeichnet – derjenigen, die davon ausging, dass der Schaffung der Zentralbank die weitergehende ökonomische Konvergenz und politische Integration folgen würde, und derjenigen, die die gemeinsame Währung erst als Krönung europäischer Zusammenarbeit und wirtschaftlicher Konvergenz ansah. Der Kompromiss, wie er im Maastricht-Vertrag verankert wurde – einerseits eine schnelle Einführung der gemeinsamen Währung und andererseits verstärkte finanzpolitische Zusammenarbeit – hat in den ersten Jahren der Währungsunion nicht dazu geführt, dass die institutionellen Grundlagen der Union gefestigt und der politische Integrationsprozess fortgesetzt wurde. In der Folge kam es zu wirtschaftlichen Divergenzen und Spannungen im Euroraum, die sich in den vergangenen Jahren zu einer Krise ausgewachsen haben. Erst als Reaktion auf diese Krise wurden notwendige Änderungen am institutionellen Gefüge der Währungsunion vorgenommen. Viel spricht dafür, dass solche Spannungen und sogar das Auftreten von Krisen als Impuls für eine weitergehende Integration bei der ursprünglichen Gestaltung der Währungsunion bewusst in Kauf genommen wurden. Allerdings erweist sich dies als hochriskantes politisches Kalkül, da es Gefahr läuft, die gesellschaftliche Unterstützung für den Integrationsprozess zu verlieren und damit die Gemeinschaftswährung in ihrer Existenz gefährdet. Um das europäische Projekt voranzubringen, darf sich die Politik nicht auf die Eigengesetzlichkeit von Krisen verlassen, sondern muss aktiv – und im demokratischen Diskurs mit der Bevölkerung – die weiteren Integrationsschritte vorantreiben und das institutionelle Fundament der Währungsunion festigen.
N14|Work Creation and Rearmament in Germany 1933-1938: A Revisionist Assessment of NS-Economic Policy Based on Input-Output Analysis|We try to measure the impact work creation programs and rearmament had on employment and production of the German economy before World War II. Theoretically based on an extended version of the conventional input-output analysis, our model or analytical framework integrates the Keynesian multiplier into Leontief´s traditional model. Empirically, we apply our recently presented input-output table of Germany for the benchmark year of 1936. Putting together the effects of both work creation proper and rearmament demonstrates that more than one million jobs were created here as early as 1933. And in 1934 and 1935, even three to four million people were employed in this manner. Several hundred thousand and later millions of jobs profited from the additional income spent on consumption. In the years from 1936 onwards, the enormous increase to five million and more for armament production alone was accompanied by additional employment and measures to restrict additional consumption. Of course one can speculate about the counterfactual scenario of whether or not such an upswing would have taken place without Hitler´s economic policy. It is true that the turning point of the business cycle had been passed in 1932, thus before Hitler had become chancellor and maybe it is also true that work creation programs and rearmament were not a necessary condition to achieve full employment as early as 1936/37. On basis of our reassessment, however, we can safely claim that they were a sufficient condition for this purpose. In more general terms, our reassessment rather supports the former view put forward, e. g. by Overy that the NS-regime introduced “a wide range of government policies designed to augment and speed up the existing recovery”. We would, however, modify his chronology, that rearmament became increasingly important from 1936 onwards: rearmament actually gathered momentum as early as 1934.
N14|Drei Fußnoten der Wirtschaftswissenschaften zur deutschen Einheit - und eine Fußnote zur wissenschaftlichen Politikberatung|Im vorliegenden kleinen Aufsatz werden der Geschichte der deutschen Wiedervereinigung 1990 drei „Fußnoten“ angefügt. Zu den Themen „Abschätzung der Produktivität der DDR-Wirtschaft“, „Dauer des Aufholprozesses der Neuen Bundesländer“ und „Rentenangleichung“. Anschließend werden einige Schlussfolgerungen für die Möglichkeiten und Grenzen wissenschaftlicher Politikberatung gezogen.
N14|Winners and losers from the Euro|No abstract is available for this item.
N14|The Great Depression in Spain|In the decade of the 1930s the Spanish economy reported a slowdown of 20%, less severe than the one in the US, France and Germany, but very similar to those experienced by Italy and the UK.
N14|A tale of two Fascisms: Labour productivity growth and competition policy in Italy, 1911–1951|This paper presents the first quantitative assessment of labour productivity dynamics in Italy's industrial sector between 1911 and 1951 and explores their links with changes in competition policy. It relies on a newly compiled dataset and provides fresh labour productivity estimates, disaggregated by industrial branch. Its main finding is that the switch to a more interventionist industrial policy enacted by the Fascist regime circa 1926–7 caused a marked slowdown in productivity growth. Nor was the government's decision to relocate resources from the traditional to the more modern industrial branches successful in lifting productivity dynamics: our shift-share analysis shows that the contribution of (static and dynamic) structural change from old to new industries to productivity growth was negligible. Finally, we find that the increase in the levels and growth rates of concentration, induced by specific Fascist policies, were associated with lower productivity levels and growth rates. This paper thus casts a shadow on the optimist accounts of Fascist industrial policy and confirms the findings of a revisionist literature minimising the positive role played by the State in the earlier stages of Italian industrialization.
N14|Output growth in German manufacturing, 1907–1936. A reinterpretation of time-series evidence|This study uses state space time series analysis to estimate output growth in German manufacturing between 1907 and 1936. In the absence of net-output data, previous research has estimated output change using proxy variables. Various proxy-based output series are available that imply either a 25% German labor-productivity lead over Britain or a parity of performance in 1907. The conventional strategy to deal with this conundrum involves a choice between the series. With the correlation between the different proxies and output unknown, such a choice is inappropriate because it results in the loss of information provided by the rejected proxies. Instead, this study makes full and efficient use of all information by estimating a common component in the various output series. The new estimate of output change implies a German lead over Britain in manufacturing labor productivity of 4.4% in 1907.
N14|The global impact of the great depression|This paper provides monthly economic activity indicators for 30 countries on six continents for the period 1925–36 based on more than 1200 historical time series. Aggregating these to a global economic activity indicator shows that the global recovery after 1931 was slower than much-cited contemporary evidence suggests. On a disaggregated level, we find that the majority of European countries experienced recessionary tendencies already in the mid-1920s, which puts the notion of a US-originated Great Depression into perspective. Our evidence cautions against employing industrial production to assess crises and recoveries across space as manufacturing catch-up growth occurs less developed countries. In this vein we find that in contrast to established historiography Spain, albeit floating her currency, was severely affected by the crisis, and Japan was hit harder than annual industrial production suggests. Finally, mapping the Depression suggests that economic improvements of major trading partners could have served as a catalyst for a country’s recovery. As a methodological contribution, we develop a framework to aggregate non-stationary series using principal component weights, and we scale the resulting indicators to an interpretable dimension using the standard deviation of annual industrial production indices.
N14|Romania's Foreign Trade, Transportation, Credit System and national Riches in Modern Liberal Economic Thinking|The main aim of this paper is to analyze the consequences in foreign trade, transportation and the credit system of a nation because of the strengthening of the economic organism, through the economic and political reformation. The paper refers to the case of the Romanian Economy for the period 1859-1918. Romaniaâ€™s modernization and development are the result of the contribution brought by the thinkers of that time, especially by the radical liberal thinkers. At the same time, we should not neglect the participation, more modest however, of the conservative thinkers and their contribution in the economic development of the country.
N14|Romania’s Foreign Trade, Transportation, Credit System and National Riches in Modern Liberal Economic Thinking|The main aim of this paper is to analyze the consequences in foreign trade, transportation and the credit system of a nation because of the strengthening of the economic organism, through the economic and political reformation. The paper refers to the case of the Romanian Economy for the period 1859-1918. Romania’s modernization and development are the result of the contribution brought by the thinkers of that time, especially by the radical liberal thinkers. At the same time, we should not neglect the participation, more modest however, of the conservative thinkers and their contribution in the economic development of the country.
N14|Imposition des fortunes et finance offshore durant les années 1920: Aux origines de la concurrence fiscale internationale|En se fondant sur un large panel de sources inédites issues de différentes archives européennes, l’article analyse l’impact des fuites de capitaux, de la finance offshore et de l’évasion fiscale internationale sur les systèmes d’imposition dans les années suivant la Première Guerre mondiale. Après avoir fourni des données sur l’ampleur du contournement par les détenteurs de capitaux des nouvelles taxes introduites à la sortie du conflit, le papier montre que la pression structurelle exercée sur les systèmes d’impôts par la possibilité de délocaliser les fortunes dans les centres bancaires à l’étranger a été d’autant plus forte que ces derniers ont mis en place symétriquement un véritable marché de l’évasion fiscale internationale en faveur de ces capitaux en fuite. Du fait de cette expansion de l’offre offshore – qui se développe en particulier dans les pays neutres comme la Suisse – les grands Etats européens ont été progressivement incités à aligner leur système d’imposition sur ceux des havres fiscaux dans le but d’obtenir le concours des capitaux étrangers et de ceux précédemment expatriés lors des stabilisations monétaires des années 1920. La dernière partie de l’article exemplifie ce processus au travers d’une analyse minutieuse de la politique française entre 1922 et 1926 et démontre, par ce biais, que la concurrence fiscale internationale a influé non seulement sur les taux d’imposition mais encore sur les pratiques de contrôle appliquées par les administrations sur les titres et les comptes bancaires.
N14|The international contagion of short-run interest rates during the Great Depression|The aim of this article is to clearly identify the mechanisms of the money market spillovers between the United States, the United Kingdom and France during the interwar period. To describe these mechanisms in detail, a BEKK model, in which we introduce a structural break, is adopted. Our analysis sheds new light on key historical issues: Was the crisis imported into the US? Did France set off interest rate volatility in the rest of the world during the thirties? Does the propagation process of interest rate volatility corroborate the “Golden Fetters” hypothesis?
N14|Inequality and poverty in a developing economy: Evidence from regional data (Spain, 1860-1930)|Apart from measuring inequality and poverty at the provincial level in Spain between 1860 and 1930, this paper empirically assesses the relationship between economic growth and both inequality and destitution. The results, on the one hand, confirm the presence of a KuznetsÕ curve. However, although growing incomes did not directly contribute to reducing inequality, at least during the early stages of modern economic growth, other processes associated with economic growth significantly improved the situation of the bottom part of the population. On the other hand, growing incomes and lower inequality levels are shown to have been pro-poor.
