N16|Teaching entrepreneurial families and family business history in Latin America, 1870s-2017|This paper aims to be an instrument for teaching family business history in Latin America in business schools. The focus is the story of the many failures and the few successful histories of Latin American family businesses, from the 1870s until our days. The choice of the dates responds to the willingness of the authors to focus the attention of students in a key historical period in the history of Latin America, with consolidated independent governments, and fast inclusion in the global economy. Those were years in which the region transformed its global position from being a destination of foreign products, labour, and capital, to becoming increasingly the cradle of innovative multinationals, some of which are today key players in global Foreign Direct Investment (Casanova 2016). The paper indicates the major trends in the external environment and the national politics, and the impact of such context in the creation, expansion, disappearance, or transformation, of family businesses, though the focus is in the large diversified family controlled business groups, for which the empirical evidence is more abundant to establish comparisons across borders, despite the diversity.
N16|Staple Products, Linkages, and Development: Evidence from Argentina|We investigate how historical patterns of primary production influenced development across local economies in Argentina. Our identification strategy exploits exogenous variation in the composition of primary production induced by climatic features. We find that locations specializing in ranching had weaker linkages with other activities, higher concentration in land ownership, lower population density, and less immigration than cereal-producing areas. Over time, ranching localities continued to exhibit lower population density and they experienced relatively sluggish industrialization. Ultimately, ranching specialization had large negative effects on long-run levels of income per capita and human capital. Our findings show that early patterns of production can have a crucial influence on development patterns, providing suggestive support to the staple theory of economic growth.
N16|Del Modelo de Industrialización por Sustitución de Importaciones (ISI) al Modelo Aperturista, adoptado en Colombia en 1991|Este documento busca responder por qué se vio rezagada la industria colombiana al momento de la apertura económica y cuáles fueron las causas de la caída del modelo de Industrialización por Sustitución de Importaciones (ISI). Para este fin, se presentan y contrastan los dos modelos económicos en la búsqueda de la industrialización en Colombia; acto seguido, se examina la incidencia del modelo de apertura económica después del año de 1991 a través de varios indicadores, lo cual permite evidenciar las causas de la debacle del modelo ISI. El documento se apoya principalmente en las publicaciones de Misas Arango, Bértola y Ocampo. *** This document seeks to answer why the Colombian industry was left behind at the time of economic opening and what were the causes for the fall of the Import ubstitution Industrialization model (ISI). To this end, the two economic models are presented and contrasted in the pursuit of industrialization in Colombia; then, the incidence of the model of economic opening after 1991 is examined through several indicators, which allows the causes of the debacle of the ISI model to be evidenced. The document relies mainly on the publications of Misas Arango, Bértola and Ocampo.
N16|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Bolivia, 1960–2017|After the economic reforms that followed the National Revolution of the 1950s, Bolivia seemed positioned for sustained growth. Indeed, it achieved unprecedented growth from 1960 to 1977. The rapid accumulation of debt due to persistent deficits and a fixed exchange rate policy during the 1970s led to a debt crisis that began in 1977. From 1977 to 1986, Bolivia lost almost all the gains in GDP per capita that it had achieved since 1960. In 1986, Bolivia started to grow again, interrupted only by the financial crisis of 1998–2002, which was the result of a drop in the availability of external financing. Bolivia has grown since 2002, but government policies since 2006 are reminiscent of the policies of the 1970s that led to the debt crisis, in particular, the accumulation of external debt and the drop in international reserves due to a de facto fixed exchange rate since 2012.
N16|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Argentina, 1960-2017|In this chapter, we review the monetary and fiscal history of Argentina for the period 1960–2017, a time during which the country suffered several balance of payments crises, three periods of hyperinflation, two defaults on government debt, and three banking crises. All told, between 1969 and 1991, after several monetary reforms, thirteen zeros had been removed from its currency. We argue that all these events are the symptom of a recurrent problem: Argentina’s unsuccessful attempts to tame the fiscal deficit. An implication of our analysis is that the future economic evolution of Argentina depends greatly on its ability to develop institutions that guarantee that the government does not spend more than its genuine tax revenues over reasonable periods of time.
N16|The Biological Standard of Living in Urban Bolivia, 1880s – 1920s: Stagnation and Persistent Inequality|Based on almost 5.000 direct observations on National Identification Cards, this paper offers the first estimation of the evolution of average heights in urban Bolivia for the decades 1880s-1920s. The analysis focuses on men aged 19-50 years registered in the city of La Paz. Despite city’s growing economic importance and modernization, average heights remained stagnant around 163 cm. This level is not so different to that found in the still disperse available evidence for rural Bolivia. Furthermore, there is evidence of inequalities throughout the period under study: those men who were indigenous, illiterate or worked in manual occupations were persistently shorter than non-indigenous, literates and non-manual workers, respectively. In coincidence with recent studies on Latin America, these findings suggest that the boost in exports and the regained dynamism of the economy that took place at the onset of the 20th century were not accompanied by improvements in biological standards of living.
N16|The Role of Central Banks and the Political Environment in Financial Stability: A Literature Review|Financial instability and the subsequent credit crunches experienced by a number of countries following two decades of global structural reforms highlighted the importance of stabilizing credit supply and assigning a higher importance to financial stability. In this paper, I look at the independence of the Central Bank, the political environment and the impact of these factors on financial stability. I substantiate the literature review discussion with a brief empirical analysis of the effect of Central Bank independence on credit growth using an existing database created by Romelli (2018). The empirical results show that fluctuations in credit growth are larger for higher levels of Central Bank Independence and hence, in periods of financial instability or ultimately financial crises, Central Bank Independence would be reined back in an effort to reestablish financil stability.
N16|The Monetary and Fiscal History of Bolivia, 1960-2017|After the economic reforms that followed the National Revolution of the 1950s, Bolivia seemed positioned for sustained growth. Indeed, it achieved unprecedented growth from 1960 to 1977. Mistakes in economic policies, especially the rapid accumulation of debt due to persistent deficits and a fixed exchange rate policy during the 1970s, led to a debt crisis that began in 1977. From 1977 to 1986, Bolivia lost almost all the gains in GDP per capita that it had achieved since 1960. In 1986, Bolivia started to grow again, interrupted only by the financial crisis of 1998–2002, which was the result of a drop in the availability of external financing. Bolivia has grown since 2002, but government policies since 2006 are reminiscent of the policies of the 1970s that led to the debt crisis, in particular, the accumulation of external debt and the drop in international reserves due to a de facto fixed exchange rate since 2012.
N16|Staple Products, Linkages, and Development: Evidence from Argentina|We investigate how historical patterns of primary production influenced development across local economies in Argentina. Our identification strategy exploits exogenous varia- tion in the composition of primary production induced by climatic features. We find that locations specializing in ranching had weaker linkages with other activities, higher con- centration in land ownership, lower population density, and less immigration than cereal- producing areas. Over time, ranching localities continued to exhibit lower population den- sity and they experienced relatively sluggish industrialization. Ultimately, ranching special- ization had large negative effects on long-run levels of income per capita and human capital. Our findings show that early patterns of production can have a crucial influence on develop- ment patterns, providing suggestive support to the staple theory of economic growth.
N16|Public investment and economic activity in Mexico, 1925-1981|Mexican economic historiography recognizes the key role that public investment played in the country's economic performance from the post-revolutionary period until the beginning of the economic liberalization that began in the mid-1980s. However, there is no concrete empirical evidence that this was the case. In this study, the authors construct a historical database of public investment - both total and broken down into its main components - for the period from 1925 to 1981, in order to measure the impact it had on economic activity. Given the possible presence of crowding-out effects between public investment and private investment, in their analysis the authors control for the latter. The results suggest that public investment had a significant impact on output one which varies depending on the category of public investment considered.
N16|The Role of Industry, Occupation, and Location-Specific Knowledge in the Survival of New Firms|How do regions acquire the knowledge they need to diversify their economic activities? How does the migration of workers among firms and industries contribute to the diffusion of that knowledge? Here we measure the industry, occupation, and location specific knowledge carried by workers from one establishment to the next using a dataset summarizing the individual work history for an entire country. We study pioneer firms–firms operating in an industry that was not present in a region–because the success of pioneers is the basic unit of regional economic diversification. We find that the growth and survival of pioneers increase significantly when their first hires are workers with experience in a related industry, and with work experience in the same location, but not with past experience in a related occupation. We compare these results with new firms that are not pioneers and find that industry specific knowledge is significantly more important for pioneer than non-pioneer firms. To address endogeneity we use Bartik instruments, which leverage national fluctuations in the demand for an activity as shocks for local labor supply. The instrumental variable estimates support the finding that industry related knowledge is a predictor of the survival and growth of pioneer firms. These findings expand our understanding of the micro-mechanisms underlying regional economic diversification events.
N16|L. Currie and A. O. Hirschman on Development as a Problem of Decision Making|This work analyzes the contributions of L. Currie and A. O. Hirschman to development theories. We show that traditional approaches to the divergence between these authors have overlooked some common views in their development strategies. For both, the catalyst role played by the experts —being facilitators of decision-making processes— is crucial for triggering economic transformation. Using evidence from both their published works and archival documents little exploited in the literature, we show that their experiences as experts in Colombia led them to refine their ideas on development and to appraise the importance of the political economy of expertise.
N16|Empleo, violencia y oportunidades para los jóvenes. Evidencia para América Latina y el Caribe|Este documento recopila y analiza la evidencia disponible sobre los vínculos entre oportunidades económicas, empleo y violencia asociada a jóvenes en América Latina y el Caribe. Como parte de una iniciativa liderada por El Centro Internacional de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo de Canadá (IDRC), este estudio reúne estudios teóricos y empíricos importantes, experiencias de intervenciones exitosas y recopila una serie de mejores prácticas a ser consideradas en futuras investigaciones y decisiones de política relacionadas con la inserción laboral, oportunidades económicas y violencia juvenil en la región. El estudio sugiere que la evidencia disponible no es suficiente para afirmar que mayores oportunidades económicas en los jóvenes se traducen en una reducción inmediata de la violencia.
N16|El sector minero antioqueño en la segunda mitad del siglo XIX: construcción hacia una economía modernizadora|Con el fin de realizar un aporte a la teoría del desarrollo local, este trabajo pretende responder a la pregunta de cómo se articula el desempeño económico de Antioquia con la minería decimonónica. A partir de un análisis cualitativo entre las investigaciones que han tratado el tema, las fuentes primarias recolectadas y el estudio llevado a cabo en la empresa minera El Zancudo, enfocado en su impacto económico regional, se ha encontrado que la minería, como respuesta a los intereses extractivos de los empresarios y favorecida por el contexto político y económico, dinamiza los sectores productivos e impulsa la industrialización y formación de capital humano regional, promoviendo los elementos para el despegue económico antioqueño de la segunda mitad del siglo XIX.
N16|Los estudios en historia fiscal de Colombia sobre el siglo xx|Resumen: Este artículo ofrece un primer balance de los estudios en historia fiscal de Colombia sobre siglo XX. Como parte de la metodología se delimita el campo de los estudios en historia fiscal, y se concentra en resultados de investigación publicados desde 1970, cuando el sistema universitario colombiano se expande y consolida, hasta el 2018. En consecuencia, se seleccionan 40 estudios que se caracterizan cuantitativa y cualitativamente en tres grandes aspectos: metodología, autor, y divulgación. De esta manera, se encuentra un ritmo de producción moderado con un estudio por año, en promedio, desde 1980. La política fiscal ha sido el campo predominante desde el cual se da el encuentro con la perspectiva histórica (46%), seguido por los estudios propiamente en historia fiscal (28%), y los estudios desde el derecho público (12.8%) y la economía política (12.8%). Los enfoques cepalino y el keynesiano, más frecuentemente empleados en los años 80s y 90s, perdieron presencia a partir del año 2000 en favor de los enfoques neoclásico y neoinstitucional. El balance general indica un superávit con la emergencia de varios libros de calidad que ofrecen visiones de conjunto, análisis históricos de las décadas de 1920 y 1930, análisis sobre tributación, y la construcción de las principales series estadísticas de las finanzas públicas del Gobierno Nacional Central. También se detecta un déficit de estudios sobre finanzas públicas a nivel regional, en relación con el impacto del manejo fiscal sobre el desarrollo regional y sobre arreglos institucionales y control fiscal. Es deseable que el campo de la historia fiscal se amplíe y profundice a través de la entrada de más investigadores, la exploración de nuevas fuentes documentales y enfoques teóricos para ganar perspectiva histórica no sólo de los fenómenos fiscales, sino también del Estado colombiano durante el siglo XX y su relación con la economía. / Abstract : This article provides a first assessment of the studies on the fiscal history of Colombia of the 20th century. The methodology delimits the field of fiscal studies, and focuses on research results published since 1970, when the Colombian university system expands and strengthens, until 2018. Hence, it selects 40 studies characterized quantitatively and qualitatively in three major aspects: methodology, author, and divulgation. Thus, it finds a moderate production rate in the field with one study per year, on average, since 1980. Fiscal policy has been the predominant field from which the historical perspective is built (46%), followed by proper studies in fiscal history (28%), public law studies (12.8%) and political economy studies (12.8%). The cepalino and Keynesian approaches, most frequently used in the 80s and 90s, reduced their participation since the 2000 thus giving room to the neoclassical and neo-institutional approaches. The overall balance indicates a surplus with the emergence of several quality books that offer general views, historical analyses on the decades of 1920 and 1930, analysis on taxation, and statistical building of main fiscal series of the Central National Government. There is a deficit of studies on public finance at the regional level, regarding the impact of fiscal management on regional development, and institutional arrangements and fiscal control. It is desirable that the field of fiscal history expands and deepens through the entry of more researchers, the exploration of new documentary sources and theoretical approaches to gain historical perspective not only of fiscal phenomena but also of the Colombian state building during the 20th century and its relationship with the economy.
N16|Colombia y la deuda externa: revisión de las medidas de cumplimiento en el contexto de la crisis de los 80´s|El elevado endeudamiento externo contraído por los países emergentes latinoamericanos como herramienta complementaria del ahorro interno, desencadenó la crisis de la deuda en los años 80´s. Colombia, a diferencia de sus países vecinos, impulsado por las bonanzas cafeteras y por niveles de gasto inferiores, logró sobreponerse y superar parcialmente la crisis internacional, evitando reestructurar la deuda bajo las condiciones impuestas por entes multilaterales. El gobierno nacional debió entablar relaciones particulares con la banca privada, en busca de créditos sindicados que le garantizaran la liquidez necesaria para continuar efectuando los pagos de la deuda y no declarar una posible moratoria. Colombia, firmó un total de 4 créditos sindicados, permitiendo estos la refinanciación requerida. El país sobresalió como un caso de excepción. ***** The high external debt contracted by the emergent Latin-American countries, as complementary tool of the internal saving, triggered the Crisis of the debt in the Eighties.Colombia, unlike his neighbouring countries, stimulated by the coffee prosperity and by low levels of expense, managed to superimpose and to excel partially the international crisis, avoiding restructuring the debt under the conditions imposed by multilateral entities. Colombian government, begun particular relations with the private banking, in search of unionized credits, which were guaranteeing the necessary liquidity to continue effecting the payments of the debt and to not declare a possible moratorium. Colombia, signed a total of 4 unionized credits, allowing the needed refunding. The country stood out as an exceptional case.
N16|The role of industry, occupation, and location specific knowledge in the survival of new firms|How do regions acquire the knowledge they need to diversify their economic activities? How does the migration of workers among firms and industries contribute to the diffusion of that knowledge? Here we measure the industry, occupation, and location-specific knowledge carried by workers from one establishment to the next using a dataset summarizing the individual work history for an entire country. We study pioneer firms--firms operating in an industry that was not present in a region--because the success of pioneers is the basic unit of regional economic diversification. We find that the growth and survival of pioneers increase significantly when their first hires are workers with experience in a related industry, and with work experience in the same location, but not with past experience in a related occupation. We compare these results with new firms that are not pioneers and find that industry-specific knowledge is significantly more important for pioneer than non-pioneer firms. To address endogeneity we use Bartik instruments, which leverage national fluctuations in the demand for an activity as shocks for local labor supply. The instrumental variable estimates support the finding that industry-related knowledge is a predictor of the survival and growth of pioneer firms. These findings expand our understanding of the micro-mechanisms underlying regional economic diversification events.
N16|A short episodic history of income distribution in Argentina|Abstract In this paper, we use tax and household survey data to assess the history of income distribution in Argentina since the beginning of the 20th century. Until the 1970s, the country experienced a fall in inequality in spite of lower income growth. Since then, inequality has generally increased possibly as a result of large-scale shocks such as macroeconomic crises and reform attempts, resulting in a convergence towards traditionally more unequal neighboring countries.
N16|Gender-based Educational and Occupational Segregation in the Caribbean|This study analyzes the evolution of gender-based educational and occupational segregation, from 1999 to 2016, for four Caribbean countries (The Bahamas, Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago). The focus is on the role of educational segregation in explaining occupational segregation. There are four major findings. First, aggregate gender–based educational and occupational segregation have remained almost constant over time at approximately 7.5 percent and 18.5 percent, respectively. This is observed despite working women’s education levels increasingly exceeding those of working men and significant differences in female labor force participation across countries. Educational segregation ranges from 9 percent in Trinidad and Tobago to 4 percent in The Bahamas. Second, a disaggregated analysis by educational and occupation categories shows highly segregated labor markets. Educational segregation is rising in all countries at the university level in favor of women. In all countries, over 22 percent of employed younger women obtain university education compared to a stagnant to decreasing share of men. Of the university degree–holding employees, over 60 percent are women. Men strongly dominate agricultural occupations, plant and machine operators, and crafts–related jobs, while women dominate clerical positions to a similar extent. Third, for these highly segregated occupations, educational segregation is the main driver. Top and lower–end positions seem to be the least segregated in all countries. This distinction is particularly stark in The Bahamas and Barbados, but rising for the other two countries. Fourth, counterfactual analysis indicates that low segregation levels at the lowest occupational category are not necessarily justified, as older women are highly over represented in elementary occupations.
N16| La economía peruana en vísperas del bicentenario de la independencia| Presentamos una interpretación sintética de la economía peruana, desde una perspectiva histórica. Resaltamos su naturaleza dual, entre un sector de subsistencia y uno exportador, este último más pequeño demográficamente que el otro, pero más dinámico. Ambos están conectados, sin embargo, por el mercado de trabajo y algunos otros mercados que se activan esporádicamente. El Estado nutre sus finanzas, básicamente del segundo sector, por lo que tiende a favorecerlo con sus políticas e inversiones. El artículo reseña la instauración del modelo liberal en el Perú desde los años noventa y su consolidación en las décadas siguientes y explica cómo al compás del último auge exportador iniciado en la misma fecha, el Estado inició una nueva modalidad de conexión con el sector de subsistencia mediante programas sociales de transferencias de dinero condicionadas. JEL Classification-JEL: N16 , O54 , P49
N16|Global silver: bullion or specie? Supply and demand in the making of the early modern global economy|In the early modern period the world economy gravitated around the expansion of long distance commerce. Together with navigation improvements silver was the prime commodity which moved the sails of such trade. The disparate availability of, and the particular demand for silver across the globe determined the participation of producers, consumers and intermediaries in a growing global economy. American endowments of silver are a known feature of this process; however, the fact that the supply of silver was in the form of specie is a less known aspect of the integration of the global economy. This chapter surveys the production and export of silver specie out of Spanish America, its intermediation by Europeans and the re-export to Asia. It describes how the sheer volume produced and the quality and consistency of the coin provided familiarity with, and reliability to the Spanish American peso which made it current in most world markets. By the 18th century it has become a currency standard for the international economy which grew together with the production and coinage of silver. Implications varied according to the institutional settings to deal with specie and foreign exchange in each intervening economy. Generalized warfare in late 18th century Europe brought down governance in Spanish America and coinage fragmented along with the political fragmentation of the empire. The emergence of new sovereign republics and the end of minting as known meant the cessation of the silver standard that had contributed to the early modern globalization.
N16|Growing Up in a War: The Shaping of Trust and Identity After Conflict in Peru|This paper evaluates the effect of conflict over the formation of trust and identity. It finds that Peruvian individuals exposed to violent events during their impressionable years trust less government institutions, and feel less identified with their neighbors, while more identified with religious groups. The effect on identification is heterogeneous by the indigenous origin of the individuals. Individuals who own an agricultural plot embedded in a communal arrangement at the local level exhibit even smaller levels of identification with their local neighbours while higher levels of identification with their ethnic group. In line with recent literature, these findings suggest that conflict has a small but persistent effect on the formation of trust and identity, which is a central feature to understand the interaction between culture and institutions, and ultimately to understand the persistent consequences of wars.
N16|Green fiscal reform for a just energy transition in Latin America|Green fiscal reforms would contribute to climate change mitigation, increase the economic efficiency of national tax systems and provide additional public revenues. Some countries in Latin America have already taken first steps towards green fiscal reforms. This outlook article provides an overview of the major challenges for the successful implementation of such reforms and discusses how they could be overcome.
N16|Was Colonialism Fiscally Sustainable? An Empirical Examination of the Colonial Finances of Spanish America|This paper examines the long-run fiscal sustainability of the colonial finances of Spanish America. Using econometric tests of intertemporal stability and a macroeconomic budget constraint framework, the analysis revisits how the long-run fiscal dynamics of the colonial treasuries adjusted for inflation changed over time. Findings suggest that in spite of historical breakpoints associated to major financial difficulties during wartime, in general the treasuries achieved sustainable fiscal balances. However, there was a shifting pattern of fiscal sustainability between the treasuries across the colonial period.
N16|From Inflation Targeting to achieving Economic Growth|Most economists agree that the relationship between long-run economic growth and inflation is negative. It is well documented that countries with inflation target achieve lower levels of inflation. But there is no study that relates inflation target and growth. I focus this study in identifying this relationship. I follow Sala-i-Martin (1997) and sample 45 countries that have an inflation target. This variable is then evaluated by controlling for three variables that are strongly correlated with economic growth and different subsets that belong to a set of variables that the literature agrees in being correlated with long-run economic growth. This strategy allows me to have a distribution of the parameter that captures a link between inflation target and growth. My results suggest that such effect, if any, is slightly negative.
N16|The Quarrel of Development Experts: Lauchlin Currie and Albert O. Hirschman in Colombia|Lauchlin Currie y Albert O. Hirschman trabajaron juntos en Colombia durante los años cincuenta como asesores del Consejo Nacional de Planificación. A su llegada, contaban con poca experiencia en desarrollo económico y nunca concordaron en las recomendaciones de política del Consejo ni en su funcionamiento. Rastrear estos debates en asuntos internos y públicos permite mostrar cómo la experiencia colombiana marcó sus posiciones sobre el papel del asesor de políticas, las políticas y los obstáculos del proceso de desarrollo. Nuestra principal contribución es mostrar cómo esta experiencia enriqueció sus teorías sobre el desarrollo, las cuales evolucionaron de discusiones técnicas sobre la mecánica del crecimiento a la adopción de una estrategia de desarrollo capaz de lidiar con problemas de economía política.
N16|La evolución de la desigualdad en Latinoamérica en el siglo XXI: patrones, determinantes y causas|En este artículo mostramos la evolución de la desigualdad en la región latinoamericana en el siglo XXI, analizando separadamente ingreso y riqueza para los principales países. Consideramos las determinantes de los cambios en los índices de desigualdad y las posibles causas, analizando el potencial papel de los gobiernos de izquierda. Mostramos como la evolución favorable del contexto internacional y el equilibrio político en la región sean la explicación más consistente de los patrones observados. ****** In this article we show the evolution of inequality in the latin-american region in the XXI century, considering separately income and wealth, for the largest economies. We analyze the drivers of the changes in inequality measures and the possible causes, considering the potential role of the leftist governments. We show how the evolution of the international context and the political equilibrium are consistent with the observed patterns.
N16|Redes sociales en la financiación de la industrialización Antioqueña (1880-1930)|Este análisis se enfoca en cómo se organizaron los capitales que financiaron la industrialización antioqueña entre 1880 y 1930 y pretende estudiar algunos grupos con diversas relaciones sociales que predeterminaban las relaciones económicas ?y que en otro tipo de análisis podrían resultar difusas?. Para tal efecto, se buscaron grupos de personas organizados por su actividad económica (comercio, banca y agricultura), esta categoría ayuda a identificar aquellos sectores de donde provenían los recursos que pudieron trasladarse de otras actividades económicas a la industrialización. Los comerciantes, dado su número, fueron quienes más se involucraron en el proceso de industrialización. Otras actividades económicas aportaron recursos, descartando la hipótesis de que los bancos fueron los financiadores únicos de la industria. Se detectaron relaciones de parentesco trascendentes, pero no fueron las predominantes
N16|Caracterización de los actores del clúster BPO - ITO - KPO en Cali (2014 - 2016)|Studies based on cluster mapping allow to understand the potential of certain industrial sectors and its relevance in the economy of a region, in such a way that businessmen, the academia and State, can have a reference for decision making that will promote the cluster’s dynamism and as a consequence, the socio-economic development of the region. This document is the result of the study of the socio-economic characterization of the actors, based on the technique of cluster mapping of the sectors BPO KPO and ITO and related to the city of Cali, Valle del Cauca, Colombia in 2014 and 2016. The motivation to carry it out was based on the support that the Pontificia Universidad Javeriana Cali has been providing to the Major’s office of Cali, initially to the “Program of Cluster Promotion and Strengthening of the Secretary of Planning” (Programa de Fomento y Fortalecimiento de Clúster de la Secretaría de Planeación), as support to cluster-related initiatives; in this case, to PacificShore, businessmen that received a copy of this study in June 2016 to be analyzed. More recently (August 2017), the study for the recently constituted Secretary of Economic Development of Santiago de Cali has been updated, that has the purpose of encouraging the development of this type of industries in the city. The version here presented corresponds to the updated study.
N16|Addicted to Debt: Foreign Purchases of U.S. Treasuries and the Term-Premium|In this paper, I study the quantitative effect of purchases of U.S. Treasury bonds and notes by foreigners on long-term yields and the term-premium over the recent decade. I set up a consumption-based model with habit preferences, calibrate it to match the average slope of the yield curve in the U.S., and find that foreign purchases decreased long-term yields significantly over this period. A third of this change is explained by a drop in the term-premium: in the model, foreign purchases increase consumption with respect to a reference level or habit, which reduces the agent's risk-aversion, therefore decreasing the term-premium. Finally, I show that a reversal of foreign inflows results in a sharp increase in long-term yields.
N16|The Performance of VAT in DGD-partner countries|This study presents a case study on the value added-tax (VAT) with the objective to design appropriate policies aiming to improve domestic-resource mobilization in developing countries. Data from 18 DGD-partner countries (past and present) over the 1990-2012 period show that, although the performance of VAT has inproved in recent years, many of these countries can close their resource gap by implementing reforms that improve the efficiency of their VAT system. We present an in-depth analysis on Bolivia to illustrate how such reforms could be designed. Bolivia is also an interesting case since the country was one of the first developing countries to adopt VAT in a context characterized by socio-economic and political challenges. We argue that the credibility of the Bolivian government as well as the institutional design of its tax system were very important for the success of their tax reforms. Moreover, we show that the improvement of both the policy and compliance gaps have contributed to the reduction of Bolivia’s VAT gap in recent years, but improvements in compliance gap are the main deriver.
N16|The Social Implications of Sugar: Living Costs, Real Incomes and Inequality in Jamaica c1774|This paper provides the first quantitative assessment of Jamaican standards of living and income inequality around 1774. To this purpose we compute welfare ratios for a range of occupations and build a social table. We find that the slave colony had extremely high living costs, which rose steeply during the American War of Independence, and low standards of living, particularly for its enslaved population. Our results also show that due to its extreme poverty surrounding extreme wealth Jamaica was the most unequal place in the pre-modern world. Furthermore, all of these characteristics applied to the free population alone.
N16|The evolution of inequality in Latin America in the 21st century: Patterns, drivers and causal hypotheses|In this article, we show the evolution of inequality for the largest economies of the Latin American region in the 21st century, with separate consideration of income and wealth. We analyse the drivers of the changes in inequality and possible underlying causes, including the role of the new wave of leftist governments.
N16|Towards Regional Monetary Unions through Blockchain Networks|The concept of political and economic integration has not progressed beyond the concept of a Nation-state. The primary reason is the trust deficit among citizens in a supra-national entity. We can use Blockchain systems-which are trustless networks-to resolve this issue. We can float a Regional Cryptocurrency (RCC) which can bring about a successful Regional Monetary Unions (RMU) amongst a group of nations in a transparent manner. This paper deals with the idea of realizing a monetary union through Blockchain networks. Firstly I describe the basics of cryptocurrencies and RSBCs. Then we shall evaluate how RMUs have failed due trust deficit among citizens of members of RMU. We then analyse as to how Blockchain networks can be a solution to these problems. The paper concludes by summarizing the difficulties and solutions regarding successful formation of Regional Monetary Unions.
N16|The Goose that laid the golden eggs? Agricultural development in Latin America in the 20yh century|In the last third of the nineteenth century, a large majority of Latin America adopted export-led models of growth, mostly based on agricultural exports. In some countries, this strategy produced significant results in terms of economic development but in most of the countries, the strategy was not successful, either because of too slow growth in exports or because linkages with the rest of the economy were very weak and there was no significant growth-spreading effect. After WWII, Latin America turned to a new model of economic development: the import substitution industrialisation (ISI). The ISI policies penalised export-led agriculture. The 1980s and 1990s were characterised by an expansion of adjustment policies and structural reforms. The new strategy consisted of mobilising resources in competitive export sectors, including agriculture.
N16|The paradox between good economic performance and social unrest in Perú: 2,000-2015|During 2000-2015, Peru achieved an average annual growth rate of GDP - higher than the average of Latin America (2.85%) - of 5.3% (World Bank, 2017). This generated an increase in the average monthly salary of US$ 505.6 PPP in 2004 to US$ 851.4 PPP in 2015 (INEI, 2016).This improvement of growth and real income resulted in a reduction of both the monetary poverty (42.4% in 2007 to 27.8% in 2011), (INEI, 2012, p. 26), as well as the multidimensional poverty index (55.47% in 2007 to 37% in 2011), (Vásquez, 2012). Moreover, the Gini index changed from 0.525 in 2001 to 0.439 in 2014 (ECLAC, 2017). However, some labour indicators showed that in 2015, only 50.8% of the Occupied EAP had an adequate employment and 45.7% was underemployed (INEI, 2016). In turn, the number of conflicts increased from 47 in 2004 to 211 in 2015, according to the Peru Ombudsman Office (Defensoría del Pueblo, 2015).The aim of this paper is to identify the determinants of the paradox of a country that grows in macroeconomic terms under social unrest. The Peruvian economy generated positive conditions for growth from 2000 through 2015. However, there was not a fair distribution of economic outcomes across the 25 regions within Peru (CIES & BID, 2012). By the year 2015, the poorest regions showed rates of monetary poverty incidence between 44.7% to 51.7%. On the contrary, one single region had the lowest rate of poverty (3.22%) (INEI, 2016, p. 62). On the other hand, the relative position of the HDI country was one of the lowest among the rest of Latin America and Caribbean. Regarding social unrest, around the 2000s the country experienced several conflicts and the population did not trust the government. Since 2008, the number of social conflicts increased considerably and originated violent demonstrations. These conflicts, the origins of which were mainly socio-environmental, were the channel through which the population showed social discontent and also made an impact on governance indicators. This level of conflict emerged from the existing inequalities in the country. The conflicts emerged in local places where the population was poor, disorganized and inadequately represented, but with an unexpected high capacity of protest (López Lancho, 2015, pp. 6-7). To conclude, it can be showed the existence of a paradox that relates high economic growth with a high level of social conflicts developed in the country.
N16|The rise and fall of the Brazilian economy (2004-2015): the economic antimiracle|The aim of this paper is to interpret the recent trajectory of the Brazilian economy, from around 2004 to 2015, focusing on the interaction between demand, income distribution, and the productive structure. An interpretative hypothesis is formulated within a framework that combines an effective demand schedule from the Kaleckian growth and distribution literature and a distributive schedule of Goodwin heritage (following Taylor, 2004, and Barbosa-Filho and Taylor, 2006). Such hypothesis indicates the determinants of the growth acceleration and of the increase of the wage share on income that started around 2004, as well as the determinants of their later reversal. Then, the framework is modified to incorporate sectoral heterogeneity, as suggested by Rugitsky (2016), and a modified hypothesis points out that a cumulative process involving reductions of wage inequality and changes of the productive structure may explain part of the recent Brazilian trajectory. Both hypotheses are examined empirically. The contrast of the cumulative process suggested with the one that seems to have taken place during Brazil’s “economic miracle” (1968-1973) allows it to be called an economic antimiracle.
N16|Uruguay en democracia: treinta años de evolución económica (1985-2015)|"After more than a decade of dictatorship (June-1973/Feb-1985), in March 1985 the new democratic government takes charge of the Uruguayan economy, which had suffered a deep crisis that bottomed out in 1982. From there the monetary, fiscal, wage policy was redefined, and entered with great hope in a new growth path. However, international and regional conditions greatly limited economic growth and macroeconomic stability, and comes to 1989 with GDP stagnation, high inflation and fiscal deficit. Under these conditions, since 1990 a new neoliberal government established a stabilization plan with exchange rate anchor, labor market flexibility and tried to achieve fiscal balance. The stabilization policies generated a strong currency appreciation, that combined with the Mercosur's creation and Argentinean convertibility policy and Brazil's ""Plan Real"" generated a high regional dependence. After Brazilian devaluation of January 1999, the Uruguayan economy began to shrink, and rushed to another deep crisis after Argentina abandoned convertibility in December 2001. These facts led to a bank run that lasted until August 2002, when a 3-day bank holiday and a change in the economic team managed to stop it, with tough measures: banks closures and deposit freeze. The living conditions of Uruguayans rapidly deteriorated, with high unemployment, sharp increase in poverty, which implied migration and different survival strategies. The economy began to grow in 2003, and in 2005 the left-wing party, for the first time in power, made structural reforms (tax, social security, health, labor market, etc.) and with favorable international conditions, the economic growth continued for more than a decade. At the same time, promoted social and labor market improvements, although in recent years appeared some macroeconomic imbalances, such as inflation above the target range and high fiscal deficit. Thus, in this paper we analyze the impact of different economic policies implemented and the results obtained in Uruguay, in the context of the changing international and regional situation."
N16|Growth and regional disparities in the Southern Cone, 1890-1960|The aim of this paper is to analyze the evolution of regional income disparities in the South American Southern Cone (SASC) in historical perspective. One of the first results of our analysis is that most of the regional inequality in this geographic area stems from differences within countries rather than from disparities across countries. The second result is that the evolution of regional inequality between the end of the 19th century and the second third of the 20th century is different in each country: while Chile shows a higher inequality and a U-shaped evolution (reduction of inequality and a slight increase in the 1960), Uruguay presents a monotonically declining inequality and Argentina exhibits a U-shaped evolution with decreasing disparities until the beginning of the 20th century and increasing inequality afterwards. When the entire subnational units are analyzed together, we find a U-shaped curve which started at the end of the 19th century with high levels of inequality, a minimum is found in the 1940s and another local maximum ended with the collapse of the Import Substitution Industrialization (ISI) polices in the 1960s-1970s. We also analyze regional convergence in the long run for the Southern Cone at both national and regional level. The existence of convergence at a national level depends on the periods and countries: while Uruguay shows convergence in all the analyzed sub-periods, the provinces of Argentina only converge during the period of the first globalization; most of the departments of Chile converge in general but the presence of outliers induces the rejection of convergence hypothesis during the first globalization. Convergence at a regional level (including all the sub-national units from the three countries in the same analysis) is accepted for the period of the first globalization but rejected for the central decades of the 20th century. The empirical findings are interpreted as the result of the combination of the varying potential of the sub-national units for taking advantage of (i) the forces of agglomeration (inducing high growth rates in the main cities and, in particular, in the administrative capitals), (ii) the abundance of natural resources, and (iii) the stimulus originated in technological change, integration (or dis-integration) to international markets and public policies for industrialization.
N16|El Contralor de Exportaciones e Importaciones en Uruguay (1941-1959)|Entre 1931 y 1959, la economí­a uruguaya estuvo caracterizada por el protagonismo del Estado en materia económico-social y la adopción de medidas (sanción de normas, creación de organismos públicos y público-privados, etc.) para instrumentar el dirigismo estatal. De especial relevancia, dentro de las polí­ticas económicas estatales, fue la defensa de la moneda local y el manejo estatal de las divisas disponibles y que ingresaban al paí­s. En este sentido, Uruguay implementó el sistema de Control de Cambios (mayo/1931), siendo uno de los pilares de esta estructura administrativa el Contralor de Exportaciones e Importaciones, creado a principios del año 1941, luego de 10 años en que se sucedieron distintas oficinas y organismos públicos encargados del manejo del comercio exterior y de la disposición de las divisas provenientes de la exportación de bienes. Este documento analiza el panorama institucional del Contralor de Cambios hacia principios de los cuarenta en que alcanza su consolidación con la creación del Contralor de Exportaciones e Importaciones (enero/1941). Se estudia, en particular, la gestión de este Instituto que actuará hasta fines de 1959, momento en que se eliminó el sistema de Control de Cambios, en su estado más puro, al sancionarse la 'Ley de Reforma Cambiaria y Monetaria' (Ley 12.670, diciembre/1959).
N16|The Evolution of Inequality in Latin America in the 21st Century: What are the patterns, drivers and causes?|The paper analyses the evolution of inequality for the largest economies of the Latin American region in the 21st century, with separate consideration of income and wealth. The drivers of changes in inequality and possible underlying causes are examined, including the role of the new wave of leftist governments. The evidence reveals that income inequality decreased, though wealth inequality displayed a much less homogeneous pattern. Statistically, the decrease in inequality is associated with labour market changes, and especially with State redistribution through subsidies. Wealth inequality is mainly correlated with the change in the share of financial wealth. A possible causal interpretation is that the symbolic victories of the new left may have inflated social pressures, mostly in the presence of rents generated by the commodity boom.
N16|Explaining regional inequality from the periphery: The mexican case, 1900-2000|Economic Historians have paid close attention to the long term evolution of regional inequality. Nevertheless, so far research has largely focused on industrialised economies, neglecting to a large extent the experience of low- and middle-income countries. This paper aims to provide, using a new regional labour productivity database, evidence on the determinants of regional income inequality changes in Mexico from 1900 to the present. Different forces have driven regional inequality in each historical period. During the primary-export led-growth period of the first globalization (1900-1930) differences across regions in the intensity of structural change caused an increasing divergence. From 1930 to 1980, during the State-led Industrialisation, internal migrations contributed to a strong process of regional convergence in productivity, both in the within and the between-sector components of regional inequality. Finally, the increasing regional divergence that has taken place from 1980 onwards has been mainly an effect of the operation of labour productivity differentials within each sector.
N16|Inflación de costos: las devaluaciones de los años cincuenta y el brote populista de 1963|El artículo estudia la inflación en Colombia durante 1951-1963 de acuerdo al enfoque de presión de costos (cost push inflation). El artículo propone un modelo en el que la inflación responde a los aumentos salariales, la devaluación y la inflación de alimentos. El modelo incorpora una ecuación para la inflación de alimentos en función del fenómeno El Niño-Oscilación del Sur. Entre los resultados se argumenta que los ajustes masivos en los salarios y la tasa de cambio actuaron como importantes fuerzas expansivas de la inflación durante los programas de estabilización y como fuerzas contractivas de la misma durante los prolongados períodos comprendidos entre los ajustes. Los choques de oferta de alimentos desempeñaron un papel importante en la evolución de la inflación en el corto plazo. El análisis lleva a dos principales implicaciones de política. Primero, la evolución de la inflación en el corto plazo ha sido atribuida por la literatura a los cambios en el crecimiento del dinero, pero el enfoque de inflación de costos ofrece importantes puntos de vista sobre la evolución de la inflación en el corto plazo. Segundo, Colombia no llegó a la hiperinflación porque no persistió en el objetivo de aumentar los salarios reales. En vez de esto, permitió aumentos de precios y renunció a regla de indexación de los salarios. En consecuencia la inflación se mantuvo flexible y bajó rápidamente.
N16|La flotación de 1957 y la estabilidad macroeconómica|La flotación del peso de 1957 fue la política que más contribuyó a la estabilidad externa dentro del primer programa de crédito contingente de Colombia con el FMI en 1957. En el artículo se especifica y estima un modelo de demanda para los componentes de la ecuación macroeconómica básica durante 1950-1965. En el modelo el control de importaciones se estima como una variable no observada. El modelo se utiliza para estudiar la evolución del balance comercial, la absorción y el producto por medio de ejercicios de descomposición de errores. Dentro de los resultados se encuentra que mientras que la apreciación de la tasa de cambio anterior a 1957 llevó al país a una crisis de pagos, la flotación de 1957 fue el elemento central del programa de estabilización con el FMI pues su efecto fue de lejos el más importante sobre la estabilidad externa dentro de la serie de políticas del programa de estabilización. El movimiento especulativo de capital y el crédito fueron los principales factores impulsores de la absorción, mientras que la flotación de la tasa de cambio tuvo un papel estabilizador sobre el ciclo económico. Los términos de intercambio no desempañaron un papel importante en la explicación del ciclo, a pesar de que comúnmente se les atribuye un papel importante. El control de importaciones ayudó estabilizar el balance comercial, pero una flotación de la tasa de cambio más prolongada habría logrado estabilizar el balance comercial sin racionamiento de las importaciones y sin moratoria de la deuda comercial.******The 1957 flotation of the peso was the policy that contributed most to external stability, among the policies in Colombia’s first stand-by agreement with the IMF. A model for the demand for each of the aggregates in the basic macroeconomic equation during 1950–1965 is specified and estimated. In the model, the imports control policy is estimated as an unobserved variable. The model is used to study the evolution of the trade balance, absorption and output in historical error decomposition exercises. Among the results we find that the appreciation of the exchange rate before 1957 led the country to a payments crisis, while the 1957 flotation was by far the more important policy among the policies in the stabilization program. Speculative capital movements and credit were the main propellers of absorption, while the flotation of the peso had a stabilizing effect on the economic cycle. The terms of trade did not have an important effect on the cycle, although the literature commonly attributes them a critical role. Import controls helped stabilize the trade balance, but a prolonged flotation of the peso would have helped stabilize the trade balance without import rationing or commercial debt arrears.
N16|La inflación bajo una perspectiva monetaria: Colombia, 1951-1963|El artículo estudia la inflación en Colombia durante la segunda posguerra y su relación con el crecimiento deldinero enellargoplazo. El artículo aborda eltemade losdesplazamientosde la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una estimación de la demanda de dinero en donde la monetización de la economía sigue un proceso estocástico, específicamente una tendencia lineal local. Este proceso sirve para capturar de forma parsimoniosa y general desplazamientos graduales de la demanda de dinero originados tanto en la monetización como en la innovación financiera. En el artículo se evalúa la predictibilidad de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una medición de su error de pronóstico. Los resultados muestran que la velocidad no fue predecible debido a la magnitud del error de pronóstico. La principal implicación de política es que una vez estimados los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero, el enfoque monetario puede dar información sobre la postura pasada de la política monetaria; sin embargo, como los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero son impredecibles hacia el futuro, el enfoque monetario no permite anclar la inflación en el largo plazo. Otra implicación de política es que la estabilización del sector externo de acuerdo con el enfoque monetario de la balanza de pagos era difícil debido a la ausencia de relación entre el crecimiento del dinero y la inflación en el corto plazo.******The article studies inflation in Colombia during the second postwar period in relation to long-term money growth. The article deals with the shifts in the velocity of money by estimating a demand for money function where monetization follows a stochastic process, specifically, a local linear trend. This process enables us to capture, in a way that is both parsimonious and general, gradual shifts in the demand for money originated in monetization as well as financial innovation. The article evaluates the predictability of velocity by means of measuring its forecast error. The results show that monetization explains the shifts in velocity and that velocity was not predictable due to the size of the forecast error. The main policy implication is that once the shifts in money demand have been estimated, the model may give information about the stance of monetary policy; however, as these shifts are unpredictable into the future, the monetary approach may not enable us to anchor inflation in the long term. Another policy implication is that stabilization of the trade balance, according to the monetary approach to the balance of payments, was difficult due to the lack of relationship between money growth and inflation in the short term.
N16|La inflación bajo una perspectiva monetaria: Colombia, 1951-1963|El artículo estudia la inflación en Colombia durante la segunda posguerra y su relación con el crecimiento del dinero en el largo plazo. El artículo aborda el tema de los desplazamientos de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una estimación de la demanda de dinero en donde la monetización de la economía sigue un proceso estocástico, específicamente una tendencia lineal local. Este proceso sirve para capturar de forma parsimoniosa y general desplazamientos graduales de la demanda de dinero originados tanto en la monetización como en la innovación financiera. En el artículo se evalúa la predictibilidad de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una medición de su error de pronóstico. Los resultados muestran que la velocidad no fue predecible debido a la magnitud del error de pronóstico. La principal implicación de política es que una vez estimados los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero, el enfoque monetario puede dar información sobre la postura pasada de la política monetaria; sin embargo, como los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero son impredecibles hacia el futuro, el enfoque monetario no permite anclar la inflación en el largo plazo. Otra implicación de política es que la estabilización del sector externo de acuerdo con el enfoque monetario de la balanza de pagos era difícil debido a la ausencia de relación entre el crecimiento del dinero y la inflación en el corto plazo.
N16|Agregados monetarios Divisia y demanda de dinero en Uruguay|In this paper Divisia monetary aggregates were built for Uruguay in the period 1998.Q4- 2015Q2 and compared with traditional monetary aggregates. The difference increases in broader aggregates, being very small for M1 but significant for the case of M2 + bonds. Then these measures were incorporated into a money demand function and using error correction models short-run dynamics was examined, finding a quick adjustment towards long run equilibrium and with Divisia models a higher semi-elasticity for the opportunity cost of money. Over the six candidates, Divisia M2 model perform better and is the appropriate measure to track money demand and complement monetary policy analysis.
N16|Do nations just get the inequality they deserve? The ‘Palma Ratio’ re-examined|"This paper aims to re-examine inequality in the current era of neo-liberal globalisation, with an emphasis on both highly unequal middle-income countries that have already implemented full-blown economic reforms (like Latin America and South Africa), and on OECD countries (like the US) now intent on replicating the inequality heights of the former. i) How do those middle-income countries end up having such unequal distributional outcomes? ii) Since oligarchies all over the world would gladly reproduce the same conditions, why until recently have only a few been able to get away with this degree of inequality? And iii) Why are there suddenly so many new entrants to the high-inequality club, especially from the OECD? In other words, how did Reagan and Thatcher and the fall of the Berlin Wall trigger a new process of ""reverse catching-up"", by which now it is the highly-unequal middle-income countries showing the advanced ones the shape of things to come? One might even argue that in the US not only is the 1% catching up with their Latin counterparts (who are used to appropriating between a quarter and a third of overall income), but that new developments such as Trump may be part of the same phenomenon: it is now the South that seems to show the North 'the image of their own future'. And regarding that future, it is tempting to say ""welcome to the Third World""! We are all indeed converging in this neo-liberal era but, somehow unexpectedly, this convergence is towards features that so far have characterised a number of middle-income countries - e.g. huge inequalities due to mobile élites creaming off the rewards of economic growth, and 'magic realist' politics (that may lack self-respect but not originality). I also discuss why Piketty's persistence with the neo-classical theory of factor shares - a pretty much obsolete 1950s-style approach to the distribution of income - prevents him from bringing our understanding of current distributive affairs forward as much as he might. His neo-classical analysis not only does not 'fit the facts' (he has to resort to questionable parameters), but also leads him into a methodology and social ontology that assumes that particularly complex and over-determined processes (like the distribution of income) are just the simple sum of their parts. Therefore, their account can be reduced to the algebraic description of individual constituents (e.g., inequality as basically an endogenous outcome of r>g - and that would be all). I also outline an alternative narrative regarding why inequality is becoming so extreme in formerly more enlightened affluent societies. I conclude that in order to understand current distributive dynamics what really matters is to comprehend the forces determining the share of the rich — and in terms of growth, what they choose to do with it!"
N16|Economic Analysis and Forecasting in the Global Economy and in Emerging and Developing Regions Including Africa: How Informative is the Ifo World Economic Survey (WES)?|Economists around the world rely in addition to official statistics on business (and consumer) surveys, which are more up-to-date. However, for many emerging and developing countries there is a lack of such surveys. This gap can, at least partly, be filled by the Ifo World Economic Survey (WES). In this paper we first describe this survey and also examine how helpful it is for macroeconomic analysis and short-term forecasting. We find that this survey provides important up-to-date information about the cyclical stage of the global economy and of major emerging and developing regions including Africa. Increasing the number of participating experts could further improve its usefulness for macroeconomic analysis in these regions.
N16|La miseria en Colombia|Durante la mayor parte de la historia del país, la mayoría de los colombianos han vivido en pobreza absoluta y han estado atestados de violencia e inseguridad. Mi argumento es que el alcance y la persistencia de la pobreza y la violencia en Colombia son una consecuencia de las facetas extractivas de las instituciones políticas. Estas tienen dos dimensiones principales: la baja calidad de la “democracia que en realidad existe” y la naturaleza “de doble cara” del débil e inefectivo Estado colombiano. Proporciono un análisis de la lógica política que mantiene en su lugar los aspectos extractivos de estas instituciones y cómo estos interactúan como los aspectos incluyentes de las instituciones colombianas. Argumento que las instituciones colombianas lentamente se han tornado menos extractivas con el paso del tiempo, debido a los intentos de las élites por contrarrestar algunas de las contradicciones internas de la coexistencia de las instituciones extractivas e incluyentes. Esto ha resultado en disminuciones de la pobreza y violencia, así como en una modernización gradual del país. Sin embargo, las poderosas fuerzas que han hecho que Colombia siga siendo un país pobre y violento siguen funcionando y reproduciéndose. Planteo cómo podría ser la solución de estos problemas en Colombia.
N16|Editorial: número especial Política Fiscal|Se presentan los artículos del número especial de Política Fiscal por el editor invitado José Antonio Ocampo.
N16|Inflación de costos: las devaluaciones de los años cincuenta y el brote populista de 1963 / Cost-push inflation: the devaluations of the fifties and the 1963 populist outbreak|El artículo estudia la inflación en Colombia durante 1951-1963 de acuerdo al enfoque de presión de costos (cost push inflation). El artículo propone un modelo en el que la inflación responde a los aumentos salariales, la devaluación y la inflación de alimentos. El modelo incorpora una ecuación para la inflación de alimentos en función del fenómeno El Niño-Oscilación del Sur. Entre los resultados se argumenta que los ajustes masivos en los salarios y la tasa de cambio actuaron como importantes fuerzas expansivas de la inflación durante los programas de estabilización y como fuerzas contractivas de la misma durante los prolongados períodos comprendidos entre los ajustes. Los choques de oferta de alimentos desempeñaron un papel importante en la evolución de la inflación en el corto plazo. El análisis lleva a dos principales implicaciones de política. Primero, la evolución de la inflación en el corto plazo ha sido atribuida por la literatura a los cambios en el crecimiento del dinero, pero el enfoque de inflación de costos ofrece importantes puntos de vista sobre la evolución de la inflación en el corto plazo. Segundo, Colombia no llegó a la hiperinflación porque no persistió en el objetivo de aumentar los salarios reales. En vez de esto, permitió aumentos de precios y renunció a regla de indexación de los salarios. En consecuencia la inflación se mantuvo flexible y bajó rápidamente.****** The article studies Colombia’s inflation during 1951–1963 under the cost-push approach. In the model, inflation follows wage and exchange rate adjustments, as well as food inflation supply shocks. The model incorporates an equation for food inflation defined on El Niño Southern Oscillation phenomenon. The results show that massive adjustments in wages and in the exchange rate acted as major inflationary forces during the stabilization programs of the post war period and as disinflationary forces during the prolonged periods in between these programs. Food inflation supply shocks were important drivers of inflation in the short term. Two main policy implications arise. First, the evolution of inflation in the short term has been attributed in the literature to changes in the growth of money, but the cost-push approach provides important insights about the evolution of inflation in the short term. Second, Colombia did not experience hyperinflation because the authorities did not maintain the real wage objective. Instead, the authorities allowed prices to rise and gave up the wage indexation clause. As a consequence, inflation remained flexible and dropped rapidly.
N16|Reconstrucción de PIB regionales en Colombia (1800-2015): una revisión crítica de las fuentes y los métodos|Este documento resume y analiza las principales fuentes y métodos empleados en la reconstrucción de PIB regionales para los últimos dos siglos en Colombia. Además, se ofrece una perspectiva general de lo que se esperaría fuese la evolución de este campo de estudio en los próximos años. Se encuentra que se trata de un campo apenas en construcción. Los trabajos son pocos y buena parte de ellos están aún inéditos. Sin embargo, el ritmo al que está creciendo la producción, tanto de aplicaciones como de fuentes, sugiere un futuro próximo prolífico. Adicionalmente, se identificó que las agendas de investigación para el siglo XIX y XX se han mantenido separadas.
N16|El comercio internacional de las grandes empresas de la Argentina en el siglo XXI|En la Argentina, las grandes firmas tienen un papel central tanto en la demanda como en la oferta de divisas, lo cual les confirió un rol clave en la dinámica del modo de acumulación que se desplegó bajo los gobiernos del kirchnerismo (2003-2015). En este artículo se analiza la incidencia que tuvieron las empresas líderes en el comercio exterior del país, aspecto central dado que este fue el único rubro del balance de pagos que registró superávits sistemáticos hasta el año 2014. Para ello se toman en cuenta distintas variables de las 200 compañías más grandes de la economía argentina excluyendo a las firmas del sector financiero. En este sentido, el objetivo del trabajo es el de aportar algunos elementos de juicio referidos a las características y las restricciones que caracterizan el perfil de inserción del país en la división mundial del trabajo.
N16|Raúl Prebisch: historia, pensamiento y vigencia de la teoría de la transformación para el desarrollo de América Latina|Raúl Prebisch fue sin duda uno de los economistas más reconocidos e influyentes de América Latina, tanto por sus aportes teóricos para el desarrollo de la región como por su participación en la creación institucional. En este trabajo nos proponemos repasar en forma paralela su vida y pensamiento, destacando los principales debates en los que se vio involucrado. Nos interesa, en particular, resaltar el legado de sus últimas obras, donde completó su teoría sobre el desarrollo latinoamericano a la luz de la vasta experiencia obtenida en su larga trayectoria académica y profesional.
N16|Milton Friedman y sus visitas a Chile|This essay describes the main circumstances, facts and consequences of Milton Friedman’s two visits to Chile, in 1975 and 1981. Both visits are analyzed and the relationship between economic freedom and political liberty developed by Friedman is emphasized.
N16|Representation Without Taxation, Taxation Without Consent: The Legacy Of Spanish Colonialism In America|The essay examines Spain’s colonial legacy in the long-run development of Spanish America. It surveys the fiscal and constitutional outcomes of independence and assesses the relative burden imposed by colonialism. Constitutional asymmetries between revenue collecting and spending agents constrained de facto governments’ power to tax. Inherent disparities embedded in the colonial fiscal system worsened with vaguely defined representation for subjects and territories and vexed their aggregation into a modern representative polity. Governments with limited fiscal capacity failed to deliver public goods and to distribute the costs and benefits of independence equitably. Growing indirect taxes, debt and money creation allowed them to transfer the fiscal burden to other constituents or future generations. Taxpayers became aware of the asymmetry between private contributions and public goods and hence favoured a low but regressive taxation. Comparisons with trajectories in the metropolis and the United States are offered to qualify this legacy.
N16|El uso de indicadores clave para evaluar el desempeño económico a largo plazo de América Latina|Las estadísticas oficiales y los indicadores clave son fundamentales para observar el progreso económico y social de los países, determinar los impulsores estructurales de su crecimiento y establecer prioridades. Mediante la metodología de Khramov y Lee (2013) e indicadores clave provenientes del Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales (scn), las estadísticas de la balanza de pagos, las monetarias y financieras y las concernientes a las finanzas públicas, se propone utilizar un indicador compuesto para evaluar el desempeño económico de América Latina. A largo plazo se encuentra que, en general, ese índice registra los grandes shocks económicos y los períodos de sólido desempeño del período 1990-2013. Su construcción permite medir los indicadores específicos que determinan el comportamiento económico general. Aunque el índice resulta muy útil para analizar la dinámica macroeconómica en comparación con valores de referencia alternativos, es necesario ser precavidos al seleccionar un período para estimar el peso relativo de cada componente.
N16|The use of key indicators to assess Latin America’s long-term economic performance|Official statistics and key indicators are essential for observing countries’ economic and social progress, determining the structural drivers of their growth and shaping priorities. Using the methodology of Khramov and Lee (2013), key indicators from the System of National Accounts (SNA), as well as balance of payments, monetary and financial, and public finance statistics, it is proposed to use a composite indicator to assess Latin America’s economic performance. An examination of long-term trends finds that this index generally captures the major economic shocks and periods of robust performance during the period 1990-2013. It construction enables the measurement of specific indicators that determine overall economic behaviour. While the usefulness of the index for analysing macroeconomic dynamics is high in comparison with alternative benchmark values, caution should be exercised when selecting a time frame for estimating the relative weights of each component.
N16|Institutional investor heterogeneity and firm valuation: Evidence from Latin America|This article analyses how the corporate valuation of Latin American firms is affected by the presence of a blockholder institutional investor. The study uses a data set of 562 firms from six Latin American countries for the 1997–2011 period. We found that the presence of an institutional investor has a positive effect of 8% on firm value, which increases to 21% for the cases where there is blockholder coalition with an institutional investor. After dividing the sample by investor type, we found that independent institutional ownership implies a positive premium on firms' Tobin's Q, while the presence of a grey investor has a negative effect on firm valuation.
N16|Land reform and violence: Evidence from Mexico|We document the connection between land reform and violent crime in Mexico using the counter-reform carried out in 1992 that liberalised the ejido sector. Using data at municipality level, we exploit the fact that municipalities have different exposure to the reform. We report a significant impact of the land reform on the number of murders: in those municipalities with a higher proportion of social land, and therefore more exposed to the land reform, the number of murders decreased more than in those municipalities less exposed to the land reform. Our results suggest that clearly specified and consistently enforced land rights reduce gains from violence, leading therefore to lower levels of violence, as measured by the number of murders.
N16|Argentina's post-2001 economy and the 2014 default|With two sovereign debt defaults within the last thirteen years, Argentina represents an interesting example of the causes and effects of defaults by sovereign states. Argentina has had a history of economic strife for the last one hundred years, largely due to political and economic instability. This paper discusses the economics of Argentina after the 2001 financial crisis that led to the default in 2014. The paper also explains the main legal aspects for the holdouts versus the Argentina trial over the pari passu controversy and discusses the different reactions to the trial and consequent default.
N16|The paradox of land reform, inequality and local development in Colombia|Over two centuries, Colombia transferred vast quantities of land, equivalent to the entire UK landmass, mainly to landless and poor peasants. And yet Colombia retains one of the highest concentrations of land ownership in the world. Why? We show that the effects of land reform on inequality and economic and human development were heterogeneous. On average, rural properties grew larger, land inequality and dispersion fell, and development increased across Colombia’s 1100+ municipalities between 1961-2010. But pre-existing inequality counteracts these effects, resulting in smaller rural properties, greater dispersion, and lower levels of development. How? Land reform increased public investment in agriculture, raising consumption of public and private goods. But land concentration again counters these effects. Elites seem to have distorted local decision-making to benefit themselves. We conclude that land reform’s second-order effects, on the distribution of local power, are more important than its first-order effects on the distribution of land.
N16|Progresos y retrocesos del desarrollo económico de Chile en los gobiernos de la Concertación: 1990-2009|Economic policies and outcomes are examined covering the four Concertación governments in 1990-2009. It is shown that in these two decades, in contrast with the record of the dictatorship, the GDP per capita gap with developed economies was reduced significantly and inequality diminished moderately. However, the fast progress achieved in the first years of return to democracy (a GDP per capita growth of 5.4% annually in 1990-1998), dropped sharply in following years (to 2.3% in 1999-2009). The main cause is identified as a fundamental change in macroeconomic policies and in the persistent absence of productive development policies, increasingly relevant paripassu with progress along intermediate development stages. In all, nonetheless, per capita growth was notably higher than that achieved by the dictatorship (1.3% in 1974-1989 with increased inequality versus 3.7% in 1990-2009 and somewhat reduced inequality).// En este artículo se examinan las políticas económicas y sus efectos en los cuatro gobiernos de la Concertación de Partidos por la Democracia, en 1990-2009. Se comprueba que en esos dos decenios se logró reducir significativamente la brecha de ingreso por habitante con las economías más desarrolladas y reducir, moderadamente, la desigualdad del ingreso heredadas de la dictadura. Sin embargo, la fuerte velocidad del progreso en los primeros años de retorno a la democracia (un crecimiento per cápita de 5.4% anual en 1990-1998), disminuyó de manera significativa en los años siguientes (a 2.3% en 1999-2009). La causa principal se sitúa en un cambio fundamental en las políticas macroeconómicas y en la persistente ausencia de políticas de desarrollo productivo, crecientemente relevantes al avanzar a través de etapas intermedias de desarrollo. Con todo, durante los dos decenios, el crecimiento per cápita fue notablemente superior al registrado durante la dictadura (1.3% en 1974-1989 con acrecentada desigualdad, versus 3.7% y cierta reducción de la desigualdad en 1990-2009)
N16|Un enfoque monetario de la inflación en el largo plazo. El caso de Uruguay (1870-2010)|This paper aims at explaining the long-run inflation of Uruguay (1870-2010). A monetary inflation model is used based on the assumption that the long-run inflation results from the equilibrium conditions in the money market. A forward-looking Phillips curve is estimated where the inflation expectations are explained by the core money growth, which is defined as the growth of long-lasting component of nominal money supply that exceeds the long-run increase of the real money demand, this last one determined by the change of the potential output (output adjusted core money, OACM). The results show a positive and significant impact of OACM on inflation. Although in the short run it cannot be rejected that this effect is similar than the others, in the long run OACM has a unitary impact on inflation. In addition, we compare the OACM with the effective inflation and we construct a monetization index which enables us to identify processes of “demonetization” and “monetization” that the Uruguayan economy experienced along the last 140 years.// El objetivo de este artículo es explicar el comportamiento de la inflación en Uruguay durante el largo plazo (1870-2010). Se utiliza un modelo de inflación monetaria, pues se entiende que la trayectoria de largo plazo de la inflación debería estar determinada por las condiciones de equilibrio en el mercado de dinero. Se estima una curva de Phillips del tipo forward-looking, que incluye como variable explicativa de las expectativas de inflación el crecimiento del núcleo monetario (definido como la tasa de crecimiento tendencial de la oferta nominal de dinero que excede al crecimiento de largo plazo de la demanda real de dinero, el que es guiado por la evolución del producto potencial (output adjusted core money, OACM). Se encuentra que el impacto del OACM en la inflación es positivo y significativo, aunque no se rechaza que en el corto plazo sea igual que otros efectos. Sin embargo, en el largo plazo, el OACM tiene un impacto unitario en la tasa de inflación. A partir de la comparación del OACM con la inflación, se construye un indicador de monetización que permite indagar sobre los procesos de desmonetización y remonetización que experimentó esta economía en los últimos 140 años
N16|La economía argentina y su conflicto distributivo estructural (1930-2015)|We provide an interpretation of the macroeconomic performance of Argentina between 1930 and 2015, in which distributive conflict plays a central role. Following a tradition in the Argentine social sciences, we see a structural inconsistency between the income aspirations rooted in society and the productive capacity of the economy. We give this inconsistency a precise definition: as a gap between two equilibrium levels of the real exchange rate (RER). The macroeconomic equilibrium RER is the one that allows the economy to simultaneously attain full employment and balance of payments sustainability. The social equilibrium RER occurs when fully employed workers obtain the real wage that they bargain/claim. These two levels of RER may not coincide. There is a structural distributive conflict when the macroeconomic equilibrium RER is significantly higher than social equilibrium RER. We build a model to provide a stylized characterization of Argentina’s economy and precise definitions of the two levels of RER. We then use the model to characterize macroeconomic policy and performance during the 1930-2015 period.// En este artículo brindamos una interpretación del desempeño económico argentino entre 1930 y 2015, en la que el conflicto distributivo desempeña un papel protagónico. Nuestro argumento sostiene que el conflicto surge de la inconsistencia entre las aspiraciones económicas arraigadas en la sociedad y las posibilidades productivas de la economía. Presentamos dicha inconsistencia de un modo preciso: como una divergencia entre dos niveles de equilibrio del tipo de cambio real. El tipo de cambio real de equilibrio macroeconómico es aquel que permite a la economía mantener simultáneamente el pleno empleo y un balance de pagos sostenible. El tipo de cambio real de equilibrio social es aquel que emerge cuando los trabajadores plenamente ocupados alcanzan el salario real al que aspiran. Estos niveles de tipo de cambio real pueden no coincidir. De esta manera, existe un conflicto distributivo estructural cuando el tipo de cambio real de equilibrio macroeconómico es significativamente mayor al de equilibrio social. Asimismo, desarrollamos un modelo formal que representa de modo estilizado la estructura de la economía argentina y que permite brindar una definición precisa de los dos niveles de equilibrio del tipo de cambio real y del conflicto estructural. Posteriormente, utilizamos el modelo para caracterizar sintéticamente el performance y la política económica en el periodo 1930-2015
N16|Las haciendas coloniales del siglo XVIII y su impacto en el desarrollo económico de las entidades en México en el siglo XX|Sólo después de Chile, México es el segundo país con mayor desigualdad social dentro de los integrantes de la OCDE (OCDE, 2015). El tema de la desigualdad en México ha sido estudiado por varios investigadores, en orden de poder entender el mecanismo a través del cual la pobreza y la desigualdad prevalecen en el país. El objetivo de este trabajo es encontrar el efecto a través del cual la desigualdad en tierras establecida por las haciendas coloniales intervino en el desarrollo económico. De manera intuitiva esperaríamos que el impacto que las haciendas tuvieron en el nivel de desarrollo fuera negativo, dejando a su paso mayor desigualdad de ingreso y menor acceso a bienes públicos. Sin embargo, resultados encontrados en Colombia presentan un escenario opuesto (Acemoglu et al., 2008). Los resultados encontrados corroboran la hipótesis anterior para el caso mexicano; se encuentra un efecto positivo y persistente en el desarrollo económico en aquellos municipios dónde se localizaron las haciendas en la época colonial. A pesar de que no podemos asegurar el mecanismo a través de la cual las haciendas tuvieron un impacto persistente, sugerimos que es probable que sea un efecto de spillovers como consecuencia de las derramas económicas que se dieron en los sectores de agricultura, ganadería y minería en estas regiones.
N16|Recovering Historical Inflation Data from Postage Stamps Prices|For many developing countries, historical inflation figures are rarely available. We propose a simple method that aims to recover such figures of inflation using prices of postage stamps issued in earlier years. We illustrate our method for Suriname, where annual inflation rates are available for 1961 until 2015, and where fluctuations in inflation rates are prominent. We estimate the inflation rates for the sample 1873 to 1960. Our main finding is that high inflation periods usually last no longer than 2 or 3 years. An Exponential Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroscedasticity (EGARCH) model for the recent sample and for the full sample with the recovered inflation rates shows the relevance of adding the recovered data.
N16|Fighting Past Economic Wars: Crisis and Austerity in Latin America|Political economy theory expects that changes in macroeconomic governance are often catalyzed by institutional factors, such as partisanship or elections. I challenge and contextualize this view by incorporating the role of technocratic advisors into a domestic policymaking framework. I contend that structural and elite-level explanations are also important to understanding ideational shifts, particularly in regions like Latin America that suffer from severe economic volatility. Presidents tend to govern from the lens of their crisis past, appointing economic hawks (or mainstream economists) who embrace austerity in the shadow of inflation crises, and economic doves (heterodox economists) who drift from budget discipline following unemployment shocks. Employing an originally constructed data index, the Index of Economic Advisors, I conduct a statistical test of 16 Latin American countries from 1960 to 2011, finding support for sustained idological shifts in technocratic composition and fiscal governance, based on the nature of past shocks.
N16|Inversión y capital: Chile, 1833-2010|This paper reports sources and methods utilized when estimating Chilean gross investment and net capital stock of fixed assets between 1833 and 2010.Two types of assets are identified: (i)machinery and equipment and (ii)construction (total). The main source for machinery investments is imports and a price for such goods based on Chilean import structure and export data of providing countries. In the case of construction, we rely on public expenditure on infrastructure and indirect measures for private activity. From 1940 onwards all data is obtained from national accounts. Capital is generated applying the perpetual inventory method. Main findings are: (i)Chile starts from a quite low capital output ratio around 1830, (ii)in the second half of the 19th Century, and specially due to the expansion of construction, the economy reaches capital output ratios comparable with other countries, (iii)the relative importance of machinery and equipment in total investment starts at practically zero increasing along the 170 years, (iv)capital per laborer expands systematically but slowly.
N16|Inversión y capital: Chile, 1833-2010|This paper reports sources and methods utilized when estimating Chilean gross investment and net capital stock of fixed assets between 1833 and 2010.Two types of assets are identified: (i)machinery and equipment and (ii)construction (total). The main source for machinery investments is imports and a price for such goods based on Chilean import structure and export data of providing countries. In the case of construction, we rely on public expenditure on infrastructure and indirect measures for private activity. From 1940 onwards all data is obtained from national accounts. Capital is generated applying the perpetual inventory method. Main findings are: (i)Chile starts from a quite low capital output ratio around 1830, (ii)in the second half of the 19th Century, and specially due to the expansion of construction, the economy reaches capital output ratios comparable with other countries, (iii)the relative importance of machinery and equipment in total investment starts at practically zero increasing along the 170 years, (iv)capital per laborer expands systematically but slowly.
N16|Does unemployment insurance offer incentives to take jobs in the formal sector?|Unemployment insurance can be an efficient tool to provide protection for workers against unemployment and foster formal job creation in developing countries. How much workers value this protection and to what extent it allows a more efficient job search are two key parameters that determine its effectiveness. However, evidence shows that important challenges remain in the introduction and expansion of unemployment insurance in developing countries. These challenges range from achieving coverage in countries with high informality, financing the scheme without further distorting the labor market, and ensuring progressive redistribution.
N16|Metrópoles diversas e colônias semelhantes - uma análise crítica da hipótese das transferências institucionais entre metrópoles e colônias [Diverse metropolises and similar colonies - a critical analysis of the hypothesis of institutional transfers between metropolises and their colonies]|The paper presents evidence that the popular concept of institutional transfers between metropolis and colonies, derived from Douglass North's theories, are not always true. For this purpose, we made use of documents elaborated during the periods of Spanish, Portuguese, and Dutch rule in Brazil and Argentina to show that, in spite of the diversity of metropolises, the colonies ended up building similar institutions.
N16|Historical trades, skills and agglomeration economies|We exploit differences in the spatial distribution of industrial and liberal occupations in the years 1872 and 1920 to instrument for today's concentration of interpersonal and analytical skills in Brazil. The data suggest that the local supply of knowledge and manufacturing provided by these historical trades favored a growth path that has shaped the occupational structure until the present day, whereby the existence of a large local consumer market was a necessary condition for this development. By means of these instruments, we present causal evidence that the regional concentration of interpersonal and analytical skills generates positive wage externalities. Particularly university graduates and workers without formal education benefit most from these agglomeration economies.
N16|Crescimento Econômico Brasileiro e seus Obstáculos – 1930-2015: uma análise histórico-estrutural<BR>[The Brazilian Economic Growth and its Constraints - 1930-2015: a historic-structural analysis]|In a period of harsh political-economic crisis, in Brazil, and in which several interpretations of their causes emerge, this paper tries to explain these turbulences considering their deeper long run roots and developments, presenting a retrospective of the associated and subordinated evolution essential to the conduction of many of the main events which the Brazilian economy encountered, in the time range analyzed. This range is divided in shorter periods which we consider clear, in terms of some inflexions that explain, in a general and fundamental framework – emphasizing the behavior of the primary, secondary and tertiary macro-sectors – the evolution and important changes of the national economy. We begin explaining the period 1930-60, of high economic and industrial growth without any major interruption. In the third section, we analyze the period 1961-80, also of high growth, but with a mild inflexion in the beginning of the 1960’s, followed by the so-called Brazilian miracle and the II PND. In the fourth section, we present the evolution of the Brazilian economy and industry, from 1981 to 1992, under the scourge of the external debt crisis and, in the last years of this period, under the hardships generated by the Collor Plan. Finally, the last section shows the almost continuous anti-industrial trend that emerge and remain in Brazil, since the 1990’s, stirred up or at least not disturbed by the two political parties which ruled the nation in this period (PSDB, 1993-2002, and PT, 2003-2015).
N16|Changing Rules of the Game of Global Finance: Glimpses from a Sovereign Debt Restructuring Episode|Sovereign debt restructuring refers to debt workout procedures for sovereigns which involve reduction in the nominal value of the old debt instruments when the debt burden of a country becomes unsustainable. Debt restructuring is required in any debtor-creditor relationship since any financial contract has to take the possibility of default into account. As far as corporations are concerned, the idea that the debt burden of the corporations may become unsustainable and in which case it may require restructuring is not new. Corporations in the US have access to legal remedies if they want to restructure their debts or go for liquidation. But when it comes to sovereigns, the international financial architecture lacks any mechanism to take care of the “debt overhang” of sovereigns. Literature in this area has tried to model the incentives which would lead the sovereign debtor towards repayment. The two main incentives are direct punishments (such as trade embargoes) and reputation concerns (fear of loss of access to international capital markets). The basic assumption in all these models is that creditors only have limited powers to enforce repayments since the sovereign debtor cannot be ordered to repay by the courts of the creditors‟ country of origin because of the sovereign immunity laws. The focus of this paper is on the recently concluded Argentine debt restructuring where the sovereign debtor was forced to make repayments to the “vulture funds” after an order for repayment was passed by the US courts, thus making the assumption of non-enforceability of sovereign debt untenable. This is a real threat because 70% of the sovereign bond documentation is under the US law at present and many debt restructuring exercises are on in countries around the globe. The paper also looks at two different sovereign debt crisis resolution episodes from history – the first one is the Barings‟ Crisis of 1890 when Britain was the centre of international finance and the other episode is from the inter-war period when USA had overtaken Britain. The attempt is to see if history has some lessons to offer for an orderly debt workout.
N16|El PIB per cápita de Uruguay 1870-2015: una reconstrucción|This working paper presents an updated GDP and per capita GDP series for Uruguay since 1870 and up to 2015, from the point of view of sectoral output. The new series are not mainly the result of new research, but the result of a reconstruction based on different previous research results. The aim of the current update was partly, to compare and choose among the different previous research that so long have not been confronted to each-other; partly, to extend the available series to the present, when a new economic cycle has been completed, with a climax around 2013-2015. The study of these cycles, however, will be a subject of other research. The working paper also presents comparisons between per capita GDP and per capita GDP per population in working age and economically active population, as well as international comparisons of per capita GDP.
N16|Una base datos sobre la generación de capacidades humanas para la transformación industrial en Uruguay entre 1920 y 1970|En este trabajo se presentan las bases de datos construidas para analizar el vínculo entre las demandas ocupacionales del sector manufacturero uruguayo y la formación de capacidades humanas desde el sistema educativo, entre 1920 y 1970. Igualmente, se puntualizan los procedimientos para su construcción y se presentan indicadores construidos en el marco del mencionado trabajo, incluido un detalle de las fuentes de información utilizadas y su crítica. Se incluyen las decisiones metodológicas adoptadas, relacionadas con la selección de los datos y la construcción de los indicadores. Para el análisis del sector manufacturero se identificó a las ramas más dinámicas, utilizando indicadores que dieran cuenta de ese dinamismo y basados en el Valor Agregado Bruto o empleo o establecimientos. Para el sistema educativo se construyeron series de tiempo sobre distintos tipos de gastos asignados, incluido el gasto por estudiante, los recursos presupuestales, la asignación por rubro (docencia, dirección e inspección, administrativos y servicios, gastos generales), la matrícula y Tasa Neta de Matriculación, para los sub-sistemas técnico y universitario. Finalmente, se presenta un esquema conteniendo las categorías ocupacionales identificadas como clave para construir la demanda ocupacional proveniente del sector manufacturero.
N16|Agregados monetarios Divisia y demanda de dinero en Uruguay|En este trabajo se construyeron agregados monetarios Divisia para Uruguay en el periodo 1998.12-2015.06 y se lo comparó con los agregados monetarios tradicionales. Las diferencias encontradas van en aumento a medida que se amplían los agregados, siendo muy pequeñas para M1’ pero muy significativas para el caso de M2+títulos. Posteriormente, estas medidas se incorporaron en una función de demanda de dinero y utilizando un modelo de corrección de errores se examinó la dinámica de corto plazo, encontrándose un rápido ajuste al desvío de largo plazo, y en los modelos con Divisia una semi-elasticidad al costo de oportunidad del dinero más alta. De los seis candidatos, el modelo con Divisia M2 es el que presenta un mejor ajuste y con el cual resulta adecuado hacer el seguimiento de la demanda de dinero y complementar el análisis de la política monetaria.
N16|Land Reform, Latifundia and Social Development at Local Level in Colombia, 1961-2010|Abstract The paper analyzes the effects of land reform on social development –poverty and land distribution- at the local level. Land reform in Colombia, understood as the allocation of public land to peasant, has granted 23 million hectares which comprises around 20% of Colombian territory and about 50% of usable productive land. Theoretically, the net impact of land reform on development is the combination of a poverty effect and a land distribution effect. Our findings suggest that land reform from 1961 onwards has slightly reduced poverty and mildly improved land distribution. Nonetheless, municipalities with strong presence of latifundia prior to 1961 have experienced both a slower drop in poverty and a weaker improvement of land distribution. This paper finds that prevalence of latifundia partially offset the positive effect of land reform in promoting social development.
N16|Tierras y azúcar. Las transformaciones agrarias y el ascenso de la plantación en Cuba|In this paper we present an analysis linking the economic structure of Cuba during the so-called sugar boom years of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century with the evolution of land tenure and the social groups that were drawn together during this process. It is necessary to understand farm management, and its projection and impact on the Cuban economy and society during the consolidation of the plantation to better understand this process in a historical perspective. The consolidation of the plantation system is equal to the concentration of land ownership. KEY Classification-JEL: N16. N36. Q15
N16|Patterns of Total Factor Productivity Growth in Mexico: 1991-2011|We review some patterns of Total Factor Productivity (TFP) growth in the Mexican economy during the period 1991-2011 using the KLEMS data set published by INEGI in 2013. The data shows a strong positive correlation between TFP and output growth. As a result, tests were performed in order to determine a possible causality between these two variables, with the results not rejecting the hypothesis of causality running in both directions. Another pattern that also emerges from the data set is that TFP growth in Mexico tends to be fairly concentrated and highly irregular, as just a reduced share of the subsectors in any given time period tends to account for most of the TFP growth, and also because the distribution of their performance is far from being the same across time. These patterns are similar to those found in other data sets of the Mexican economy, as well as in data from the United States and the United Kingdom at different levels of aggregation.
N16|La inflación bajo una perspectiva monetaria: Un vistazo al período de la postguerra / Inflation under a monetary framework: a view to the postwar period|El artículo estudia la inflación en Colombia durante la posguerra y su relación con el crecimiento del dinero en el largo plazo. El artículo aborda el tema de los desplazamientos de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una estimación de la demanda de dinero en donde la monetización de la economía sigue un proceso estocástico, específicamente una tendencia lineal local. En el artículo se evalúa la predictibilidad de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una medición de su error de pronóstico. Los resultados muestran que la velocidad no fue predecible debido a la magnitud del error de pronóstico. La principal implicación de política es que la implementación de la estrategia monetaria de control de la inflación y la balanza comercial fue difícil debido a que la velocidad fue inestable y poco predecible. De todas formas, el dinero sirvió de ancla para la inflación en el largo plazo, aunque ajustado, expost, por los desplazamientos de la velocidad.****** The article studies inflation in Colombia during the postwar period, in relation to long-term money growth. The article deals with the shifts in the velocity of money by estimating a demand for money function where monetization follows a stochastic process, specifically, a local linear trend. The article evaluates the predictability of velocity by means of measuring its forecast error. The results show that monetization explains the shifts in velocity and that velocity was not predictable due to the size of the forecast error. The main policy implication is that the implementation of a monetary strategy for the control of inflation is difficult because velocity is unstable and not predictable. Nonetheless, money growth was the anchor of inflation in the long term, although adjusted, expost, by the drift in velocity.
N16|Why corporations in developing countries are likely to be even more susceptible to the vicissitudes of international finance than their counterparts in the developed world: A Tribute to Ajit Singh|All things considered, anything up to US $7 trillion of so-called quantitative easing (QE) funds has flooded emerging markets since the 2008 global financial crisis. These funds, created to stimulate a recovery in the OECD and to stabilise international financial markets, ended up mostly as emerging markets’ corporate bonds and loans (often after being leveraged into many multiples of their original value). They were then either mainly invested (Asia), or used (as in Latin America and South Africa) at best to finance economic activities which do not enhance productive capacities, such as residential construction, or used to finance deficits, M&A, capital flight and all sorts of financial deeds - including as fuel for any conceivable asset bubble. The enquiries of these issues, especially how corporations financed their investment, and how much of it took place, were subjects that fascinated Ajit. He was the first to find out that corporations in emerging markets relied much more on external finance than those in the OECD (where retained profits played a major role). The implication was that they were likely to be even more susceptible to the vicissitudes of financial markets - and as these became ever more weird (the almost inevitable outcome of hasty deregulation cum excess liquidity), the financial balances of corporate sectors north and south of the Equator ended up moving in opposite directions further than ever before. This is a key (if not the key) difference between current global financial fragilities and those at the onset of the current global financial crisis in 2007. This highly asymmetric corporate balance scenario is part and parcel of such a low interest rate and highly financialised environment, as now (among other things) so-called “investors” in search for elusive yields, inevitably have to take on more risk, leverage and illiquidity. And emerging markets have always been their markets of last resort. This is a vital (yet only implicit) ingredient of the peculiar ideas behind super-accommodative monetary policy; but the downside is the risk of more volatile asset prices (including commodities), and unchartered financial fragilities all over. Closer regulatory scrutiny worldwide, therefore, should have been an intrinsic part of such risky reflationary and monetary policies. But try to get speculators, traders and rentiers (or politicians in need of donations) to understand something, when their (shortterm) earnings, bonuses, share options and corporate-sponsored retirement plans depended on them not understanding it. The stakes for emerging markets’ corporations, their economies, financial markets and wider society (and everybody else in the world for that matter) could scarcely be higher - but unfortunately these huge new challenges occur at the worst possible time, as our social imagination has seldom been so barren.
N16|Fiscal and Urban Policies: the State as a Space Producer in the Fordist- Keynesian Era|The theoretical and historical discussion that this paper intends to establish involves the perception that each historical moment has a suitable spatial arrangement for economic growth, for driving-industries and for the dominant techno-economic paradigm in each period, and that such arrangements are articulated and promoted by State action. More clearly and specifically, this work shares the view of many authors who state that the metropolis would have been a combined product of Fordist industrialization and the performance of the Keynesian State, while the contemporary post-metropolitan urban form is marked by post-Fordist industry and the Neoliberal State. From this perspective, Brazilian economic history during the period between 1930-1980 is present in a way of exemplifying that kind of spatial-temporal relationship. Besides offering a critical analysis covering that historical period, the paper concludes with a wider view of International Political Economy, mentioning a number of “Neo-something” phenomena that emerged in this new Era of “Something-Isation”.
N16|La curva de Phillips para la economía cubana. Un análisis empírico|This paper analyzes the Phillips curve for the Cuban economy during the period 1990-2009 focusing on the economic crisis of this period derived from the fall of the socialist camp and the disappearance of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA). The results indicate that although the theory of the Phillips Curve was used in many countries to keep unemployment at low levels while high inflation was tolerated, Cuba's experience has shown that a country can have simultaneous inflation and high unemployment.
N16|Institutional Investors and Firm Valuation: Evidence from Latin America|This article analyses how the corporate valuation of Latin American firms is affected by the presence of an institutional blockholder investor. The study uses a data set of 562 firms from six Latin American countries for the period 1997 to 2011. As in similar studies, we found that the presence of an institutional investor has a positive effect of 8% on firm value. After dividing the sample by investor type, we found that the presence of a grey investor (pension funds and insurance companies) has a negative effect on firm valuation, while independent investors (banks, investment and mutual funds) have a positive effect on firm valuation. This is one of the first studies to evaluate the relationship between investor activism and corporate valuation in Latin American economies with the most significant capital market development
N16|Continuidad y discontinuidad de un programa social: una historia del desarrollo rural integrado (DRI)|En la Presentación del Plan de desarrollo Para Cerrar la Brecha 1975-1978 el presidente Alfonso López Michelsen explicó que este “tenía como orientación cerrar las brechas que el modelo tradicional de desarrollo había creado. Se espera reducir las brechas entre el campo y la ciudad, la brecha entre los barrios ricos y los barrios pobres, la brecha entre quienes tienen acceso a los servicios de salud y educación y los analfabetos y desnutridos.” Con este fin, el plan incluyo programas de gasto público enfocados exclusivamente a los grupos más pobres de la sociedad. Entre dichos programas sociales se incluyó un programa de desarrollo rural integrado (DRI) para la agricultura tradicional y un Plan Nacional de Nutrición. Este ensayo es una historia del DRI e intenta derivar lecciones de una intervención redistributiva del Estado de hace 40 años en favor del campesinado. Se cree que este programa logró, en ocasiones, mejorar los ingresos de algunos trabajadores rurales con tierra y se describe que el apoyo del gobierno fue intermitente, pero se mantuvo en varios gobiernos hasta que el Ministerio de Agricultura liquidó el programa. Una de las características de los casos de éxito en términos de empleo y mejoría en los ingresos fue la creación y buen funcionamiento de los comités locales de planeación y el apoyo de los mismos campesinos beneficiados.
N16|Land Reform, Latifundia and Social Development at Local Level in Colombia, 1961-2010|The paper analyzes the effects of land reform on social development –poverty and land distribution- at the local level. Land reform in Colombia, understood as the allocation of public land to peasant, has granted 23 million hectares which comprises around 20% of Colombian territory and about 40% of usable productive land. Theoretically, the net impact of land reform on development is the combination of a poverty effect and a land distribution effect. Our findings suggest that land reform from 1961 onwards has slightly reduced poverty and mildly improved land distribution. Nonetheless, municipalities with strong presence of latifundia prior to 1961 have experienced both a slower drop in poverty and a weaker improvement of land distribution. This paper finds that prevalence of latifundia partially reduces the positive effect of land reform in promoting social development.
N16|Los retos del desarrollo latinoamericano a la luz de la historia|Este ensayo analiza los retos del desarrollo latinoamericano a la luz de la historia y de los fuertes cambios recientes en el contexto económico mundial. Muestra el mediocre desempeño económico de la región a partir de las reformas en comparación con el periodo de industrialización dirigida por el Estado que lo precedió, aunque con resultados positivos durante la última década en materia social. A la luz de estos resultados y de las incertidumbres que rodean la economía mundial, plantea tres retos principales: adoptar políticas macroeconómicas anticíclicas más consistentes, estrategias activas de desarrollo productivo y continuar en la tarea de reducir los altos niveles históricos de desigualdad. ***** This paper discusses the challenges of Latin American development in the light of history and of the strong recent changes in the world economic context. This text highlights the mediocre economic performance of the region after the reforms compared to the period of state-led industrialization that preceded it, even though there were positive results in social matters during the last decade. In light of these results and the uncertainties surrounding the global economy, three main challenges arise: to adopt more consistent countercyclical macroeconomic policies, active productive development strategies, and to continue the task of reducing historically high levels of inequality.
N16|Crecimiento económico de largo plazo en Antioquia, Colombia. Estimación del PIB, 1800-1913|Este trabajo realiza el primer análisis cuantitativo detallado del nivel de actividad económica de Antioquia para el siglo XIX y la primera parte del XX. A partir de los datos existentes para la economía colombiana, se reconstruye la que es, además, una de las primeras series de PIB regional en Latinoamérica para el periodo estudiado. Se encuentra que en Antioquia, ya a principios del siglo XIX, se disfrutaba de ingresos per cápita superiores a los del promedio colombiano. Por otra parte, se encontraron periodos de auge económico entre 1800 y 1840, 1860 y 1880, y 1905 y 1913, el último de los cuales fue el más pronunciado. Así,se estaría dando una respuesta a la larga discusión sobre el inicio del despegue económico antioqueño. ***** This paper provides the first detailed quantitative analysis of the economic activity of Antioquia for the 19th century and early 20th. From the existing data for the Colombian economy, one of the first series of regional GDP in Latin America for the period is reconstructed. We discovered that Antioquia, in the early 19th century, enjoyed a higher per capita income than the Colombian average. Moreover, we found periods of economic boom between 1800 and 1840, 1860 and 1880, and 1905 and 1913, the latter being more pronounced. Thus, this paper provides an answer to the long discussion about the economic takeoff of Antioquia.
N16|El comportamiento de los precios en una economía preindustrial: Popayán, virreinato de Nueva Granada, 1706-1819|En este artículo se construyen y analizan series de precios para 38 productos en Popayán, entre 1706 y 1819. El estudio presenta tres constataciones importantes. La primera, que los precios en esta economía eran bastante dinámicos y que, por tanto, el mercado estaba lejos de ser estático, como sustentaron en su momento algunos especialistas. La segunda, que existió un cambio en los precios relativos que favoreció algunos sectores en detrimento de otros. Finalmente, el análisis del índice general de precios muestra la existencia de ciclos de inflación-deflación que presentaron una importante relación con la minería. Para explicar esta correspondencia, se construyó un modelo que permite observar la relación entre variables reales y nominales. ***** This article analyzes price series for 38 commodities in the city of Popayan between 1706 and 1819. The study has three important findings. The first is that the prices in this economy were quite dynamic. As a consequence, the market was far from being static as is sustained by some scholars. The second is that there was a change in relative prices favoring some sectors over others. Finally, the analysis of the general price index showed the existence of inflation-deflation cycles that revealed a significant relationship with mining. To explain this, the study proposes a model that exposes the link between real and nominal variables.
N16|La inflación bajo una perspectiva monetaria: Colombia: 1951-1963 / Inflation under a monetary framework: Colombia, 1951–1963|El artículo estudia la inflación en Colombia durante la segunda posguerra y su relación con el crecimiento del dinero en el largo plazo. El artículo aborda el tema de los desplazamientos de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una estimación de la demanda de dinero en donde la monetización de la economía sigue un proceso estocástico, específicamente una tendencia lineal local. Este proceso sirve para capturar de forma parsimoniosa y general desplazamientos graduales de la demanda de dinero originados tanto en la monetización como en la innovación financiera. En el artículo se evalúa la predictibilidad de la velocidad de circulación del dinero por medio de una medición de su error de pronóstico. Los resultados muestran que la velocidad no fue predecible debido a la magnitud del error de pronóstico. La principal implicación de política es que una vez estimados los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero, el enfoque monetario puede dar información sobre la postura pasada de la política monetaria; sin embargo, como los desplazamientos de la demanda de dinero son impredecibles hacia el futuro, el enfoque monetario no permite anclar la inflación en el largo plazo. Otra implicación de política es que la estabilización del sector externo de acuerdo al enfoque monetario de la balanza de pagos era difícil debido a la ausencia de relación entre el crecimiento del dinero y la inflación en el corto plazo. / The article studies inflation in Colombia during the second postwar period, in relation to long-term money growth. The article deals with the shifts in the velocity of money by estimating a demand for money function where monetization follows a stochastic process, specifically, a local linear trend. This process enable us to capture, in a way that is both parsimonious and general, gradual shifts in the demand for money originated in monetization as well as financial innovation. The article evaluates the predictability of velocity by means of measuring its forecast error. The results show that monetization explains the shifts in velocity and that velocity was not predictable due to the size of the forecast error. The main policy implication is that once the shifts in money demand have been estimated, the model may give information about the stance of monetary policy; however, as these shifts are unpredictable into the future, the monetary approach may not enable us to anchor inflation in the long term. Another policy implication is that stabilization of the trade balance, according to the monetary approach to the balance of payments, was difficult due to the lack of relationship between money growth and inflation in the short term.
N16|Capacidad estatal, fiscalidad y subyugación: Panamá entre 1903-1945|Panamá constituye un caso excepcional de construcción de Estado bajo el sometimiento a un imperio que ocupaba su territorio más preciado y ejercía el monopolio de la fuerza. El desarrollo de una capacidad tributaria durante los gobiernos liberales, y mantenida por los regímenes nacionalistas, fue acompañado de movilizaciones populares que le permitieron ganar una creciente autonomía de Estados Unidos. La organización de una policía en los años cuarenta del siglo XX y la posterior Guardia Nacional le devolvió el monopolio (compartido) del uso de la fuerza. Sin embargo, la fortaleza de su Estado se vio minada por un régimen tributario desigual que afectó poco el excedente económico de la sociedad y por una administración pública politizada, incapaz de recaudar y gastar adecuadamente los recursos públicos.
N16|El imaginario de la crisis: caricatura económica en Colombia en la época de la Gran Depresión|En el presente documento utilizamos las caricaturas económicas que aparecieron en el principal periódico colombiano (El Tiempo) entre 1928 y 1937, como una fuente primaria válida para el análisis de las tensiones que los fenómenos y situaciones económicas generaron en Colombia en una época tensa para la economía mundial. A través de la caricatura económica es posible ver la percepción de la opinión pública respecto a las políticas económicas y el temor e incertidumbre que éstas causaban en el común de la gente.
N16|Un análisis en perspectiva histórica del comercio exterior de las autopartes argentinas|La industria automotriz argentina es uno de los sectores más estudiados por la historia económica. Sus límites se atribuyen a la mayor o menor intervención del Estado, al legado del neoliberalismo o a las estrategias de las multinacionales. A nuestro entender, estas aproximaciones dejan de lado el análisis de las condiciones de producción tanto internas como en el mercado mundial. Como un paso para ampliar estas explicaciones, analizamos la balanza comercial de autopartes argentinas en perspectiva histórica, con el objeto de entender los problemas históricos del complejo en Argentina.
N16|The rise of the middle class : Brazil (1839-1950)|This article investigates the rise of the middle class in Brazil between the mid-nineteenth and mid-twentieth centuries and its connection with inequality. To this purpose Brazil's income distribution is explored from two dimensions: inequality and polarisation. A new middle class index (MCI), based on polarisation methods, is used to assess the evolution of the middle class in terms of both income and status. Results suggest that during the nineteenth century low income levels prevented the achievement of high inequality values and the emergence of a middle class. Then in the early twentieth century Brazil experienced a process of economic growth accompanied by increasing inequality in a Kuznetsian sense in which the middle class arose. Yet, despite rapid economic growth during the following decades, the continued increase of inequality, especially between 1930 and 1950, impeded the consolidation of the middle class and the reduction of poverty.
N16|Latin American Remittances Dependence On External Shocks|Remittances have become an important and reliable source of funds for many developing countries, particularly Latin American countries. The inflow of remittances has been shown to improve consumption levels, health care access, educational attainment, and the implementation of entrepreneurial initiatives, affecting the economic prospects of the receiving countries. However, economic conditions in the host-countries have proven to be influential in immigrants’ earnings and their ability to send money to their families back home. This article measures the impact that economic fluctuations in the U.S. and Spain have in the amount of remittances received by 5 Latin American countries, showing that migrant workers tend to send more funds home when the state of the economy in which they reside improves. Our results also show that shocks to specific sectors of the host country produce a differential effect on the remittances flowing to different countries, both in terms of magnitude and sometimes direction.
N16|Manufacturing And Development In Countries And Areas Of Africa, 2000-2010|In this study we analyze the evolution of economic development in 6 areas and 38 countries of Africa for the period 2000-2010. We find that industrialization in Africa shows little increase with an average value added of Manufacturing per head, at constant prices, of only 278 in year 2000 and 282 in year 2010, clearly below World average. Northern Africa and Southern Africa are the areas with the highest levels in Africa, but with relatively low values, below 1000 Dollars per head, in comparison with World average. North West Africa and Eastern Africa have low values although with a positive evolution for that period, while Sahel-Central Africa and North East Africa show very low values and stagnation for the period 2000-2010. We find that it is of great importance to foster the educational level of human capital, health assistance, infrastructures and conditions to favour industrial development and tourism in many countries and areas of Africa. As seen in this and other studies, empirical evidence shows the great importance of Kaldor´s views on the positive impact of industrialization on economic development. We estimate an econometric model that shows the positive impact of manufacturing on economic development of African countries. International cooperation through foreign investment and official development aid is interesting but we must have into account other ways of international cooperation like private foundations, foreign trade of goods and tourism, accordingly to Guisan, Aguayo and Exposito(2015), and other studies that quantify and analyze several ways of international cooperation to foster socio-economic development in low income countries.
N16|Manufacturing And Development In Countries And Areas Of America, 2000-2010|We analyze the evolution of manufacturing and development in 22 American countries for the period 2000-2010, following our previous studies of the period 1980-1999. We find some advance in industrial development of several American countries for the period of study, but unfortunately we may notice stagnation and even diminution in some developing countries. Achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) requires that international cooperation play a role to foster industrialization in many countries with a low level of manufacturing activities, given the positive impact of industry on non industrial development. The paper contributes to show empirical evidence in favour of Kaldor´s perspective on the positive role of industrialization.
N16|Manufacturing And Development In Countries And Areas Of Asia-Pacific, 2000-2010|We analyze the evolution of manufacturing and development in 30 countries or territories of Asia-Pacific, for the period 2000-2010, following our previous studies of the period 1980-1999. We find importance advance in industrial development of several countries for the period of study, particularly in the cases of the two most populated countries: China and India. Achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) requires international cooperation to play a role in order to foster industrialization in many countries with a low level of manufacturing activities, given the positive impact of industry on non industrial development. The paper contributes to show empirical evidence in favour of Kaldor´s perspective on the positive role of industrialization.
N16|Competitividad exportadora de una economía petrolera-gasera: el caso de Trinidad y Tabago, 1985-2010|El sector del petróleo y el gas (sobre todo a partir del año 2000) ha liderado la economía de Trinidad y Tabago desde finales de los años setenta, gravitando fuertemente en el pib, las exportaciones totales y los ingresos fiscales. Pero sus perspectivas de mediano plazo pueden deteriorarse si la explotación petrolífera y gasífera aumenta en otros países, y si los Estados Unidos de América alcanzan la autosuficiencia energética. Por ello, resulta relevante analizar la evolución y competitividad de sus exportaciones petroleras y no petroleras, aplicando el indicador de ventaja comparativa revelada, también empleado por la cepal tanto en el mercado estadounidense, como a nivel mundial. Se incluyen además otros indicadores de comercio exterior para conocer las características del intercambio comercial de Trinidad y Tabago. Se analiza el período 1985-2010 y los resultados presentados procuran impulsar la diversificación exportadora de este país con miras a mercados más dinámicos y diversificados.
N16|Export competitiveness in an oil and gas economy: the case of Trinidad and Tobago, 1985-2010|The oil and gas sector has led the economy of Trinidad and Tobago since the late 1970s and, more pronouncedly, since 2000, accounting for a large share of gdp, total exports and tax revenue. Its prospects in the medium term could be negatively affected, however, if oil and gas extraction expands in other countries, and if the United States attains energy self-sufficiency. This paper offers an analysis of the evolution and competitiveness of its oil and non-oil exports to both the United States and global markets, based on the revealed comparative advantage (rca) index used by eclac. Other foreign trade indicators are also included to determine the structure of the country’s trading relations. The period from 1985 to 2010 is analysed and the results presented are intended to advocate the diversification of Trinidad and Tobago’s exports into more dynamic and diversified markets.
N16|Regional income distribution in Mexico: new long-term evidence, 1895-2010|In the last years, Economic History literature has paid close attention to the long-term changes undertaken by regional income inequality in different countries after the integration of their domestic markets. Nevertheless, this literature has mainly focused on developed economies (US and Europe). New evidence is required from peripheral economies, where economic growth has had different features, and income inequality may have been dominated by other forces and followed different trends. The aim of this paper is to analyse several dimensions of the long-term evolution of Mexican regional income inequality, from the early stages of domestic markets integration to the present (1895–2010). This analysis may be taken as basis for further explanatory analysis and may contribute to the emergence of new hypothesis to explain the long-term changes in regional inequality in peripheral economies.
N16|Banking Unconditionally: The Political Economy of Chinese Finance in Latin America|Globalization scholars have long-debated to what extent economic integration, and specifically, mobile private capital constrains national policymaking. With Western capital reeling from the 2008 financial crisis, state-owned capital made inroads globally. China, as the world's largest saver, expanded its cross-border lending, funneling almost US$300 billion to developing countries since the crisis. What are the implications for debtor governments' room to maneuver? I argue that China's rapid financial expansion globally has helped increase national-level policy flexibility by removing the budget constraint traditionally imposed by the IMF and global markets. Unlike their stringent borrower conditionality, Chinese investors tend not to impose onerous policy conditions. Given the recent emergence of Chinese financing, I employ a comparative case study analysis of two of China's largest debtors â€” Brazil and Venezuela â€” before and after the introduction of Chinese credit. I find that government budget deficits increase as Chinese state-to-state financing accounts for a larger share of total external public financing. These findings offer important new insights for the study of globalization, the Latin American left, and China-Latin American relations, by helping explain the structural conditions that enable nations to veer from Western governance models.
N16|The Meaning of Fair Trade|No abstract is available for this item.
N16|International currency exposures, valuation effects and the global financial crisis|We examine the evolution of international currency exposures, with a particular focus on the 2002–12 period. During the run up to the global financial crisis, there was a widespread shift towards positive net foreign currency positions, such that relatively few countries exhibited the archetypal emerging-market “short foreign currency” position on the eve of the global financial crisis. During the crisis, the upheaval in currency markets generated substantial currency-generated valuation effects — much of which were not reversed. There is some evidence that the distribution of valuation effects was stabilizing in the sense of showing a negative covariation pattern with pre-crisis net foreign asset positions.
N16|International Currency Exposures, Valuation Effects, and the Global Financial Crisis|"We examine the evolution of international currency exposures, with a particular focus on the 2002-12 period. During the run up to the global financial crisis, there was a widespread shift towards positive net foreign currency positions, such that relatively few countries exhibited the archetypal emerging-market short foreign currency"" position on the eve of the global financial crisis. During the crisis, the upheaval in currency markets generated substantial currency-generated valuation effects - much of which were not reversed. There is some evidence that the distribution of valuation effects was stabilizing in the sense of showing a negative covariation pattern with pre-crisis net foreign asset positions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N16|Rounding the Corners of the Policy Trilemma: Sources of Monetary Policy Autonomy|A central result in international macroeconomics is that a government cannot simultaneously opt for open financial markets, fixed exchange rates, and monetary autonomy; rather, it is constrained to choosing no more than two of these three. This paper considers whether partial capital controls and limited exchange rate flexibility allow for full monetary policy autonomy. We find partial capital controls do not generally allow for greater monetary control than with open capital accounts, unless they are quite extensive, but a moderate amount of exchange rate flexibility does allow for some degree of monetary autonomy, especially in emerging and developing economies. (JEL E52, F32, F33)
N16|Firm Learning and Growth|We study the implications of introducing learning (Jovanovic, 1982) in a standard monopolistically competitive environment with firm productivity heterogeneity. Our setup predicts that firm growth rates decrease with age, holding size constant, and decrease with size, holding age constant, a fact that models focusing on idiosyncratic productivity shocks have difficulty matching. We characterize the planner's problem and show that relative quantities between any two firms are the same in both planner's allocation and the decentralized economy. As a result, any inefficiency is driven by a discrepancy in the firm entry and exit thresholds. We calibrate the model using Colombian plant-level data and demonstrate how policies directly affecting firm entry and exit can be welfare enhancing. In particular, age-dependent subsidies allow young firms to avoid early exit and thus benefit consumers through access to a larger number of varieties. (Copyright: Elsevier)
N16|The Rise of the Middle Class, Brazil (1839-1950)|This article investigates the rise of the middle class in Brazil between the mid-nineteenth and mid-twentieth centuries and its connection with inequality. To this purpose BrazilÕs income distribution is explored from two dimensions: inequality and polarisation. A new middle class index (MCI), based on polarisation methods, is used to assess the evolution of the middle class in terms of both income and status. Results suggest that during the nineteenth century low income levels prevented the achievement of high inequality values and the emergence of a middle class. Then in the early twentieth century Brazil experienced a process of economic growth accompanied by increasing inequality in a Kuznetsian sense in which the middle class arose. Yet, despite rapid economic growth during the following decades, the continued increase of inequality, especially between 1930 and 1950, impeded the consolidation of the middle class and the reduction of poverty.
N16|Understanding Domestic Savings in Chile|This paper constructs time series data on savings per type of agent for Chile during the period 1960-2012. It is found that the economy's average savings rate increased by 11 percentage points in the period 1985-2012 compared to 1960- 1984, with particularly pronounced growth in corporate savings. The evidence suggests that this increase was driven largely by the following measures: i) pension reform that introduced mandatory savings and private sector management, ii) banking reform, iii) tax reform, iv) capital markets reform and v) privatizations.
N16|Latin American Inequality: Colonial Origins, Commodity Booms, or a Missed 20th Century Leveling?|Most analysts of the modern Latin American economy have held the pessimistic belief in historical persistence -- they believe that Latin America has always had very high levels of inequality, and that it’s the Iberian colonists’ fault. Thus, modern analysts see today a more unequal Latin America compared with Asia and most rich post-industrial nations and assume that this must always have been true. Indeed, some have argued that high inequality appeared very early in the post-conquest Americas, and that this fact supported rent-seeking and anti-growth institutions which help explain the disappointing growth performance we observe there even today. The recent leveling of inequality in the region since the 1990s seems to have done little to erode that pessimism. It is important, therefore, to stress that this alleged persistence is based on an historical literature which has made little or no effort to be comparative, and it matters. Compared with the rest of the world, inequality was not high in the century following 1492, and it was not even high in the post-independence decades just prior Latin America’s belle époque and start with industrialization. It only became high during the commodity boom 1870-1913, by the end of which it had joined the rich country unequal club that included the US and the UK. Latin America only became relatively high between 1913 and the 1970s when it missed the Great Egalitarian Leveling which took place almost everywhere else. That Latin American inequality has its roots in its colonial past is a myth.
N16|Value, periphery and crisis: Argentina 1910-2011|In this paper we present a long-term study on the process of accumulation in Argentina over the past century. Explanations of the Argentine historical development are hegemonized by both the neoclassical, politically identified with the conservatives, and the Keynesian school, the latter related with Peronism and other particular ideologies. However, we will develop an alternative explanation deeply focused in Marxist political economy, empirical research and the country economic and political history over the past century. In the first section we will introduce some theoretical aspects aiming to a deeper acknowledge of some particularities in peripheral countries and their relation to Marxist political economy. In the second section, we establish a concrete analysis of the accumulation process in historical perspective. In the third section, we present the long run results of our estimates for Argentina in the period 1910-2011.
N16|(Mis)measuring Argentina’s Progress: Industrial Output, 1870s-1913|Evidence of dramatic industrialisation has been used to support the optimistic, staple theory-inspired account of Argentina’s late nineteenth century, which is central to the dominant (neo)liberal narrative of the country’s history. This narrative is here challenged by a discussion of the available evidence of industrial output in Argentina from the 1870s to the eve of the First World War. Issue is taken, in particular, with Roberto Cortés Conde’s widely used industrial output index, which has suggested an 8-9 per cent annual industrial growth rate during this period. It is argued that he has overestimated the growth rate by relying upon dubious data taken from Argentina’s inland revenue service. Rather than reflecting increased production, the rapid growth of Cortés Conde’s index is actually due to increased taxation. Alternative indicators suggest a significantly lower annual growth rate of around 5 per cent, although even this should only be considered indicative, given the lack of data. This is illustrated by the case of textile production.
N16|Limits and Barriers of Neodevelopmentalism|Neodevelopmentalism has become Argentinaâ€™s hegemonic development project after neoliberalism. While it has been able to bring back economic growth, the development of its inner contradictions is creating growing barriers to the possibility of further expansion within the same project of development, particularly as the world economy enters into crisis. I analyze the constitution of the hegemonic project and the main barriers it faces.
N16|A robust Bayesian dynamic linear model for Latin-American economic time series: “the Mexico and Puerto Rico cases”|The traditional time series methodology requires at least a preliminary transformation of the data to get stationarity. On the other hand, robust Bayesian dynamic models (RBDMs) do not assume a regular pattern or stability of the underlying system but can include points of statement breaks. In this paper we use RBDMs in order to account possible outliers and structural breaks in Latin-American economic time series. We work with important economic time series from Puerto Rico and Mexico. We show by using a random walk model how RBDMs can be applied for detecting historic changes in the economic inflation of Mexico. Also, we model the Consumer Price Index, the Economic Activity Index and the total number of employments economic time series in Puerto Rico using local linear trend and seasonal RBDMs with observational and states variances. The results illustrate how the model accounts the structural breaks for the historic recession periods in Puerto Rico. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
N16|Institutional Investors and Firm Valuation: Evidence from Latin America|This article analyses how the corporate valuation of Latin American firms is affected by the presence of an institutional block holder investor. The study uses a data set of 562 firms from six Latin American countries for the period 1997 to 2011. As in similar studies, we found that the presence of an institutional investor has a positive effect of 8% on firm value. After dividing the sample by investor type, we found that the presence of a grey investor (pension funds and insurance companies) has a negative effect on firm valuation, while independent investors (banks, investment and mutual funds) have a positive effect on firm valuation. This is one of the first studies to evaluate the relationship between investor activism and corporate valuation in Latin American economies with the most significant capital market development.
N16|Income inequality in Chile since 1850|This paper is a synthesis of the author’s Ph.D. dissertation. It studies the relationship between income inequality and the development process, understood as the combination of economic, social and political changes produced over time based on the case of Chile between 1850 and 2009. It aims to describe and explain the tendencies in income distribution over time signaling their causes and some of their consequences. In the empirical area, the main contributions of the dissertation are the estimates of historical series of salaries, wages, and different measures of income distribution –Gini index, Theil, labor share and the income of the top 1%. These estimates relied on the methodology of ‘social tables’, which aggregates income earners in categories such as occupation, having estimated the number and earnings for each category every year between 1860 and 1970. In spite of the problems arising from the use of assumptions to obtain an annual estimate, which implies an immeasurable but undoubtedly large margin of error for each year, this methodology allows us to analyze medium-term trends with relative confidence. In the fields of theory and methodology, the paper makes two major contributions. First, it shows the potential of in-depth case studies as a means to analyze the relationship between development and inequality. Second, its focus on the political economy of inequality overcomes the problem of oversimplification. Most studies tend to focus on a single factor –usually either on the market or institutions- and analyze the impact on inequality in a timeless or ahistorical manner. But, as this work shows, trends in inequality are always the consequence of a set of factors -economic, social, political and institutional- which interact, so that each one reinforces or overrides the influence of the other. The combination of these factors, which is an outcome of the historical process, is what determines the trends in inequality over time.
N16|La regulación bancaria en el Uruguay durante la industrialización dirigida por el Estado: entre la seguridad del sistema y el control de la expansión monetaria, 1938-1965|This paper analyses banking regulation in Uruguay during the period of state-led industrialization. We aim to fill a hole in the national economic historiography, which has paid scant attention to this topic, and to advance in consonance with recent developments in the Latin American historiography. The major legislative actions taken in regard to the private banking sector are identified, the motives for these actions are examined and their impact on private banking activity is evaluated. The research activities consisted primarily of reviewing the National Register of Laws and Decrees, the recorded sessions of both houses of Congress and the specialized national economic journals of the period, as well as of the construction of a database of banking activity during the period. Four major regulatory moments are discussed: in 1938 the first general banking law of the 20th century looked to strengthen the safety and soundness of the banking system; during the 1940s minimum reserve ratios were adjusted as a means of restricting monetary expansion; in the 1950s the rediscount mechanism was liberalized in order to control monetary policy and, to a much lesser extent, credit policy; finally, as a response to Uruguay's first major banking crisis of the 20th century, a new banking law was passed that looked to increase the safety and soundness of the system, implement greater control over bank assets and apply measures for directing credit towards strategic activities. In general, banking regulation appears to have focused on safety and soundness, and rather than aiming to direct financial resources towards productive activities, it tended to respond to monetary problems, such as inflation or scarcity of credit. At the same time, even though credit selectivity was an explicit goal of policy makers starting in the late-1940s, it was overshadowed by other problems of greater importance, the very problems that contributed to the collapse of the development model pursued during these decades.
N16|Consumo y crecimiento en América Latina y el Caribe: las luces del bienestar y las sombras de la sostenibilidad|Latin America and the Caribbean experienced outstanding economic growth in the last 10-15 years, which has been accompanied -and to some extent, driven- by increases in private consumption (CEPAL 2014). These higher levels of consumption have extended the access to valuable goods and service for less favored segments of the income scale, and luckily they have not crowded out investment. However, as it is in the conventional wisdom in Latin America, given certain conditions, consumption booms may lead to another crisis. This article organizes and presents most recently available evidence and interpretations from the literature, to critically describe what is known and what is not regarding the behavior of agents, and the pertinent prevention and response policies to stimulate savings, and keep consumption sustainable.
N16|Non-residential capital stock in Latin America. 1875-2008|This work offers non-residential capital stock estimation for major Latin American economies – Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Mexico - made towards a homogeneous method. This work covers the whole twentieth century and the years of the XXI century, expanding backward half century the present available estimations. Our research has the virtue of creating a capital stock method that could be applied to almost all Latin American economies, using the gross fixed capital formation data base (1850–1950) elaborated by one of the authors. This data could be linked with the investment series of standardized National Accounts of the Region, by ECLAC (Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean). Also, the authors have done a comparison between Latin American countries and most advanced economies, especially on the comparative performance of two settlers countries, Argentina and Australia.
N16|Monetary policy in Argentina: From the inflation of the 1970s to the default of the new millennium|Since the end of World War II, Argentina has been through an uninterrupted series of financial/fiscal and monetary crises that have gradually eroded the credibilityof the economic institutions of the country. In the period from 1970 to 1990 alone, the Argentine economy experienced seven currency crises and three banking crises. The main objective of this contribution is to investigate the reasons for economic policy choices that, since the military dictatorship of Colonel Perón, have led the country to default, causing unemployment, runs on banks and popular uprisings.
N16|A Colonial Bank under Spanish and American Sovereignty: The Banco Español de Puerto Rico, 1888-1913|This paper offers the history of the Banco Español de Puerto Rico from its creation in 1888 to its liquidation in 1913. The Banco Español was the sole note-issuing institution of the island until 1898, when Puerto Rico was transferred to the United States. The establishment of the Bank was plagued with difficulties and during its first decade of existence it met with diverse obstacles that hindered its financial development. However, it contributed to diversifying the underdeveloped banking structure of the colony, to bringing down the cost of credit, and to modernizing the island’s monetary system. The transfer of sovereignty was traumatic since the Bank lost its issue monopoly and had to adjust to US banking legislation. In 1905, its name was changed to Banco de Puerto Rico and its by-laws were reformed. The last years of the Bank’s life were prosperous and it once again made an important contribution to the island’s economy. All in all, the history of the institution is a mixture of errors and achievements, a history of setbacks and successes.
N16|The GDP per capita of the Mexican regions (1895-1930): new estimates|So far, apart from Appendini (1972) for 1900, there were no Mexican regional GDP estimates for the period before 1930. The aim of this paper is to fill this gap by presenting new Mexican regional GDP pc estimates for several benchmark years between 1895 and 1930. The paper presents the methodology and sources used to estimate the new series, compares them with the previous estimates, and offers a first long-term picture of Mexican regional pc GDPs (1895-2010).
N16|La disputa por la Nación: rentas y aduanas en la construcción estatal argentina, 1850-1865|En el presente trabajo se analizan de manera minuciosa las rentas y las políticas fiscales de la Confederación Argentina, confrontándolas con las del entonces Estado de Buenos Aires. La historiografía, en general, ha postulado que el papel de la Confederación fue poco relevante desde el punto de vista de sus rentas y, por consiguiente, inviable como proyecto exitoso. Sin embargo, tales impresiones se fraguaron sobre suposiciones más que sobre números reales. El estudio aquí propuesto, a través del análisis de diversas Memorias de Hacienda y de documentación inédita de variada procedencia, muestra que no era así. Aun con las limitaciones que imponen la escasez y dispersión de las fuentes, resulta claro que el «destino manifiesto» de Buenos Aires como rectora de la Nación Argentina no estaba escrito en ningún lado. KEY Classification-JEL: N16. N26. N46
N16|Trade finance and Latin America's lost decade: The forgotten link|The Great recession has brought back to foreground the link between trade credit, international trade and economic growth. Scholars have recently found that the effects of the fall in trade finance are strong and accurately explain the recent fall in international trade. We argue that the lost decade that followed Latin America's debt crisis is a useful comparative benchmark to recognize the scope of impact on international trade stemming from a sharp decline in trade finance. The years that followed the Mexican debt default of 1982 experienced a decrease in the financial flows to the region. However, the lending policies adopted by export agencies had a countercyclical effect. They reacted to defaults by suspending their cover activities for exports to defaulting countries, but soon reintroduced them once governments entered into a credit program from the IMF. This paper is the first to estimate the impact of trade finance on international trade in the aftermath of Latin America's debt crisis. KEY Classification-JEL: F34. F42. G01. N16
N16|Historical Origins of Brazilian Relative Backwardness|Esse artigo utiliza dados recentes para identificar o período em que o Brasil teve maior perda de PIB per capita relativo em relação a um conjunto de países utilizados como parâmetro de comparação, entre eles Canadá, EUA, Nova Zelândia e Austrália. Além disso, utilizaram-se dados sobre imigração no Brasil nos EUA para identificar o papel da importação de capital humano na geração das disparidades entre Brasil e EUA no século XIX. As conclusões mostram que essa foi responsável por 50% a 88% desse crescimento das desigualdades entre 1820 e 1900. Apesar de constituir uma evidência forte do papel do capital humano, o método utilizado não elimina o papel potencial das instituições na atração dessa mão obra mais qualificada para os EUA.
N16|No Reversal Of Fortune In The Long Run: Geography And Spatial Persistence Of Prosperity In Colombia, 1500-2005|This paper examines the non-reversal of fortune thesis proposed by Acemoglu et al. ( 2002 ) in the light of the Colombian experience over the last 500 years. Using a total of fourteen national population censuses and the record of tributary Indians in 1559, it is found that the population density of Colombian regions presented a high degree of persistence through time. Thus, the evidence indicates that those places that were prosperous circa 1500 remain so today, and vice versa . These results indicate that the long-run influences of geography on regional economic disparities within a country are not negligible.
N16|La no reversión de la fortuna en el largo plazo: geografía y persistencia espacial de la prosperidad en Colombia, 1500-2005|En este artículo se examina la tesis de la reversión de la fortuna propuesta por Acemoglu, Johnson y Robinson (2002) de acuerdo con la experiencia colombiana durante los últimos 500 años. Utilizando un total de 14 censos nacionales de población y el registro de los indígenas encomendados que había en 1559, se encuentra que la densidad demográfica de las regiones de Colombia ha mostrado una gran persistencia en el transcurso del tiempo. Por lo tanto, la evidencia indica que los lugares que fueron prósperos en torno al año 1500 siguen siéndolo hoy en día y viceversa. Estos resultados indican que las influencias a largo plazo de la geografía sobre las disparidades económicas regionales al interior de un país no son despreciables.******ABSTRACT: This paper examines the non-reversal of fortune thesis proposed by Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson (2002) in the light of the Colombian experience over the last 500 years. Using a total of 14 national population censuses and the record of tributary Indians in 1559, it is found that the population density of Colombian regions presented a high degree of persistence through time. Thus, the evidence indicates that those places that were prosperous circa 1500 remain so today, and vice versa. These results indicate that the long run influences of geography on regional economic disparities within a country are not negligible.
N16|Latin America's socail imagination since 1950. From one type of 'absolute certainties' to another - with no (far more creative)'uncomfortable uncertainties' in sight|"Latin America is a region whose critical social imagination has stalled, changing from a uniquely prolific period during the 1950s and 1960s - revolving around structuralism, 'dependency', Baran and Sweezy-type analysis of 'monopoly capitalism', French structuralism, the German Historical School, Keynesian and Post-Keynesian macroeconomics, and the ideas of endogenous intellectuals (such as Mariátegui) - to an intellectually barren one since the 1982 debt-crisis and the fall of the Berlin Wall. Although this has happened in most of the world, the downswing of the cycle of critical thinking and the process of re-legitimisation of capital have been more pronounced in Latin America, as neo-liberalism has conquered the region, including most of its progressive intelligentsia, just as completely (and just as fiercely) as the Holy Inquisition conquered Spain - transforming critical thinkers into an endangered species. A key problem of the pre-1980 critical social imagination had been its unremitting critique of the economy; consequently, once the 'new left' conceded the economy as the fundamental hub of the struggle, there seemed to have been little else left in terms of basic ideological principles to hold onto in a thoughtful way. It was as if 'progressive' thinking had lost not just some but all its relevance - making it very difficult to move forward ideologically in a creative way. As a result, in terms of development strategies and economic policies both the 'old' and the 'new' left are still mostly stuck in the past: while the former (as in Venezuela) tries to recreate somewhat mechanically what it perceives to be 'the best of the past', the latter (except for their policies on social expenditure) attempts to create a future which is fundamentally the exact opposite of that past (e.g., the 'new-left' in Brazil and Chile) - and in order to do so, it seems to have only one guiding economic policy principle: to transform practically everything that before was considered ""virtue"" into a ""vice"", and ""vice"" into a ""virtue"". Not surprisingly, neither approach has been very successful; in the case of the latter, their remarkably narrow 'reverse-gear' attitude has delivered not only a disappointing economic performance (especially in terms of productivity-growth), but also a political settlement characterised by a rather odd mixture of an insatiable oligarchy, a captured 'progressive' political élite (the dominant classes are quite happy to let them govern as long as they don't forget who they are), 'sterilised' governments, passive citizens, and a stalled social imagination - all made more palatable for the poor by an agenda of safety-nets. From time to time, this dull mélange is sparked off by outbursts of students' discontent. Meanwhile, the world (with its new technological and institutional paradigms) moves on, and Asia forges ahead."
N16|Has the income share of the middle and upper-middle been stable over time, or is its current homogeneity across the world the outcome of a process of convergence? The 'Palma Ratio' revisited|"In an article published in Development and Change in 2011, I suggested an alternative measure of inequality to the Gini - a ""19th Century statistic"" - which has subsequently become known as the ´Palma Ratio'. In this new article, I revisit the argument for such a measure. Using new data, I examine whether the current remarkable homogeneity in the income share of the middle and upper-middle around the world - the foundation of the so-called 'Palma Ratio' - is an historically stable stylised fact, or whether it is a new phenomenon, the outcome of a process of convergence towards the current '50/50 Rule' (a state of affairs in which half of the population in each country located within deciles 5 to 9 tends to appropriate about 50 per cent of the national income). Although partly written in response to a comment on my 2011 paper, this article has evolved to become a further attempt at contributing to the literature on inequality and the statistics to measure it. As in my 2011 paper, in this one I also conclude that if we want to understand why inequality is so unequal across the world we have little choice but to keep reminding ourselves of what I believe to be the most crucial of all distributional stylisedfacts (highlighted by the sub-title of that article): ""The share of the rich is what it's all about."" The logic of the 'Palma Ratio' is precisely to emphasise this fact - as well as to draw attention to the increasingly artificial (i.e., self-constructed) foundations of growing inequality (as opposed to Piketty, I believe that 'r' is currently so much greater than 'g' as a direct result of human agency, and not as a supposed inevitable outcome of the workings of the invisible hand…). And if one not only wants to understand why inequality is so unequal across the world, but also get closer to understanding why growth is also so diverse, what we should write in our noticeboards is: ""It's all about the share of the rich, and what they do with it"". This is particularly important to understand if we really want to do something about inequality (and growth), because as someone rightly said long ago, philosophers have only interpreted the world in various ways; the point now is to change it."
N16|Adaptación del Banco de la República a los cambios en la política monetaria, cambiaria y de crédito: 1923-2013|El artículo discute como el Banco de la República de Colombia se ajustó durante un periodo largo a los cambios en la teoría y la legislación de la política monetaria, cambiaria y de crédito en el país. En el periodo la legislación transformo sus funciones, responsabilidades, y esquema de gobierno varias veces, pero la entidad logro mantener una cultura y seriedad administrativa muy sólida.
N16|La no reversión de la fortuna en el largo plazo: geografía y persistencia espacial de la prosperidad en Colombia, 1500-2005|En este artículo se examina la tesis de la reversión de la fortuna propuesta por Acemoglu, Johnson y Robinson (2002) de acuerdo con la experiencia colombiana durante los últimos 500 años. Utilizando un total de 14 censos nacionales de población y el registro de los indígenas encomendados que había en 1559, se encuentra que la densidad demográfica de las regiones de Colombia ha mostrado una gran persistencia en el transcurso del tiempo. Por lo tanto, la evidencia indica que los lugares que fueron prósperos en torno al año 1500 siguen siéndolo hoy en día y viceversa. Estos resultados indican que las influencias a largo plazo de la geografía sobre las disparidades económicas regionales al interior de un país no son despreciables.
N16|El auge económico antioqueño del siglo XIX desde un enfoque de desarrollo económico local|Este documento describe las principales características de la evolución de la economía antioqueña durante la segunda mitad del siglo XIX, tratando de identificar si ésta siguió un proceso de desarrollo económico local. Con ello, además de realizar una reinterpretación novedosa del despegue económico de Antioquia, basado en recientes fuentes recolectadas; este trabajo realiza un aporte dentro de la teoría del desarrollo local, ya que, presentando lo que podría considerarse como una versión generalizada de ella, se rescata la validez atemporal de sus principales consideraciones, normalmente reconocidas aceptables solo en el marco de sociedades postindustriales.
N16|El tamaño del Estado y su impacto redistributivo en América Latina|Este ensayo analiza la evolución del gasto público en América Latina a lo largo de las dos últimas décadas, y ofrece como referencia una perspectiva de más larga duración cuando la disponibilidad de estadísticas lo permite. Utiliza con tal propósito distintas fuentes de información, aunque mayoritariamente de la CEPAL. La tarea no resulta fácil porque la información disponible de diferentes fuentes no es necesariamente consistente entre sí y presenta grandes vacíos, particularmente en relación con el alcance de las empresas públicas y, por ende, a la estimación del gasto público consolidado.
N16|The Argentina Paradox: microexplanations and macropuzzles|Abstract The economic history of Argentina presents one of the most dramatic examples of divergence in the modern era. What happened and why? This paper reviews the wide range of competing explanations in the literature and argues that, setting aside deeper social and political determinants, the various economic mechanisms in play defy the idea of a monocausal explanation.
N16|Estratégias de desenvolvimento em questão: O debate sobre o papel do Estado no Brasil, México e República Bolivariana da Venezuela, 1989-2010|O presente artigo tem por objetivo prover uma perspectiva histórica e comparativa das políticas de desenvolvimento no Brasil, México e Venezuela, com especial atenção ao período de emergência do paradigma neoliberal no fim dos anos 1980 e início dos 1990. Procuramos delimitar os principais aspectos do debate político em cada um dos países, indicando os atores mais participativos na esfera de decisão das políticas públicas e o lugar que atribuíram ao Estado na estratégia de desenvolvimento. Este debate é interessante na medida em que atualmente se consolidam três estratégias distintas nos países analisados, em comparação com a semelhança ideológica da política econômica aplicada nos anos 1990. O artigo também dedica especial atenção às transformações institucionais daquele período que permaneceram vigentes até a retomada de certos aspectos do paradigma desenvolvimentista dos anos 2000.
N16|El ciclo económico del Uruguay, 1998-2012|The paper studies the main features of the economic cycle 1998-2012 in Uruguay. It states that, in spite of very positive and promising results, there still persists a set of structural problems that inhibits us to conclude that Uruguay had broken with the long-run trends of low economic dynamics. The paper also studies changes in the productive structure and the structure of exports, concluding that no significant structural changes took place., which is in line with the idea of the persistence of historical structural features. Finally, the papers tackles the applied productive policies and its relation with the discussed results, concluding that significant progress was made in the policy development and capability building, but that there still exist important weaknesses necessary to be over won in order to improve the prospects for development.
N16|Participación salarial y crecimiento económico en América Latina, 1950-2011|En este artículo se construyen las series de la participación salarial en el producto interno bruto (PIB) de 15 economías de América Latina y la correspondiente al conjunto de estas entre 1950-2010. Se determina, con diferentes metodologías, la tendencia no lineal de esta variable, corroborando la presencia de dos grandes ciclos. Se incluye una discusión de diversos autores, especialmente clásicos y postkeynesianos, que exploran la vinculación de esta variable con el nivel de actividad económica. Asimismo, se demuestra la pertinencia del enfoque postkeynesiano para explicar que las variaciones del PIB real están determinadas por la participación salarial, la formación bruta de capital y las exportaciones de bienes y servicios, entre las principales variables. Sin embargo, la contribución de la variación de la participación salarial al crecimiento del producto real es menos importante a partir de los años ochenta.
N16|Wage share and economic growth in Latin America, 1950-2011|This article builds series of wage shares in gross domestic product (GDP) for 15 Latin American economies individually and as a group for the period 1950-2010. Using different methodologies, it is established that wage share is non-linear and has undergone two major cycles. The article discusses various authors, especially classic and post-Keynesian thinkers, who have explored the relationship between wage share in GDP and economic activity. It is also shown that the post-Keynesian approach is relevant in explaining that the main variables determining real gdp variations include wage share, gross capital formation and exports of goods and services. However, the contribution of wage share to real output growth has declined from the 1980s onwards.
N16|Previous financial crises leading to stagnation: Selected case studies|This paper analyses several severe financial crises observed in the history of capitalism which led to a longer period of stagnation or low growth. Comparative case studies of the Great Depression, the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980s and the Japanese crisis of the 1990s and 2000s are presented. The following questions are asked: What triggered big financial crises? Which factors intensified financial crises? And most importantly, which factors prevented the return of prosperity for a long time? The main conclusion is that stagnation after big financial crises becomes likely when the balance sheets of economic units are not quickly cleaned, when the nominal wage anchor breaks, and when there is no big and longer growth stimulus by the state. Some tentative conclusions for the subprime financial crisis and the Great Recession are drawn.
N16|Political Economy of Macroeconomic Policymaking: Economic Crises and Technocratic Governance|How do economic crisis affect national-level policy choices? Are technocratic advisors more likely to enter government during periods of severe economic volatility? If so, how does such governance affect economic policymaking and social responsiveness? In this paper, I evaluate the role of technocratic advisors on Latin American reforms. Building on the political psychology literature, I argue that collective crisis memories in technocratic communities have a disproportionate influence on elite-level policymaking. Employing an originally constructed data index, the Index of Economic Advisors, I conduct a large-N cross-national test from 1960-2011 to examine whether economic crisis lead to more technocrats serving in presidential cabinets, and find that crises often professionalize presidential teams. The statistical results also show that technocrats' governance approaches are conditioned by the nature of past shocks. An inflationary crisis history makes budget austerity more likely. Deflationary spirals have been far less common in Latin America, but comparative case study evidence of Argentina in the early 2000s shows that these shocks often catalyze sustained fiscal expansion. This investigation has significant implications for the study of democrazy and development. Technocratic governance might help provide economic stability following crises, but an enduring political focus on past crises can limit policy flexibility and social responsiveness.
N16|The China Boom in Latin America: An End to Austerity|How does a shifting economic power balance between the United States and China affect the strategic choices of Latin American governments? During the last several decades, Latin America has often relied on a Western development model that aimed to attract global market capital. After excessive borrowing led to financial busts, however, many countries have sought to insulate themselves from market volatility. Rising terms of trade and a commodity boom, driven in part by China, helped buttress economic growth during much of the 2000s. But, what accounts for the growing variation in national policy approaches, ranging from ongoing market orthodoxy to heavy government intervention? I argue that governments that tap new Chinese income streams – both non-conditional lending and taxable commodity flows – have reduced their reliance on conditionality-linked Western financing, giving them more autonomy to use budget deficits to intervene in their economies. Employing a systematic comparative analysis of three Latin American countries – Argentina, Brazil, and Venezuela – I find that Chinese non-conditional funding endows governments with greater budgetary discretion, making austerity less likely. These findings offer important new insights for the study of globalization, the Latin American left, and China-Latin American relations, by helping explain the structural conditions that enable nations to veer from Western governance models.
N16|The Political Economy of Sovereign Debt: Global Finance and Electoral Cycles|Political economy theory expects politicians to use budget deficits to engineer an election-timed boom, known as the political business cycle. We challenge and contextualize this view by incorporating the financial constraints faced by governments into an electoral framework. We argue theoretically that the extent of ownership dispersion among creditors has important effects for governments’ policy autonomy. Specifically, we contend that when highly indebted governments become more reliant on international bond markets – as opposed to traditional bank lending – politicians alter the way they respond to domestic constituents. In an econometric test of 16 Latin American countries from 1961 to 2011, we show that financial decentralization breeds austerity. More specifically, we find that politicians exhibit more fiscal discipline when they fund a greater share of their spending through decentralized bond markets. Furthermore, we find this disciplining effect to be particularly strong during election periods.
N16|Hyperinflation argentine de 1989 : une interprétation post-keynésienne|L’article poursuit un double objectif. Le premier vise à proposer une interprétation de l’hyperinflation compatible avec la théorie post-keynésienne. L’analyse des phénomènes hyperinflationnistes par les auteurs post-keynésiens mais aussi par les auteurs structuralistes permet de nourrir notre réflexion. Nous mettons l’accent sur l’importance de la présence d’une devise dans les comportements domestiques au cours des hautes inflations. D’ailleurs, selon nous, l’hyperinflation est indissociable du rejet complet de la monnaie domestique au profit d’une devise. Ce rejet, soudain dans son expression finale, se construit progressivement. Il est suscité par un violent conflit de répartition qui génère une forte inflation, par des phénomènes d’indexation, par un endettement externe libellé en devises et par des comportements auto-réalisateurs sur le change.Le second objectif réside dans la confrontation de cette proposition théorique aux faits économiques observés en Argentine sur une période qui débute lors des années 1970 et mène à l’hyperinflation de 1989. L’analyse d’économie politique historique permet de repérer la séquence suivante : le conflit de répartition est particulièrement virulent et régulièrement reconfiguré dès les années 1970. Cela provoque l’émergence d’arrangements institutionnels développés par les agents (l’indexation), pendant que le dollar prend de plus en plus d’importance dans l’économie. Ce dernier point est encouragé par l’adoption d’une politique de change originale dans un contexte de complète libéralisation financière à la fin des années 1970. L’impossibilité dans les années 1980 de stabiliser le taux de change dans un contexte de fort endettement externe rend possible en 1989 la survenue de l’hyperinflation, provoquée in fine par une intense spéculation sur le change et un run sur les réserves.
N16|Climate Change Impacts on Birth Outcomes in Brazil|This paper attempts to identify the climatic effect on birth outcomes in Brazil and, thus, to predict the potential impact of climate change. Panel data models indicate that excess and lack of rainfall have the most important harmful effects on newborns' health; temperature stresses and low relative humidity also have effects. The use of climate change forecasts for Brazil suggests a possible increase of 305 neonatal deaths annually and, for families in the Primary Care Program, three thousand additional low-weight births each year. The paper further examines public policy's role in minimizing the effects of extreme weather. Mothers' education, sanitation access and health care assistance to pregnant women represent the main instruments for addressing neonatal health problems.
N16|Inflation Targeting and an Optimal Taylor Rule for an Open Economy: Evidence for Colombia 1990-2011|An optimal monetary policy Taylor rule is developed for an open economy, which we then estimate following a Markov regime-switching model for quarterly data from Colombia during 1990-2011. We find two opposite monetary regimes characterized by different policy rules: until October 2000 the Central Bank of Colombia reacted only statistically to output gap changes while after October 2000, when inflation targeting was of ficially adopted, monetary policy reacted only statistically to changes in the inflation rate. The latter regime is consistent with the Taylor principle as shown analytically and verified empirically by a unit root test for a Markov regime-switching model.
N16|¿Hacia dónde va el Banco del Sur? Revisando la experiencia del bndes en Brasil|Los objetivos de este artículo son dos: 1) revisar la experiencia del Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Económico e Social (bndes) en su contribución al crecimiento económico de Brasil en dos periodos capitalistas, el keynesiano y el neoliberal; y 2) obtener algunas lecciones de esta revisión que puedan ser útiles para el futuro del Banco del Sur. La metodología usada en este trabajo es histórica-descriptiva y teórica-lógica. La primera sirve para revisar la historia económica de Brasil y la contribución que el bndes tuvo al crecimiento económico; y la segunda, se utiliza cuando se examina el papel del dinero en la acumulación de capital desde una perspectiva marxista./ Objectives of this paper are twofold: 1) to review the experience of the bndes (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social) in its contribution to economic growth in Brazil in two capitalist-historical periods, the Keynesian and the Neoliberal, and 2) to obtain some lessons, based on this experience, which can be useful for policy-makers. The methodology that we use in this article is both historical-descriptive and theoretical-logical. The first one is used to review the Brazilian economic history and bndes’ contribution to economic growth, and the second is used in examining the role of money in capital accumulation with a Marxian approach.
N16|El BNDES y la industrialización en Brasil. Evidencia histórica y econométrica|Este artículo tiene como objetivo mostrar que los bancos de desarrollo tienen un efecto positivo para el crecimiento económico. Se muestra específicamente el caso de Brasil, con su Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social (BNDES) fundado en 1952. Para cumplir nuestro objetivo utilizamos tanto herramientas históricas como de estadísticas. Nuestros resultados indican que: a) los desembolsos del BNDES tuvieron una importante contribución a la industrialización desde 1952 hasta 1970, y b) pruebas estadísticas señalan que la formación bruta de capital fijo antecede (o causa) los desembolsos realizados por el BNDES./ This article aims to show that development banks positively affect economic growth and generate employment, with the Brazilian development BNDES, founded in 1952, as an example. Using statistical as well as historical tools, we found that a) BNDES’ disbursements had an important contribution to industrialization from 1952 until the 1970s, and b) BNDES’ disbursements are highly correlated to investments in machinery and equipment.
N16|Geography, Policy, or Productivity? Regional Trade in five South American Countries, 1910-1950|Regional trade in South America since independence has long been much smaller than would be expected if geography were the only constraint on trade. Several potential explanations exist: low technological and demand complementarities; low productivity; high natural and policy barriers to trade. Focusing on the latter explanations, policy makers have long advocated a South American/Southern Cone Free Trade Area–proposed as early as 1889. Would reductions in trade costs have been sufficient to significantly raise trade, or was trade low for other reasons? We study bilateral trade between 1910 and 1950, when large external shocks altered global supply and demand. These shocks help us show that intra-regional trade could have been boosted with reductions in trade costs. South American regional trade could have benefitted from more benign trade policy or better infrastructure. Regional trade in textiles, which took off from the 1930s, supports our argument that trade improved when trade costs fell.
N16|Crecimiento económico en el Perú bajo los Borbones, 1700-1820|El siglo dieciocho fue uno de robusto crecimiento económico en el virreinato del Perú. Pero tanto la cronología, cuanto las raíces de este crecimiento son imprecisas. El inicio de la expansión suele ubicarse hacia el final de la gran epidemia de 1718-1723, que afectó a la población indígena de la sierra sur, ocasionando severos problemas inmediatos al flujo comercial, así como al suministro de trabajadores para las haciendas y minas en los años siguientes. Pero otros han apuntado al efecto que tuvieron ciertas medidas relacionadas a la tributación minera y a la introducción de nuevas tecnologías en ese sector, hacia 1736- 1745. El final del ciclo de crecimiento se ubicaría hacia 1800 o, en todo caso, durante la primera década del siglo diecinueve. Se trataría, así, de un ciclo de crecimiento que habría durado unos tres cuartos de siglo, lo que lo convertiría en uno de los más prolongados de la historia económica peruana. El papel que en este proceso tuvieron las reformas borbónicas es otro tema de debate. En este documento me propongo ordenar la información pertinente a este proceso de crecimiento económico, así como reflexionar acerca de sus determinantes. JEL Classification-JEL: N16, N46, N56
N16|An unfinished business: Economic liberalization and structural change in Mexico|Mexico, as other Latin American countries, undertook far-reaching economic reforms in the 1980s and 1990s in a wide array of areas: trade and industrial policy, foreign investment and capital account, privatization of public enterprises and deregulation of economic activities, among others. As a result of the new economic model, the Mexican economy experienced outstanding export growth, successful insertion into international dynamic markets and shift towards medium and high-technology industries. Yet productivity growth has been insufficient, leading to low and volatile economic growth. This paper examines the dynamics of productivity growth and in particular analyzes whether inter- and intra-industry dynamics can account for sluggish productivity growth. It makes use of a shift-share analysis, taking advantage of a recently published industry-level database developed by the Mexican National Statistics Office as part of the LA-KLEMS project. The paper shows that Mexico has experienced an unfinished structural change, where productivity growth within sectors has been insufficient to close the gap with its main trading partner, the United States. Moreover, despite a significant reallocation of hours worked across industries, its aggregate impact has been hampered by the fact that flows have been from industrial sectors with high labor productivity growth towards sectors with lower, or contracting, productivity growth.
N16|The long-run relationship between money and prices in Mexico: 1969-2010|This paper performs a spectral analysis (univariate and bivariate) of monthly series of growth in money (a narrow and a broad aggregate) and in prices for Mexico. This analysis allows the identification of the most important frequencies for each series, as well as of some measures of association between the series, at different frequencies. In particular, zero frequency measures, typically used for identifying the long-run relationship between money and prices, are obtained. In addition to the analysis of the entire series (1969-2010), a rolling sample analysis for the zero frequency is also carried out to allow for changes in the long-run relationships.
N16|¿Habrá una segunda oportunidad sobre la tierra? Instituciones coloniales y disparidades económicas regionales en Colombia|Este artículo analiza el origen colonial de las desigualdades entre las regiones colombianas. Presenta los aspectos más sobresalientes de la geografía física, pues esta y las instituciones son las bases últimas de esas desigualdades económicas. Un análisis econométrico sencillo relaciona la pobreza en las ciudades de más de 100.000 habitantes con una proxy de instituciones coloniales y una medida de características geográficas. Además, discute una de las opciones más claras para que las regiones con una historia colonial de instituciones excluyentes superen esa situación: la inversión en capital humano.
N16|The accumulation of capital and economic growth in Brazil. A long-term perspective (1950-2008)|This article analyses the development of economic growth in Brazil in terms of capital accumulation, following the Marxist approach. The aim is to identify the relationship between the two processes, looking at the profit rate, which along with investment effort determines productive investment. In turn, this one affects the capital-labour ratio and labour productivity. Both, with the addition of the price ratio, determine the productivity of capital, a key variable in understanding the accumulation process in Brazil. Using the period 1950-2008 allows comparing two phases in the Brazilian economy, the period of substitutive industrialisation and the neoliberal phase, all from the perspective of the relationship between the aforementioned variables.
N16|Formosa: tierra prometida-tierra arrasada. La Argentina de los márgenes (1884-1955)|In times of Modern Argentina (1880-1930) marginality is part of the agro- export model; structured around Buenos Aires port and the Pampas livestock-cereal, the recipient of massive immigration, growing urbanization and foreign investment concentration. Marginality does not always mean isolation. This is the case of Argentinean Gran Chaco situated in northeastern Argentina, crossed by 3 railways and major waterways, which communicate with the powerful metropolitan littoral. Formosa, bordering Paraguay, is still a postponed territory in the Argentinean Gran Chaco. The land tenure system goes with desertification. Natural resources preservation together with heterogeneous productive models joins the scarce technology. Livestock and deforestation turned the promised land into a devastated land, full of precarious squatters, short term exploitations and soil intensive use. This historical study refers to a specific case of occupation and construction of the space, interrelating with national government alternatives and the logical territory together with its heterogeneous people and precarious economy, without a local rooted bourgeoisie or obtained profit reinvestment. The aim is to describe and interpret the survival conditions in times when Formosa was a National Territory.
N16|The More Divergent, the Better? Lessons on Trilemma Policies and Crises for Asia|This paper investigates the potential impacts of the degree of divergence in open macroeconomic policies in the context of the trilemma hypothesis. Using an index that measures the extent of policy divergence among the three trilemma policy choices—monetary independence, exchange rate stability, and financial openness—we find that emerging market economies have adopted trilemma policy combinations with the smallest degree of policy divergence in the last 15 years. We then investigate whether and to what extent the degree of open macro policy convergence affects the probability of a crisis and find that a developing or emerging market economy with a higher degree of policy divergence is more likely to experience a currency or debt crisis. We also compare the development of trilemma policies around the crisis period for the groups of Latin American crisis countries in the 1980s and the Asian crisis countries in the 1990s. We find that Latin American crisis countries tended to close their capital accounts in the aftermath of a crisis, while that is not the case for the Asian crisis countries. The Asian crisis countries tended to reduce the degree of policy divergence in the aftermath of the crisis, which possibly meant they decided to adopt open macro policies that made their economies less prone to a crisis. © 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
N16|Intentionality and technological and institutional change: Implications for economic development|The interactive implementation of agents’ intentional actions generates new combinations that are at the base of structural change and complexity and produce unexpected consequences. An interesting case of study is provided by the absorption of new technology strategies for development. A common hypothesis is that development requires an institutional arrangement that allows for the exploitation of imported technology. However, historical examples (such as Cuba in the nineteenth century) show how the technological choices of highly innovative entrepreneurial élites may generate a trap of development even though institutions are conveniently adapted to accommodate new technology. To understand the nature of this type of development trap, we introduce a micro-meso-macro analytical approach based on Dopfer & Potts (2008). Institutions and technology are meso rule trajectories that coevolve in an emergence-dissemination-retention process that interacts with both micro units (purposeful entrepreneurs) and the emergent macro properties of the system (development). Within this framework, it is shown how such a strategy for development may result in underdevelopment. The explanation is that, under special circumstances, the de-coordination and re-coordination processes of meso trajectories may be unable to generate enough variety to feed the evolutionary process, and they thereby catch agents in such a “techno-institutional trap”.
N16|El ciclo económico del Uruguay, 1998-2012|Este documento analiza las características del último ciclo de desarrollo de la economía uruguaya (1998-2012) y los cambios en la estructura productiva y de las exportaciones. El análisis desarrollado en cada capítulo se complementa con una descripción de las políticas productivas implementadas a lo largo del período de estudio, tanto a nivel sectorial, como horizontal en tres dimensiones: inversión, exportaciones e innovación.
N16|Inflación en Uruguay en 140 años de historia (1870-2010). Un enfoque monetario|"This paper aims at explaining the long-run inflation of Uruguay (1870-2010). A monetary inflation model is used based on the assumption that the long-run inflation results from the equilibrium conditions in the money market. A forward-looking Phillips curve is estimated where the inflation rate depends positively on the inflation expectations, the output gap and the international inflation. Following the Neumann and Greiber (2004) approach, the inflation expectations is explained by the core money growth, which is defined as the growth of long-lasting component of nominal money supply that exceeds the long-run increase of the real money demand, this last one determined by the change of the potential output (output adjusted core money, OACM). In addition, we compare the OACM with effective inflation and we construct a monetization index which enables us to identify processes of ""demonetization"" and ""monetization"" that the Uruguayan economy experienced along the last 140 years. The results of the Phillips curve estimation show a positive and significant effect of the core money growth on the inflation rate. In addition, a unit elasticity of the real money demand is found."
N16|Control de Cambios y el Sistema de Cambios Múltiples en Uruguay: 1931-1959|"The global economic crisis inaugurated by the Great Depression caused a radical change in international trade flows and buried definitely the gold standard and automatic adjustment mechanism of local currencies. Hence, countries should rethink their business relationship and face the problem of devaluation of local currencies and loss reserves. The institute that countries appealed to face the new scenario will be: the Exchange Control. In the case of Uruguay, the Exchange Control (May 1931) is installed as a mechanism to defend the ""peso"" and to prevent the outflows of gold and foreign currencies. In the process of installing this institution, its objectives were extended and begun the use of the multiple exchange rate system and differential exchange rate to induce structural change, refocus imports, deepening industrialization, promote exports with a higher added value and create a source of revenue for the government that was used for income distribution (trough, subsiding popular consumptions). In the short run, while Exchange Control gained a greater institutional structure, it will include not only the fixing of exchange rates and the segmentation exchange market, but it will also be used to manage the country's foreign trade and subsequently it will be used as an instrument to promote and protect the industrialization effort. However, by the second half of the fifties it demonstrated its excessive dependence on international conditions (level of international prices, etc.); and, internally, it failed to address the inflationary process that was affecting the country."
N16|La descapitalización de los institutos de jubilaciones en el Uruguay: el empapelamiento de las cajas. 1943-1967|"The Uruguayan pension system has been recorded as one of the most advanced in the region, being a pillar of the protection policies of the country. However, the financial crisis of the system and the discussions about the cost of social security has been a constant in the national debate. In this analyze the process of capitalization of pension funds in Uruguay during the period of 1943 and 1967, by the process known as ""empapelamiento"" (or ""wallpapering""). This episode contributed, together with other causes (aging population, the falling real purchasing power of wages, deterioration of the quality of employment, etc.) in the reforms of 1979 and 1996. In addition, it's an important process due to the role of the State to accelerate the underfunding and its impact on fiscal sustainability of the Central Government, during the period of consolidation and rise of the welfare system that characterized this period of the industrialization by substitution of imports. It is known as ""empapelamiento"" (or ""wallpapering"") the mechanism by which the State placed a high percentage of Public Debt with fixed interest rate on pension funds. The problem arises in the mid-fifties when the economy enters an inflationary process. In this scenario the general rise in prices, the Public Debt not indexed and limited investment option permitted by law, led to the evaporation of savings in few years. That meant that afterwards during the seventies the public social security system will be deficient and became a heavy burden for the State finances."
N16|Previous financial crises leading to stagnation – selected case studies|This paper analyses several severe financial crises observed in the history of capitalism which led to a longer period of stagnation or low growth. Comparative case studies of the Great Depression, the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980s and the Japanese crisis of the 1990s and 2000s are presented. The following questions are asked: What triggered big financial crises? Which factors intensified financial crises? And most importantly, which factors prevented the return of prosperity for a long time? The main conclusion is that stagnation after big financial crises becomes likely when the balance sheets of economic units are not quickly cleaned, when the nominal wage anchor breaks, and when there is no big and longer growth stimulus by the state. Some tentative conclusions for the subprime financial crisis and the Great Recession are drawn.
N16|An Analysis of the Process of Disinflationary Structural Change: The Case of Mexico|I study the diffusion process of permanent disinflationary shocks in the Mexican economy using disaggregated price data for 283 goods across 46 cities in the period 1995-2012. I first show that the distribution of shocks shows considerable heterogeneity, with more than 80% of all cases having experienced a break. I then show that both the likelihood and timing are spatially correlated across cities, and find a positive and concave relationship between CPI weights and the likelihood and timing of a break. These findings suggest that the process of structural change follows a diffusion process across the spatial and goods dimensions.
N16|Estilo de desarrollo y sesgo anticampesino en Colombia|Al usar el criterio de los bienes sociales primarios para evaluar el estilo de desarrollo colombiano se puede concluir que su tendencia es la de una senda rawlsiana inversa, cuyas principales características son: estrechez del mercado y sesgo anticampesino. Este artículo explora los mecanismos de esa senda que refuerzan la ruptura de la amistad política y alientan la duración de la guerra. Esos mecanismos pueden, ante la eventualidad de una negociación política, reforzar el carácter violento de la paz que se pudiera llegar a acordar. Hasta ahora, han brindado una plétora de oportunidades a los competidores armados del Estado. ***** Taking primary goods as a yardstick to evaluate styles of development in Colombia, the authors argue that the prevailing model displays an inverted Rawlsian path whose main features are: the narrowness of the market and anti-peasant bias. The article explores the mechanisms which reinforce the breakdown of the polity and bolster the continuation of war. These mechanisms may –if the current peace negotiations lead to the signing of an agreement– impart a decidedly violent character to the resulting “peace”. They have hitherto provided manifold opportunities to the various armed competitors of the State. ***** Lorsqu’on utilise le critère des biens sociaux primaires pour évaluer le style de développement colombien, la conclusion est que la tendance est celle d’un sentier rawlsien inversé, dont les principales caractéristiques sont : l’étroitesse du marché et le biais anti-paysan. Cet article examine les mécanismes de ce sentier qui renforcent la rupture de l’amitié politique et favorisent la prolongation de la guerre. Dans l’éventualité d’une négociation politique, ces mécanismes pourraient renforcer le caractère violent de la paix qui serait éventuellement signée. Jusqu’à présent, ces mécanismes ont fourni une pléthore d’opportunités aux opposants armés de l’État colombien.
N16|Instituciones y tecnología como factores clave en los proyectos nacionales del desarrollo: un análisis comparativo de Brasil y México|La ausencia de proyectos nacionales que permitan institucionalizar las capacidades innovadoras endógenas en América Latina ha constituido un impedimento estructural crítico al desarrollo. Se presenta en este artículo un análisis de los temas relacionados con la tecnología y el desarrollo desde una perspectiva heterodoxa. Gran parte de las naciones abandonaron sus esfuerzos incipientes por desarrollar un grado de autonomía tecnológica en contraste con los emprendimientos arrancados durante el periodo de la industrialización dirigida por el Estado. Este artículo hace hincapié en las políticas tecnológicas montadas durante este periodo y las prospectivas actuales. Para anclar el trabajo, presentamos un análisis comparativo entre los casos dimétricos de México y Brasil, enmarcado en las estructuras institucionales generadas por el poder económico y la ideología dominante, siendo los factores determinantes en la formulación de las políticas nacionales de ciencia y tecnología.
N16|Procesos de integración regional en América latina: un enfoque político|Este artículo aborda el tema de la Integración Regional en América Latina desde una perspectiva política basando la investigación en las categorías de análisis propuestas por la teoría neofuncionalista. Se analiza la integración como proceso, la importancia del concepto de región, seguido por un desarrollo histórico de los procesos de integración en América Latina desde los años 50 a la actualidad, identificando factores que han incidido en el estancamiento de los mismos. Se evaluó la favorabilidad de las características actuales del sistema regional e internacional, al igual que los actores involucrados.
N16|Sovereign debt in Latin America, 1820-1913|En este artículo se analizan algunos aspectos de la deuda soberana de América latina y el Caribe durante el período 1820-1913. Se examinan las cuatro oleadas del auge crediticio y del movimiento de capitales que terminaron en episodios de defaults generalizados pero que no obstaculizaron a priori sucesivos retornos al mercado de capitales en la mayoría de los casos estudiados. A pesar de defaults que se extendieron en el tiempo, los países de la región atrajeron en cada oleada a una mayor cantidad de inversores internacionales. A períodos de aislamiento del mercado de deuda soberana se le suceden otros de una alta integración con el mercado global medido por el «premio» a pagar por el riesgo soberano o riesgo país. Se discuten las imperfecciones en el mercado de la deuda soberana; los aspectos macro y microeconómicos y se discuten un menú de opciones que algunos de estos países utilizaron para reestablecer el canal de fondeo internacional luego de los defaults. El paralelismo con los vaivenes en el mercado de deuda soberana contemporánea en América latina y el Caribe resulta sorprendente.
N16|Financiamiento al comercio exterior y la década perdida de América Latina|La “Gran Recesión” ha renovado el interés de los economistas sobre el vínculo entre financiamiento al comercio, comercio exterior y crecimiento económico.Los investigadores han encontrado que los efectosde la caída en el crédito a las exportaciones explica engran medida la fuerte caída observada en el comercio internacional luego de la crisis de 2008. En este marco,el presente artículo propone examinar la “década perdida” de América latina durante la crisis de la deuda como un ejemplo comparativo histórico. En los años que siguieron al default mexicano de 1982 y el de otros países latinoamericanos, el acceso al crédito internacional de la región se vio fuertemente limitado,en especial el destinado a financiar las importaciones. No obstante, la puesta en marcha de la estrategia de renegociación de la deuda permitió mantener abiertas algunas líneas de crédito al comercio con América latina, que en muchos casos servían para financiar la importación de bienes intermedios y de capital necesariosa la producción local. Las agencias oficiales de exportación y la adhesión a los programas de ajuste del FMI fueron factores determinantes para acceder a este tipo financiamiento externo.
N16|Public sector efficiency: evidence for Latin America|We compute Public Sector Performance (PSP) and Public Sector Efficiency (PSE) indicators and Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) efficiency scores for a sample of twenty-three Latin American and Caribbean Countries (LAC) to measure efficiency of public spending for the period 2001-2010. Our results show that the PSE is inversely correlated with the size of the government, while the efficiency frontier is essentially defined by Chile, Guatemala, and Peru. Moreover, on average, output quantities could theoretically be proportionally increased by 19 percent with the same level of inputs. In addition, the performed Tobit analysis suggests that more transparency and regulatory quality improve the efficiency scores, while more transparency and control of corruption increase output-oriented efficiency.
N16|Fiscal illusion and the shadow economy: Two sides of the same coin?|This paper presents an empirical analysis of the relationship between fiscal illusion and the shadow economy for 104 countries over the period 1989–2009. We argue that both unobservable phenomena are closely linked to each other, as the creation of a fiscal illusion may be helpful if governments want to control shadow economic activities. Using a MIMIC model with two latent variables we confirm previous findings on the driving forces of the shadow economy and identify the main determinants and indicators of fiscal illusion. Most importantly, we find that fiscal illusion negatively affects the shadow economy: Concealing the real tax burden through fiscal illusion potentially contributes to the government’s efforts to repress shadow economic activities.
N16|Political institutions and sovereign borrowing: evidence from nineteenth-century Argentina|I study the relationship between political institutions and sovereign borrowing when constitutional constraints are systematically chosen to obtain better credit conditions. I argue that the impact of institutional constraints on country risk premia depends on the government’s concern with the country’s creditworthiness and its “willingness to repay”; two variables that are hardly observable. To properly evaluate the relationship between political institutions and sovereign borrowing, I focus on the link between institutional constraints and the risk premia of Argentine bonds between 1822 and 1913. Specifically, I analyze whether a “structural break” in the government’s cost of borrowing time-series exists. I use the Perron-Volesang test for structural change with unknown break dates. The statistical analysis indicates that the adoption of institutional constraints led to significant improvements in borrowing terms: the series has a single structural change; and the distinctive break point is associated with the country’s adoption of constitutional checks and balances. Time-series regressions and instrumental variables (IV) estimation reinforce these findings. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
N16|Convergence Clubs determined by Economic History in Latin America|The concept of club convergence has been widely used in empirical analysis to group countries in clubs with similar development paths. However, there is no unified agreement on how to identify the clubs in the first place. In this paper, I argue that economic history can guide us to identify clubs. The argument is that economic history helps us understand when, where, and how institutions are formed and since institutions determine the way scarce resources are used by their chosen policies, it allows us to understand economic growth. Even though Latin America is typically considered a club itself, due to common characteristics, such as language, geography, religion and history, it still exhibits differences across countries. I study a period of more than 100 years, from 1900 to 2007,where first, I identify two main common external shocks to the region: the Great Depression in the 1930s and the oil price shock in 1974. Second, I classify countries in clubs according, first, to their natural resources endowments, and then, after each shock, to their policy-response to the shocks. Lastly, I test convergence within each club. I find significant and positive convergence speed within each of the clubs, implying that this way of finding clubs should not be ruled out.
N16|Goodbye Inflation Targeting, Hello Fear of Floating? Latin America after the Global Financial Crisis|This paper focuses on some of the macroeconomic risks that lie ahead for Latin America. The discussion is informed by my work on crises and capital flows and their macroeconomic consequences. The trends and initial conditions that allowed the region to weather the global economic storm of 2008-2009 are discussed, as is the subsequent reversal of some of those benign trends. I review the historical patterns connecting large capital inflow surges, or “capital flow bonanzas,” with the likelihood of a variety of crises—banking, currency, external default and inflation. For Latin America, in particular, large capital flow bonanzas have seldom ended well. The implications for inflation of importing (via less than fully flexible exchange rates) the expansionary policy of the “North” are discussed.
N16|Fuentes y métodos para la reconstrucción de PIBs regionales en Colombia. Siglos XIX y XX<BR>[Sources and methods for the reconstruction of regional GDPs in Colombia. 19th and 20th centuries]|This paper summarizes and analyzes the main sources and methods used in the reconstruction of regional GDPs in Colombia for the 19th and 20th centuries. In addition, it is offered a general perspective of the field's evolution in the coming years.
N16|El Nuevo Consenso Macroeconómico y la mediocridad del crecimiento económico en México<BR>[New Consensus Macroeconomics and the mediocrity of economic growth in Mexico]|In this paper we study the theoretical model and its application as economic policy of the New Consensus Macroeconomics in Mexico. We focus in fiscal and monetary policy in the last 30 years. We critically revise empirical economic literature on the effects of the process of adjustment and reforms in Mexican economy after the burst of the debt crisis. Finally, we analyse the explanatory hypothesis about the low growth of Mexican economy related to the weakness of property right protection. Our main conclusion states that, given the preferences of price stability imposed by the central bank and the disdain of fiscal policy in areas such as public investment, agents do not invest due to the deterioration of expectations of future growth of the Mexican economy and low expected returns to investment.
N16|Precios, oferta monetaria y crecimiento económico en la nueva granada de la segunda mitad del siglo XVIII|La historiografía económica reciente señala que la Nueva Granada experimentó un alto crecimiento económico durante la segunda mitad del siglo XVIII. Este artículo examina algunas variables que pudieron afectar dicho crecimiento: precios, oferta monetaria y tasas de interés. Con base en las exportaciones netas de numerario y la ecuación cuantitativa del dinero se estima la oferta monetaria, que permite analizar la tendencia de varios indicadores macroeconómicos. Los resultados indican un alto crecimiento de la moneda a disposición del público y de los precios, una disminución de la velocidad de circulación y de diversas tasas de interés.
N16|La gran depresión en Chile: Lecciones macroeconómicas|La Gran Depresión tras la crisis bursátil de 1929 en Estados Unidos significó un impacto no sólo en cuanto a cifras económicas y de bienestar social, sino también en la mentalidad que imperaba en la aparentemente indestructible Civilización Occidental. La Gran Depresión supuso que Occidente no era perfecto, que el sistema que prometía el mayor bienestar en la historia de la humanidad pendía de un hilo frágil y era sumamente vulnerable a sus fallas inherentes. La Gran Depresión llegó cuando menos se la esperaba. La Gran Guerra había sembrado el pánico en el mundo y la breve tregua de los años veinte era el período para autoconvencerse de que lo peor había pasado. Son los locos años veinte y se alza el sueño dorado de Occidente: la economía vive un auge que se traduce en una difusión del consumo de automóviles, teléfonos y luz eléctrica, a la vez que Hollywood comienza su camino como la capital del cine. Y sí, parecía que lo peor ya había pasado, pero el sistema albergaba fallas que serían la base de una crisis que azotaría a todo Occidente.
N16|Una mirada a la conformación del poder popular en Chile: la independencia hacia 1973|“La legitimidad, desde esta perspectiva, es un valor social que emana de la sociedad y se agrega e incorpora a los constructos sistémicos como el único valor legítimo de éstos.” Como explica Gabriel Salazar (2011), en un Estado neoliberal hay una escases de legitimidad y por lo tanto también una gobernabilidad intentando mostrar legitimidad. Sin embargo, el ciudadano quiere recuperar su soberanía y lo hace a través de “la gobernanza; o sea: el poder (y derecho) de mantener a políticos, tecnócratas y militares sujetos al control cívico y la razón histórica de la ciudadanía. Poco a poco, subrepticiamente, los movimientos de la sociedad civil tienden a exigir, proponer o construir un sistema político donde al gobernanza y no la mera gobernabilidad sea el componente legal de la política cotidiana”. En este contexto, se entiende la comunidad como base del desarrollo de la soberanía y la soberanía como base del poder popular.
N16|Localización geográfica y sectores de inversión: factores decisivos en el desempeño de las multinacionales mexicanas durante la crisis|Durante la crisis económica actual en el conjunto de países desarrollados se ha visto un alejamiento de flujos de la inversión extranjera directa (IED), mientras que en el conjunto de países en desarrollo y en transición, se ha registrado un aumento. En este escenario y a lo largo de los últimos cuatro años, varias empresas multinacionales (EMN) mexicanas han consolidado su presencia internacional, la cual se inició hace más de dos décadas. En este artículo mostramos, que la vinculación entre dos factores —el sector económico y la localización geográfica de la IED de las EMN mexicanas— explica las diferencias en sus resultados de operación corporativos durante los años de crisis. Estos han sido positivos, cuando las regiones de inversión están localizadas en Latinoamérica y Asia y en general negativas, cuando se trata de inversiones en sectores ligados a la construcción, localizados en Estados Unidos y/o Europa. Esta constatación con respecto a flujos de IED y los resultados de las EMN mexicanas tiene además consecuencias sobre la forma en que se abordan teóricamente los determinantes de localización de la IED. Se trabajó con una muestra de las 20 mayores EMN mexicanas y con datos directos obtenidos de la información financiera de las empresas y en encuestas aplicadas durante los últimos cuatro años.
N16|Young Democracies and Government Size: Evidence from South America|"We investigate in this paper the hypothesis that when democracies are young, or still fragile and unconsolidated, the size of government tends to increase, predictably in an attempt of redistribution, or to buy out the electorate, so that democracy becomes acceptable and ""the only game in town"". For that we use a sample of all nine South American young democracies during the period between 1970 and 2007. The results, based on dynamic panel data analysis, suggest that the young democracies of South America have been indeed associated with bigger governments. Furthermore, we test for the hypothesis that the outgoing dictatorships of the day engaged in activities which would bequest the young democracies with big bills to be repaid at the initial stages of those new democratic regimes. This hypothesis is not con.rmed by the analysis conducted here. Finally, there is evidence that, as those democracies mature over the long run, the size of governments tends to decrease, or to return to a sort of long-run steady state. All in all, in times of a new wave of democratisation being experienced by some countries, the evidence presented here is rather informative of what to expect in terms of government size during political transitions."
N16|Determinants of Government and External Debt: Evidence from the Young Democracies of South America| I investigate the main determinants of government and external debt in the young democracies of South America between 1970 and 2007. The results, based on dynamic panel time-series analysis, suggest that economic growth has significantly reduced the debt ratios in the region. Other candidates suggested by the literature—for example, inflation, inequality, and constraints on the executive—do not present the expected or clear-cut estimates on government and external debt. The results suggest that an economic environment geared toward generating economic activity and prosperity is an important factor in keeping the debt ratios under control in the region.
N16|Energy and capital inputs: cornerstones of productivity growth in Mexico: 1965–2004|Gross domestic product per remunerated labor (GDP/L), known as the Mexican average productivity, grew very rapidly from 1965 to 1979; it increased at an average annual rate of 3.7%. But from 1979 through 2004, productivity stagnated with an average annual growth rate of only 0.19%. The hypothesis is that from 1965 through 1979, productivity increased rapidly because of concomitant growth in the utilized capital and energy per worker and the improvements in technology. After 1979, the productivity growth came to a standstill because of a slowdown in investment and stagnation in the utilized capital and energy per worker due to the sharply rising energy prices. The tool chosen to test this hypothesis is an aggregate Cobb-Douglas production function characterized by technical change embodied in the gross investment in new machinery and equipment. The estimation of this model shows energy as a cornerstone of productivity growth independent of capital and new technology. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
N16|Contract enforcement, investment and growth in Uruguay since 1870|"Institutions and their quality are central concepts in the recent development and institutional economics literatures. Our hypothesis is that inadequate contract enforcement has hindered investment and, in consequence, indirectly has had a negative effect on Uruguay's long-term growth performance. We first review the main concepts and the approaches to define and measure the quality of contract enforcement. We then introduce one measure that has the advantages of being measurable into the past and not depending on subjective judgments; namely, the ""contract intensive money"" (CIM)indicator proposed by Clague et al. (1999). Using our long series for the CIM indicator, and extending key macroeconomic variables backwards to 1870, we are able to estimate a structural model to explore the plausibility of our hypothesis. In the estimation, based on the seemingly unrelated regressions (SUR) method, we find support for the thesis that the quality of contract enforcement influences growth through its impact on investment. Put differently, our results suggest that poor contract enforcement played a significant role at the root of Uruguay's underperformance, and in its experience of (relative) long-run decline."
N16|Da Década de 1920 à de 1930: Transição Rumo à Crise e à Industrialização no Brasil|O artigo discute a transição econômica e social pela qual passa o Brasil na década de 1920, quando prevalecia o modelo primário exportador em direção a novo padrão de acumulação, com a industrialização e a urbanização, iniciado após a “Crise de 1929” e da Revolução de 1930. A análise das principais transformações econômicas e sociais é acompanhada por um tópico que trata da importante – e controversa – questão teórica de Base e Superestrutura, expondo algumas das limitações deste enfoque teórico
N16|A Revolução de 1930 e a Economia Brasileira|O artigo analisa a política econômica e as principais mudanças na economia brasileira na década 1930 e explora a interrelação entre o desempenho de suas principais variáveis com as mudanças políticas e institucionais advindas com a “Revolução de 1930”. Para tanto, enfoca alguns pontos que resultam de pesquisas mais recentes do autor, em um diálogo com a literatura pregressa, a saber: (a) os segmentos sociais que lideraram o movimento revolucionário, mormente a participação do empresariado industrial, haja vista o forte crescimento industrial do período analisado, marco do processo de substituição de importações; (b) a existência ou não de uma política deliberada, por parte do governo, de industrialização; e (c) o cotejo entre a política econômica realizada com o previsto nos modelos de “populismo econômico”, e conclui pela inadequação dos mesmos para explicá-la
N16|Flujos de capital y fragilidad financiera en Colombia|En este trabajo se estudian las interrelaciones existentes entre flujos de capital y estabilidad financiera en Colombia, en el período comprendido entre los años 1995 y 2011 con datos trimestrales. Se utilizan modelos VAR cointegrados en niveles, por medio de los cuales se encuentra que si bien no parece haber una relación directa significativa entre flujos de capital y estabilidad financiera, existe una relación indirecta entre estas dos variables, intermediada por la relación cartera/PIB.
N16|Flujos de capital y fragilidad financiera en Colombia|En este trabajo se estudian las interrelaciones existentes entre flujos de capital y estabilidad financiera en Colombia, en el período comprendido entre los años 1995 y 2011 con datos trimestrales. Se utilizan modelos VAR cointegrados en niveles, por medio de los cuales se encuentra que si bien no parece haber una relación directa significativa entre flujos de capital y estabilidad financiera, existe una relación indirecta entre estas dos variables, intermediada por la relación cartera/PIB.
N16|Manuel de Pombo: precursor de la banca central independiente en época de la Independencia|Este escrito se refiere a la posición de independencia y responsabilidad de Manuel de Pombo, contador y más tarde superintendente de la Casa de Moneda de Santa Fe de Bogotá en época de la Independencia, al rehusarse acceder a las solicitudes de Antonio Nariño en 1811, entonces presidente del Estado Soberano de Cundinamarca, de reducir el contenido de oro de las monedas como arbitrio fiscal sin el pleno conocimiento y consentimiento del Congreso y de la población. Su actitud de salvaguardiade las reservas del Estado y de defensor del valor adquisitivo de la moneda, le llevó aser despedido de su cargo de superintendente de la Casa de Moneda en 1813. Por el sólido contenido de su argumentación económica, en este escrito se destaca a Manuel de Pombo como precursor de la banca central independiente en época de la Independencia.Desde el ámbito temático es un ensayo histórico que trata el tema del valor de la moneda en época de la Independencia de Colombia.
N16|Manuel de Pombo: precursor de la banca central independiente en época de la Independencia|This article provides an account of the responsible, independent position held by Manuel de Pombo, an accountant and later director of the national mint (la Casa de la Moneda) in Santa Fe de Bogotá during Colombian Independence. De Pombo refused to yield to the demands of Antonio Nariño, then President of the Sovereign State of Cundinamarca, to reduce the gold content of coins as an excise tax without the full knowledge and consent of Congress and the people. De Pombo’s steadfast stance regarding the safekeeping of the nation´s reserves, as well as his defense of the currency’s purchasing power, led to his dismissal as the director of the national mint in 1813. In recognition of de Pombo’s solid economic reasoning, this paper reviews his outstanding contribution as a pioneering advocate for an autonomous central bank during Independence. This historical essay falls into the subject category of currency valuation during the period of Colombian Independence.
N16|Política monetaria y oferta de dinero en Uruguay (1931 a 1959): nuevos contextos y nuevos instrumentos|Este artículo analiza las principales características de la política monetaria entre 1931 y 1959, y relaciona los cambios en la misma con el contexto nacional e internacional. Se identifican dos cambios de primera importancia. Por un lado, la función cada vez más significativa y determinante del Banco de la República Oriental del Uruguay (BROU) en la conducción de la política monetaria y cambiaria. Por otro, los cambios introducidos en el sistema de emisión como principal mecanismo de acción de la política monetaria. Esas transformaciones revelan la transición hacia una política donde se prioriza la flexibilidad a través de la introducción de puntales de emisión ligados a fuentes internas, reemplazando la rigidez característica del régimen del patrón oro. Se describe también la vinculación entre la evolución de la cantidad de dinero y el nivel de actividad, para finalmente plantear algunas hipótesis sobre la relación entre el dinero y los precios.
N16|Política monetaria y oferta de dinero en Uruguay (1931 a 1959): nuevos contextos y nuevos instrumentos|Este artículo analiza las principales características de la política monetaria entre 1931 y 1959, y relaciona los cambios en la misma con el contexto nacional e internacional. Se identifican dos cambios de primera importancia. Por un lado, la función cada vez más significativa y determinante del Banco de la República Oriental del Uruguay (BROU) en la conducción de la política monetaria y cambiaria. Por otro, los cambios introducidos en el sistema de emisión como principal mecanismo de acción de la política monetaria. Esas transformaciones revelan la transición hacia una política donde se prioriza la flexibilidad a través de la introducción de puntales de emisión ligados a fuentes internas, reemplazando la rigidez característica del régimen del patrón oro. Se describe también la vinculación entre la evolución de la cantidad de dinero y el nivel de actividad, para finalmente plantear algunas hipótesis sobre la relación entre el dinero y los precios.
N16|Reconstructing Colombia’s Recent History of Monetary Policy from 1990 to 2010|This article presents a reconstruction of the history of Colombia´s central bank´s (Banco de la Republica) monetary policy between 1990 and 2010, during which explicit inflation targeting was adopted by October of 2000. To do so we developed a theoretical modified Taylor rule with interest rate smoothing for an open and small economy and accordingly estimated a two regime Markov switching model which allowed the switching dates to be endogenously determined. We found that one regime had explicit inflation targeting (from the year 2000 to 2010), whereby the inflation rate became a stationary series consistent with our empirical finding that Banco de la República enforced a monetary policy that satisfied more likely the Taylor principle. This inflation stabilizing regime did present itself in some quarters before the year 2000, but not as the predominant regime. The other regime was more prevalent during the 1990s, but did not satisfy the Taylor principle as it allowed a unit root behavior of the inflation rate. Finally, we found no evidence that Banco de la República changed its behavior in terms of output fluctuations during the period studied.
N16|Colombia‘s Recent History of Monetary Policy from 1990 to 2010|This article presents a reconstruction of the history of Colombia’s central bank’s (Banco de la Republica) monetary policy between 1990 and 2010, during which explicit inflation targeting was adopted by October of 2000. To do so we developed a theoretical modified Taylor rule with interest rate smoothing for an open and small economy and accordingly estimated a two regime Markov switching model which allowed the switching dates to be endogenously determined. We found that one regime had explicit inflation targeting (from the year 2000 to 2010), whereby the inflation rate became a stationary series consistent with our empirical finding that Banco de la República enforced a monetary policy that satisfied more likely the Taylor principle. This inflation stabilizing regime did present itself in some quarters before the year 2000, but not as the predominant regime. The other regime was more prevalent during the 1990s, but did not satisfy the Taylor principle as it allowed a unit root behavior of the inflation rate. Finally, we found no evidence that Banco de la República changed its behavior in terms of output fluctuations during the period studied.
N16|Was Brazil's recent growth acceleration the world's most overrated boom?|As soon as international financial markets felt reassured in 2003 by the surprisingly neoliberal orientation of President Lula’s government, the ‘spot-the-new-Latin-tiger’ financial brigade became dazzled by Brazil — they just couldn’t have enough of it. So much so, that they had little difficulty in turning a blind eye to the obvious fact that (except for several commodities, finance, and a small number of other activities) Brazil’s economic performance since the beginning of neo-liberal reforms (c.1990) had been remarkably poor. This not only contrasted with its own performance pre-1980, but also with what was happening in Asia. I shall argue that the weakness of the new neo-liberal paradigm is rooted as much in its intrinsic flaws as in the particular way it was implemented. As in the rest of Latin America, Brazil’s economic reforms were undertaken primarily as a result of its perceived economic weaknesses — i.e., there was an attitude of ‘throwing in the towel’ vis-à-vis the previous state-led import substituting industrialisation strategy, because most politicians and economists interpreted the 1982 debt crisis as conclusive evidence that it had led the region into a cul-de-sac. As Hirschman has argued, policy-making has a strong component of ‘path-dependency’; as a result, people often stick with policies after they have achieved their aims, and those policies have become counterproductive. This leads to such frustration and disappointment with existing policies and institutions that is not uncommon to lead to a ‘rebound effect’. An extreme example of this phenomenon is post-1982 Latin America, where the core of the discourse that followed ended up simply emphasising the need to reverse as many aspects of the previous development strategy as possible. This helps to explain the peculiar set of priorities, the rigidity and the messianic attitude with which the reforms were implemented in Brazil, as well as their poor outcome. As the then President of Brazil’s Central Bank explained at the time, their main task was “...to undo forty years of stupidity.” With this ‘reverse-gear’ attitude, this experiment in economic reform almost inevitably ended up as an exercise in ‘not-very-creative-destruction’ — especially vis-à-vis its manufacturing industry. Something very different happened in Asia, where economic reforms were often intended (rightly or wrongly) as a more targeted and pragmatic mechanism to overcome specific economic and financial constraints. Instead of implementing reforms as a mechanism to reverse existing industrialisation strategies, in Asia they were put into practice in order to continue and strengthen ambitious processes of industrialisation. Although the Brazilian economy has been unable to deliver sustainable productivity-growth since the beginning of economic reforms (just a few short growth-dashes), Brazilian-style neo-liberal capitalism became unrivalled when it came to offering world-class commodities, an abundance of precarious (mostly service) jobs, stylish retail, extremely lucrative finance, and the ‘purity of beliefs.’
N16|Camacho Roldán como Economista Empírico|El trabajo describe la faceta de economista empírico de Salvador Camacho Roldán, un pensador, escritor, empresario y político del siglo XIX en Colombia. Se identifica su aporte como fuente para la historia económica cuantitativa de Colombia, y sus recomendaciones para lograr el desarrollo de su país. A esto se agrega una corta biografía para relacionar al personaje con su pensamiento.
N16|Sincronización de los Ciclos Económicos: el Caso de Colombia, Ecuador y Venezuela|En este documento se investiga acerca de la existencia y la identificación de un ciclo económico común entre Colombia, Ecuador y Venezuela. Se busca una evidencia de la sincronización de los ciclos económicos de estos países, a través de diferentes medidas no paramétricas, en conformidad con los ciclos y mediante la construcción de un ciclo común de referencia. De acuerdo con esto, se ajusta un modelo de Markov-Switching autoregresivo multivariado (MS-VAR) que confirma la existencia de dicho ciclo. Finalmente, la cronología del ciclo común es reconstruida a partir de las probabilidades suavizadas del modelo y es contrastada con el ciclo común de referencia.
N16|La Caja de Ahorros: una aproximación a los patrones de ahorro en Bogotá, 1846-1865|La creación de instituciones de ahorro y crédito en Colombia fue indispensable para generar un hábito de ahorro en la población y consolidar un sistema bancario estable durante el siglo XIX. La Caja de Ahorros de Bogotá fue el primer intento por consolidar una mentalidad previsiva en los bogotanos, especialmente en las clases trabajadoras. Este documento presenta una descripción y análisis de la dinámica de la Caja de Ahorros, y de los patrones de ahorro de los diferentes pobladores de la ciudad de acuerdo con su grado de calificación laboral durante la existencia del establecimiento. Para estudiar esto, se realizaron comparaciones entre los diferentes grupos de trabajadores y no trabajadores a través de un análisis estadístico simple y del método clusters; con el fin de mostrar el grado de participación y la dinámica de los diferentes grupos frente al ahorro. El documento concluye que la población económicamente inactiva y la población femenina tuvieron una mayor disposición a ahorrar, seguidos de la clase trabajadora (que era la población objetivo de la entidad). Por último, los trabajadores en oficios con mayor calificación fueron los que registraron menores montos de ahorro.
