N23|Equity Finance: Matching Liability to Power|There is widespread concern that the bonus culture for senior managers in limited liability companies is having adverse effects, e.g. on risk-taking, leverage and lower longer-term investment. The moral hazard of limited liability was appreciated in the 19th century, when unlimited or multiple liability, especially for bankers, was widely adopted. Whereas outside, notably retail, investors still need the protection of limited liability, we advocate moving towards a two-tier equity system, primarily for banks, with insiders, senior managers and others with influence over corporate decisions, becoming subject to multiple liability. But the transition costs of doing so suddenly would be great, so our proposal is to start by applying this initially just to Systemically Important Financial Intermediaries.
N23|Before the Cult of Equity: New Monthly Indices of the British Share Market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
N23|The Financial Development of London in the 17th Century Revisited: A View from the Accounts of the Corporation of London|We study an overlooked episode of financial development in England during the 17th century. We construct a novel, annual series of interest rates paid by the Corporation of London. We show that: interest rates declined by 350 basis points; Interest rates co-moved with Amsterdam: we attribute half of this decline to the integration of the capital markets of London and Amsterdam and half to the increase in London's financial market liquidity. The reduction of the usury rate lowered interest rates by 50 basis points in the 1650s. England's financial evolution and path towards modern growth date, therefore, to the 17th century.
N23|Early French and German central bank charts and regulations|In some recent studies, the question of the origins of central banking has been revisited, suggesting that beyond Swedish and British central banking, a number of earlier European continental institutions would also have played an important role. However, it has often been difficult to access the charters and regulations of these early central banks – in particular in English. This paper contributes to closing this gap by introducing and providing translations of some charters and regulations of six pre 1800 central banks in France and Germany. The six early public banks displayed varying levels of success and duration, and qualify to a different degree as central banks. An overview table maps the articles of the early central banks’ charters and regulations into key central banking topics. The texts also provide evidence of the role of central banking legislation, and of the distinction between, on the one side, the statutes and charters of the banks, and on the other side the operational aspects which tend to be framed by separate rules and regulations. Finally, the texts provide evidence of the policy objectives of early central banks, including in particular those of a monetary nature. To put these documents into context, the objectives, balance sheet structure, achievements and closure of each central bank are briefly summarised. JEL Classification: E32, E5, N23
N23|Equity finance: matching liability to power|There is widespread concern that the bonus culture for senior managers in limited liability companies is having adverse effects, e.g. on risk-taking, leverage and lower longer-term investment. The moral hazard of limited liability was appreciated in the 19th century, when unlimited or multiple liability, especially for bankers, was widely adopted. Whereas outside, notably retail, investors still need the protection of limited liability, we advocate moving towards a two-tier equity system, primarily for banks, with insiders, senior managers and others with influence over corporate decisions, becoming subject to multiple liability. But the transition costs of doing so suddenly would be great, so our proposal is to start by applying this initially just to Systemically Important Financial Intermediaries.
N23|The year 1819 epitomizing the issues and challenges of modernity after the Revolution and Empire|After the recess imposed by the intensification of Napoleonic wars and defeat in 1810-1815, the Restauration regime had to restart the leverage forces of growth. Economic and academic elites struggled to conceive the paths of renewal of innovative and entrepreneurial spirits, in order to foster French competitiveness. The philosophy of liberalism was renewed; calls for innovation, for spreading new techniques across industry, and to stimulate refreshed flows of savings and banking loans constituted a package able to renew with the hopes of the 1795-1810 years. Thus the 1819 year could be inserted into intercrossing schemes of narrative and business histories as it gathered so many signs of such a renewal and of the move towards the first industriel and banking revolutions.
N23|Without coal in the age of steam and dams in the age of electricity: An explanation for the failure of Portugal to industrialize before the Second World War|We provide a natural resource explanation for the divergence of the Portuguese economy relative to other European countries before the Second World War, based on a considerable body of contemporary sources. First, we demonstrate that a lack of domestic resources meant that Portugal experienced limited and unbalanced growth during the age of steam. Imports of coal were prohibitively expensive for inland areas, which failed to industrialize. Coastal areas developed through steam, but were constrained by limited demand from the interior. Second, we show that after the First World War, when other coal-poor countries turned to hydro-power, Portugal relied on coal-based thermal-power, creating a vicious circle of high energy prices and labor-intensive industrialization. We argue that this was the result of (i) water resources which were relatively expensive to exploit; and (ii) path-dependency, whereby the failure to develop earlier meant that there was a lack of capital and demand from industry.
N23|Full steam ahead: Insider knowledge, stock trading and the nationalization of the railways in Prussia around 1879|The costs and benefits of insider trading is a persistent topic in the economic literature and public discourse alike. Nowadays insider trading is principally illegal and morally banned implying that the costs are supposed to weigh heavier than the potential benefits. We study insider trading pre-1914 in order to shed new light on its extent when it was still legal. Our focus is on the first wave of railway nationalisation in Prussia around 1879, the biggest financial transaction in German economic history by this time. Anecdotal evidence has it that insiders – e.g. involved banks or single bankers – made decent use of their exclusive knowledge on how nationalisation would proceed, thereby incurring huge profits. We show that insiders were active at the Berlin Stock Exchange, but contrary to anecdotal evidence could be so only in a very small time-window limiting their options sustainably. Contrary to what Braggion and Moore (2013) found for the London Stock Exchange, the rather modest extent of insider trading was not due to insiders’ ethical reservations, but due to the stock exchange’s institutional design that limited excessive insider trading in the absence of laws against it.
N23|Criptovalute, Sovranismo e Sistema Monetario|La storia finanziaria dell’ultimo decennio ci offre diversi spunti di riflessione sullo stato e le prospettive dell’attuale sistema monetario. Le dinamiche sui mercati delle criptovalute e le trasformazioni politiche in atto sembrano sottoporre l’attuale assetto monetario a pressioni di segno opposto: mentre le prime promuovono – da una prospettiva liberale e sovranazionale – la riduzione della contiguità tra emissione monetaria e potere politico, le seconde – da una prospettiva populista e sovranista – premono per un suo deciso rafforzamento. Questo lavoro discute la natura e le implicazioni di queste due tensioni, attraverso le lenti della memoria storica del nostro continente, e del pensiero di A. Smith e F. Von Hayek.
N23|Ireland's peculiar microfinance revolution, c. 1836-1845|In the decade before the famine, Ireland experienced a boom in Microfinance Institutions (MFIs). This paper analyses the motivations of MFI proponents and practitioners, and finds evidence linking the boom in MFIs with the introduction of the poor law in 1838. Many contemporary writers saw microfinance as a complex tax avoidance/reduction scheme that could lessen the burden on rate payers by helping the poor help themselves. The link between MFIs and the poor law is confirmed by an econometric analysis of MFIs at the level of the poor law union.
N23|Before the Cult of Equity:New Monthly Indices of the British Share Market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
N23|Ireland’s Peculiar Microfinance Revolution, c. 1836-1845|In the decade before the famine, Ireland experienced a boom in Microfinance Institutions (MFIs). This paper analyses the motivations of MFI proponents and practitioners, and finds evidence linking the boom in MFIs with the introduction of the poor law in 1838. Many contemporary writers saw microfinance as a complex tax avoidance/reduction scheme that could lessen the burden on rate payers by helping the poor help themselves. The link between MFIs and the poor law is confirmed by an econometric analysis of MFIs at the level of the poor law union.
N23|Before the cult of equity: New monthly indices of the British share market, 1829-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gains, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British stock exchanges from 1829 to 1929. As well as creating an all-share index, we create a blue-chip index of the 30 largest companies, which we splice to the Financial Times 30 index to create a near-two-century-long (1829-2018) monthly share index. We use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment. We also construct indices for 22 domestic sectors, and calculate CAPM betas for each sector.
N23|Bank capital, lending booms, and busts. Evidence from Spain in the last 150 years|In this paper we analyze the effect of bank capital on lending expansion and contraction for nearly 150 years in Spain. We fi rst build up thoroughly a measure of bank leverage (i.e. the capital to assets ratio) for the Spanish banking sector starting in year 1880. Then, we run a proper econometric test to analyze the impact that bank capital levels have on lending cycles, controlling for other determinants of credit growth. We do fi nd robust empirical evidence of an asymmetric relationship between bank capital and credit cycle. In particular, an increase in the bank capital before expansions reduces credit growth while it increases credit growth when the recession arrives. Conversely, a too depleted level of bank capital when entering in a recession has a severe impact on lending (i.e. may bring about a deep credit crunch) with quite negative and lasting effects in the economy and the wellbeing of the society as a whole. The paper is particularly useful to support macroprudential policies (dynamic provisions and the countercyclical capital buffer) that have been very recently put in place as they will help to smooth the credit cycle. The experience of Spain over more than a century, with very marked lending cycles, provides a fertile ground for analyzing and supporting them, not only based on the last lending cycle, but also on those occurred in the more distant past.
N23|Were banks special? Contrasting viewpoints in mid-nineteenth century Britain|In 1853 a Royal Commission was set up to investigate whether laws related to limited liability in Britain needed to be modified. As part of its evidence gathering the commission issued a questionnaire that included a number of questions on whether banks should be subject to the same liability laws as other types of commercial enterprises. This paper analyses the responses to the questions about banks to understand whether banks were seen as a special case. Support for modifying the law to make limited liability more easily available to banks was lower than for enterprises in general. Banks were seen as a special case because of the risk of bank runs and because their creditors were not able to assess accurately the riskiness of banks. But the special nature of banks caused others to favour limited liability because it made banks’ capital levels more transparent. These arguments echo wider debates during the nineteenth century and are similar to contemporary theories for why banks are regulated.
N23|Emigration during the French Revolution: Consequences in the Short and Longue Durée|During the French Revolution, more than 100,000 individuals, predominantly supporters of the Old Regime, fled France. As a result, some areas experienced a significant change in the composition of the local elites whereas in others the pre-revolutionary social structure remained virtually intact. In this study, we trace the consequences of the émigrés' flight on economic performance at the local level. We instrument emigration intensity with local temperature shocks during an inflection point of the Revolution, the summer of 1792, marked by the abolition of the constitutional monarchy and bouts of local violence. Our findings suggest that émigrés have a non monotonic effect on comparative development. During the 19th century, there is a significant negative impact on income per capita, which becomes positive from the second half of the 20th century onward. This pattern can be partially attributed to the reduction in the share of the landed elites in high-emigration regions. We show that the resulting fragmentation of agricultural holdings reduced labor productivity, depressing overall income levels in the short run; however, it facilitated the rise in human capital investments, eventually leading to a reversal in the pattern of regional comparative development.
N23|The Other Way: A Narrative History of the Bank of France|This paper offers a comprehensive (short) history of central banking in France, starting in the 18th century and finishing with the creation of the Euro in 2001. We first discuss how the French experience with central banking in the 18th century shaped the drafting of the charter and the governance of the Bank of France in 1800. We then single out how the Bank implements its monetary policy in the 19th century and assess the bank achievement in terms of monetary and financial stability. Finally we discuss how the sovereign debt overhang triggered by World War I and the reconstruction subverted the model of central banking previously implemented, and how the reluctance of the Bank to be implicated in the management of the sovereign yield ultimately leads to the loss of its independence vis-a-vis the state. Against this background the use of financial repression under the guidance of the state allowed a smoother management of the debt overhang during the post WW II period, but created its own issues that were addressed effectively only with the creation of the Euro.
N23|Money Markets and Exchange Rates in Pre-Industrial Europe|This chapter focuses on money markets and exchange rates in preindustrial Europe. The foreign exchange market was mostly based on bills of exchange, the instrument used to transfer money and provide credit between distant centers in pre-industrial Europe. In this chapter, first I explain bill of exchange operations, money market integration, usury regulations and circumventions to hide the market interest rate as well as the evolution of bills of exchange in history, focusing mainly on the most relevant features generalized during the first half of the 17th century: endorsement and the joint liability rule, which facilitated the full expansion of the foreign exchange market beyond personal networks. Then, I describe the European geography of money in the mid-18th century, characterized by a very high degree of multilateralism with the triangle of Amsterdam, London and Paris as the backbone of the European settlement system. Finally, I measure the cost of capital and relate it to liquidity. I show evidence of interest rates in the 18th century for Amsterdam, London, Paris and Cadiz. While Amsterdam, London and Paris presented low and similar interest rates, Cadiz had higher interest rates, mostly being double the cost of capital. These results seem to show a high inverse correlation between liquidity and interest rates, suggesting that the share in international trade of European centers might have been a powerful driver of international monetary leadership. While more empirical evidence and further research is needed, this approach opens the scope of the analysis beyond the national institutional explanation.
N23|Information Transmission under Increasing Political Tension – Evidence for the Berlin Produce Exchange 1887-1896|This article studies the effects of increasing political uncertainty on the functioning of futures markets. For this purpose, we utilize a unique natural experiment, namely the discussions around and the final coming into force of the German Exchange Act of 1896. Using static and time-varying vector error correction models, the empirical analysis shows that, although early futures markets exhibit a high degree of operational efficiency, increasing political tensions were related to a declining dominance of the futures market in the price discovery process. In summary, we provide a strong illustration of the negative consequences of misplaced regulatory attempts caused by strong political interests.
N23|Completing Markets With Contracts: Evidence From the First Central Clearing Counterparty|I study the real effects a contracting innovation that suddenly made financial markets more complete: central clearing counterparties (CCPs) for derivatives. The first CCP to provide full insulation against counterparty risk was created in Le Havre (France) in 1882, in the coffee futures market. Using triple difference-in-differences estimation, I show that central clearing changed the geography of trade flows Europe-wide, to the benefit of Le Havre. Inspecting the mechanism using trader-level data, I show that the CCP was instrumental both to mitigate adverse selection issues and to solve a ``missing market'' problem. Increased risk-sharing possibilities enabled more gains from trade to be realized. The successful contractual innovation quickly spread to new exchanges.
N23|David Kynaston's till time's last sand: a history of the Bank of England, 1694-2013: a review essay|This essay reviews Till Time's Last Sand, David Kynaston's history of the Bank of England from its foundation in 1694 to the present day. I focus on three themes running through his narrative. First, for much of that time the Bank was a private company playing a public role; how did it manage to do this and why was it eventually brought into public ownership? Second, I examine the various attempts to constrain the Bank's monetary policy to follow a simple rule; these almost invariably proved unsustainable unless the rule provided enough room for discretion. Finally, I cover the Bank's journey to becoming the lender of last resort, together with its evolving attitude to the associated risk of moral hazard.
N23|Frosted glass or raised eyebrow? Testing the Bank of England’s discount window policies during the crisis of 1847|"""It is well-known that quantitative credit restrictions, rather than Bagehot-style “free lending” con- stituted the standard response to financial crises in the early days of central banking. But why did central banks in the past frequently restrict the supply of loans during financial crises? In this paper, we draw on a large novel, hand-collected loan-level data set to study the Bank of England’s policy response to the crisis of 1847. We find that credit rationing due to residual imperfect informa- tion `a la Stiglitz and Weiss (1981) alone cannot be a convincing explanation for quantitative credit restrictions during the crisis of 1847. We provide preliminary evidence which could suggest that discriminatory credit rationing on the basis of loan applicants’ type and identity characterized the BoE’s response to the crisis of 1847. Our results also show that “collateral” characteristics played an important role in the BoE’s loan decisions, even after one controls for the identity of loan applicants. This finding confirms the hypothesis in Capie (2002) and Flandreau and Ugolini (2011, 2013, 2014) that the characteristics of bills of exchange submitted to the discount window mattered. Since our results suggest that the Bank also took decisions on the basis of the identity of loan applicants, our preliminary findings would seem to challenge Capie’s “frosted glass” metaphor, but more work is required to confirm these conjectures."""
N23|French bank Société générale in 1890-1914: From a strong growth to a crisis of its business model?|Société Générale vacillated under the influence of a grave crisis in 1913-1914. To think about the configuration and the management of its economic model allows to wonder about the strategic choices, the quality of the mode of management, the compared virtues of mixed or universal bank. The intertwining of the methods of study of the business history and economic history with those of the institutional management allows stimulating questionings.
N23|L’Edit de la paulette 1604 : une marchandisation des finances royales sans marchand|Le marché de la dette souveraine constitue l’un des secteurs les plus actifs et recherchés en matière de transaction financière. Pourtant, l’échange d’un titre de dette publique n’est en rien naturel et résulte d’un long processus social et politique. Notre thèse est de considérer l’instauration de la paulette en 1604 comme un acte fondateur de cette marchandisation, car elle modifie les règles liées à l’octroi et la transmission des offices, augurant de la possibilité d’un marché où s’échangent librement des charges et surtout parce qu’il permet la mise en place d’une évaluation publique régulière de cette charge. L’article s’appuie sur un travail d’archives et de récoltes de données originales dans le fonds Sully des Archives nationales. Le concept d’agencement marchand proposé par Callon (2017) constitue notre référence théorique en cela qu’il nous permettra de caractériser la nature des relations marchandes instituées.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N23|L’Edit de la paulette 1604 : une marchandisation des finances royales sans marchand|Le marché de la dette souveraine constitue l’un des secteurs les plus actifs et recherchés en matière de transaction financière. Pourtant, l’échange d’un titre de dette publique n’est en rien naturel et résulte d’un long processus social et politique. Notre thèse est de considérer l’instauration de la paulette en 1604 comme un acte fondateur de cette marchandisation, car elle modifie les règles liées à l’octroi et la transmission des offices, augurant de la possibilité d’un marché où s’échangent librement des charges et surtout parce qu’il permet la mise en place d’une évaluation publique régulière de cette charge. L’article s’appuie sur un travail d’archives et de récoltes de données originales dans le fonds Sully des Archives nationales. Le concept d’agencement marchand proposé par Callon (2017) constitue notre référence théorique en cela qu’il nous permettra de caractériser la nature des relations marchandes instituées.
N23|Paul van Zeeland and the First Decade of the US Federal Reserve System: the Analysis from a European Central Banker who was a Student of Kemmerer|The establishment of a central bank occurred at very different moments in the process of economic integration in the United States and the European Union. In this paper, we go into the first years of the Federal Reserve System through the lens of Paul van Zeeland’s PhD dissertation. Paul van Zeeland (1893-1973) became the first Head of the Economics Service of the National Bank of Belgium in 1921, after his studies in Princeton with Edwin Walter Kemmerer. There are clear similarities in their analyses of the Federal Reserve System, for instance in their adherence to the gold standard and the real bills doctrine as well as in their emphasis on the elasticity of the money supply. Moreover, they shared a view - with hindsight a rather naïve view - that with the Fed in place, financial crises would be a distant memory. However, there were also important differences. So, van Zeeland, like several other economists as Warburg, accorded greater significance to the discount market (a key factor for the international role of the dollar) and to a stronger centralization of the Fed (which would be taken up in the 1935 Banking Act). Moreover, very specific for van Zeeland is the importance given to the Fed’s independence from the State (an element related to van Zeeland’s continental European background and Belgium’s experience of monetary financing during the war).
N23|The origins of the (cooperative) species: Raiffeisen banking in the Netherlands, 1898-1909|Cooperatively-owned Raiffeisen banks first emerged in the Netherlands in the late 1890s and spread rapidly across the country. Using a new dataset, we investigate the determinants of their market entry and early performance. We find that the cooperative organisational form, when allied to a change in the structure of Dutch agriculture and the socioreligious pillarisation of Dutch society, was an important factor explaining their entry into rural financial markets. While religious organisations provided a necessary impetus for the emergence of Raiffeisen banks, the economic advantages associated with the cooperative organisational form ensured the subsequent survival and success of these banks.
N23|The Rise of Private Foundations as Owners of Swedish Industry: The Role of Tax Incentives 1862–2018|The tax system has at times favoured firm control through private foundations, which has been argued to inhibit high-impact entrepreneurship and economic growth. However, research has been hampered due to a lack of systematic historical tax data. The purpose of this study is threefold. First, we describe the evolution of tax rules for private foundations in Sweden between 1862 and 2018. Second, we calculate the marginal effective tax rate on capital income. Third, we examine the incentives to use private foundations as a means for corporate control by comparing the taxation of private foundations and of high-impact entrepreneurs. Tax incentives help explain why economically significant private foundations were founded between World War I and the 1960s.
N23|Retainers and retirement: Pieter Bruegel (†1566), pensioner in Sint-Janshuis retirement home, Bergen op Zoom|In 1553-1554 one Pieter Bruegel purchased a corrody in Sint-Janshuis, a retirement home for former employees of the Marquises of Bergen, where he would receive necessities of life and a place to stay until he would pass away. The paper reconstructs the early financial history of the retirement home, demonstrating how it was unable to cope with inflation, and struggled to provide for the inmates. It is suggested therefore Bruegel did not merely retire into Sint-Janshuis, but purchased an extra ration of food, clothes and fuel: apparently his background as a barber-surgeon at one of the most prestigious courts of the Low Countries allowed him to pay for a relatively decent old age. Further evidence corroborates that compared to his fellow-inmates, Bruegel was relatively wealthy. The paper also discusses evidence linking the barber-surgeon to the painter Pieter Bruegel the Elder, whose origins are almost completely unknown. Based on his name, estimated year of birth, and residence in Bergen op Zoom, the barber-surgeon is a strong candidate for the father of the famous painter. If we are correct in this, the latter would have come from an urban middle-class background with close ties to one of the most important courts in the Low Countries: the Renaissance palace Markiezenhof in Bergen op Zoom.
N23|Wildcat Bankers or Political Failure? The Irish Financial Pantomime, 1797-1826|Using a new biography of banks, we examine the stability of Irish banking from 1797 to 1826 by constructing a failure rate series. We find that the ultimate cause of the frequent and severe banking crises was the crisis-prone structure of the banking system, which was designed to benefit the political elite. There is little evidence to suggest that wildcat banking or the failure of the Bank of Ireland to act as a lender of last resort were to blame. We also find that the main economic effect of the episodic crises was major diminutions in the money supply.
N23|Predictors of Bank Distress:The 1907 Crisis in Sweden|This paper contributes to literature on bank distress using the Swedish experience of the international crisis of 1907, often paralleled with 2008. By employing previously unanalyzed bank-level data, we use logit regressions and principal component analysis to measure the impact of pre-crisis bank characteristics on the probability of their subsequent distress. The crisis was characterized by “creative destruction,” as those banks with weaker corporate governance structures, wider branching networks, operating with lower cost efficiency were more likely to experience distress. We find that poor credit allocation rather than foreign borrowing, as often stressed, were associated with ultimate demise.
N23|Predictors of Bank Distress: The 1907 Crisis in Sweden|This paper contributes to literature on bank distress using the Swedish experience of the in- ternational crisis of 1907, often paralleled with 2008. By employing previously unanalyzed bank-level data, we use logit regressions and principal component analysis to measure the im- pact of pre-crisis bank characteristics on the probability of their subsequent distress. The crisis was characterized by “creative destruction,” as those banks with weaker corporate governance structures, wider branching networks, operating with lower cost efficiency were more likely to experience distress. We find that poor credit allocation rather than foreign borrowing, as often stressed, were associated with ultimate demise.
N23|Financial Diversification before WW1 : A Risk/Return Analysis of Portfolio’s Advice of French Financial Analyst Alfred Neymarck|In this paper, we propose an original analysis of advice given by financial analysts prior to WW1. Our paper focuses on the writings of A. Neymarck, one of the most popular French analysts in the early 20th Century. The creation of portfolios from a new database composed of the monthly returns of all the security types listed on the Paris Stock Exchange from 1903 to 1912 has provided results demonstrating that Neymarck correctly identified the risk in various sectors. The performances of the portfolios built according to Neymarck’s guidelines reveal the ranking announced by the analyst, both in terms of risk and in terms of return: the richer the investor, the riskier and the more profitable his portfolio was seen to be. Finally, the construction of optimal portfolios according to the Modern Portfolio Theory enables us to pinpoint the few imperfections of Neymarck’s advice, which nevertheless appears to be driven by solid financial analysis.
N23|Danger to the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street? The Bank Restriction Act and the regime shift to paper money, 1797-1821|The Bank Restriction Act of 1797 suspended the convertibility of the Bank of England's notes into gold. The current historical consensus is that the suspension was a result of the state's need to finance the war, France’s remonetization, a loss of confidence in the English country banks, and a run on the Bank of England’s reserves following a landing of French troops in Wales. We argue that while these factors help us understand the timing of the Restriction period, they cannot explain its success. We deploy new long-term data which leads us to a complementary explanation: the policy succeeded thanks to the reputation of the Bank of England, achieved through a century of prudential collaboration between the Bank and the Treasury.
N23|Price momentum and the 1719-20 bubbles: A method to compare and interpret booms and crashes in asset markets|This paper attempts to address one major problem with bubble studies: the difficulty to rigorously compare assets bubbles (that is to say compare them via quantitative data, rather than simply anecdotal evidence). The idea of the paper is to use a metric that is not the level of price itself, but that is connected to it. This metric is price momentum (i.e. the magnitude and speed of price changes). Momentum is measured with a technical indicator: the Relative Strength Index (RSI). The RSI is popular among traders, yet it is not normally used as a tool of comparison. In particular, there appears to be no academic study that has hitherto employed the RSI as a metric to compare different booms and crashes. Likewise, it seems that the RSI was never applied to early modern markets (such as the Mississippi and South Sea Bubbles), or to early 20th century markets (such as the 1929 crash). The paper does all this (based on historical securities prices). Furthermore, it develops news concepts and metrics (such as “strong momentum with low volatility”, “momentum efficiency”, and accumulated RSI readings) that are connected to the notion of momentum. These concepts, in turn, are interpreted through the lens of archival evidence. The result is a new method of analysis – which is not concerned with market forecasting, but only with comparison and historical interpretation – that sheds new light on the 1719 20 bubbles themselves.
N23|Virtual currencies and their potential impact on financial markets and monetary policy|Virtual currencies are a contemporary form of private money. Thanks to their technological properties, their global transaction networks are relatively safe, transparent, and fast. This gives them good prospects for further development. However, they remain unlikely to challenge the dominant position of sovereign currencies and central banks, especially those in major currency areas. As with other innovations, virtual currencies pose a challenge to financial regulators, in particular because of their anonymity and trans-border character.
N23|The formalization of banking supervision: A comparison between Japan and Sweden|This study examines the formalization of banking supervision in Japan and Sweden that occurred in the decades around 1900. Using an incremental change approach, the respective cases are traced and examined from three dimensions: 1) the legal framework, 2) the banking supervisory agency, and 3) bank supervisory activities. As a result of the comparative analysis, we find several similarities and differences. The most important finding is that the two cases are similar, in that financial crises - generally considered to be a primary driver for major regulatory and supervisory reforms - did not play the main role in the formalization of supervision in either Japan or Sweden. Rather, the formalization was an incremental adjustment to the organic development of the banking sector, the general public's increasing exposure to the banks as deposit holders and borrowers, and the increased need for professionalization of the banking sector.
N23|The Berlin Bourse in the London mirror: An asymmetric comparison of microstructures and the role of Germany's large banks in securities trading, c. 1860-1914|This article provides the first in-depth account on the organisational history of the Berlin Bourse based on archival evidence. It demonstrates that the microstructures of the Berlin Bourse basically corresponded to the needs and activities of the largest commercial banks and, consequently, argues that these large banks played a 'gatekeeping' role in securities trading. Moreover, the Berlin example perfectly illustrates the close ties which existed between banks and financial markets and the resulting amalgamation of banking and stock-broking activities in imperial Germany. The comparison to the London Stock Exchange also shows that both stock exchanges fulfilled different economic roles within the overall financial system.
N23|The Origins of the (Cooperative) Species: Raiffeisen Banking in the Netherlands, 1898–1909|Cooperatively-owned Raiffeisen banks first emerged in the Netherlands in the late 1890s and spread rapidly across the country. Using a new dataset, we investigate the determinants of their market entry and early performance. We find that the cooperative organisational form, when allied to a change in the structure of Dutch agriculture and the socioreligious pillarisation of Dutch society, was an important factor explaining their entry into rural financial markets. While religious organisations provided a necessary impetus for the emergence of Raiffeisen banks, the economic advantages associated with the cooperative organisational form ensured the subsequent survival and success of these banks.
N23|Share trading activity and the rise of the rentier in the UK before 1920|Using a hand-collected dataset, we examine share trading activity over the period 1882 to 1920 for the North British and Mercantile Insurance Company, one of the largest UK companies of the time. Our main finding is that the steady flow of rentiers into the shareholding constituency of this company stymied share trading activity. Another important finding is that share trading still occurred during the closure of the Stock Exchange in 1914, but on a much-reduced scale. We also find that there was a substantial boom in share trading and in insurance stock prices after World War I.
N23|Prices and informed trading: Evidence from an early stock market|Using a novel dataset where all traders are identifiable, we examine trading in the shares of a major company on the London Stock Exchange before 1920. Our main finding is that bid-ask spreads increased in the presence of informed trades. However, we also find that spreads narrowed during periods of informed trading when such trades were timed to periods of large uninformed volume and that professional traders consistently timed larger volume to such periods. We also find that spreads increased during the 1914 closure of the Stock Exchange. Our results provide support for the classical microstructure theories of informed trading.
N23|Wildcat bankers or political failure? The Irish financial pantomime, 1797-1826|Using a new biography of banks, we examine the stability of Irish banking from 1797 to 1826 by constructing a failure rate series. We find that the ultimate cause of the frequent and severe banking crises was the crisis-prone structure of the banking system, which was designed to benefit the political elite. There is little evidence to suggest that wildcat banking or the failure of the Bank of Ireland to act as a lender of last resort were to blame. We also find that the main economic effect of the episodic crises was major diminutions in the money supply.
N23|Independent women: Shareholders in the age of the suffragettes|The early twentieth century saw an increasingly vocal movement which campaigned for women to be able to exercise their political voices independently of men. This coincided with more women participating directly in the stock market. In this paper we analyse whether these female shareholders acted independently of men. We reject the hypothesis that they were heavily influenced by male associates. Using a novel dataset of 500,000 shareholders in some of the largest British railways, we find that women were much more likely to be solo shareholders than men. There is also evidence that they prioritised their independence above other considerations such as where they invested or how diversified they could be. However, we find that they were deliberately excluded from being eligible for election to boards of directors.
N23|Lessons from the money mania for money creation|The first attempt in the human history to consciously create money ended in a collapse in 1720, well-known as the money mania. This unfortunate start raises doubt on money creation as a whole such that today there are still voices questioning created money even though it is now indispensible for the world economy. But this misfortune also has the bright side in that it delivers an extensive example of risks which created money has to consider. In this paper, I review the central facts from the money mania and highlight lessons we can still learn from it.
N23|Beneath the Gold Points: European Financial Market Integration, 1844-1870|We measure the degree of financial integration among the top five financial centers of mid-19th-century Europe by applying threshold-regression analysis to a new database of exchange rates and bullion prices. We find that, instead of London, Hamburg, Frankfurt or Amsterdam, it was Paris that played the role of hub of European foreign exchange markets. We also document a high level of financial integration before the gold standard period, with estimated transaction costs far lower than historically-observed “gold” and “silver points” (i.e., the costs to bullion arbitrage). We review the assumptions of the classical gold-point arbitrage model and conclude that TAR-computed thresholds cannot be interpreted as transaction costs in the bullion trade. High integration may be explained not by low transaction costs in bilateral bullion arbitrage, but by the availability of multilateral financial arbitrage techniques.
N23|An exorbitant privilege in the first age of international financial integration|The exorbitant privilege literature analyses the positive returns differential on net foreign assets enjoyed by the United States in the last quarter of the twentieth century as the issuer of the global reserve currency. In the first age of international financial integration (1871–1914), the global reserve currency was the British pound sterling. Whether the United Kingdom enjoyed a similar privilege is analysed with a new dataset, encompassing microdata on railroad and government financial securities. The use of microdata avoids the flaws that have plagued the US studies, particularly the use of incompatible aggregate variables. A monthly proxy for the British international investment position is constructed and estimates for capital gains and dividend yields obtained. The estimation points to an average privilege of 8.3% of GDP, with high variation. The finding supports the claim that in part exorbitant privilege is a general characteristic of the issuer of the global reserve currency and not unique to the late twentieth century US. Nonetheless, a decomposition of returns shows that there were fundamental differences between pre-war Britain and the late twentieth century US investment patterns and their response to the advantage presented by exorbitant privilege.
N23|Beresford’s Revenge: British equity holdings in Latin America, 1869-1929|This paper presents monthly capital gain, dividend yield, and total return indices, and measures of total capitalization for common equity of Latin American and Caribbean-based firms quoted on the London Stock Exchange during 1869-1929. In addition to an overall Latin American index, I present and analyze sub-indices for countries (e.g., Argentina, Brazil, Chile) and industrial sectors (e.g., banks, mines, railways) with extensive UK listings. I compare the Latin American and Argentinian indices with data from Argentina’s Bolsa index during 1900-1929. I also use the indices to compare equity market fluctuations across Latin American sectors and countries during the Baring crisis of 1890.
N23|Stocks for the Long Run: New Monthly Indices of British Equities, 1869-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gain, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British exchanges during 1869-1929. I construct indices for 25 domestic sectors, calculate capital asset pricing model betas for each sector, and construct a 30-stock blue chip index. I splice the new broad market index to Turner et al.’s (2009) pre-1870 index to create a century-long (1825-1929) monthly equity index. I use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment during 1870-1929.
N23|Savings banks and the industrial revolution in Prussia: Supporting regional development with public financial institutions|We show that smaller, regional public financial intermediaries significantly contributed to industrial development, using a new data set of the foundation year and location of Prussian savings banks. This extends the banking-growth nexus beyond its traditional focus on the large universal banks, to savings banks. The saving banks had an impact through the financing of public infrastructure, such as railways, and new private factories. Saving banks were public financial intermediaries, so our results strongly suggest that state intervention can be very successful, particularly in regions in the early stages of industrial development when capital requirements are manageable, and access to international capital markets is limited.
N23|El microcrédito antes de las cooperativas. Pósitos y crédito público agrario en España en vísperas de la Gran Guerra|Los pósitos rurales eran instituciones de crédito gestionadas por los propios municipios que ofrecían préstamos a corto plazo (la duración de una cosecha) a sus miembros a un interés inferior al que ofrecían los prestamistas privados. Como en el caso de otros bienes públicos su éxito dependía crucialmente de la gestión realizada, dado que el volumen de capital prestable dependía esencialmente de la capacidad para recuperar los granos o el dinero distribuidos el año anterior. Aunque gestionados por la autoridad municipal, los 3.500 pósitos (en 1900) estaban regulados por una agencia gubernamental que no tuvo éxito en convertirlos en una red pública de crédito agrario. Cuatro son los objetivos de este trabajo: primero, destacar la insólita pervivencia y buen funcionamiento de miles de pósitos antes de la Gran Guerra en contraste con el diagnóstico pesimista del gobierno; segundo, mostrar que los pósitos eran instituciones de acción colectiva no muy diferentes a otros bienes comunales; tercero, que el diseño de los pósitos no era muy diferente al de otras instituciones de microcrédito como las cooperativas existentes en este momento; por último, si bien los factores locales desempeñaron un papel importante en su supervivencia a largo plazo, la agricultura moderna exigió ya en el siglo XX instituciones de crédito que permitieran obtener fondos procedentes de áreas geográficas más amplias que la aldea. Con el fin de estudiar las diferencias municipales usamos las memorias de la Delegación Regia de Pósitos entre 1911 y 1913.
N23|Explaining the presence and absence of Spanish farm cooperatives before 1936: a political economy approach|Spanish farm cooperatives were limited in number and performed poorly before the Civil War. Rather than a lack of trust and social capital, this paper advances two alternative arguments. First, cooperatives often failed to offer the optimal level of scale to farmers for their day-to-day activities. In some case cooperatives were too large, which encouraged more informal forms of organization. When they were too small, greater scale could only be obtained by integrating cooperatives into federations. These required top-down support, which was provided in many European countries by landowners and the Church, as a result of competitive politics, that required them to build mass parties and organize small farmers politically. By contrast in Spain this was not forthcoming, as the Restoration political settlement (1876-1923) removed the need for party competition, and consequently left the needs of small farmers unattended. Only in Cataluña, and to a lesser extent Valencia, did regional party politics create these necessary conditions.
N23|1688 and all that: Property rights, the Glorious Revolution and the rise of British capitalism|"In a seminal 1989 article, Douglass North and Barry Weingast argued that by making the monarch more answerable to Parliament, the Glorious Revolution of 1688 helped to secure property rights in England and stimulate the rise of capitalism. Similarly, Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, and James Robinson later wrote that in the English Middle Ages there was a ""lack of property rights for landowners, merchants and proto-industrialists"" and the ""strengthening"" of property rights in the late 17th century ""spurred a process of financial and commercial expansion"". There are several problems with these arguments. Property rights in England were relatively secure from the 13th century. A major developmental problem was not the security of rights but their feudal nature, including widespread ""entails"" and ""strict settlements"". 1688 had no obvious direct effect on property rights. Given these criticisms, what changes promoted the rise of capitalism? A more plausible answer is found by addressing the post-1688 Financial and Administrative Revolutions, which were pressured by the enhanced needs of war and Britain’s expanding global role. Guided by a more powerful Parliament, this new financial system stimulated reforms to landed property rights, the growth of collateralizable property and saleable debt, and thus enabled the Industrial Revolution."
N23|1688 and all that: property rights, the Glorious Revolution and the rise of British capitalism|"In a seminal 1989 article, Douglass North and Barry Weingast argued that by making the monarch more answerable to Parliament, the Glorious Revolution of 1688 helped to secure property rights in England and stimulate the rise of capitalism. Similarly, Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, and James Robinson later wrote that in the English Middle Ages there was a ""lack of property rights for landowners, merchants and proto-industrialists"" and the ""strengthening"" of property rights in the late 17th century ""spurred a process of financial and commercial expansion"". There are several problems with these arguments. Property rights in England were relatively secure from the 13th century. A major developmental problem was not the security of rights but their feudal nature, including widespread ""entails"" and ""strict settlements"". 1688 had no obvious direct effect on property rights. Given these criticisms, what changes promoted the rise of capitalism? A more plausible answer is found by addressing the post-1688 Financial and Administrative Revolutions, which were pressured by the enhanced needs of war and Britain’s expanding global role. Guided by a more powerful Parliament, this new financial system stimulated reforms to landed property rights, the growth of collateralizable property and saleable debt, and thus enabled the Industrial Revolution.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N23|The London Stock Exchange 1869-1929: new bloody statistics for old?|Newly-assembled datasets on the size and composition of the London Stock Exchange present some results contradicting conventional wisdom. A forensic examination of one study of corporate equities in the Investor’s Monthly Manual between 1869 and 1929 suggests both idiosyncratic mistakes and generic biases which users of this source need to consider.
N23|Premodern debasement: a messy affair|The paper argues that in premodern Europe, the practice of debasement was far more ‘messy’ than research has generally recognised. First, high information costs often prevented the effective control of mint officials who could exploit their resulting autonomy in order to debase coins on their own account. Second, these costs made it impossible to monitor markets closely enough to enforce regulations. Attempts by governments to debase coins by increasing their nominal value therefore ‘worked’ only if they conformed to the market rates of these coins. Finally, high information costs prevented the creation of closed areas where the domestic currency enjoyed a monopoly. The resulting trade in coinage created incentives for governments to issue inferior copies of their neighbour’s coins – a practice that had the same consequences as a debasement – and forced the affected governments to follow suit by debasing their own coinage, too.
N23|Bimetallism and its discontents: cooperation and coordination failure in the empire’s monetary politics, 1549-59|The article uses new sources to review the hypotheses that Charles V’s currency bill of 1551 failed because of the electoral-Saxon resistance against the undervaluation of the taler that it stipulated, or because the emperor was too weak to overcome the estates’ resistance to collective action in monetary policies. The study shows that these issues were overshadowed by the dispute about whether a bimetallic currency should be established. Charles V’s currency bill failed because the Diet of Augsburg (1550-51) asked the emperor to publish it before all open issues had been resolved. This request placed the emperor in a dilemma where he had to make a decision but could not do so without antagonising important parties. It was the result of a coordination failure at the level of the Empire; this, in turn, was a consequence of a lack of continuity among the personnel involved in shaping monetary policies.
N23|A l'origine de la financiarisation de la dette publique française : l'édit de Paulette de 1604 et ses conséquences économiques et politiques|L'édit de Paulette de 1604 est un acte juridique important dont nous proposons ici d'analyser les conséquences institutionnelles. Cet édit ne crée pas les offices qui existaient depuis le XIIIe siècle, mais il modifie leur nature en conférant des droits de propriété et de transmission inaliénables à l'officier dès lors qu'un impôt (1/60ème de la valeur de l'office) est payé annuellement. À partir des archives du fonds de Sully complétées par des données publiées, notre article met en exergue les modifications économiques (en termes de finances publiques), les transformations socio-politiques (avec l'apparition d'une nouvelle classe sociale) induites par cette financiarisation des offices.
N23|Cities of Commerce: how can we test the hypothesis?|This paper discusses Gelderblom’s hypothesis that urban competition (including a large number of competing cities, footloose foreign traders and municipal autonomy) was central to the rise of inclusive trade institutions in Europe. The first part discusses the precise behaviour of traders, town authorities and sovereigns underlying Gelderblom’s explanatory framework. The second part presents some challenges to the generalisation of the book’s thesis to the history of Europe, including Italy and Britain. The last part advances a short econometric exercise to check this generalisation. Urban competition combined with starting institutional quality does not emerge as a positive factor for the growth of European cities in general: this is interpreted as a call for more research rather a decisive counter-argument. _________________________________ Cet article discute l’hypothèse de Gelerblom selon laquelle la compétition urbaine (incluant un grand nombre de villes concurrentes entre elles, des négociants se déplaçant facilement, et l’autonomie urbaine) a été centrale pour la généralisation d’institutions de commerce ouvertes à tous en Europe. La première partie examine le comportement précis des négociants, autorités municipales et souverains qui sont au coeur du schéma explicatif de Gelderblom. La deuxième partie présente quelques difficultés qui s’opposent à la généralisation de la thèse de l’ouvrage à l’ensemble de l’histoire européenne, notamment en Italie et en Grande-Bretagne. La dernière partie propose un petit exercice économétrique pour tester cette généralisation. La compétition urbaine combinée à des institutions de bonne qualité n’apparaît pas comme un facteur de croissance pour les villes urbaines dans leur ensemble : ce résultat est interprété plus comme un appel à plus de recherche qu’un contre-argument décisif.
N23|The macroeconomic effects of banking crises: Evidence from the United Kingdom, 1750-1938|This paper investigates the macroeconomic effects of UK banking crises over the period 1750 to 1938. We construct a new annual banking crisis series using bank failure rate data, which suggests that the incidence of banking crises was every 32 years. Using our new series and a narrative approach to identify exogenous banking crises, we find that industrial production contracts by 8.2 per cent in the year following a crisis. This finding is robust to a battery of checks, including different VAR specifications, different thresholds for the crisis indicator, and the use of a capital-weighted bank failure rate.
N23|The Diffusion of New Institutions: Evidence from Renaissance Venice's Patent System|What factors affect the diffusion of new economic institutions? This paper examines this question exploiting the introduction of the first regularized patent system which appeared in the Venetian Republic in 1474. We begin by developing a model which links patenting activity of craft guilds with provisions in their statutes. The model predicts that guild statutes that are more effective at preventing outsider's entry and at mitigating price competition lead to less patenting. We test this prediction on a new dataset which combines detailed information on craft guilds and patents in the Venetian Republic during the Renaissance. We find a negative association between patenting activity and guild statutory norms which strongly restrict entry and price competition. We show that guilds which originated from medieval religious confraternities were more likely to regulate entry and competition, and that the effect on patenting is robust to instrumenting guild statutes with their quasi-exogenous religious origin. We also find that patenting was more widespread among guilds geographically distant from Venice, and among guilds in cities with lower political connection which we measure exploiting a new database on noble families and their marriages with members of the great council. Our analysis suggests that local economic and political conditions may have a substantial impact on the diffusion of new economic institutions.
N23|The Macroeconomic Effects of Banking Crises: Evidence from the United Kingdom, 1750-1938|This paper investigates the macroeconomic effects of UK banking crises over the period 1750 to 1938. We construct a new annual banking crisis series using bank failure rate data, which suggests that the incidence of banking crises was every 32 years. Using our new series and a narrative approach to identify exogenous banking crises, we find that industrial production contracts by 8.2 per cent in the year following a crisis. This finding is robust to a battery of checks, including different VAR specifications, different thresholds for the crisis indicator, and the use of a capital-weighted bank failure rate.
N23|Marketing Assessment of the Magazines in Bulgaria towards 2016|Digital media is without a doubt fastest growing forms of media in the 21st century. With their ever expanding reach, print mediaï¿½s biggest competitors are quickly making the old guard obsolete. This article deals with some of the worst affected traditional forms of content delivery ï¿½ magazines in the Bulgarian market ï¿½ and tries to find answers to this topical issue. The aim is to evaluate the marketing effectiveness of magazines in Bulgaria up until 31 May 2016. The methodology used in course this study is as follows: an extensive list of magazines was compiled and each magazine was asked to provide the year its first issue was published, the number of issues published per year, its circulation and readership profile. A significant portion of the data was also collected from portfolios available on the websites of the media in question. 271 print magazines, which were divided by subject matter into 14 groups. A total of 142 magazines from the different groups provided information on the year their first issue was published. The magazines were divided by frequency of publication into 2 groups: 1-4 times a year (79 titles) and 5-12 times a year (190 titles). For 2 of the titles, it was not established how often they are published. For the ï¿½average readership per issueï¿½ criterion, a total of 36 magazines responded. For many of them, there was a substantial difference between readership and circulation. Summaries were also made on the basis of readership profile. The total circulation of magazines whose subject matter made them suitable to be categorized in any group was summarized separately. With 271 titles on the Bulgarian market, it appears that the relationï¿½ship between publishers and advertisers has not ended yet. Readers vary by gender, age, income, education, etc., but the publications have proven themselves to be a source of information in different areas for millions of readers. These traditional marketing channels still exist thanks to consumers willingness to obtain quality content.
N23|Problems of Stamp Duty Levying in Bulgaria between the two World Wars|The Stamp duty representing a specific tax levied on a wide range of written documents is known to the specialists in economic history mainly thanks to its central role in the revolutionary movement of the American colonies against the British Empire. The analogous application of the tax in the period between the two World Wars and the problems that it creates in Bulgaria are poorly known and not sufficiently studied by our economic historians. The negative aspects and the problems associated with this type of tax in British and world history are mostly purely political in nature while in the specific study the main focus for the author will be to prove the thesis that in Bulgaria they relate to fiscal fanaticism, the inadequacy, the complexity, the defects of the legislation itself along with the tax policy of the state as a whole. Through analysis of the tax legislation, the negative impact of Stamp duty laws is revealed in several different directions. Aspects of the law expressing and leading to extreme fiscalism, imbalance, complexity and poor performance. Aspects that have a negative impact on the money supply, credit, savings deposits and the economy as a whole. Aspects which are immoral, irrational and disproportionate in nature.
N23|Network preferences and the growth of the British cotton textile industry, c.1780-1914|The paper considers the dual aspect of social networks in terms of 1) product innovators and developers and 2) the providers of finance. The growth of networks can be explained as a function of incumbents and entrants’ preferences to link with specific nodes defined according to the underlying duality. Such preferences can be used to explain network evolution and growth dynamics in the cotton textile industry, from being the first sector to develop in the industrial revolution through to its maturity. The network preference approach potentially explains several features of the long run industry life cycle: 1. The early combination of innovators with access to extensive credit networks, protected by entry barriers determined by pre-existing network structures, leading to lower capital costs for incumbents and rapid productivity growth, c.1780-1830. 2. The spread of innovation and productivity through value chain linkages during the nineteenth century. 3. The trust movement, joint stock and personal capitalism: the emergence of large firms and a preference for regional financial markets in Lancashire and Scotland. 4. The consolidation of regional instead of national business groups which help explain the decline of the industry. The paper uses case studies of firms, networks, and market institutions based on a mixture of archival evidence, drawn mainly from the financial records of a large sample of cotton firms, and contemporary publications. It stresses human interactions (as opposed to population ecology mechanisms) as determinants of the character, scale and scope of network evolution. Intergenerational features of the networks are identified and classified by these characteristics. Networks were typically bounded in terms of product innovators and less bounded in terms of finance providers. Consequently, finance providers tend to provide the impetus for the rate of network growth in expansion, maturity and contraction phases.
N23|XV. ve XIX. Yüzyıllar Arasında Osmanlı Para Vakıfları ve Modern Finans Kurumlarının Karşılaştırılması<BR>[A Comparison between Ottoman Cash Waqfs and Modern Financial Institutions between 15th and 19th Centuries]|Most of the services provided by modern states to their citizens today were provided by the waqfs during the Ottoman period. The fact that the influence of Islamic religion on the social life was high was one of the most important factors driving people to establish the waqfs. The waqfs founded by philanthropists financed such social needs as religious services, education and infrastructure. The cash waqfs (CWs) were one of the waqf types that financed the needs of the society. The CWs whose capital was cash money provided financial sources to entrepreneurs who were in need of cash according to Islamic methods. The CWs continued to function until the last period of the Ottomans. That the Ottomans used CWs to carry out the functions of the modern financial institutions of Europe is important to understand the Ottoman economic and financial mentality. By using the primary sources, this study aims to analyze the Ottoman economic mentality through studying CWs. In addition, the financial institutions operating in Europe in the same Günümüzde modern devletler tarafından vatandaşlara sağlanan çoğu hizmetler, Osmanlı döneminde vakıflar tarafından sağlanıyordu. İslâm dininin toplumsal hayat üzerindeki etkisinin yüksek olması insanları vakıf kurmaya iten önemli etkenlerin başında geliyordu. Hayırseverler tarafından kurulan vakıflar, dini hizmetler, eğitim, altyapı vb. toplumsal ihtiyaçları finanse etmekteydi. Para vakıfları, toplumun ihtiyaçlarını finanse eden vakıf türlerinden birisidir. Sermayesi nakit paradan oluşan bu vakıflar ihtiyacı olan girişimcilere İslâmî usullere göre finansman sağlamıştır. Para vakıfları Osmanlıların son dönemlerine kadar işleyişini devam ettiren kurumlar olmuştur. Osmanlıların, aynı dönemde Avrupa’daki modern finansal kurumların gelişmesine karşı para vakıfları ile bu kurumların işlevlerini yerine getirmesi, Osmanlı iktisadi ve finansal zihniyetini anlamak açısından önemlidir. Bu çalışmanın amacı birincil kaynaklarından incelenen para vakıfları ile Osmanlı iktisadi zihniyetini analiz etmektir. Ayrıca aynı dönemde faaliyet gösteren ve para vakıfları ile çağdaş olarak Avrupa’da faaliyet gösteren finansal kurumlar da incelenecek ve iktisadi zihniyetler arasında karşılaştırma yapılmaya çalışılacaktır.
N23|Is there a Long-Term Relationship among European Sovereign Bond Yields?|The integration of financial markets has been a recurring theme in academic and financial research. The majority of the literature has focused on equity markets. Literature on the integration of international bond markets is not as common, specifically regarding that of European bonds since the beginning of the common currency area in 1999. This paper estimates a fixed effects pooled model and then proceeds to undertake panel unit root and cointegration tests to determine the degree of co-movement of European sovereign bond yields. The reported estimates suggest that yields move together over time, thus the benefits of diversification in European government bond portfolios may be limited. The results also have important implications for monetary policy. Given that economic shocks (e.g. inflationary shocks) are transmitted quickly from country to country, then it will complicate the task of monetary policy when it comes to pursuing an independent policy with respect to domestic monetary conditions in the presence of asymmetric economic shocks.
N23|A l'origine de la financiarisation de la dette publique française : l'édit de Paulette de 1604 et ses conséquences économiques et politiques|Abstract : The edict of Paulette (1604) is an important legal act, which produced many institutional changes. Offices appeared in the XIIIth century in France, thus earlier than the edict. However, by giving property rights and inalienable handover to officeholders, in return of paying a tax that is valued at 1/60th of the office value, the edict had an important impact on office nature. Through data and documents that we picked up at Archives nationales and in the Sully collection, our article dwells on the consequences of financialization of offices, that is to say economic modifications (in terms of public finances), social and political transformations (by the emergence of a new social class).
N23|Beresford's Revenge: British equity holdings in Latin America, 1869-1929|This paper presents monthly capital gain, dividend yield, and total return indices, and measures of total capitalization for common equity of Latin American and Caribbean-based firms quoted on the London Stock Exchange during 1869-1929. In addition to an overall Latin American index, I present and analyze sub-indices for countries (e.g., Argentina, Brazil, Chile) and industrial sectors (e.g., banks, mines, railways) with extensive UK listings. I compare the Latin American and Argentinian indices with data from Argentina's Bolsa index during 1900-1929. I also use the indices to compare equity market fluctuations across Latin American sectors and countries during the Baring crisis of 1890.
N23|Stocks for the Long Run: New Monthly Indices of British Equities, 1869-1929|This paper presents new monthly capital gain, dividend yield, and total return indices for common equities quoted on British exchanges during 1869-1929. I construct indices for 25 domestic sectors, calculate capital asset pricing model betas for each sector, and construct a 30-stock blue chip index. I splice the new broad market index to Turner et al.'s(2009) pre-1870 index to create a century-long (1825-1929) monthly equity index. I use the new indices to examine the timing of British business cycles and compare the returns on home and foreign UK investment during 1870-1929.
N23|Savings Banks and the Industrial Revolution in Prussia Supporting Regional Development with Public Financial Institutions|We show that smaller, regional public financial intermediaries significantly contributed to industrial development, using a new data set of the foundation year and location of Prussian savings banks. This extends the banking-growth nexus beyond its traditional focus on the large universal banks, to savings banks. The saving banks had an impact through the financing of public infrastructure, such as railways, and new private factories. Saving banks were public financial intermediaries, so our results suggest that state intervention can be successful, particularly at early stages of industrial development when capital requirements are manageable, and access to international capital markets is limited.
N23|Hamburg als Standort der privaten Universal-/Großbanken im 19. und frühen 20. Jahrhundert|Hamburg as a Site of Private Full-service/ Major Banks in the 19th and Early 20th Centuries: The Hamburg banking sector experienced considerable structural changes in the period from 1850 until into the 1930s. Around 1856 and 1870, a large number of new banks were founded, mostly in the form of stock corporations. Starting in the 1890s, the banking center saw a consolidation with foreign banks locating there and the commencement of foundings of branches. What is striking is the bilateral integration of Hamburg with Berlin, the financial center. While the banking relationships with the imperial capital meant a relative loss of importance for the local Hamburg banks, it also brought a considerable overall benefit to Hamburg as a financial center. Typical for the Hamburg financial center was the major and long-standing significance of the merchant banker, whose business was rooted primarily in the mercantile trade. Also striking was the large number of small private banking businesses in the 1920s.
N23|Der Bestand 'Preußische Zentralgenossenschaftskasse' im Geheimen Staatsarchiv Preußischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin (GStA PK, I. HA. Rep. 177)|No abstract is available for this item.
N23|Die Geschichte des Finanzplatzes Hamburg: Anmerkungen aus Sicht einer Zentralbank|No abstract is available for this item.
N23|Bis repetita non placent: Griechische Finanzkontrolle im 19. Jahrhundert und in der Gegenwart|No abstract is available for this item.
N23|Schiffsfinanzierung im Wandel: Finanzintermediäre und maritime Wirtschaft am Finanzplatz Hamburg|No abstract is available for this item.
N23|The fair surrender value of a tontine|A tontine provides a mortality driven, age-increasing payout structure through the pooling of mortality. Because a tontine does not entail any guarantees, the payout structure of a tontine is determined by the pooling of individual characteristics of tontinists. Therefore, the surrender decision of single tontinists directly affects the remaining members' payouts. Nevertheless, the opportunity to surrender is crucial to the success of a tontine from a regulatory as well as a policyholder perspective. Therefore, this paper derives the fair surrender value of a tontine, first on the basis of expected values, and then incorporates the increasing payout volatility to determine an equitable surrender value. Results show that the surrender decision requires a discount on the fair surrender value as security for the remaining members. The discount intensifies in decreasing tontine size and increasing risk aversion. However, tontinists are less willing to surrender for decreasing tontine size and increasing risk aversion, creating a natural protection against tontine runs stemming from short-term liquidity shocks. Furthermore we argue that a surrender decision based on private information requires a discount on the fair surrender value as well.
N23|The development of English company law before 1900|This article outlines the development of English company law in the four centuries before 1900. The main focus is on the evolution of the corporate form and the five key legal characteristics of the corporation - separate legal personality, limited liability, transferable joint stock, delegated management, and investor ownership. The article outlines how these features developed in guilds, regulated companies, and the great mercantilist and moneyed companies. I then move on to examine the State's control of incorporation and the attempts by the founders and lawyers of unincorporated business enterprises to craft the legal characteristics of the corporation. Finally, the article analyses the forces behind the liberalisation of incorporation law in the middle of the nineteenth century.
N23|News media and investor sentiment over the long run|This paper studies the effect of investor sentiment on the London stock market on a daily basis over the period 1899 to 2010. We use a broad mix of reporting from the Financial Times as our proxy for investor sentiment. The main contribution of this paper is threefold. First, newspaper commentary, which was sentiment-laden, but information-light, in the Financial Times affects returns. Second, we find evidence that sentiment plays a role in propagating price movements, particularly during bull markets. Third, we find little evidence that the effect of sentiment on the market differs in bear versus bull markets.
N23|Leverage and Beliefs: Personal Experience and Risk-Taking in Margin Lending|What determines risk-bearing capacity and the amount of leverage in financial markets? Using unique archival data on collateralized lending, we show that personal experience can affect individual risk-taking and aggregate leverage. When an investor syndicate speculating in Amsterdam in 1772 went bankrupt, many lenders were exposed. In the end, none of them actually lost money. Nonetheless, only those at risk of losing money changed their behavior markedly; they lent with much higher haircuts. The rest continued largely as before. The differential change is remarkable since the distress was public knowledge. Overall leverage in the Amsterdam stock market declined as a result.
N23|The Berlin Stock Exchange in Imperial Germany: A Market for New Technology?|Analyzing 474 cases of firms going public in the German capital between 1892 and 1913, we show that innovative firms could rely on the Berlin stock market as a source of financing. Our data also reveal that initial public offerings (IPO) of innovative firms were characterized by particularly low underpricing, comparatively high first trading prices, and no long-run underperformance. We interpret these empirical results as evidence for the surprising fact that in the period of the Second Industrial Revolution the Berlin stock exchange was already a well-functioning market for new technology.
N23|Review of Making Money: Coin, Currency, and the Coming of Capitalism by Christine Desan|In the eighteenth century, the Bank of England revolutionized money through its large-scale introduction of circulating banknotes. The consequences of this revolution are felt even today. In Making Money: Coin, Currency, and the Coming of Capitalism, Christine Desan argues that this legendary transformation was not a one-off event, but a culmination of long-standing trends within the English monetary tradition. This review concedes Desan's point, but calls attention to other factors that were equally critical to the Bank's success: exceptional business and political acumen, active suppression of competitors, and lots of good luck. The importance of these factors is evidenced by the failure of attempted copycat institutions in other countries.
N23|Speculative pricing in the Liverpool cotton futures market: a nonlinear tale of noise traders and fundamentalists from the 1920s|In the 1920s and 1930s, empirical studies of cotton futures pricing tend to attribute market fluctuations to shifts in fundamentals. In this paper, we qualify this view focusing on the role of speculation. Our research is based on a nonlinear heterogeneous agents model which posits the existence of two categories of speculators, feedback traders and fundamentalists, who react (differently) to deviations of market prices from their fundamental value. The analysis is based on original data drawn from the online archives of The Times and on an historical description of the working of a staple commodity market. The empirical findings allow us to conclude that whereas feedback traders tend to herd, fundamentalists are more affected by risk aversion and react but slowly to the underpricing/overpricing of the cotton contracts. As expected, the presence of fundamentalists stabilizes the market even if, at least in the time period under investigation, the behavior of feedback traders is the major driver of short-run price dynamics.
N23|Time-varying price discovery in the eighteenth century: empirical evidence from the London and Amsterdam stock markets|This paper examines the time-varying nature of price discovery in eighteenth century cross-listed stocks. Specifically, we investigate how quickly news is reflected in prices for two of the great moneyed companies, the Bank of England and the East India Company, over the period 1723–1794. These British companies were cross-listed on the London and Amsterdam stock exchange and news between the capitals flowed mainly via the use of boats that transported mail. We examine in detail the historical context surrounding the defining events of the period and use these as a guide to how the data should be analysed. We show that both trading venues contributed to price discovery, and although the London venue was more important for these stocks, its importance varies over time.
N23|La Reichsbank : une banque de guerre ?|Le 22 septembre 1875, l’unification monétaire de l’Allemagne est décrétée. À partir du 1er janvier 1876, le système monétaire entre en vigueur sur l’ensemble du territoire. La réforme bancaire érige la banque de Prusse en banque centrale de l’Empire avec la nouvelle appellation de Reichsbank chargée de fournir des crédits au gouvernement impérial et de mener une politique active du taux de l’escompte.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N23|La industria cervecera en Madrid, 1815-1870|The end of the monopoly of manufacture, distribution and sale of beer in Madrid in 1791 led to the implementation and development of this industry in the Spanish capital after the end of the War of Independence. The gradual emergence of breweries, mainly by master brewers from German states, led to this sector becomingthe second industry in importance in Madrid behind heavy industry during the eighteen sixties. Also, reducing the distance from the price of beer compared to wine and institutional protection in tax and foreign trade regulations would encourage beer consumption in Madrid to widen its leadership in Spain. KEY Classification-JEL: N13. N23. N63. N83
N23|Mercados de crédito, crisis económica y estructura social en la Cataluña del nordeste (1875-1905)|The aim of this article is to examine the dynamics of the rural credit markets and their relationship with the economic cycle during the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century. Firstly, we present the evolution of the number of loans granted in the legal jurisdiction of Figueres (in north-eastern Catalonia) during the period 1880-1905. Secondly, we analyse the main features of the credit transactions, using the notarial deeds that authorised loans in the years 1888 and 1903. It suggests the use of the kind of “identity card” each person had been assigned by the public administration as a useful way to define social groups and a detailed analysis is made. The results obtained show that the social and geographical distance between lenders and borrowers increased sharply during the studied period. The worsening of economic expectations had led to the draining of the middle and lower classes self-financing capacity. KEY Classification-JEL: E32. G21. N23. Q14
N23|Historical Archive of Credit in Italy|This paper presents the Archivio Storico del Credito in Italia (ASCI), a comprehensive database of balance sheet data for nearly 2,600 Italian banks on an annual basis for the period 1890-1973. The work draws on earlier work carried out by the Bank of Italy for the period 1890-1936 (published in 1996) and incorporates information collected by the Bank of Italy as part of its banking supervision activity from 1936 onwards. ASCI is suitable for analyzing a variety of credit phenomena, given the high representativeness of the banking system and the large amount of balance sheet data available. Based on this new dataset, we provide a sketch of the evolution of the Italian banking system between 1890 and 1973, exploring the composition of the balance sheets across bank categories, the regional distribution of banks and the degree of concentration.
N23|Les taux d’intérêt en France : une perspective historique|This article builds and studies long-term series of French interest rates since the early 19th century: the central bank leading interest rate; the rate of the 3-month paper on the interbank market, the regulated deposit rate of saving institutions (livret A), the yield on long-term safe assets (government securities). Comparisons are made with similar series in the UK and US. In a historical perspective, the current situation (low real and nominal interest rates) seems exceptional and very different from previous periods of interest rate stability (in the 19th century) or low real rates (during times of high inflation). The current level of interest rates does not look like the consequence of a sudden break caused by the crisis; it continues a downward trend that started in the early 1980s. Classification JEL: E43, E58, G21, N23, N24.
N23|The Rise and Fall of the German Stock Market, 1870-1938|The prior literature has advanced differing views on whether Germany during the late 19th and early 20th centuries was an economy supported by an equity-based as well as a bank-oriented financial system. Primarily by deploying a new IPO dataset for the Berlin Stock Exchange encompassing 1870 to 1938, we show German equity markets were well-developed as the 19th century drew to a close and remained so through the 1920s. Our analysis indicates regulation helped to foster development before 1913 but had a deleterious impact during the 1930s and suggests that there was a fruitful coexistence between large banks and markets until the Nazi era.
N23|Using probate data to determine historical male occupational structures|Leigh Shaw-Taylor and Sir E.A. Wrigley recently published new estimates for the male occupational structure of England and Wales. Their pre-census figures are based on parish register data, but before Rose's Act of 1812, parish registers offer occupational information only in a sample of parishes, and are virtually silent about employments before 1690. This paper examines how the gaps in the parish register data can be filled using a data source which offer more universal coverage and goes back much further in time: probate records. It demonstrates how an, at first sight, critical deficiency of probate data, namely their severe bias towards capital-intensive and/or relatively well-paying occupations, can be overcome by using parish register data for calibration.
N23|Pricing the Odious in Odious Debts|"This paper exploits a unique historical episode to quantify the impact of ethics on sovereign bond prices. In 1906 the Russian government floated a bond in Paris to cover the costs of its war against Japan but also to raise money to crush the political movements wishing to reform Russia's political system. Issued without parliamentary consent, this loan met with fierce opposition. Press campaigns in Great Britain, France and Germany denounced its odious character. Using an original database this paper shows that market participants required a substantial premium to hold the ""unethical"" odious bond. This premium was especially high when the bond was issued, and protests and campaigns were waged against it. The premium diminished once the press campaigns stopped. It remained nonetheless significant, suggesting that ethics have a lasting effect on investors' willingness to buy odious bonds."
N23|“High & Dry”: The Liquidity and Credit of Colonial and Foreign Government Debt and the London Stock Exchange (1880–1910)|We gather a new database to conduct the first historically informed study of the importance of liquidity and credit for government bonds between 1880 and 1910. We argue that colonial and sovereign debt markets were segmented owing to differences in underlying information asymmetries. The result was heterogeneous pricing of colonial and sovereign debt, and different market microstructures and clienteles, themselves influenced by political, institutional and financial arrangements. We find that sovereign spreads mainly reflected credit risks, while colonial spreads mainly reflected liquidity risks. Liquidity premia were economically large and significant, contributing between 10% and 39% of colonial spreads. These findings help understanding why the seemingly dry subject of colonial illiquidity inspired passionate disputes and ground-breaking reforms of financial imperial institutions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N23|Philip Ii Against The Cortes And The Credit Freeze Of 1575-1577|Numerous archival documents show how the suspension of payments by Philip II, in September 1575, on the contracts with Genoese bankers ( asientos ) induced a freeze of the domestic credit market in Castile through the bankers’ intermediation for asientos and the credit interconnections. Commercial fairs stopped, banks failed and trade suffered while the king granted legal protection to the Genoese bankers. The evidence strikingly confirms that by his strategy, Philip II was able to remove the de facto ceiling on the domestic debt ( juros ) imposed by the fixed revenue commitment of the Castilian cities in the Cortes. The agreement with the bankers was signed in December 1577 immediately after the cities had agreed to the doubling of their commitment.
N23|Sovereign debt guarantees and default: Lessons from the UK and Ireland, 1920–1938|We study the daily yields on Irish land bonds listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange during the years 1920–1938. We exploit Irish events during the period and structural differences in land bonds to tease out a measure of investors׳ credibility in a UK sovereign guarantee. Using Ireland׳s default on intergovernmental payments in 1932, we find a premium of about 43 basis points associated with uncertainty about the UK government guarantee. We discuss the economic and political forces behind the Irish and UK governments׳ decisions pertaining to the default. Our finding has implications for modern-day proposals to issue jointly-guaranteed sovereign debt.
N23|Taking the lord's name in vain: The impact of connected directors on 19th century British banks|This paper utilizes data on the presence of prominent individuals – that is, those with political (e.g., Members of Parliament) and aristocratic titles (e.g., lords) – on the boards of directors of English and Welsh banks from 1879 to 1909 to investigate whether the appointment of well-connected directors enhanced equity value for bank shareholders. Our analysis of panel data shows that the appointment of connected directors did not increase equity returns (as measured by the capital gain plus dividend yield on bank shares). In fact, we find that the appointment of MPs to directorships had negative effects on bank equity returns. Our event-study analysis corroborates this finding, showing that a bank's shares exhibited negative abnormal returns when their directors were elected to Parliament. Taken together, our results indicate that connected directors yielded little – or even negative – economic payoff to bank shareholders in pre-war Britain.
N23|International shocks and the balance sheet of the Bank of France under the classical gold standard|Under the classical gold standard (1880–1914), the Bank of France maintained a stable discount rate while the Bank of England changed its rate very frequently. Why did the policies of these central banks, the two pillars of the gold standard, differ so much? How did the Bank of France manage to keep a stable rate despite international constraints? This paper tackles these questions and shows that the domestic asset portfolio of the Bank of France played a crucial role in smoothing international shocks and in maintaining the stability of the discount rate. As a result, the French discount rate was only changed in exceptional circumstances, for which a change in the English rate was not a sufficient condition.
N23|This time is different: Causes and consequences of British banking instability over the long run|This paper addresses three questions: (1) How severe were the episodes of banking instability experienced by the UK over the past two centuries? (2) What have been the macroeconomic indicators of UK banking instability? and (3) What have been the consequences of UK banking instability for the cost of credit? Using a unique dataset of bank share prices from 1830 to 2010 to assess the stability of the UK banking system, we find that banking instability has grown more severe since the 1970s. We also find that interest rates, inflation, lending growth, and equity prices are consistent macroeconomic indicators of UK banking instability over the long run. Furthermore, utilising a unique dataset of corporate-bond yields for the period 1860 to 2010, we find that there is a significant long-run relationship between banking instability and the credit-risk premium faced by businesses.
N23|Benefits of Empire? Capital Market Integration North and South of the Alps, 1350–1800|This paper addresses two questions. First, when and to what extent did capital markets integrate north and south of the Alps? Second, how mobile was capital? Analysing a unique new dataset on pre-modern urban annuities, we find that northern markets were consistently better integrated than Italian markets. Long-term integration was driven by initially peripheral places in the Netherlands and Upper Germany integrating with the rest of the Holy Roman Empire where the distance and volume of inter-urban investments grew primarily in the sixteenth century. The institutions of the Empire contributed to stronger market integration north of the Alps.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N23|Medieval matching markets|This paper studies the market microstructure of pre-industrial Europe. In particular we investigate the institution of the broker in markets and fairs, and develop a unique data set of approximately 1100 sets of brokerage rules in 42 merchant towns in Central and Western Europe from the late 13th to the end of the 17th century. We show that towns implemented brokerage as an efficient matchmaking institution in a two-sided market problem. Furthermore, towns differentiated seller-friendly from buyer-friendlier matching mechanisms. We show that the decision to implement matchmaking mechanisms, and whether these mechanisms would be buyer- or seller friendly, depends on the products in question and the stated policy goals of the town, as well as time and geographic variables.
N23|Medieval market making brokerage regulations in Central Western Europe, ca. 1250-1700|This paper examines brokerage regulations in Central and Western Europe from approximately 1250 to 1700. Based on a sample of 70 cities with more than 1609 sets of regulations, we find that brokerage was a multifunctional institution, which served matchmaking, quality certification, and tax collection functions, mainly in product wholesale markets but also in finance and real estate markets. We argue that the implementation of regulations for matchmaking and certification solved incentive problems related to asymmetric information between buyers and sellers, consequently improving the allocation process and fostering trade. In line with these results, we find that most brokerage regulations occur along trade routes and in merchant towns.
N23|Any lessons for today? Exchange-rate stabilisation in Greece and South-East Europe between economic and political objectives and fiscal reality, 1841-1939|"""We add a historical and regional dimension to the debate on the Greek debt crisis. Analysing Greece, Romania, Serbia/Yugoslavia and Bulgaria from political independence to WW II, we find surprising parallels to the present: repeated cycles of entry to and exit from monetary unions, government debt build-up and default, and financial supervision by West European countries. Gold standard membership was more short-lived than in any other part of Europe due to fiscal dominance. Granger causality tests and money growth accounting show that the prevailing pattern of fiscal dominance was only broken under international financial control, when strict conditionality scaled back the treasury’s influence; only then were central banks able to conduct a rule-bound monetary policy and stabilize their exchange-rates. The long- run record of Greece suggests that the perennial economic and political objective of monetary union membership can only be achieved if both monetary and fiscal policy is effectively delegated abroad."""
N23|Interest parity conditions during the classical gold standard (1880 -1914) - Evidence from the investment demand for bills of exchange in Europe|This paper examines several versions of the (covered and uncovered) interest parity condition that arguably held as regards the investment demand for bills of exchange during the classical gold standard (1880 - 1914). Contemporaneous guide books about the foreign exchanges report that close connections between the exchange and interest (or discount) rates arose mainly between London and the major financial centres on the European continent. As implied by the interest parity condition, and in particular when future exchange rate movements were covered via a suitable long-bill transaction, weekly data suggest indeed that between Paris, Amsterdam, Berlin and London, the return from discounting bills of exchange in the local money market was roughly equivalent to the (exchange rate adjusted) return from investing in foreign bills.
N23|French Textile Specialisation in Long Run Perspective (1836-1938) : Trade Policy as Industrial Policy|By using a new database covering French international trade between 1836 and 1938 this paper focuses on the country’s specialisation in textiles. It demonstrates, for the first time, the major influence of trade policy on French international trade in textiles during the first globalisation. Tariffs appear to be crucial determinants of specialisation measured by the Lafay Index. Tariffs are also major determinants of intra-industry trade in textiles. By analysing changes in tariffs between raw textiles and finished textiles and decorrelation between tariffs we show that an effective trade protection approach was applied by successive French governments in order to sustain the industrial competitiveness of textiles. Trade policy slowed down textile de-specialisation until WWI.
N23|The debt of the Hôtel-Dieu de Paris from 1660 to 1690: a testbed for sovereign default|It is generally accepted that there was no proper evaluation of life annuities in the seventeenth century, thus the bankruptcy of the Paris Hôtel-Dieu 1689 is commonly attributed to this mispricing. New sources show that the prices of annuities from 1668 on are compatible with Deparcieux's mortality table discounted at the legal rate of interest. The bankruptcy resulted from incorrect provisioning of life annuities liabilities rather than mispricing. That story would have been anecdotal if the French king had not decided to borrow using contingent annuities around the same time: the Crown's plan can be shown to be unsustainable
N23|Coin Assaying And Commodity Money|When money was made of gold and silver, individuals faced the problem of determining the intrinsic content of coins in many exchange situations. In this paper we look at a well-documented solution to this problem, and a key institution of the commodity money system: coin assaying. To that goal we build a model of search and matching in which agents trade using coins that are imperfectly recognizable, but have access to a coin inspection technology that reveals the intrinsic content of coins for a fee. We consider two sources of imperfect information: counterfeit coins and clipping. With counterfeits we show that coin assaying reduced the extent of inefficiencies associated with imperfect coins recognizability (namely lower traded quantities and lower trading frequencies). Yet it did not necessarily increase welfare because it unmasked counterfeits which then traded at a discount, reducing total output. With clipping, we show that agents clip for two reasons: in the hope of passing an inferior coin for a superior one, and to reduce the purchasing power of coins that are too valuable. While coin assaying could remove the first type of clipping, it had no effect on the second. While framed in the context of the commodity money system, our analysis relates to the more general issue of asset trading under imperfect information.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small><br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N23|In Which Context is the Option Clause Desirable?|The option clause is a contractual device from free banking experiences meant to prevent banknote redemption duels. It has been used within the Diamond and Dybvig (J Pol Econ 91: 401–419, 1983) framew
N23|Danger to the Old Lady of Threadneedle Street? The Bank Restriction Act and the Regime Shift to Paper Money, 1797-1821|The Bank Restriction Act of 1797 made legal the Bank of England’s suspension of the convertibility of its banknotes. The current historical consensus is that it was a result of the state's need to finance the war, France’s remonetisation, a loss of confidence in the English country banks, and a run on the Bank of England’s reserves. We argue that while these factors help us understand the timing of the Restriction period, they cannot explain its success. We deploy new long-term data which leads us to a complementary explanation: the policy succeeded thanks to the reputation of the Bank of England, achieved through a century of monetary stability.
N23|In Which Context is the Option Clause Desirable?|Abstract The option clause is a contractual device from free banking experiences meant to prevent banknote redemption duels. It has been used within the Diamond and Dybvig (J Pol Econ 91: 401–419, 1983) framework to suggest that very simple contractual solutions can act as an alternative to deposit insurance. This literature has, however, been ambiguous on whether the option clause can replace deposit insurance outside of those two contexts. It will be argued that the theoretical clause does not generally affect the likelihood that a solvent bank goes bankrupt because of a bank run, as empirical evidence suggests it is already near null, and that the exercise of the clause will have the effect of diminishing the size of creditor claims on bank assets because it exacerbates the agency problem of bank debt. It will therefore be argued that the clause is only desirable in (a) free banking systems that are historically devoid of bank runs in the first place and have other means of managing debt-related agency problems and (b) under the unrealistic assumption that bank runs are self-fulfilling prophecies. It will be argued that the agency problem of bank debt makes the option clause undesirable outside of free banking systems.
N23|The History of European Infrastructure Finance: An Analytical Framework|How can socio-economic resources be mobilized to pay for works that offer beneﬁts only in the future, often in the distant future? We discuss what we understand by infrastructure, a term that can have different meanings/semantic contents, and whose deﬁnition issues reveal some recurrent conceptual problems. Finance is here understood in the very broad sense of a set of mechanisms bringing to investment, and future beneﬁts, the resources needed in advance to pay for it. We offer a brief discussion of technological and organizational change, as several of our examples and other literature that we cite show that investment and ﬁnance decisions are deeply interwoven with knowledge, management, and technical progress. The paper analyses government involvement on both sides of our theme: investment and ﬁnancing decisions, but also on the wider issue of service provision in the context of emerging widespread social needs. In fact, the social demand for infrastructures often manifests itself as only mediated by governments or a small group of players, while the services offered by the infrastructure have subsequently created general interest, sometimes unexpectedly. We mention the tension between the national and the international dimensions and suggest a taxonomy of the macrotypes of infrastructure ﬁnancing we have identiﬁed, and sums up their spread and evolution over the long term.
N23|International financial flows, domestic banks, and the economic development of the periphery: Italy, 1861-1913|This paper analyses the impact of different sources of financing (foreign capital, migrants’ remittances, and domestic banks intermediation) on economic development in Italy between 1861 and WWI. Existing literature has analysed the role of these channels of financial intermediation separately, while this paper for the first time considers them in conjunction. Using IRF from a Cholesky identification structure of a VAR model and relying on an original dataset that combines the most recent series of several financial and economic aggregates, this paper shows that both international capital and domestic saving had a significant impact on investment, while remittances did not. Foreign capital was invested directly, but also via domestic banks, in particular the “German-style” universal banks. Finally, foreign and domestic capital had different attitudes towards the types of investment (construction vs. plant, machinery and transport equipment) and industries they financed. Combined together, these results shed a new light on the process of economic development of Italy and, more generally, of peripheral economies in the age of the international gold standard.
N23|The debt of the Hôtel-Dieu de Paris from 1660 to 1690: a testbed for sovereign default|It is generally accepted that there was no proper evaluation of life annuities in the seventeenth century, thus the bankruptcy of the Paris Hôtel-Dieu 1689 is commonly attributed to this mispricing. New sources show that the prices of annuities from 1668 on are compatible with Deparcieux's mortality table discounted at the legal rate of interest. The bankruptcy resulted from incorrect provisioning of life annuities liabilities rather than mispricing. That story would have been anecdotal if the French king had not decided to borrow using contingent annuities around the same time: the Crown's plan can be shown to be unsustainable.
N23|A Model of the International Monetary System|We propose a simple model of the international monetary system. We study the world supply and demand for reserve assets denominated in different currencies under a variety of scenarios: a hegemon versus a multipolar world; abundant versus scarce reserve assets; and a gold exchange standard versus a floating rate system. We rationalize the Triffin dilemma, which posits the fundamental instability of the system, as well as the common prediction regarding the natural and beneficial emergence of a multipolar world, the Nurkse warning that a multipolar world is more unstable than a hegemon world, and the Keynesian argument that a scarcity of reserve assets under a gold standard or at the zero lower bound is recessionary. Our analysis is both positive and normative.
N23|Two centuries of currency policy in Austria|This paper is devoted to currency policies in Austria over the last 200 years, attempting to sketch historical developments and uncover regularities and interconnections with macroeconomic variables. While during the 19th century the exchange rate resembled a kind of technical relation, since World War I (WW I) it has evolved as a policy instrument with the main objectives of controlling inflation and fostering productivity. During most of the 200-year period, Austrian currencies were subject to fixed exchange rates, in the form of silver and Gold standards in the 19th century, as a gold-exchange standard and hard currency policy in much of the 20th century, and with the euro as the single currency in the early 21st century. Given Austria’s euro area membership, national exchange rate policy has been relinquished in favor of a common currency which itself is floating vis-à-vis third currencies. Austria’s predilection for keeping exchange rates stable is due not least to the country’s transformation from one of Europe’s few great powers (up to WW I) to a small open economy closely tied to the large German economy.
N23|A Pound of Flesh for the King|This paper provides a simple model of banking in the shadow of expropriation, which sheds light on the credit markets of XIIIth Century England and the economic reforms introduced by the Angevin Kings. We argue that the fear of expropriation induced bankers to liquidate loans early and reduced the volume of trade in the credit market. To solve this commitment problem, the nobility imposed a restriction on the ability of the king to profit from the loans that fell into his hands. The subsequent demise of these reforms was likely to contribute to the decay of Jewish bankers under Henry III and their eventual expulsion in 1290.
N23|Finansal İstikrar ve Para Vakıfları Etkisi: Rumeli Para Vakıfları Örnekleri<BR>[Financial Stability and Cash Waqfs: Samples of Rumelia Cash Waqfs]|Vakıflar, İslam toplumlarında yardımlaşmanın ve toplumsal dayanışmanın yanında sosyal ve ekonomik hayatın önemli unsurları olarak karşımıza çıkmaktadır. Vakıfların en önemli özelliği bu yardımlaşma ve dayanışmayı kurumsal hale getirmeleridir. Osmanlı Devleti’nde toplumsal hayatta çok önemli bir yer tutan vakıflar, Osmanlı Devleti’nin bir vakıf medeniyeti olarak anılmasına vesile olmuştur. Yapılan akademik çalışmalar ve analizler de vakıfların ekonomik sistemde merkez hazinesi ve tımar sisteminin hemen arkasında üçüncü bir ekonomik kurum olarak ortaya çıktığını göstermektedir. Bu sebeple, Osmanlı ekonomik yapısı üzerine yapılacak çalışmalarda vakıfların rolünü incelemek de oldukça önemlidir. Bu vakıfların bir türü “para (nukud) vakıfları” bu çalışmanın konusunu oluşturacaktır. Birincil kaynaklardan incelenen vakfiyeler üzerinden para vakıfların kuruluşları ve dayandıkları İslami arka plan incelenecektir. Ayrıca bu vakıfların uyguladıkları kâr oranlarının uzun dönemli analizi üzerinde durulacaktır. Aynı dönemlerde Avrupa’da uygulanan faiz oranları ile Osmanlı para vakıflarının kâr oranlarının karşılaştırması yapılacaktır. Bölge olarak Rumeli’nin seçilmesi de bu bölge hakkında para vakıfları hakkında yeterli derecede çalışma olmamasından ötürüdür. We meet waqf not only institutions provided the assistance and social solidarity between people but also an important elements of social and economic life in Islamic societies. The most important feature of waqf is to make this cooperation and solidarity institutional. The waqfs that had a very important place in social life in the Ottoman State have been instrumental that Ottoman State is a civilization of waqfs. Academic studies and analysis also shows that waqf system was third place in economic institutions after central treasury and timar system in economic system (Özcan, 2008, p. 143). Therefore, it is important to examine the role of waqf in studies on Ottoman economic structure. One type of this waqfs, “cash waqfs” will be subject of this study. The establishment procedure of cash waqfs and Islamic background of cash waqfs will be examined from primary sources (waqfiyahs). Moreover, we will emphasized long-term analysis on the profit rates that were determined by cash waqfs. The comparison between the European interest rates and profit rates of Ottoman cash waqfs at same era will be made. The region of Rumelia is selected as subject because there are not enough works about cash waqfs in this region.
N23|The Greek merchant fleet as a national navy during the war of independence 1800-1830|We analyse the emergence of the Greek merchant navy in the wider European context after the Treaty of Vienna, in particular that of the maritime islands - Hydra, Spetsai and Psara - during the end of the 18th to the beginning of the 19th century, when Greece was still a part of the Ottoman Empire. We examine the structure of the merchant fleet and the impetus it received after they could raise mainly the Russian flag as a flag of opportunity. We trace its history as blockade runners for France during the Napoleonic wars and the necessity to be armed in order to face the challenge of the Barbary corsairs (from Algiers, Tunis and Tripoli). These armed merchantmen and their crews, who had gained valuable experience during the Napoleonic Wars and by fighting against the Barbary corsairs, formed the nucleus of Greece’s navy during the War of Independence of 1821-1830. Combining superior naval skill and “terror weapons” as, for example, fireships, the Greek armed merchantmen achieved a number of astonishing victories against the Ottoman navy which was superior in numbers and tonnage (including dedicated ships of the line), thus contributing crucially to Greece’s independence.
N23|The historical origins of the safe haven status of the Swiss franc:|An empirical analysis of international interest rates and of the behavior of the exchange rate of the Swiss franc since 1850 leads to the conclusion that World War I marks the origin of the strong currency and safe haven status of the Swiss franc. Before World War I, interest rates point to a weakness of the Swiss currency against the pound, the guilder and French franc (from 1881 to 1913) that is shared with the German mark. Thereafter, we see the pattern of the Swiss interest rate island develop and become especially pronounced during the Bretton Woods years. Deviations from metallic parities confirm these findings. For the period after World War I, we establish a strong and stable real and nominal trend appreciation against the pound and the dollar that reflects, to a sizeable extent, inflation differentials.
N23|Financial supervision to fight fiscal dominance? The gold standard in Greece and South-East Europe between economic and political objectives and fiscal reality, 1841-1939|We add a historical and regional dimension to the debate on the Greek debt crisis. Analysing Greece, Romania, Serbia/Yugoslavia and Bulgaria from political independence to WW II, we find surprising parallels to the present: repeated cycles of entry to and exit from monetary unions, government debt build-up and default, and financial supervision by West European countries. Gold standard membership was more short-lived than in any other part of Europe due to fiscal dominance. Granger causality tests and money growth accounting show that the prevailing pattern of fiscal dominance was only broken under international financial control, when strict conditionality scaled back the treasury’s influence; only then were central banks able to conduct a rule-bound monetary policy and stabilize their exchange-rates. The long-run record of Greece suggests that the perennial economic and political objective of monetary union membership can only be achieved if both monetary and fiscal policy is effectively delegated abroad.
N23|Common law and the origin of shareholder protection|This paper examines the origins of investor protection under the common law by analysing the development of shareholder protection in Victorian Britain, the home of the common law. In this era, very little was codified, with corporate law simply suggesting a default template of rules. Ultimately, the matter of protection was one for the corporation and its shareholders. Using c. 500 articles of association and ownership records of publicly-traded Victorian corporations, we find that corporations afforded investors with just as much protection as is present in modern corporate law and that firms with better shareholder protection had more diffuse ownership.
N23|Media Coverage and Stock Returns on the London Stock Exchange, 1825–70|News media plays an important role in modern financial markets. In this article, we analyze the role played by the news media in an historical financial market. Using The Times’s coverage of companies listed on the London stock market between 1825 and 1870, we examine the determinants of media coverage in this era and whether media coverage affected returns. Our main finding is that a media effect mainly manifests itself after the mid-1840s and that the introduction of arm’s-length ownership along with markedly increased market participation was the main reason for the emergence of this media effect.
N23|The rise and decline of the UK's provincial stock markets, 1869-1929|The London Stock Exchange was the largest capital market in the world at the beginning of the twentieth century, but Britain also had numerous other stock markets based in provincial cities and towns. This paper provides the first in-depth quantitative assessment of these markets. We find that they were an important source of financing for regional companies up until circa 1900 and our evidence suggests that their post-1900 decline was largely due to the changing characteristics of publicly-listed firms. We also find that the provincial and London markets became increasingly integrated over time.
N23|Common law and the origin of shareholder protection|This paper examines the origins of investor protection under the common law by analysing the development of shareholder protection in Victorian Britain, the home of the common law. In this era, very little was codified, with corporate law simply suggesting a default template of rules. Ultimately, the matter of protection was one for the corporation and its shareholders. Using c.500 articles of association and ownership records of publicly-traded Victorian corporations, we find that corporations afforded investors with just as much protection as is present in modern corporate law and that firms with better shareholder protection had more diffuse ownership.
N23|Squeezing the bears: Cornering risk and limits on arbitrage during the 'British Bicycle Mania', 1896-1898|"Can limits to arbitrage explain historical asset price reversals? During the ""British Bicycle Mania"" of 1896-1898, cycle share prices rose by 200 per cent before falling 76 per cent from their peak value. This paper argues that arbitrage during this episode was limited by the risk of being cornered after short selling shares. Three corners in cycle company shares occurred during the ""mania"", two of which resulted in substantial losses for short-sellers. The first corner corresponded with a structural break in cycle share prices, and crosssectional analysis reveals that companies for which cornering risk was greater experienced more pronounced mispricing."
N23|Technological revolutions and speculative finance: Evidence from the British Bicycle Mania|"Technological revolutions are often accompanied by substantial stock price reversals, but previous literature has produced competing explanations for why this is the case. This paper brings new evidence to this debate using data from the innovation-driven British Bicycle Mania of 1895-1900, in which cycle share prices rose by over 200 per cent before collapsing by more than 75 per cent. These price patterns are not fully explained by fundamentals or by changes in the nature of risk associated with cycle shares. Instead, the evidence from the Bicycle Mania supports the hypothesis of Perez (2009), who argues that new technology, high short-term profits, and loose monetary conditions increase the level of speculative investment, ""decoupling"" share prices from fundamentals."
N23|Risk sharing with the monarch: contingent debt and excusable defaults in the age of Philip II, 1556–1598|Contingent sovereign debt can create important welfare gains. Nonetheless, there is almost no issuance today. Using hand-collected archival data, we examine the first known case of large-scale use of state-contingent sovereign debt in history. Philip II of Spain entered into hundreds of contracts whose value and due date depended on verifiable, exogenous events such as the arrival of silver fleets. We show that this allowed for effective risk sharing between the king and his bankers. The existence of state-contingent debt also sheds light on the nature of defaults—they were simply contingencies over which Crown and bankers had not contracted previously.
N23|Long-run stock returns: evidence from Belgium 1838–2010|We investigate monthly returns of Belgian stocks listed on the Brussels stock exchange in the period 1838–2010. Our dataset is based on official quotation lists of the stock exchange, and it takes into account all common stocks that were ever listed on the stock exchange during the period considered. This allows us to investigate the performance of the market as a whole in a consistent way over the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. We find that stock returns strongly depend on dividend income. While real capital appreciation tends to be negative, the dividend yield is remarkably stable over time. Stocks were less risky in the nineteenth century than in the twentieth century. While the equity premium is overall positive, the reward for equity risk is very volatile over time. Even in the long-run equity investors frequently earned a negative return. There are no consistent differences between returns on small stocks and large stocks.
N23|Markets before economic growth: the grain market of medieval England|England from 1200 to 1600 was a society caught in apparent technological stasis, typical of the pre-industrial world. Many believe this pre-industrial stagnation was the result of political and cultural constraints, such as those on the operation of markets. Indeed medieval English law outlawed many arbitrage activities in markets. The paper shows using information of grain yields and prices at 227 different locations that the most important of all markets, that for grain, was nevertheless both extensive and relatively efficient as early as 1209. Whatever the rhetoric of medieval law and social thought the real effect of constraints on the operation the grain market seems to have been minimal. England had an elaborate market economy at least 500 years before it had sustained economic growth.
N23|Debt into growth: How sovereign debt accelerated the first Industrial Revolution|Why did the country that borrowed the most industrialize first? Earlier research has viewed the explosion of debt in 18th century Britain as either detrimental, or as neutral for economic growth. In this paper, we argue instead that Britain’s borrowing boom was beneficial. The massive issuance of liquidly traded bonds allowed the nobility to switch out of low-return investments such as agricultural improvements. This switch lowered factor demand by old sectors and increased profits in new, rising ones such as textiles and iron. Because external financing contributed little to the Industrial Revolution, this boost in profits in new industries accelerated structural change, making Britain more industrial more quickly. The absence of an effective transfer of financial resources from old to new sectors also helps to explain why the Industrial Revolution led to massive social change – because the rich nobility did not lend to or invest in the revolutionizing industries, it failed to capture the high returns to capital in these sectors, leading to relative economic decline.
N23|The decentralised central bank: regional bank rate autonomy in Norway, 1850-1892|Before 1893 the regional branches of Norges Bank set their own bank rates. We discuss how bank rate autonomy could be reconciled with the fixed exchange rate commitments of the silver and gold standard. Although the headquarters of the bank was in Trondhjem, we find that the Christiania branch played the key role in providing leadership in bank rate policy. Foreign interest rate impulses were important for bank rate decisions, but there was also some leeway for responding to idiosyncratic shocks facing the Norwegian economy.
N23|‘High and dry’: the liquidity and credit of colonial and foreign government debt in the London Stock Exchange (1880–1910)|We gather the most comprehensive database of government bonds for the first globalisation era to date to conduct the first historically informed study of the importance of liquidity for colonial and sovereign yield spreads. Considering both liquidity and credit shows that the two markets were segmented: credit was the most important factor in the pricing of sovereign debt, but liquidity predominated in the colonial market, explaining 10% to 39% of colonial yield spreads. This reflected both different market microstructures and bond clienteles, themselves influenced by heterogeneous political, institutional and financial arrangements. The flows from the colonies to British ‘ordinary’ investors in the form of illiquidity premia should be taken into account in future studies of the political economy of empire.
N23|Banking and Industrialization|We establish a causal role for banking access in the spread of the Industrial Revolution over the period 1817–1881 by exploiting unique employment data from 10,528 parishes across England and Wales and a novel instrument. We estimate that a one standard deviation increase in 1817 finance employment increases annualized industrial employment growth by 0.93 percentage points. We establish the role of structural transformation as an underlying growth mechanism and show that banking access: (i) increases the industrial employment share; (ii) stimulates urbanization; and (iii) fosters inter-industry transition to high TFP, intermediate and capital-intensive sub-sectors.
N23|The Berlin Stock Exchange in Imperial Germany – a Market for New Technology?|Analysing 474 cases of firms going public in the German capital between 1892 and 1913, we show that innovative firms could rely on the Berlin stock market as a source of financing. The data also reveal that initial public offerings (IPO) of innovative firms were characterized by particularly low underpricing, comparatively high first trading prices, and no long-run underperformance. We interpret these empirical results as evidence for the surprising fact that contemporary investors had rational expectations.
N23|Debt into Growth: How Sovereign Debt Accelerated the First Industrial Revolution|Why did the country that borrowed the most industrialize first? Earlier research has viewed the explosion of debt in 18th century Britain as either detrimental, or as neutral for economic growth. In this paper, we argue instead that Britain's borrowing boom was beneficial. The massive issuance of liquidly traded bonds allowed the nobility to switch out of low-return investments such as agricultural improvements. This switch lowered factor demand by old sectors and increased profits in new, rising ones such as textiles and iron. Because external financing contributed little to the Industrial Revolution, this boost in profits in new industries accelerated structural change, making Britain more industrial more quickly. The absence of an effective transfer of financial resources from old to new sectors also helps to explain why the Industrial Revolution led to massive social change - because the rich nobility did not lend to or invest in the revolutionizing industries, it failed to capture the high returns to capital in these sectors, leading to relative economic decline.
N23|Equity short-term finance under Philip II, with an option to long-term funded debt|Men of finance raised funds for loans, asientos, to Philip II by trading short-term financial instruments in credit markets and by selling long-term annuities, juros. These activities are illustrated by an asiento with the Maluenda brothers (July 13, 1595), where short-term credit secured by the equity of the fleets from the Indies were, for more than one half, converted into funded life annuities that were sold by the Maluendas. The new analysis of this asiento relies on its dossier of more than 400 pages in the archives of Simancas, including the contract, the monitoring attachments, and the final audit.
N23|Financial regulation and IPOs: Evidence from the history of the Italian stock market|This paper studies the impact of regulation on IPO markets using historical data. Regulatory interventions have different effects on the development of public equity markets under different conditions. Studying the whole population of 879 Italian IPOs from the unification of Italy (1861) through the present, we find that tightening regulatory changes improve IPO survival rates. In contrast, easing of regulations tends to harm IPO survival rates, without increasing the number of IPOs.
N23|Entry, information, and financial development: A century of competition between French banks and notaries|Poorly developed financial markets are widely believed to block economic growth, because only modern financial intermediaries such as banks can mobilize large amounts of financial capital at low cost. This claim is supported by cross country regressions, but the regressions assume that credit intermediation is measured accurately before modern financial intermediaries arrive. If traditional intermediaries were mobilizing large amounts of financial capital before banks or other modern intermediaries appear, then the strength of the relationship between financial development and economic growth would be cast into doubt. Using an original panel dataset from nineteenth-century France, we provide the first estimates of how much financial capital key traditional intermediaries (notaries) were mobilizing for an entire economy during its first century of economic growth, and we analyze the lending that the notaries made possible in French mortgage market. The amount of capital they mobilized turns out to be large. We then analyze the effect that financial deepening had on the notaries as banks spread and find that the banks' and notaries' services were in all likelihood complements. The implication is that the link between financial development and economic growth may therefore be weaker than is assumed.
N23|State price densities implied from weather derivatives|A State Price Density (SPD) is the density function of a risk neutral equivalent martingale measure for option pricing, and is indispensable for exotic option pricing and portfolio risk management. Many approaches have been proposed in the last two decades to calibrate a SPD using financial options from the bond and equity markets. Among these, non and semiparametric methods were preferred because they can avoid model mis-specification of the underlying. However, these methods usually require a large data set to achieve desired convergence properties. One faces the problem in estimation by e.g., kernel techniques that there are not enough observations locally available. For this situation, we employ a Bayesian quadrature method because it allows us to incorporate prior assumptions on the model parameters and hence avoids problems with data sparsity. It is able to compute the SPD of both call and put options simultaneously, and is particularly robust when the market faces the data sparsity issue. As illustration, we calibrate the SPD for weather derivatives, a classical example of incomplete markets with financial contracts payoffs linked to non-tradable assets, namely, weather indices. Finally, we study related weather derivatives data and the dynamics of the implied SPDs.
N23|Power politics and princely debts: why Germany’s common currency failed, 1549-1556|The article argues that in the first half of the sixteenth century the need to avoid rounds of competitive debasements was the primary motive for the creation of a common currency valid in the whole Holy Roman Empire. In the years 1549 to 1551, the estates came close to achieving this. In contrast to what is suggested in the literature, their attempt did not fail because the Empire was economically poorly integrated or the will to co-operate was lacking. Rather, it failed because during the talks, the estates lost sight of the original motive, the princes favouring a bimetallic system that they hoped would allow them deflating the real value of their debts, and Charles V undervaluing the taler in the hope that this would weaken political opponents. These decisions antagonised important actors; when it proved impossible to enforce them, the Empire’s common currency failed.
N23|Individual investors and local bias in the UK, 1870-1935|"""The paper examines the long run evolution of local bias by UK investors over almost seven decades between the 1870s and the 1930s. It uses a very large sample of nearly 30,000 shareholders based on 197 sets of share records, a large and representative database of the investor population across sectors and time. It investigates the structure and the evolution of local investment preference between shareholders and the companies in which they invested as measured by geographical distance between where investors lived and the firm’s registered office, or the nearest stock exchange. The paper also examines how geographical proximity, which can be viewed as a proxy for informal trust, was affected by corporate governance and corporate performance. The main findings highlight the importance of informal trust relationships for the development of capital markets and the critical role of London, as both economic and financial centre, on investor decision-making. The size of the firm, the size of individual shareholdings and the number of stock exchanges that the security was listed on seem to have an influence on local bias. On the other hand, investors were relatively risk averse only in relation to debentures, and saw high dividend yield as compensation for parting with local bias for public and listed securities."""
N23|Rentier capitalism and the equity market: shareholders in Victorian public companies|"""Using data on 453 firm-years and over 172,000 shareholders, this paper examines who invested in the equities of companies created during the substantial expansion of the British equity market in the second half of the nineteenth century. It also analyses whether there were clientele effects, where particular types of stocks and companies were more attractive to certain types of investors. Over the entire sample, we find that gentlemen capitalists and women rentiers provided circa 60 per cent of capital and constituted about 60 per cent of investors. We also find that there was a substantial growth in women investors over the century. In terms of clientele effects, we find that the upper classes were more likely to invest in large, London-based firms. However, businessmen provided more capital for domestic, family firms, based in the regions. Women investors exhibited a preference for equities which paid a dividend and which were relatively safe. """
N23|Romania's Foreign Trade, Transportation, Credit System and national Riches in Modern Liberal Economic Thinking|The main aim of this paper is to analyze the consequences in foreign trade, transportation and the credit system of a nation because of the strengthening of the economic organism, through the economic and political reformation. The paper refers to the case of the Romanian Economy for the period 1859-1918. Romaniaâ€™s modernization and development are the result of the contribution brought by the thinkers of that time, especially by the radical liberal thinkers. At the same time, we should not neglect the participation, more modest however, of the conservative thinkers and their contribution in the economic development of the country.
N23|Romania’s Foreign Trade, Transportation, Credit System and National Riches in Modern Liberal Economic Thinking|The main aim of this paper is to analyze the consequences in foreign trade, transportation and the credit system of a nation because of the strengthening of the economic organism, through the economic and political reformation. The paper refers to the case of the Romanian Economy for the period 1859-1918. Romania’s modernization and development are the result of the contribution brought by the thinkers of that time, especially by the radical liberal thinkers. At the same time, we should not neglect the participation, more modest however, of the conservative thinkers and their contribution in the economic development of the country.
N23|Inequality and poverty in a developing economy: Evidence from regional data (Spain, 1860-1930)|Apart from measuring inequality and poverty at the provincial level in Spain between 1860 and 1930, this paper empirically assesses the relationship between economic growth and both inequality and destitution. The results, on the one hand, confirm the presence of a KuznetsÕ curve. However, although growing incomes did not directly contribute to reducing inequality, at least during the early stages of modern economic growth, other processes associated with economic growth significantly improved the situation of the bottom part of the population. On the other hand, growing incomes and lower inequality levels are shown to have been pro-poor.
N23|Equity short-term finance under Philip II, with an option to long-term funded debt|Men of finance raised funds for loans, asientos, to Philip II by trading short-term financial instruments in credit markets and by selling long-term annuities, juros. These activities are illustrated by an asiento with the Maluenda brothers (July 13, 1595), where short-term credit secured by the equity of the fleets from the Indies were, for more than one half, converted into funded life annuities that were sold by the Maluendas. The new analysis of this asiento relies on its dossier of more than 400 pages in the archives of Simancas, including the contract, the monitoring attachments, and the final audit.
N23|Any lessons for today? Exchange-rate stabilisation in Greece and South-East Europe between economic and political objectives and fiscal reality, 1841-1939|We add a historical and regional dimension to the debate on the Greek debt crisis. Analysing the 1841-1939 exchange-rate experience of Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia/Yugoslavia, we find surprising parallels to the present: repeated cycles of entry to and exit from gold, government debt build-up and default, and financial supervision by West European countries. Periods of stable exchange-rates were more short-lived than in any other part of Europe as a result of “fiscal dominance”, i.e., a monetary policy subjugated to the treasury’s needs. Granger causality tests show that patterns of fiscal dominance were only broken under financial supervision, when strict conditionality scaled back the influence of treasury; only then were central banks able to pursue a rule-bound monetary policy and, in turn, stabilize their exchange-rates. Fiscal institutions have remained weak in the case of Greece and are at the heart of the current crisis. A lesson for today might be that the EU-IMF programmes – with their focus on improving fiscal capacity and made effective by conditionality similar to the earlier South-East European experience – remain the best guarantor of continued Greek EMU membership. Understandable public resentment against “foreign intrusion” needs to be weighed against their potential to secure the long-term political and economic objective of exchange-rate stabilisation.
N23|“Which way to turn?” - The destinations of the Spanish silver (1621-1650) London, Lisbon, or Genoa?|During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries the public credit market of the Spanish Empire used the Genoese and Portuguese bankers’ to intermediate on their behalf. They leant money to the Spanish Crown (asientos) and offered many other financial services all around Europe. The asientos was a typical form of short term borrowing which paid high rates of interest reimbursed in silver (bullion and coins), which could be sold to many different private economic agents and public mints all over Europe. The objective of this article is to analyse, within the environment of the international silver market, the role played by some of the European mints who were directly interested in this type of financial intermediation. While the production levels of the mints in Genoa and London depended more on the financial market that of Lisbon was derived from a purely commercial market.
N23|Production, Supply and Circulation of 'National' Gold Coins in Brazil (1720-1807)|Based on the hypotheses that Brazil was not merely an economy that exported precious metals and that there was a relative expansion of the domestic market, in this paper we assess the production, supply and circulation of ?national' gold coins in Brazil in the 18th century. New estimates are provided of the production of these gold coins at the mints of Rio de Janeiro, Bahia and Minas Gerais. Comparing the values of the coinage with remittances to Lisbon, the first half of the 18th century reveals a more stable conjuncture than was found in the second half. This latter period shows fluctuations that were expressed in the faster growth of the supply despite the fall that took place in the production/coinage of gold. Our conclusions question the historiographical theses about the shortage of currency in Brazil throughout the 18th century. The growth of the economy from the last quarter of the century onwards implied an increase in the demand for money, which it proved possible to meet through the production of ?national' gold coins.
N23|The Failure Of The First Romanian Central Bank: Bad Design, Bad Luck, Or Both?|In this paper we will analyze the failure of the National Bank of Moldavia, a bank that was chartered by the Principality of Moldavia in 1856, to act primarily as a privileged source of liquidity for its economy. Although the project of a state chartered, privileged bank was planned many years in advance by the princes of the Romanian Principalities, the National Bank of Moldavia suspended payments shortly after its establishment, in early 1858, and had its charter revoked. We will discuss, from the point of view of modern monetary thought, the ideas that were advanced in the justification of its creation, and in the rationalization of is failure. We will analyze the structure of the credits and other problems in its balance sheet. Also, we will study the role that the Crisis of 1857, and the already emerging European economic integration, had in its demise.
N23|Stages of Diversification: France, 1836-1938|A large literature has documented an association between economic growth and export diversification. We study this question in France between 1836 and 1938. The period witnessed the onset of modern economic growth and sharp changes in the level of international competition. We use a new long term database on French foreign trade at a high level of disaggregation. At the dawn of the first Globalization, France appears to have specialized along Ricardian lines, exporting a handful of textile products in large quantities. There is a decrease in specialization from 1860 to World War I along the lines of modern studies. Changes in trade costs along with economic growth help explain the evolution of France’s comparative advantage. The decline of export concentration is associated with a chronic deficit in the balance of trade during the Belle Époque and the major part of the interwar period particularly after 1927.
N23|A twin crisis with multiple banks of issue. Spain in the 1860s|We create new datasets on capital flows and bank balance sheets to document how the Spanish crisis of the mid-1860s fits the main characteristics of a twin crisis. Next, we describe the particular banking system of Spain, characterized by the coexistence of the Bank of Spain with multiple local banks of issue and a number of joint-stock banks (sociedades de crédito). We analyze the microeconomic behavior of each bank and find that, overall, the banks of issue performed well during the crisis. In contrast, the crisis had a dramatic impact on the sociedades, most of which suspended payments.
N23|Financial Asset Holdings and Political Attitudes: Evidence from Revolutionary England|The English Parliament’s struggle for supremacy against monarchical dictatorship during the Civil War (1642–1648) was crucial for the establishment of representative government, yet its lessons continue to be debated. I exploit novel data on individual MPs drawn from 1,842 biographies to show that the conflict was over overseas interests and other factors over which the executive enjoyed broad constitutional discretion, rather than over domestic property rights. I further exploit the coincidence of individual MPs’ ability to sign legally binding share contracts with novel share offerings by overseas companies to measure the effect of overseas share investment on their political attitudes. I show that overseas shareholding pushed moderates lacking prior mercantile interests to support reform. I interpret the effect of financial assetholding as allowing new investors to exploit emerging economic opportunities overseas, aligning their interests with traders. By consolidating a broad parliamentary majority that favored reform, the introduction of financial assets also broadened support for the institutionalization of parliamentary supremacy over dictatorial rule. JEL Codes: O10, G11, F10, K00, N23, P10.
N23|Fraud and Financial Scandals: A Historical Analysis of Opportunity and Impediment|The paper presents a conceptual framework of financial fraud based on the historical interaction of opportunity and impediment. In the long run the character of opportunity is determined by the technical characteristics of assets and their unique, unknowable or unverifiable features. Impediment is promoted by consensus about the real value of assets, such that through active governance processes, fraudulent deviations from real value can be easily monitored. Active governance requires individuals in positions of responsibility to exercise a duty of care beyond merely being honest themselves. Taking a long run historical perspective and reviewing a selection of British financial frauds and scandals, from the South Sea Bubble to the Global Financial Crisis, the paper notes the periodic occurrence of waves of opportunity and the evolutionary response of passive governance mechanisms.
N23|Kontribusi Sarjana Muslim bagi Peradaban Eropa: Melacak Akar Sejarah dan Perkembangan Ekonomi<BR>[Muslim Scholars Contribution for European Civilization: The Roots of History and Economic Development Tracing]|"The development of economic thought in the Islamic tradition started since the beginning of the first century of the Hijrah. This period is a time when the scientific works about how to achieve economic progress and strengthen the country through foreign trade intangibles movements in the West, known as mercantilism in the economic literature. At this stage of history, after the transmission of Greek ideas, the Muslim scholars to innovate and enrich life interpretations of thought in the world at large, then gradually those ideas into decline and forgotten in history. However, these ideas are not recognized by Western scholars, resulting in a missing link that led to the ""great gap"" in the history of the world economy."
N23|'Buying and Selling of Money for Time': Foreign Exchange and Interest Rates in Medieval Europe|This paper argues that the relatively voluminous surviving records about foreign exchange (FX) rates in the Middle Ages can help to illuminate the much murkier question of medieval interest rates. We first explain how the medieval FX market operated and its links to the money market. Next, we set out the sources of our data on medieval exchange rates and the methodology for calculating implicit interest rates from the spreads between these exchange rates as quoted at seven different financial centres. Our results demonstrate that the FX rates did include an element of interest and that FX transactions could have been used to circumvent the usury prohibition. Further, these implicit interest rates are comparable to those charged on government debt and consumer credit. We also show that there were distinctive seasonal patterns in these interest rates at different financial centres related to their particular economic and trading patterns. Finally, our results provide further evidence of a long-term reduction in the risk-free rate of interest after c.1350.
N23|The Â‘Buying and Selling of Money for TimeÂ’: Foreign Exchange and Interest Rates in Medieval Europe|This paper will show how the relatively voluminous surviving records about exchange rates in the middle ages can help to illuminate the much murkier question of medieval interest rates. We will first explain how the medieval FX market operated and its links to the money market. Next, we will set out the sources of our data on medieval exchange rates, the methodology for calculating interest rates from these exchange rates and provide our results for some key financial centres. These will be used to answer two fundamental questions: first, did the relationship between exchange rates include an element of interest and could FX transactions therefore be used to circumvent the usury prohibition? Second, what were the levels of interest charged on commercial loans in the Middle Ages and how did these compare to rates on government debt and consumer credit? We will also explore some distinctive seasonal patterns in these interest rates at different financial centres and show how these relate to wider trade flows. Finally, we will consider the significance of our findings for the current debate over whether there was a long-term halving of the risk-free interest rate after c.1350.
N23|The Struggles for the Establishment of the National Bank of Moldavia In Light of the Theory of Political Entrepreneurship|At the middle of the XIX century, the historical provinces of Moldavia and Wallachia had simultaneous and coordinated plans to establish two national banks, one for each province, as state-sanctioned, official, central banks. While the plan for the Wallachian central bank was thwarted by the ouster of Prince Barbu Dimitrie Stirbey in 1851, the plan for the National Bank of Moldavia was finally realized by Prince Grigore Alexandru Ghica, in 1856, when the international developments weakened the grip that the Russian Empire had over Moldavia. The first Romanian National Bank was, however, a short-lived initiative. In this paper, we will look at the way it was established.
N23|Banking and Industrialization|We exploit employment data from 10,528 parishes across nineteenth century England and Wales and find that a one standard deviation increase in finance employment increases the annualized growth rate of secondary labour by 0.8 percentage points. An endogenous growth model with finance and structural transformation motivates the empirical approach. Since initial banking access in 1817 may have been endogenously determined, we use instrumental variables to predict the location of country banks founded before the industrial take-off could possibly be expected. Distance and subsectoral analysis suggest that the effect of finance is highly localized and particularly strong for intermediate secondary sectors.
N23|Institutional Inertia: Persistent Inefficient Institutions in Spain|In 1966, after over 700 years, the irrigation community in Mula (Spain) switched from auctions to a quotas to allocate water from its river. This change happened in the absence of either political or technological change. Quotas were more efficient but required that farmers own water property rights. A farmer would promise to pay over time and became a borrower. However, she would not work hard because the output went to the lender. Anticipating this outcome, the lender would not sell the water rights. A temporary increase in output prices increased their collateral solving the commitment problem.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N23|Notarial Credit in Eighteenth-Century Trentino: Dynamics and Trends|This paper investigates the informal credit market in Trentino in the second half of the eighteenth century by drawing upon notaries' loan contracts. The analysis focuses on four benchmark years: 1750, 1760, 1770, and 1780. More than 10,000 contracts from the period were examined, including 1,200 credit transactions registered in two different cities, Trent and Rovereto. The research aims to analyze dynamics and trends, as well as the mechanisms that characterize the two credit markets, specifically who the borrowers and the lenders were, what capital was borrowed for, and at what price. The findings show stark differences between the two cities' financial markets. In Trent, whose population amounted to some 9,000, credit activity accounted for 7.7% of all notarial transactions, whereas in nearby Rovereto, with about half that population, credit contracts represented twice as much, 15% of business. Likewise, capital flow reflects the different nature and dynamism of the two towns. In Trent, loans were mainly to finance agriculture and the urban economy (craftsmen, retailers). In Rovereto, where capital flow was nearly three times that of Trent, went largely to sustain agriculture and the flourishing international silk trade. The political and institutional frameworks around the two towns were indeed quite different. Trent, as the capital of the Prince- Bishopric, was chiefly an administrative town and apparently impervious to innovation. But Rovereto, part of the Habsburg Monarchy, was a well-integrated node in an international trade network of rapidly expanding silk manufacturing, whose growth was fostered by the vivid and effective credit market.
N23|Huth & Co.’s credit strategies: a global merchant-banker’s risk management, c. 1810-1850|The pivotal role played by non-banking institutions in supporting the expansion of international trade after the Napoleonic Wars and before first globalization c. 1870-1913 has long been recognised. Merchant-bankers in particular played a crucial role by advancing monies to consignors of products all over the world. Without this form of credit, many international trade operations could not have taken place. Despite the important extant literature on merchant-banking, we knew little about how these international lenders protected themselves against the risks involved in advancing during this period, in particular for merchantbankers who had diversified both geographically and by products. This paper is concerned with the risk protection strategies followed by one of these actors: Huth & Co., the first of these companies to globalize their operations. During this expansionary period they provided credit to many of their connections all over the world, thus becoming an important financial intermediary within world trade. This paper, therefore, provides the first account of the credit risk management strategies followed by this pioneer global lender.
N23|Any lessons for today? Exchange-rate stabilisation in Greece and South-East Europe between economic and political objectives and fiscal reality, 1841-1939|We add a historical and regional dimension to the debate on the Greek debt crisis. Analysing the 1841-1939 exchange-rate experience of Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia/Yugoslavia, we find surprising parallels to the present: repeated cycles of entry to and exit from gold, government debt build-up and default, and financial supervision by West European countries. Periods of stable exchange-rates were more short-lived than in any other part of Europe as a result of 'fiscal dominance', i.e., a monetary policy subjugated to the treasuryâ€™s needs. Granger causality tests show that patterns of fiscal dominance were only broken under financial supervision, when strict conditionality scaled back the influence of treasury; only then were central banks able to pursue a rule-bound monetary policy and, in turn, stabilize their exchange-rates. Fiscal institutions have remained weak in the case of Greece and are at the heart of the current crisis. A lesson for today might be that the EU-IMF programmes â€“ with their focus on improving fiscal capacity and made effective by conditionality similar to the earlier South-East European experience â€“ remain the best guarantor of continued Greek EMU membership. Understandable public resentment against 'foreign intrusion' needs to be weighed against their potential to secure the long-term political and economic objective of exchange-rate stabilisation.
N23|South-Eastern European monetary and economic statistics from the nineteenth century to WWII|This paper introduces the Data Collection Task Force of the South-East European Monetary History Network (SEEMHN DCTF) and its first result. Good policy making should be grounded on good data. To this end, the SEEMHN DCTF works since 2006 towards establishing a SEE macro history database of 19th and 20th century key financial and monetary statistics. All task force members acknowledge that this goal could only be achieved by joining forces and through the exchange of knowledge and experience. Therefore, the SEEMHN DCTF involved cooperation between representatives from all SEE national central banks and scholars who specialise in different fields, geographical regions and time periods. Its first result concerns a new statistics publication entitled South-Eastern European Monetary and Economic Statistics from the Nineteenth Century to World War II. It contains a newly compiled, built and harmonised dataset of long-run key monetary and macroeconomic time series. The aim of this paper is threefold. First, we briefly present this new statistical database. Second, we discuss techniques and technology followed in the data compilation and building process, as well as archives and published sources used. Third, we briefly present the new data project on which the SEEMHN will keep working in the near future.
N23|Happy hour followed by hangover: Financing the UK brewery industry, 1880-1913|In the last 15 years of the nineteenth century c.300 British brewers incorporated and floated securities on the stock market. Subsequently, in the 1900s, the industry suffered a long-lived hangover. In this paper, we establish the stylised facts of this transformation and estimate the gains enjoyed by brewery investors during the boom as well as the losses suffered by investors during the bust of the 1900s. However, not all brewery equity shares suffered alike. We find that post-1900 performance correlates positively with capital-market discipline and good corporate governance and negatively with family control, but does not correlate with indebtedness.
N23|The past, present and future of banking history|This essay discusses trends in new banking history scholarship. It does so by conducting bibliometric content analysis of the entire literature involving the history of banks, bankers and banking published in all major academic journals since the year 2000. It places this recent scholarship in its historiographical context, and speculates on the future of the field.
N23|What moved share prices in the nineteenth-century London stock market?|Using a new weekly blue-chip index, this paper investigates the causes of stock price movements on the London market between 1823 and 1870. We find that economic fundamentals explain about 15 per cent of weekly and 34 per cent of monthly variation in share prices. Contemporary press reporting from the London Stock Exchange is used to ascertain what market participants thought were causing the largest movements on the market. The vast majority of large movements were attributed by the press to geopolitical, monetary, railway-sector, and financial-crisis news. Investigating the stock price changes on an independent list of events reaffirms these findings, suggesting that the most important specific events which moved markets were wars involving European powers.
N23|Who financed the expansion of the equity market? Shareholder clienteles in Victorian Britain|Who financed the great expansion of the Victorian equity market, and what attracted them to invest? Using data on 453 firm-years and over 172,000 shareholders, we find that the largest providers of capital were rentiers, men with no formal occupation who relied on investment income. We also see a substantial growth in women investors as time progressed. In terms of clientele effects, we find that rentiers invested in large firms, whilst businessmen were the venture capitalists of young, regional enterprises. Women and the middle classes preferred safe investments, whilst financiers and institutional investors were speculators in foreign companies. Our results may help to explain the growth of new types of assets catering for particular clienteles, and the development of managerial policies on dividends and share issues.
N23|: Performance, pay and promotion: implementing a Weberian bureaucracy in nineteenth century Baden|This paper is based on the difference between the formal introduction of a Weberian bureaucracy and its actual implementation through state officials. This difference between the formal institutional framework and its actual implementation could lead to failed reforms. On the other side, there were states which successfully introduced a Weberian bureaucracy like the German state of Baden in the nineteenth century. This paper argues that Civil Service reforms in Baden during the first two decades of the nineteenth century established an internal labor market with a hierarchy of pay levels and clearly defined rules of promotion. These rules of promotion made advancement in the hierarchy, and therefore, an increase in remuneration, inter alia dependent on the performance in regard to administrative processes and rules of professional conduct. This rule generated an incentive to implement the new formal institutional framework, because sticking to the rules led to a monetary reward. The paper tests this hypothesis empirically using a logit as well as a panel regression approach. In doing so, I find that a positive assessment about a district magistrate’s (Amtmann) performance in regard to formal administrative processes and rules of professional conduct increased his probability of promotion by 81 %. The paper also finds incentive mechanisms like a shirking wage. However, it seems that the sound working of these incentive mechanisms took ca. two decades.
N23|The Savings Banks crises in Spain: When and How?|The present financial crisis has severely hit the Spanish savings banks sector. Of 45 savings banks in 2007 by the end of 2012 the number had dropped to only thirteen. Most of the institutions that have disappeared, have been consolidated into major groups, either by outright purchase by banks or as a result of merging operations among individual savings banks. The Bank of Spain and the Fund for Ordely Restructuring of the Banking Sector (FROB) have bailout seven savings banks or group of savings banks, and four of them have been nationalized. Moreover, nearly all merging operations have required the consumption of public resources, which in turn have increased the already large government budget deficit. First, the paper presents a short history of the savings banks crises, and shows that until very recently the sector has surmounted major crisis affecting the financial system. Their limited scope and scale, the principle of territoriality, and a prudent and conservative management avoided saving banks the financial turbulences suffered by the commercial and investment banks. Second, the paper reviews the causes of the current savings banks crisis and which have been the procedure and the cost of its resolution, which has required the astonishing figure of 60,000 million euros provided by the European Stability Mechanism.
N23|La deuda pública: El bálsamo financiero del régimen de Franco (1939-1975)|Este documento de trabajo proporciona un análisis de los objetivos buscados con las emisiones de deuda finalista durante el franquismo, la estructura de la deuda en circulación y la sostenibilidad de la deuda. Como era más barata, se abusó de la deuda flotante que luego se consolidó. La represión financiera permitió a Franco pagar bajos intereses nominales, que fueron negativos por la fuerte inflación al principio y el final del régimen. El artículo concluye que los gobiernos de Franco emitieron la mayor parte de su deuda para financiar inversiones al margen del presupuesto, cuyos déficits fueron muy inferiores a las deudas emitidas. La pobreza de la Hacienda obligó a Franco a pagar su política de nacionalizaciones y de industrialización con deuda pública, tanto en la autarquía como con los planes de desarrollo. La falta de recursos impidió a Franco devolver sus deudas; la deuda pública fue aniquilada por el impuesto inflacionista y la represión financiera. Esto, junto al crecimiento económico, hizo que la deuda soberana fuera sostenible en el franquismo.
N23|Empresariado, Iglesia y ahorro popular: las cajas de ahorro y Montes de Piedad de Castilla y León, 1841-2013|This paper makes an effort to analyze the evolution of the Castilla Leon savings banks from their founding up to the 2008 crisis. It is an attempt to precisely identify the historical causes that led these institutions to a situation of complete insolvency. The text argues that their submission to public authorities, who forced their profits to be used to meet the social investment needs of the State itself, excessive exposure to the real estate business and the war waged from 1990 onwards to capture deposits, all led these institutions to bankruptcy. Furthermore, the article shows the very different conception these entities had in the eyes of the Church and civil society, an aspect neglected in the Economic History of Spain. KEY Classification-JEL: N23. N24. N94. N95
N23|How Fiscal Policy Affects the Price Level: Britain’s First Experience with Paper Money|Between 1797 and 1821, Britain suspended the gold standard in order to finance the Napoleonic Wars. This measure was accompanied by large scale debt accumulation and inflation: After Napoleon’s final defeat at Waterloo in 1815, the debt to GDP ratio had climbed to 226%; the price level exceeded its 1797 level by 22.3%. Under these circumstances and given that institutional settings allowed excluding the possibility of strategic default, I will show that expectations of how debt would be stabilized in the future shaped the observed evolution of the price level. Thus, my contribution establishes the importance of fiscal determinants of the price level.
N23|Taking firms to the stock market: IPOs and the importance of large banks in imperial Germany, 1896–1913|" type=""main""> Large universal banks played a major role in Germany's industrialization because they provided loans to industry and thereby helped firms to overcome liquidity constraints. Previous research has also argued that they were equally important for the German stock market. This article provides quantitative and qualitative evidence that although the market for underwriters was dominated by a small oligopoly of six large banks, there was still perceptible competition, which kept fees and short-run profits low. Another interesting finding presented here is the absence of a signalling effect to investors. Neither underpricing nor the one-year performance was different for the IPOs issued by one of the Big Six. Thus, although the German IPO business was in the hands of a small oligopoly, investors did not benefit from the lack of competition. One explanation is that the quality of IPOs on the German stock market of the time was very good in general as a result of the competition between underwriters, but also as a result of the tight regulation of underwriting, which ensured the quality of all firms on the German stock market."
N23|Actif sous-jacent et produits dérivés financiers de la Compagnie des Mers du Sud. La rationalité de la bulle reconsidérée|The systematically dualist analysis of speculative bubbles is not sufficient to capture the differences in investors behavior according to whether they operate in the underlying asset market or the derivatives market. This is particularly well evidenced in the South Sea Bubble study. In this article, we show that in spite of the rational pricing of the South Sea Company’s subscription shares as call options, the valuation of the underlying asset, (i.e.) the South Sea Share, did suffer from a confusion regarding future public debt restructuring revenues. Classification JEL : G12, G13, G14, N23
N23|La crisis económica actual. Análisis de sus antecedentes|Resumen: En los inicios del siglo XX, las dos guerras mundiales constituyeron un importante antecedente económico y político para la definición de la teoría y las políticas macroeconómicas de las dos escuelas fundamentales: El Keynesianismo y la escuela neoclásica. A partir del Tratado de Versalles y con la aplicación de las políticas del Welfare State y el New Deal, los países hoy desarrollados experimentaron la llamada “época dorada”, en la cual los Estados Unidos, Europa y Japón no solo crecieron a tasas considerables sino que mejoraron significativamente su distribución del ingreso. A partir de los 80, con los procesos de “financiarización mundial” y del “triunfo de la gran corporación”, los países desarrollados están enfrentando una crisis de la cual aún no se recuperan, con deterioros del crecimiento y del GINI. El presente artículo analiza la evolución de estos hechos históricos que sirven de base a planteamientos y debates económicos actuales.
N23|Leverage and beliefs: Personal experience and risk taking in margin lending|What determines risk-bearing capacity and the amount of leverage in financial markets? This paper uses unique micro-data on collateralized lending contracts during a period of financial distress to address this question. An investor syndicate speculating in English stocks went bankrupt in 1772. Using hand-collected information from Dutch notarial archives, we examine changes in lenders' behavior following exposure to potential (but not actual) losses. Before the distress episode, financiers that lent to the ill-fated syndicate were indistinguishable from the rest. Afterwards, they behaved differently: they lent with much higher haircuts. Only lenders exposed to the failed syndicate altered their behavior. The differential change is remarkable since the distress was public knowledge, and because none of the lenders suffered actual losses – all financiers were repaid in full. Interest rates were also unaffected; the market balanced solely through changes in collateral requirements. Our findings are consistent with a heterogeneousbeliefs- interpretation of leverage. They also suggest that individual experience can modify the level of leverage in a market quickly.
N23|Cities of Commerce: How can we test the hypothesis?|This paper discusses Gelderblom's hypothesis that urban competition (including a large number of competing cities, footloose foreign traders and municipal autonomy) was central to the rise of inclusive trade institutions in Europe. The first part discusses the precise behaviour of traders, town authorities and sovereigns underlying Gelderblom's explanatory framework. The second part presents some challenges to the generalisation of the book's thesis to the history of Europe, including Italy and Britain. The last part advances a short econometric exercise to check this generalisation. Urban competition combined with starting institutional quality does not emerge as a positive factor for the growth of European cities in general: this is interpreted as a call for more research rather a decisive counter-argument.
N23|Tax farming and the origins of state capacity in England and France|How did modern and centralized fiscal institutions emerge? We develop a model that explains (i) why pre-industrial states relied on private individuals to collect taxes; (ii) why after 1600 both England and France moved from competitive methods for collecting revenues to allocating the right to collect taxes to a small group of financiers—an intermediate institution that we call cabal tax farming—and (iii) why this centralization led to investments in fiscal capacity and increased fiscal standardization. We provide detailed historical evidence that supports our prediction that rulers abandoned the competitive allocation of tax rights in favor of cabal tax farming in order to gain access to inside credit, and that this transition was accompanied by investments in standardization. Finally (iv) we show why this intermediate institution proved to be self-undermining in England, where it was quickly replaced by direct collection, but lasted in France until the French Revolution.
N23|Regulating IPOs: Evidence from going public in London, 1900–1913|This study assesses the impact of self-regulation on equity markets by analysing IPO failure rates on the London Stock Exchange during 1900–13. Focussing on differences between Official Quotation (OQ) and Special Settlement (SS) methods of going public, we find that the failure rate of IPOs by way of SS was considerably higher even after controlling for firm characteristics and for the presence of underwriters and elite directors. Furthermore, overall market-adjusted returns for SS IPOs, including the relatively few IPO “winners”, were extremely poor. Our findings have implications for the literature on self-regulation of securities markets as well as long-standing debates on British capital market development before 1914.
N23|The first global emerging markets investor: Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust 1880–1913|The Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust is the oldest surviving closed end fund, having been established in 1868. Its early success and emulation were related to its identification of a missing market – the provision of a wholesale diversified vehicle for the investing public. This paper is a micro-study of this leading investment trust during the First Era of financial globalisation. The history of this flagship fund over more than three decades provides an insight into the relative success of this financial innovation as well as into the risk and returns of investing in emerging markets over a century ago.
N23|Local liquidity constraints: What place for central bank regional policy? The French experience during the Belle Époque (1880–1913)|This paper examines whether improved geographical access to the central bank contributed to local credit development in France during the Belle Époque (1880–1913). I use a new data set of credit by administrative area (département) in order to test the effect of the Bank of France network of branches on an indicator of local “credit development”. The results suggest that, despite potential market frictions created by the Bank of France, the positive effects of the network of its branches outweighed the negative ones.
N23|The cross-section of stock returns in an early stock market|Using a new dataset which contains monthly data on 1015 stocks traded on the London Stock Exchange between 1825 and 1870, we investigate the cross section of stock returns in this early capital market. Unique features of this market allow us to evaluate the veracity of several popular explanations of asset pricing behavior. Using portfolio analysis and Fama–MacBeth regressions, we find that stock characteristics such as beta, illiquidity, dividend yield, and past-year return performance are all positively correlated with stock returns. However, market capitalization and past-three-year return performance have no significant correlation with stock returns.
N23|Floating a “lifeboat”: The Banque de France and the crisis of 1889|When faced with a run on a “systemically important” but insolvent bank in 1889, the Banque de France pre-emptively organized a lifeboat to ensure that depositors were protected and an orderly liquidation could proceed. To protect the Banque from losses on its lifeboat loan, a guarantee syndicate was formed penalizing those who had participated in the copper speculation that had caused the crisis bringing the bank down. Creation of the syndicate and other actions were consistent with mitigating the moral hazard from such an intervention. This episode contrasts the advice given by Bagehot to the Bank of England to counter a panic by lending freely at a high rate on good collateral, allowing insolvent institutions to fail.
N23|Financial innovation and growth listings and IPOs from 1880 to World War II in the Athens Stock Exchange|"The study explores the growth of the Athens Stock Exchange through new listings and IPOs over the period 1880-1940. We examine institutional changes in exchange governance and listing requirements. On a theme that has not been addressed before, we find that simple listings were far more numerous than actual IPOs, while even during ‘hot’ listing periods IPO activity was relatively limited. IPOs in Greece remained unregulated throughout the period and there is only sparse evidence on the involvement of professional investment banking services. IPOs over-pricing in the early decades gives way to under-pricing in the 1920s. The growth of the Greek stock market was coincident with development episodes in the economy, as well as phases of protectionism. It has been driven by a demand for listings basically serving the liquidity needs of company owners. Finally, the study presents data on ""quasi-IPOs"" (i.e. capital increases shortly after listing)and shows that they offer a more accurate assessment of the demand for the financing of listing firms."
N23|The political economy of Byzantium: transaction costs and the decentralisation of the Byzantine Empire in the twelfth century|This thesis aims to contribute to an explanation of how the development of political institutions is influenced by the costs of information and exchange across society in a pre-modern context. The Byzantine Empire in the twelfth century presents an apparent paradox of an expanding economy alongside a weakening central state. Application of a dynamic transaction-cost framework can illustrate how political and economic decentralisation can rationally occur as non-state actors begin to gain a comparative transaction-cost advantage over the state. Geopolitical and economic developments of the late-eleventh and twelfth century empowered non-state provincial interests in the Byzantine Empire to the detriment of the central state apparatus, including the imperial bureaucracy. Economic growth, an increasingly fluid provincial political environment, and the decline of the imperial navy simultaneously raised the transaction costs of the state and lowered the transaction costs of local interests. This shift prompted the decentralisation of power that ultimately contributed to the destruction of the Byzantine state in 1204. The state faced increasing relative costs of information acquisition, security provision, and tax collection as provincial transaction costs declined and state networks were allowed to degrade. Decentralisation of political and economic power became first possible, then practical, and finally unavoidable in a process that fatally undermined the cohesion of the empire. This thesis uses a transaction cost framework to provide an economically informed explanation of political decline that complements the traditional politically focused narrative and begins to address the contradiction apparent in a state ruling over increasingly prosperous territory, yet proving so fragile by the closing years of the twelfth century.
N23|Financial Innovation and Growth: Listings and IPOs from 1880 to World War II in the Athens Stock Exchange|"The study explores the growth of the Athens Stock Exchange through new listings and IPOs over the period 1880-1940. We examine institutional changes in exchange governance and listing requirements. On a theme that has not been addressed before, we find that simple listings were far more numerous than actual IPOs, while even during ‘hot’ listing periods IPO activity was relatively limited. IPOs in Greece remained unregulated throughout the period and there is only sparse evidence on the involvement of professional investment banking services. IPOs over-pricing in the early decades gives way to under-pricing in the 1920s. The growth of the Greek stock market was coincident with development episodes in the economy, as well as phases of protectionism. It has been driven by a demand for listings basically serving the liquidity needs of company owners. Finally, the study presents data on ""quasi-IPOs"" (i.e. capital increases shortly after listing) and shows that they offer a more accurate assessment of the demand for the financing of listing firms."
N23|State dissolution, sovereign debt and default: Lessons from the UK and Ireland, 1920-1938|"We study Ireland´s inheritance of debt following its secession from the United Kingdom at the beginning of the twentieth century. Exploiting structural differences in bonds guaranteed by the UK and Irish governments, we can identify perceived uncertainty about fiscal responsibility in the aftermath of the sovereign breakup. We document that Ireland´s default on intergovernmental payments was an important event. Although payments from the Irish government ceased, the UK government instructed its Treasury to continue making interest and principal repayments. As a result, the risk premium on the bonds the UK government had guaranteed fell to about zero. Our findings are consistent with persistent ambiguity about fiscal responsibility far-beyond sovereign breakup. We discuss the political and economic forces behind the Irish and UK governments´ decisions, and suggest lessons for modern-day states that are eyeing dissolution. ""Further, in view of all the historical circumstances, it is not equitable that the Irish people should be obliged to pay away these moneys"" - Eamon De Valera, 12 October 1932"
N23|Swedish stock and bond returns, 1856–2012|This chapter presents historical evidence about Swedish stock prices, dividends, and yields on government fixed-interest securities. Monthly returns are presented since 1901 for stocks, since 1874 for government long-term bonds and since 1856 for short-term Treasury bills or central bank discount rates. Annual stock price and returns indices from 1870 are also presented. Altogether, these series comprise the longest financial asset price database for Sweden to date. An important ambition is to provide information about the quality of the financial data, how they are constructed and how they are modified so as to ensure consistency across time. The chapter also outlines the basic institutional and economic framework of the Swedish stock and money markets. Research has shown that asset prices are influenced by the extent of trading activity as well as by the legal setting and microstructural characteristics. Finally, the chapter offers some initial analysis of the new evidence: calculation of returns for different periods, examination of trends and trend breaks in returns, dividends, volatility and cross-country returns correlations, and computation of equity risk premia across holding periods and historical eras.
N23|Grain Market Integration in the Baltic Sea Region in the 19th Century|This paper explores the development of market integration within the Baltic Sea region as well as between the region and England, from the early 1840s to around 1890. It exploits two new datasets on grain prices. The paper applies a new method for measuring market integration by combining a dynamic factor model with wavelet analysis. A gradual yardstick is suggested and the role of distance analyzed. Wheat and rye markets became highly integrated whereas the cheaper grains lagged. Integration progressed geographically and conclusions emphasize traded volumes and transport cost.
N23|Growth in public finances as tool for control: Norwegian development 1850-1950|By drawing on information from public accounts from the nineteenth and twentieth century the present paper aims at mapping the development of key financial indicators for the Norwegian central government sector. It concludes that growth in the size of this sector often, but clearly not always, reflects political economy regimes. The paper concludes that persistant growth in public finances as tool for control over the economy did not take place before the introduction of the social-democratic regime in 1935.
N23|Swedish Stock and Bond Returns, 1856–2012|This chapter presents historical evidence about Swedish stock prices, dividends, and yields on government fixed-interest securities. Monthly returns are presented since 1901 for stocks, since 1874 for government long-term bonds and since 1856 for short-term Treasury bills or central bank discount rates. Annual stock price and returns indices from 1870 are also presented. Altogether, these series comprise the longest financial asset price database for Sweden to date. An important ambition is to provide information about the quality of the financial data, how they are constructed and how they are modified so as to ensure consistency across time. The chapter also outlines the basic institutional and economic framework of the Swedish stock and money markets. Research has shown that asset prices are influenced by the extent of trading activity as well as by the legal setting and microstructural characteristics. Finally, the chapter offers some initial analysis of the new evidence: calculation of returns for different periods, examination of trends and trend breaks in returns, dividends, volatility and cross-country returns correlations, and computation of equity risk premia across holding periods and historical eras.
