N26|Concentración bancaria, competencia y estabilidad financiera en Colombia|No abstract is available for this item.
N26|Did the recent Brazilian economic defaults originate from real economic or financial issues?|This paper aims to discover whether the origins of the recent Brazilian economic defaults (2009, 2015, and 2016) were related to the real economy or to pure financial transactions. To do so, we analyzed the discrepancy of dispersion index (DDI) and structural path decomposition from flow of funds (FOF) matrices of the Brazilian economy from 2004 to 2015. Financial transactions mirrored real transactions in almost every year, except in 2008, when financial transactions more highly contributed to the imbalance. Additionally, the total value of financial firms’ transactions grew more than that of non-financial firms in periods preceding economic defaults (2008 and 2014) while the continued growth of non-financial firms transactions decreased the DDI in 2009 and 2015. Changes in the power of dispersion indices corroborated this observation by pointing out that the government and non-financial firms reduced their financial sharing while financial firms improved their role as financial intermediaries and, at the same time, the rest of the world was receiving a significant portion of Brazilian savings.
N26|Relationship Networks in Banking Around a Sovereign Default and Currency Crisis|We study how banks' exposure to a sovereign default and a sharp currency devaluation gets transmitted onto the corporate non-financial sector. To do so we use a proprietary data set for the universe of banks and firms in Argentina during the crisis of 2001. We proceed in three steps. First, we exploit the variation in the data at the bank-level to show that there is a negative correlation between banks' pre-crisis exposure to sovereign debt and foreign currency liabilities and their post-crisis lending. Second, we build a model characterized by matching frictions in which firms establish (long-term) relationships with banks that are subject to balance sheet disruptions and derive a set of testable implications. Credit relationships with banks more exposed to the crisis suffer the most (independent of the state of the borrower). However, this relationship level effect might overstate the true cost of the crisis. After the shock, firms with investment opportunities (e.g. exporters after a devaluation) might find profitable to switch lenders, reducing the negative impact on overall credit and activity. Finally, we use linked bank-firm data and data aggregated to the firm level to test the predictions of the model. We find evidence largely consistent with our theory.
N26|How local conditions affect global banking: The case of BBVA and Santander|This paper explores why Spanish banks internationalise and why Latin America has been the main region for the international expansion of BBVA and Santander. It shows that prior to 1986 Spanish banks had a limited presence abroad, and analyses the main drivers of this initial expansion (remittances and trade connections). However, from 1986 on, there was a confluence of domestic and external factors (economic and regulatory changes in Latin America) that encouraged the international forays of BBVA and Santander. The fact that changes in the Spanish and the Latin American financial sectors occurred just when other transnational banks were turning their attention to other regions created the optimal conditions for the expansion of Spanish banks in Latin America.
N26|Informational asymmetries and private credit in Lima, Peru, 1825-65|"""This article examines the credit market of Lima, Peru, in 1825-65 and analyzes the effects of information asymmetries on the allocation of credit. Family loans were associated with lower interest rates due to differences in information costs. However, private lenders did not allocate a large portion of loans to their relatives. As the elite was largely known, lenders partly coped with information asymmetries by lending to the elite. Specialists on lending also rose in response to market imperfections. By economizing on screening and monitoring, specialists partly coped with information asymmetries. The evidence also suggests that notaries served as intermediaries and reduced information costs. Nevertheless, private lenders did not fully cope with information asymmetries: high information costs severely restricted interregional lending."""
N26|Flow-of-funds analysis in the Brazilian economy (2004–2014)|This paper is applies the flow-of-funds (FOF) framework proposed by Tsujimura and Mizoshita (2004) to investigate the structure of financial system in the Brazilian economy. The study presents the compilation process of the asset–liability matrix (ALM) and then develops an ALM with six institutional sectors (households, non-financial firms, government, the rest of world, financial firms and the Central Bank of Brazil) for the years 2004 to 2014. From the Brazilian ALM, FOF indexes are calculated (the power of dispersion, the sensitivity of dispersion and the discrepancy of dispersion). For selected years, the structural decomposition of change in the discrepancy index is calculated and an additional expansion presents an ALM with four additional financial firms: three government-sponsored banks—Banco do Brasil, Caixa Econômica Federal, and Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social —and one private bank—Itaú. The role of each institutional sector in the Brazilian financial system is illustrated and the discrepancy of dispersion is highlighted with a good indicator of economic problems showing that the origin of recessions in Brazilian economy was almost in the structure of the financial system.
N26|Repatriando capital sin plata. Redes de paisanaje, comercio de frutos y giro de letras entre Venezuela y España, 1785-1796|This paper offers some evidences about the circulation of capital between Venezuela and Spain at the end of the eighteenth century through the case study of the Spanish merchant Esteban González de Linares (1751-1802). Our sources are private nature: an accounting book and some letters of Esteban González de Linares with Francisco de Gibaja, shipowner and merchant in Santander, and other people (335 letters). These documents show a wide variety of channels to the transfer of capitals from the colony to the metropolis, both at large operations and small deliveries. González de Linares became, during his stay in Caracas (1785-1791), an important agent in the transfer of savings from the colony. The scarcity of silver and gold in Venezuela during this period justifies that the transfer of capital did promote the export of groceries (cocoa, indigo) and the development of financial markets (orders and bills of exchange).
N26|Conquering the market: The expansion strategies of Santander and BBVA in Latin America|Three decades ago, and with very few precedents, Spain's two principal banking corporations began an intense process of expansion throughout Latin America. Not only did they compete with one other in this new market, but they also faced competition from domestic Latin American banks and other foreign banks. This paper analyses the key elements that encouraged these two banks to enter the Latin American market. It assesses their success or failure in each country they entered, and in the subcontinent as a whole. Finally, it examines the different strategies they used to achieve their aims.
N26|Was Colonialism Fiscally Sustainable? An Empirical Examination of the Colonial Finances of Spanish America|This paper examines the long-run fiscal sustainability of the colonial finances of Spanish America. Using econometric tests of intertemporal stability and a macroeconomic budget constraint framework, the analysis revisits how the long-run fiscal dynamics of the colonial treasuries adjusted for inflation changed over time. Findings suggest that in spite of historical breakpoints associated to major financial difficulties during wartime, in general the treasuries achieved sustainable fiscal balances. However, there was a shifting pattern of fiscal sustainability between the treasuries across the colonial period.
N26|An Index of Regulatory Practices for Financial Inclusion in Latin America|The index assesses and compares the quality of regulations that influence financial inclusion in 8 Latin American countries. It defines three categories of regulatory practices: the enablers, which determine the overall quality of the financial environment; the promoters, which deal with specific market frictions; and the preventers which create distortions and barriers.
N26|Un indice de practicas regulatorias para la Inclusion Financiera en America Latina|El indice valora y compara la calidad de las regulaciones que influyen en la inclusion financiera de 8 paises de America Latina. Define tres categorias de practicas regulatorias: los facilitadores, que determinan la calidad del entorno financiero; los promotores, que abordan fallos de mercado especificos; y los obstaculizadores, que crean distorsiones y barreras.
N26|Preparation for a systemic financial crisis in Colombia. Resolution framework, evidence and lessons learned|An effective resolution regimen should reduce moral hazard in the banking industry. Countries with the right tools and monetary resources available should be able to handle a systemic financial crisis without recurring to tax payer’s money and minimizing spillovers on the rest of the economy. The Colombian systemic crisis of the late 1990s is a good example to evaluate the way the authorities of the moment used resolution powers in a time when resources were almost non-existent to deal with banks failures. The Colombian literature about it is large, but all refers to the economic consequences and the issues that were behind the negative growth, the (un)sustainability of public debt and the tightening of private consumption and investment. In this paper, we go deep into the legal and institutional framework and to the tools available to take decisions and to resolve the crisis. We found that the authorities were very creative and resourceful and that they set the foundation for a healthy financial system for years to come. However, the lack of an appropriate level of funding and of some instruments, like bridge bank or P&A, could have made the dealings of the crisis more difficult and the resolution of the crisis took more time.
N26|An Index of Regulatory Practices for Financial Inclusion in Latin America: Enablers, Promoters, and Preventers|This paper constructs an index of regulatory quality for improving financial inclusion for the purpose of assessing and comparing the quality of rules and regulations in a sample of eight Latin American countries. The index comprises 11 regulatory practices classified into three categories: those that determine the overall quality of the financial environment where providers of financial services that meet the needs of the poor operate (the enablers); those that deal with specific types of market frictions and regulate the provision of specific financial products and services (the promoters) to large segments of the population; and those that, albeit unintentionally, create distortions and barriers that adversely affect financial inclusion (the preventers). An important novelty of the index is that the assessment of individual regulatory practices not only takes into account accepted standards, but also recognizes that there are important interactions between regulations for financial inclusion as well as between these regulations and other type of government interventions. Among the countries in the sample, by mid-2017, Peru ranked first in this index, followed closely by Mexico. Chile, Colombia, Paraguay, and Uruguay obtained lukewarm results, although there were wide differences among these countries’ individual results. Argentina and Brazil were the two countries with the lowest overall scores. An additional contribution of the paper is that, throughout the analysis, countries’ specific areas of strengths and weakness in financial regulatory practices for improving financial inclusion are identified.
N26|El origen del mercado laboral colombiano|El presente documento aborda el proceso que dio origen al mercado laboral colombiano en la segunda mitad del siglo XIX. Bajo la hipotesis de una economía dependiente se explica como la producción de bienes vinculados al mercado internacional, en conjunto con las reformas liberales que afectaron, especialmente, las posibilidades de la empresa privada, gestaron las condiciones económicas, políticas y sociales, necesarias para que el surgimiento de la demanda por mano de obra libre se correspondiera con una creciente oferta de fuerza de trabajo. De igual manera se analiza el marco institucional, la estructura de producción y distribución de los productos del auge exportador, y las corrientes de migración interna que caracterizaron este hecho, entre 1850 y 1870.
N26|Auge de las finanzas y desigualdad en la distribución del ingreso. Un estudio desde la perspectiva de la financiarización para Colombia 1980-2008|Este trabajo presenta un análisis de los cambios de las finanzas en Colombia en las últimas cuatro décadas desde un enfoque de la financiarización y la relación de este fenómeno con la desigualdad en la distribución del ingreso. Así, en la primera parte se realiza un acercamiento teórico a las diferentes dimensiones, momentos e interpretaciones de la financiarización mostrando de manera contundente el origen heterodoxo del concepto asociado a dimensiones problemáticas de las finanzas. Posteriormente se analizan las transformaciones del sistema financiero colombiano y de diferentes políticas en una propuesta de perspectiva histórica definiendo y analizando 3 momentos de financiarización para Colombia. El capítulo final reflexiona sobre los vínculos de las finanzas y la desigualdad primero en un enfoque teórico y finalmente con un ejercicio de construcción de índices de Theil y un ejercicio de modelamiento computacional SFC (Stock Flow Consistent) para Colombia con el fin de mostrar algunas relaciones entre la financiarización y la desigualdad en la periferia.
N26|Beresford’s Revenge: British equity holdings in Latin America, 1869-1929|This paper presents monthly capital gain, dividend yield, and total return indices, and measures of total capitalization for common equity of Latin American and Caribbean-based firms quoted on the London Stock Exchange during 1869-1929. In addition to an overall Latin American index, I present and analyze sub-indices for countries (e.g., Argentina, Brazil, Chile) and industrial sectors (e.g., banks, mines, railways) with extensive UK listings. I compare the Latin American and Argentinian indices with data from Argentina’s Bolsa index during 1900-1929. I also use the indices to compare equity market fluctuations across Latin American sectors and countries during the Baring crisis of 1890.
N26|Populism in chile|This article describes the features of Latin American populism, particularly those that characterised this phenomenon in Chile in the twentieth century, under the governments of Carlos Ibáñez del Campo (first term) and Salvador Allende, and in the twenty-first century, during part of the second term of President Michelle Bachelet, addressing the effects of her reforms. The article explains why the period between 1990 and 2014 is considered to have been exempt from populism, and in turn, to have been a historical period in which Chile concurrently faced high economic growth rates, poverty reduction, human development, and social peace
N26|The Performance of VAT in DGD-partner countries|This study presents a case study on the value added-tax (VAT) with the objective to design appropriate policies aiming to improve domestic-resource mobilization in developing countries. Data from 18 DGD-partner countries (past and present) over the 1990-2012 period show that, although the performance of VAT has inproved in recent years, many of these countries can close their resource gap by implementing reforms that improve the efficiency of their VAT system. We present an in-depth analysis on Bolivia to illustrate how such reforms could be designed. Bolivia is also an interesting case since the country was one of the first developing countries to adopt VAT in a context characterized by socio-economic and political challenges. We argue that the credibility of the Bolivian government as well as the institutional design of its tax system were very important for the success of their tax reforms. Moreover, we show that the improvement of both the policy and compliance gaps have contributed to the reduction of Bolivia’s VAT gap in recent years, but improvements in compliance gap are the main deriver.
N26|Redes sociales y sectores subalternos del contrabando terrestre en la frontera inter-imperial, 1780-1810|This text is part of a larger effort on the smuggling phenomenon between the two Iberian empires in the Rí­o de la Plata. Its objective is to better understand a type of illegal inter-imperial trade exchanges in the Rí­o de la Plata during the late colonial period. It is about exchanges made by land (or by rivers and inland lagoons) in the last quarter of the 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century, between the territories on the north shore of the Rí­o de la Plata and what was the Captaincy of Rio Grande do Sul. In these circuits, live animals, leather, textiles, tobacco and slaves were traded. Its economic, political and social importance is widely accepted by regional historiography. This paper presents evidence on the actors involved in these illegal exchanges, with emphasis on the subaltern sectors that formed the last link in the chain of agents involved in smuggling. The same was obtained from 180 judicial files generated in repressive interventions on goods and persons of illegal traffic, in different spaces of the northern band of the Rí­o de la Plata between 1780-1810. The paper uses research techniques of network analysis to characterize the agents involved, as well as their economic, financial and social ties.
N26|Beresford's Revenge: British equity holdings in Latin America, 1869-1929|This paper presents monthly capital gain, dividend yield, and total return indices, and measures of total capitalization for common equity of Latin American and Caribbean-based firms quoted on the London Stock Exchange during 1869-1929. In addition to an overall Latin American index, I present and analyze sub-indices for countries (e.g., Argentina, Brazil, Chile) and industrial sectors (e.g., banks, mines, railways) with extensive UK listings. I compare the Latin American and Argentinian indices with data from Argentina's Bolsa index during 1900-1929. I also use the indices to compare equity market fluctuations across Latin American sectors and countries during the Baring crisis of 1890.
N26|Too late but profitable: Railroads in Colombia during 1920–1950|During the 1920s, the Colombian economy experienced the highest growth rate in its history. The economic reforms of 1923 (central bank, gold standard, banking legislation, fiscal reorganization), a coffee boom, and an unprecedented influx of foreign capital were the driving forces behind this success. The loans obtained by 1929 amounted to 257 million dollars. Those funds were used mainly to build much needed infrastructure, particularly railroads. In this paper, we estimate the rates of return of the investments made in Colombian railroads during the period 1924–1950. We consider that Colombia ended up paying only around 85% of the loans obtained in the 1920s, owing to the suspension of foreign debt payments; as a result, the profitability in the construction of railways was higher. The rates of return on the railroads constructed and extended in the 1920s are comparable to those obtained for European countries in the nineteenth century. KEY Classification-JEL: N26. N76. O16. O18
N26|Usury laws and private credit in Lima, Peru. Evidence from notarized records|I examine the impact of usury laws on the Peruvian credit market between 1825 and 1852. Using a new data set of nearly 2,000 loans from archival sources, I show that the repeal of colonial anti-usury laws in early 1833 had an important effect on the allocation of credit in Lima. It increased interest rates and promoted access to credit. Furthermore, lenders made loans with greater maturities after the repeal of usury laws.
N26|El emisor en Provincia: Presencia del Banco de la Republica en Barranquilla, Cartagena y Santa Marta entre las décadas de 1920 y 1950|En este documento se analiza la incidencia del Banco de la República en las actividades económicas y empresariales del Caribe colombiano entre las décadas de 1920 y 1950. En específico, se estudian los ciclos de la economía local, las crisis bancarias, así como la dinámica demográfica de Barranquilla, Cartagena y Santa Marta. También se tiene como objetivo conocer el sistema financiero local y, dentro de éste, los cupos de crédito y redescuento otorgados a los empresarios por el banco emisor. Además, se analiza la administración fiduciaria ejercida por el Banco de la República sobre los bienes de alemanes, italianos y japoneses radicados en la Costa Caribe durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial. En síntesis, este documento hace un aporte al estudio comparativo de las actividades económicas y empresariales de las tres ciudades más importantes del caribe colombiano, durante el período de estudio.
N26|The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns in Brazil|In a sample of the Brazilian stock market from 1999 to 2015, this paper shows that the book-to-market and momentum of individual firms capture some of the cross-sectional variation in average stock returns, while the market ß and size do not play a role. The positive relation of cross-section of returns with book-to-market is more evident earlier, while the positive relation with momentum is stronger later in the sample. However, because none of these characteristics show explanatory power for all the subsamples studied, we are not fully convinced that they capture fundamental risk factors.
N26|Determinants of Foreign Investment in the Brazilian Stock Market|The purpose of this paper is to identify determinants for foreign portfolio investment in the Brazilian stock market. From the viewpoint of the investors who have already allocated their resources in Brazilian Market, it was found that periods of greater local liquidity and lower correlation with developed markets promoted their activities (buys and sales); the Brazilian country risk (EMBI Br), domestic and external interest rates and recent past performance of the domestic market also showed as significant determinants for additional buys. For net inflows into the local stock market, as robust determinants were found the performance of developed markets and the domestic prime interest rate; the development of BM&F-Bovespa Stock Exchange, crisis environments, the recent Brazilian investment grade and the local diversification (in relation to a developed market) would be particularly relevant to the dynamics of foreign portfolio inflows in Brazil.
N26|Long-run determinants of economic growth in South America|Based on an annual historical database for South American countries from 1960 to 2008, we develop an empirical study to gain insight into the long-run determinants of economic growth using a two-equation framework. A system of two panel data models is estimated to identify the growth determinants and their connection with foreign direct investment. We find that economic growth is driven most strongly by physical and human capital accumulation, as well as by sectorial exports, and that institutions and policy have a substantial impact on economic growth and investment. Macroeconomic disturbances have a significant detrimental effect on long-run growth. Trade openness correlates positively with foreign investment, indicating that relatively closed countries stand to benefit most from opening up their economies. Our division of the sample into two sub-periods, 1960–1980 and 1981–2008, indicates a structural change.
N26|La Danza de los Millones y la Gran Depresión en Colombia, 1923-1931|El periodo de 1923-1931 fue uno de grandes acontecimientos económicos a nivel global, caracterizado por la expansión económica y de crédito posterior a la Primera Guerra Mundial y el inicio de la Gran Depresión. Para el caso particular de Colombia, la creación de instituciones económicas como el Banco de la República, el rápido incremento del endeudamiento externo y el desarrollo de un ambicioso plan de construcción de infraestructura de transporte, así como la desaceleración económica posterior a 1928 marcaron el periodo. Este documento examina los principales eventos económicos en el país durante la época, contrastando el comportamiento de la economía colombiana con el de otras de la región y resaltando el impacto de las fluctuaciones globales sobre el desempeño económico local.
N26|El rol del Banco de la República en la crisis de 1999|En 1999 Colombia sufrió la peor crisis económica desde que se tienen series de crecimiento. El detonante principal fue una reversión en los flujos de capital, pero la crisis fue agravada por desbalances macroeconómicos y fricciones financieras. En un principio el Banco de la República defendió la banda cambiaria. Al avanzar la crisis, empezó a proveer liquidez a la economía por medio de menores encajes cambiarios y una disminución en el corredor de la tasa interbancaria. Finalmente eliminó la banda cambiaria. A pesar de los costos, a raíz de la crisis el Banco de la República hoy en día está más preparado para afrontar situaciones adversas en la economía.
N26|Antecedentes del crédito en Colombia: Los Censos en la ciudad de Santafé en la segunda mitad del siglo XVIII|El presente trabajo estudia cómo operó el crédito eclesiástico durante el periodo colonial en la ciudad de Santafé. Para ello se toma como instrumento de análisis el caso de los censos consignativos redimibles de los principales de capellanías. A diferencia de otros trabajos aquí se revisan las fuentes primarias del Fondo Censos Redimibles del Archivo General de la Nación de Colombia, por lo que se estudia el proceso que involucró el otorgamiento de crédito por parte del Arzobispado de la ciudad. Se demuestra que esta institución creó criterios económicos sobre la decisión de otorgar dineros a préstamo, y que también incidieron las conexiones y redes personales. Se evidencia que el crédito eclesiástico en la ciudad estuvo dirigido a las élites y que pudo ser usado en la compra, mejora e inversión de propiedades rurales y urbanas. En este trabajo se aborda un enfoque comparativo del estudio del funcionamiento del crédito en otras regiones y con otros instrumentos financieros además del censo en el marco de un sistema de crédito colonial. A partir de ello se muestra que en la ciudad coexistieron diversos mercados de crédito y que operaron como mercados segmentados.
N26|Economic shocks and crime: Evidence from the crash of Ponzi schemes|In November 2008, Colombian authorities dismantled a network of Ponzi schemes, making hundreds of thousands of investors lose tens of millions of dollars throughout the country. Using original data on the geographical incidence of the Ponzi schemes, this paper estimates the impact of their breakdown on crime. We find that the crash of Ponzi schemes differentially exacerbated crime in affected districts. Confirming the intuition of the standard economic model of crime, this effect is only present in places with relatively weak judicial and law enforcement institutions, and with little access to consumption smoothing mechanisms such as microcredit. In addition, we show that, with the exception of economically-motivated felonies such as robbery, violent crime is not affected by the negative shock.
N26|El emisor en Provincia: Presencia del Banco de la Republica en Barranquilla, Cartagena y Santa Marta entre las décadas de 1920 y 1950|En este documento se analiza la incidencia del Banco de la República en las actividades económicas y empresariales del Caribe colombiano entre las décadas de 1920 y 1950. En específico, se estudian los ciclos de la economía local, las crisis bancarias, así como la dinámica demográfica de Barranquilla, Cartagena y Santa Marta. También se tiene como objetivo conocer el sistema financiero local y, dentro de éste, los cupos de crédito y redescuento otorgados a los empresarios por el banco emisor. Además, se analiza la administración fiduciaria ejercida por el Banco de la República sobre los bienes de alemanes, italianos y japoneses radicados en la Costa Caribe durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial. En síntesis, este documento hace un aporte al estudio comparativo de las actividades económicas y empresariales de las tres ciudades más importantes del caribe colombiano, durante el período de estudio. ******ABSTRACT: This paper analyzes the incidence of the Banco de la República (Central Bank) in economic and business activities in the Colombian Caribbean between the 1920s and 1950s. Specifically, the cicles of the local economy, the banking crisis and the demographic dynamics of Barranquilla, Cartagena and Santa Marta are studied. It also has the purpose to understand the local financial system and the credit and rediscount quotas granted to entrepreneurs by the issuing bank. Additionally, it analyzes the trusteeship exercised by the Banco de la República over the possessions of the germans, italians and japanese residing in the Colombian Caribbean during the second world war. To sum up, this document contribute to the comparative study of economic and business activities of the three most important cities of the Colombian Caribbean, during this period.
N26|International Currency Exposures, Valuation Effects, and the Global Financial Crisis|"We examine the evolution of international currency exposures, with a particular focus on the 2002-12 period. During the run up to the global financial crisis, there was a widespread shift towards positive net foreign currency positions, such that relatively few countries exhibited the archetypal emerging-market short foreign currency"" position on the eve of the global financial crisis. During the crisis, the upheaval in currency markets generated substantial currency-generated valuation effects - much of which were not reversed. There is some evidence that the distribution of valuation effects was stabilizing in the sense of showing a negative covariation pattern with pre-crisis net foreign asset positions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N26|La Caja de Ahorros: una aproximación a los patrones de ahorro en Bogotá, 1846-1865|La creación de instituciones de ahorro y crédito en Colombia fue indispensable para generar un hábito de ahorro en la población y consolidar un sistema bancario estable durante el siglo XIX. La Caja de Ahorros de Bogotá fue el primer intento por consolidar una mentalidad previsiva en los bogotanos, especialmente en las clases trabajadoras. Este documento presenta una descripción y análisis de la dinámica de la Caja de Ahorros, y de los patrones de ahorro de los diferentes pobladores de la ciudad de acuerdo con su grado de calificación laboral durante la existencia del establecimiento. Para estudiar esto, se realizaron comparaciones entre los diferentes grupos de trabajadores y no trabajadores a través de un análisis estadístico simple y del método clusters; con el fin de mostrar el grado de participación y la dinámica de los diferentes grupos frente al ahorro. El documento concluye que la población económicamente inactiva y la población femenina tuvieron una mayor disposición a ahorrar, seguidos de la clase trabajadora (que era la población objetivo de la entidad). Por último, los trabajadores en oficios con mayor calificación fueron los que registraron menores montos de ahorro.
N26|The Role of Canadian Financial Institutions in the Development of Colombia’s Financial Markets, 1896-1939|Canadian financial institutions played an important role in the development of financial markets within Colombia’s urban centers. Specifically, insurance companies such as Manufacturers Life Insurance Company and Life Assurance Company of Canada were crucial in the expansion of the insurance business across the Caribbean coast, while Royal Bank of Canada contributed to the development of personal banking operations throughout the nation. This paper looks at the experience of Canadian financial companies in Colombia from the late 1800s to the beginning of World War II. It highlights the competitive nature of international financial business and the role of business leaders, policy, and governments in efforts to secure market shares in emerging nations such as Colombia. This historical research also contributes to a better understanding of the bilateral relations between Colombia and Canada, and the ways in which capitalism expanded across the western hemisphere.
N26|La Caja de Ahorros: una aproximación a los patrones de ahorro en Bogotá, 1846-1865|La creación de instituciones de ahorro y crédito en Colombia fue indispensable para generar un hábito de ahorro en la población y consolidar un sistema bancario estable durante el siglo XIX. La Caja de Ahorros de Bogotá fue el primer intento por consolidar una mentalidad previsiva en los bogotanos, especialmente en las clases trabajadoras. Este documento presenta una descripción y análisis de la dinámica de la Caja de Ahorros, y de los patrones de ahorro de los diferentes pobladores de la ciudad de acuerdo con su grado de calificación laboral durante la existencia del establecimiento. Para estudiar esto, se realizaron comparaciones entre los diferentes grupos de trabajadores y no trabajadores a través de un análisis estadístico simple y del método clusters; con el fin de mostrar el grado de participación y la dinámica de los diferentes grupos frente al ahorro. El documento concluye que la población económicamente inactiva y la población femenina tuvieron una mayor disposición a ahorrar, seguidos de la clase trabajadora (que era la población objetivo de la entidad). Por último, los trabajadores en oficios con mayor calificación fueron los que registraron menores montos de ahorro.
N26|Deuda pública interna, patrón metálico y guerras civiles: interconexiones institucionales, la Colombia del siglo XIX|This article analyzes the monetary and institutional impacts of the domestic public debt in 19th century Colombia. It shows the nature of this debt and its evolution so as to ultimately sketch one side of the institutional matrix of that century. The article draws upon the New Economic Institutionalism and it is derived from a broader research where fiscal data and qualitative information were built by using primary sources. It points out the close link between the issuing of debt notes and civil wars, and displays evidence on how this debt structured an impure gold standard. It is found that this debt had impact on the price level and strengthened the persistence of the monetary chaos and civil wars
N26|Consequences of firms'relational financing in the aftermath of the 1995 Mexican banking crisis|This paper shows that, in the aftermath of the 1995 banking crisis, relational financing was a two-edged sword for firms listed on the Mexican Securities Market. On the negative side, only bank-linked firms observed on average a dependence on cash stock to finance their investment projects. On the positive side, the banking connection was important to boost their profit rates during the 1997-2000 period, at least for financially healthy firms. These econometric results are derived from dynamic panel data models of investment and profit rates, which are estimated by the Generalized Method of Moments, where level and difference equations are combined into a system.
N26|Requisitos para la estabilidad fiscal: un balance y la agenda|En este documento se pasa revista a la situación fiscal y la fuente de sus desequilibrios. Se cotejan las necesidades de ahorro primario con las futuras cargas que representan las deudas contingentes provenientes de las garantías públicas y, principalmente, las obligaciones pensionales, equivalentes a gastos adicionales por cerca de 1% del producto interno bruto (PIB) en cada año. La conclusión fundamental es que el país requiere continuar avanzando en sus reformas estructurales de segunda generación, de tal manera que se consolide la meta de superávit primarios del 3% del PIB. Sin embargo, hay menos optimismo sobre sus efectos de disminución rápida del nivel de endeudamiento, debido a la carga que ejercerán estas deudas contingentes. En efecto, el alivio en el esfuerzo fiscal que provee las mejores perspectivas de crecimiento económico (4% anual) y las menores tasas de interés, tenderá a ser compensado por estas mayores cargas no incluidas en la relación deuda pública explícita / PIB
N26|Política monetaria y cambiaria en Colombia: progresos y desafíos (1991-2002)|En este trabajo ilustramos el afinamiento del instrumental monetario y cambiario ocurrido en Colombia durante los años 1999-2002, desde la adopción de la flotación cambiaria y el esquema de “inflación objetivo”. De una parte, enfatizamos la conveniencia de operar con criterios de “rangos en las metas de inflación”, una vez que se han consolidado niveles de un dígito y, de otra parte, señalamos la importancia del uso de instrumentos cambiarios en presencia de turbulencias en los mercados internacionales (a través de las “opciones”-put-call). También analizamos el impacto que tienen las reducciones de las tasas de interés de referencia del Banco de la República sobre los diferentes mercados financieros. La lección fundamental es que la reducción en dichas tasas es importantes para estimular la demanda agregada, cuando quiera que ellas se traducen en caídas en las tasas de interés reales a lo largo de todo el espectro crediticio, especialmente del hipotecario. La efectividad de la política monetaria también se vería apalancada si lograra superarse la llamada dependencia fiscal. Se requiere entonces la adopción de un esquema de “responsabilidad fiscal”, que logre complementar el esquema vigente de “inflación objetivo”.
