N35|Social Mobility in the Long Run: A Temporal Analysis of China from 1300 to 1900|Abstract Does inequality within the family play a significant role in explaining mobility patterns from one generation to the next? This paper exploits temporal changes in mobility over approximately 20 generations and six centuries to shed light on the sources of social mobility. Socioeconomic data on status and links at the individual level come from historical biographies of seven extended families (dynasties as based on the male surname) who lived in one region in China. The analysis documents a trend towards greater social mobility over time. Times of greater inequality between fathers, especially educational inequality, are times of lower social mobility. Moreover, geographic location strengthens the role of inequality for social mobility. Decomposing inequality into between versus within-dynasty components, however, shows that not all inequality is associated with persistence. While inequality between dynasties is conducive to persistence, inequality within the dynasty is associated with higher mobility, and this is true both upward and downward. Furthermore, among members of even closer kin in the dynasty, the positive relationship of inequality and mobility is stronger still. The results are robust to alternative measures of mobility, inequality, and definitions of status.
N35|The growth pattern of British children, 1850-1975|This paper is the first to use individual-level, longitudinal measures of child growth to document changes in the growth pattern in Britain between the 1850s and 1970s. Based on a unique dataset gathered from the records of the training ship Indefatigable, we analyse the mean heights of boys at admission and their longitudinal growth using regressions that control for observable characteristics. We find a secular increase in boys’ mean height over time, and the height gain was most rapid during the interwar period. In addition, longitudinal growth velocity was low and similar at different ages for boys born before the 1910s, suggesting that there was no marked pubertal growth spurt like that which occurs in modern populations. However, for boys born in the 1910s and later, higher growth velocities associated with pubertal growth appeared for boys in a narrow range of ages, 14 to 16. Thus, it appears that there was a substantial change in the growth pattern beginning in the 1910s with the emergence of a strong pubertal growth spurt. The timing of this shift implies that declines in child morbidity and improved hygiene mattered more for the changing growth pattern than improvements in nutrition that occurred before the 1910s.
N35|Economic experiences of Japanese civilian repatriates in Hiroshima prefecture, 1945-1956|After World War II, more than six million people returned to Japan from various parts of the former Japanese empire. Most studies of Japanese postwar repatriation have focused on the repatriation policies of the Allied powers and the Japanese government, the repatriation process between 1945 and 1956, and postwar memories of repatriates. In contrast, the economic experiences of repatriates in the postwar era have yet to be studied. This paper uses a large-scale national survey of repatriates’ postwar lives conducted by the Japanese government in 1956, focussing more specifically on approximately 110,000 civilian repatriates living in Hiroshima prefecture in 1956. The findings of this research contrast with prevailing suggestions that repatriates were totally neglected by the Japanese government and society. Instead, this research demonstrates that in Hiroshima prefecture, repatriates’ postwar job placement was facilitated by employment in agriculture, public sector employment, and the transferable skills possessed by some repatriates. The information from the 1956 government survey shows that approximately 60 per cent of repatriates fell in these categories, while the remaining 40 per cent found employment in new areas or became unemployed. Research on repatriates in other prefectures (Ibaraki, Osaka, and Kanagawa) shows a similar trend. As a result, despite the scale of the repatriation, the settlement was broadly successful. It can be argued that this type of transition helped to bring political and economic stability, which became a foundation of Japan’s postwar economic recovery.
N35|Japan and the Asian Divergence: Market Integration, Climate Anomalies and Famines during the 18th and 19th Centuries|This paper asks whether better integration of rice markets in Japan during the 19th and 20th centuries compared to China and India explains the ‘Little Divergence’ in Asia and Japan’s role in the ‘Great Divergence’. It analyses rice prices for 13 markets across Japan during 1720-1857 and finds that Japan had relatively well-integrated rice markets, particularly western Japan. In eastern Japan market integration was partially impeded by distance to Osaka, which was the core market, and the greater ecological vulnerability of rice in northeast Japan to lower temperatures during the ‘little ice age’ that lasted until the mid-19th century. Relatively well-integrated markets did not prevent major famines during 1732-1733, 1783-1786, and 1833-1838, because stocks and supplies were insufficient to withstand the consequences of sequences of crop failures. Better integration of rice markets is indicative of higher allocative efficiency of markets in Japan which is a likely reason that ‘shrinking’ episodes caused fewer setbacks in long-term economic growth compared to in China and India.
N35|Interpolation of Japan's Household Consumption during World War II|This paper reconstructs a comparable series of Japan's household consumption in the 1940s, using historical records about household outlays and black-market transactions, and interpolating missing values in the existing statistics. Specifically, nominal outlays of urban and farm households are estimated, and then converted into real outlays by effective price indexes containing black-market transactions. Household outlay per capita is then computed by taking the average of urban and farm household outlays using population shares as weights. Real outlay in 1945 is estimated at a little less than 50 percent compared to that in 1940, although statistics are missing for 1945. Even considering alternative estimates using other records, real outlay in 1945 is a little more than 50 percent compared to that in 1940. Thus, it is concluded that Japan's household consumption in 1945 declined to the level in 1875-1880.
N35|Do Pension Benefits Accelerate Cognitive Decline? Evidence from Rural China|Higher life expectancy and rapidly aging populations have led to the introduction of pension programs in developing countries in the last two decades. Using the introduction of a new public policy in China, we estimate the effects of pension benefits on individual cognition, measured by episodic memory and intact mental status, among individuals ages 60 and above. We find large and significant negative effects of the provision of pension benefits on cognitive functioning among the elderly. We find the largest effect of the program on delayed recall, a measure implicated in neurobiological research as an important predictor of the onset of dementia. We show that the program leads to more negative impacts among the female sample. Our findings support the mental retirement hypothesis that decreased mental activity results in atrophy of cognitive skills. We show that retirement plays a significant role in explaining cognitive decline at older ages.
N35|Culture and Colonial Legacy: Evidence from Public Goods Games|We conduct a public goods game in three small towns in the Indian state of Rajasthan. Due to historical military conquest, until 1947 these towns were on (barely) opposite sides of a colonial border separating British India from the Princely States. Our research design offers a treatment comparison between the towns of (British) Kekri and (Princely) Sarwar, and a control comparison between (Princely) Sarwar and (Princely) Shahpura. We find no significant difference in contributions to home town groups, but a significant difference in contributions to mixed town groups. Participants in (British) Kekri are more co-operative (i.e., contribute more) in mixed town groups compared to those in (Princely) Sarwar. We find the differences are driven by individuals with family ties to the towns, and we find no differences in the control comparison. Our results highlight the enduring effects of colonial rule on social norms of co-operation
N35|Economic Shocks and Temple Desecrations in Medieval India|Economic downturns can create conditions for mass uprisings that threaten an authoritarian ruler. Religious authority can provide the ideological force needed to solve the collective action problem that hinders a revolution. When co-option is infeasible, the ruler can respond to economic shocks by suppressing the religious authority of the popular religion. In this paper we provide empirical evidence of this response in medieval India. Using centuries of geo-referenced data we document a positive relationship between weather fluctuations and the destruction of Hindu temples under Muslim rule. Specifically, during periods of large weather fluctuations the likelihood of a Muslim State desecrating a Hindu temple increases by about 1 percentage point (relative to the baseline of 0.7%). We explore various mechanisms that could drive the ruler’s response and show that regime stability is the likely explanation for this relationship. The paper contributes to our understanding of the behaviour of authoritarian regimes in diverse societies.
N35|Culture and Colonial Legacy: Evidence from Public Goods Games|We conduct a public goods game in three small towns in the Indian state of Rajasthan. Due to historical military conquest, until 1947 these towns were on opposite sides of a colonial border separating British India from the Princely States. Our research design offers a treatment comparison between the towns of (British) Kekri and (Princely) Sarwar, and a control comparison between Princely Sarwar and Shahpura. We find that participants from (British) Kekri are more co-operative in mixed-town groups. The differences are driven by individuals with family ties to the towns, highlighting the enduring effects of colonial rule on co-operation norms.
N35|Could/Should Jubilee Debt Cancellations be Reintroduced Today?|In this paper we recall the history of Jubilee debt cancellations, emphasizing what their social purpose was at that time. We note that it would not be possible to copy that procedure exactly nowadays, primarily because most debt/credit relationships are intermediated via financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, etc., rather than by governments or wealthy families directly. But we argue that the underlying social purpose of such Jubilees- to keep debt within the reasonable ability to be paid without social and economic polarisation - could be recreated via alternative mechanisms, and we discuss the politico-economic arguments for, and against, doing so
N35|Disease and child growth in industrialising Japan: Critical windows and the growth pattern, 1917–39|This paper assesses how the disease environment, proxied by infant mortality rates, influenced children's growth in interwar Japan. We use data drawn from government records from 1929 to 1939 which report the mean heights of boys and girls in school at each age (6–18) for each of Japan's 47 prefectures. We focus on two key questions: (1) how important was the disease environment in infancy in shaping the growth pattern of children? and (2) were shocks to child health more salient in the first thousand days of life, often held as a critical window to prevent stunting, or at later ages? We quantify the characteristics of the growth pattern of birth cohorts using the SITAR growth model and then relate the predicted SITAR parameters to infant mortality in the year of birth. In addition, we test for instantaneous effects of morbidity, proxied by infant mortality, on growth at ages 6–11. We find that infant mortality in early life did not have a strong influence on the growth pattern of children, but there were statistically significant and economically meaningful instantaneous effects of infant mortality on child height at ages 6–11 for both boys and girls. This suggests that interventions outside of the thousand-day critical window can be effective and that the secular increase in height in interwar Japan was more strongly influenced by cumulative responses to the health environment across child development rather than simply improvements in early life health.
N35|Sir! I'd Rather Go to School, Sir!|Military service is a popular method of army recruitment for governments of developing countries that are particularly prone to conflict. This study contributes to the largely under-researched issues of military service by looking at an unintended consequence of a military service exemption policy and answering a principal question: is there a fear of conscription among the youth? It uses a discontinuity in the military service law in an under-researched country, Iran, and offers causal evidence that fear of conscription entices young men to get more education against their will. This exogenous increase is used to estimate returns to education.
N35|Biological well-being in late nineteenth-century Philippines|Abstract This paper investigates the biological standard of living in the Philippines toward the end of Spanish rule. We investigate levels, trends, and determinants of physical stature from the birth cohorts of the 1860s to the 1890s using data on 23,000 Filipino soldiers enlisted by the US military between 1901 and 1913. We estimate average heights and use province-level information for investigating the determinants of biological well-being. We find that at 159.3 cm (62.7 inches), the average height of soldiers born in the mid-1870s was very short even for the time. The low biological standard of living observed in late nineteenth-century Philippines was not due to the tropical disease environment alone since greater heights were recorded for the same period in other parts of Asia with a similar climate. The results also indicate a decline of more than 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) in the height of soldiers born between the early 1870s and the late 1880s. This decline occurred at a time when there was an expansion of commercial activity in cash crop production for export. Heights did not regain the level of the 1870s until the late 1930s and early 1940s.
N35|Biological well-being in late nineteenth-century Philippines|This paper investigates the biological standard of living in the Philippines toward the end of Spanish rule. We investigate levels, trends, and determinants of physical stature from the birth cohorts of the 1860s to the 1890s using data on 23,000 Filipino soldiers enlisted by the US military between 1901 and 1913. We estimate average heights and use province-level information for investigating the determinants of biological well-being. We find that at 159.3 cm (62.7 inches), the average height of soldiers born in the mid-1870s was very short even for the time. The low biological standard of living observed in late nineteenth-century Philippines was not due to the tropical disease environment alone since greater heights were recorded for the same period in other parts of Asia with a similar climate. The results also indicate a decline of more than 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) in the height of soldiers born between the early 1870s and the late 1880s. This decline occurred at a time when there was an expansion of commercial activity in cash crop production for export. Heights did not regain the level of the 1870s until the late 1930s and early 1940s.
N35|The Economic Effects of the Abolition of Serfdom: Evidence from the Russian Empire|We document substantial increases in agricultural productivity, industrial output, and peasants' nutrition in Imperial Russia as a result of the abolition of serfdom in 1861. Before the emancipation, provinces where serfs constituted the majority of agricultural laborers lagged behind provinces that primarily relied on free labor. The emancipation led to a significant but partial catch up. Better incentives of peasants resulting from the cessation of ratchet effect were a likely mechanism behind a relatively fast positive effect of reform on agricultural productivity. The land reform, which instituted communal land tenure after the emancipation, diminished growth in productivity in repartition communes.
N35|Japan and the great divergence, 730–1874|Despite being the first Asian economy to achieve modern economic growth, Japan has received relatively little attention in the Great Divergence debate. New estimates suggest that although the level of GDP per capita remained below the level of northwest Europe throughout the period 730–1874, Japan experienced positive trend growth before 1868, in contrast to the negative trend growth experienced in China and India, leading to a Little Divergence within Asia. However, growth in Japan remained slower than in northwest Europe so that Japan continued to fall behind until after the institutional reforms of the early Meiji period. The Great Divergence thus occurred as the most dynamic part of Asia fell behind the most dynamic part of Europe.
N35|Top Incomes and Inequality Measurement: A Comparative Analysis of Correction Methods Using the EU SILC Data|It is sometimes observed and frequently assumed that top incomes in household surveys worldwide are poorly measured and that this problem biases the measurement of income inequality. This paper tests this assumption and compares the performance of reweighting and replacing methods designed to correct inequality measures for top-income biases generated by data issues such as unit or item non-response. Results for the European Union’s Statistics on Income and Living Conditions survey indicate that survey response probabilities are negatively associated with income and bias the measurement of inequality downward. Correcting for this bias with reweighting , the Gini coefficient for Europe is revised upwards by 3.7 percentage points. Similar results are reached with replacing of top incomes using values from the Pareto distribution when the cut point for the analysis is below the 95th percentile. For higher cut points, results with replacing are inconsistent suggesting that popular parametric distributions do not mimic real data well at the very top of the income distribution.
N35|High-Value Work and the Rise of Women: The Cotton Revolution and Gender Equality in China|This paper studies a unique historical experiment: the cotton revolution and its impact on the emergence of gender-equitable beliefs. The cotton revolution led to a prolonged phase (1300-1840 AD) of high productivity for women. I hypothesize that a substantial, long-standing increase in relative female income eroded a highly resilient cultural belief: women are less capable than men. I examine a period when economic gains from the cotton revolution faded. Using variation across 1,489 counties in cotton spinning and weaving, I find that the cotton revolution reduces sex selection. This result is supported by survey evidence on gender equitable beliefs. I instrument cotton weaving with the range of relative humidity within which cotton yarn can be smoothly woven into cloth. I document an initial impact of the cotton revolution on widow suicides. To isolate the cultural channel, I examine the effects of the cotton revolution under post-1949 state socialism, where both genders had similar economic opportunities, political and legal rights, and show that pre-1840 cotton weaving predicts a higher probability for the wife to head the household. I document the distinctive role of high-value work in the perception of women. Low-value work performed by women, such as cotton cultivation, does not correct prenatal sex selection.
N35|The influencing factors of turnover on nurses in private hospitals in Binjai city, Indonesia|In Indonesia, turnover in hospital employees often occurs in private hospitals. Some private hospitals in Binjai city, find some obstacles in human resources because the turnover rate on nurses is quite high. Almost all hospitals have an average turnover rate above 10% every year and it is increasing. Basically, there are no hospitals can avoid the turnover, however, if the high turnover rate is immediately declined, it is feared to be able to interrupt the service to patients, and becomes a problem for the hospital as a whole. The purpose of this study is to determine the influencing factors of turnover on nurses at Private Hospitals in Binjai City, Indonesia. This research is categorized as Correlational Research. The population of this research was the nurses who have made a turnover and are working in private hospitals in Binjai City. There were 60 respondents taken as the sample of research. The data were analyzed using multiple linear regression test. The results showed that there are simultaneously and significant effect on the following variables; job satisfaction; working environment has positive and significant effect; organizational commitment has positive and significant effect on turnover on nurses in private hospital nurses in Binjai city. Based on these results, the most influencing factor on turnover on nurses is job satisfaction.
N35|The Past and the Future of Employee Voice: Shenzhen's High Technology Industry|Can a nation's technology future be linked to its past? This article discusses employee voice, as defined in terms of discretionary and constructive behaviour that challenge the status quo, within the innovative, fast growing high technology industry in China. It provides insight into factors shaping employee voice in this under-researched knowledge-intensive sector of China that has emerged rapidly since the economic reform. It suggests the notion of employee voice among the highly skilled knowledge workforce can only be understood in terms of technological convergence and cultural divergence.
N35|L’Indochine française du XXIe-XXe siècle – politique et religions|La colonisation suivie du règne communiste a laissé sa marque sur l’ancienne Indochine française, constituée des trois pays Vietnam, Laos et Cambodge. Cet article vise à analyser la relation étroite entre des bouleversements politiques de la fin XIXe-début XXe siècle et l’évolution des institutions religieuses en Indochine, pour conclure sur l’interaction et l’influence réciproque entre politique et religieux.
N35|Health care spending and hidden poverty in India|India has a high level of out-of-pocket (OOP) health care spending, and lacks well developed health insurance markets. As a result, official measures of poverty and inequality that treat medical spending symmetrically with consumption goods can be misleading. We argue that OOP medical costs should be treated as necessary expenses for the treatment of illness, not as part of consumption. Adopting this perspective, we construct poverty and inequality measures for India that account for impoverishment induced by OOP medical costs. For 2011/12 we estimate that 4.1% of the population, or 50 million people, are in a state of “hidden poverty” due to medical expenses (based on official poverty lines). Furthermore, while poverty in India fell substantially from 1999/00 to 2011/12, the fraction of the remaining poverty that is due to medical costs has risen substantially. Economic growth appears less “pro-poor” if one accounts for OOP medical costs, especially since 2004/05, and especially in rural areas. Finally, we look beyond poverty rates to show how OOP health costs affect the entire shape of the consumption distribution.
N35|"Are China's ""Leftover Women"" Really Leftover? An Investigation of Marriage Market Penalties in Modern-day China"|"A recent trend in Korea and Japan sees college-graduate women marrying later and at lower rates than less-educated women. In China, ""leftover women"" have also become a top policy concern. This paper finds however that China's higher-educated urban women attain marital outcomes more like those in the US than in the other Asian Tiger countries, marrying later, but ultimately at comparable rates to less-educated women. For 1990-2009, we quantify marriage quality using the classic Choo-Siow (2006) estimator and find large returns to marrying later but minimal direct higher education effects. Using the Choo (2015) dynamic estimator, we project future marriage rates to remain stable among the higher educated and to decline for lower-educated women."
N35|Arrival of Young Talents: The Send-down Movement and Rural Education in China|"This paper studies human-capital spillovers and its persistence by exploiting a unique event in modern China|the send-down movement. From 1962 to 1979, the Chinese central government mandated the temporary resettlement of roughly 18 million urban youths to rural areas across the country. The movement's coercive features, together with strict restrictions on migration during that period, provide an ideal natural experiment to identify the causal impact of the better-educated sent-down youths (SDYs) on the less-educated local rural residents. Using a county-level dataset compiled from over 3,000 book-length local gazetteers and microlevel population censuses, we find that a greater exposure to SDYs significantly increased local residents' educational achievement. Our estimate shows that the unintended gain of rural education almost compensated the loss in urban China due to the educational disruption during the Cultural Revolution. The positive effect gradually declined as SDYs started to return to their urban homes in the late 1970s, but it never dropped to zero, indicating the persistence of human-capital spillovers. We also find suggestive evidence that the arrival of young talents reshapes the attitudes of local residents toward education."
N35|Could/should Jubilee debt cancellations be reintroduced today?|In this paper the authors recall the history of Jubilee debt cancellations, emphasizing what their social purpose was at that time. They note that it would not be possible to copy that procedure exactly nowadays, primarily because most debt/credit relationships are intermediated via financial institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, etc., rather than by governments or wealthy families directly. But the authors argue that the underlying social purpose of such Jubilees - to keep debt within the reasonable ability to be paid without social and economic polarisation - could be recreated via alternative mechanisms, and they discuss the politico-economic arguments for, and against, doing so.
N35|Non-financial hurdles for human capital accumulation: landownership in Korea under Japanese rule|Abstract This study examined the relationship between land inequality and human capital accumulation in the Korean colonial period by using a panel data set from 1934 to 1942. Evidence of the adverse relationship between land inequality and the accumulation of human capital has thus far only been presented by using data from Western countries and from countries that achieved industrialization not under colonial occupation but by their own economic interest. The presented findings thus contribute to the body of knowledge on this topic and confirm the generalizability of the Galor model by analyzing the unique Korean context under Japanese rule in the early twentieth century. It is the first study to present evidence that inequality in landownership had an adverse effect on the level of public education in the Korean colonial period (i.e., it is a non-financial hurdle for human capital accumulation). By using a fixed effects model and a fixed effects two-stage least squares model with an instrumental variable estimation, this study exploits variation in inequality in land concentration across regions in Korea, accounting for the unobserved heterogeneity across these regions. Overall, this analysis establishes a highly significant adverse effect of land inequality on education in the Korean colonial period.
N35|Non-financial hurdles for human capital accumulation: landownership in Korea under Japanese rule|This study examined the relationship between land inequality and human capital accumulation in the Korean colonial period by using a panel data set from 1934 to 1942. Evidence of the adverse relationship between land inequality and the accumulation of human capital has thus far only been presented by using data from Western countries and from countries that achieved industrialization not under colonial occupation but by their own economic interest. The presented findings thus contribute to the body of knowledge on this topic and confirm the generalizability of the Galor model by analyzing the unique Korean context under Japanese rule in the early twentieth century. It is the first study to present evidence that inequality in landownership had an adverse effect on the level of public education in the Korean colonial period (i.e., it is a non-financial hurdle for human capital accumulation). By using a fixed effects model and a fixed effects two-stage least squares model with an instrumental variable estimation, this study exploits variation in inequality in land concentration across regions in Korea, accounting for the unobserved heterogeneity across these regions. Overall, this analysis establishes a highly significant adverse effect of land inequality on education in the Korean colonial period.
N35|Historia Global vs. Eurocentrismo: revisión historiográfica, análisis de consumo y un caso de estudio comparativo entre China y Europa (1730-1808)|This paper focuses on the impact of the discipline of Global History in recent decades, paying particular attention to studies on consumption and circulation of new goods in European and Asian markets. The main objective of this article is, therefore, to present a historiographical review on the impact of Global History, in which it can be observed that, in the case of studies on consumption, in particular, has had an obvious Eurocentric focus. The analysis of the British world, and its colonies, as engine of the first industrialisation, has been one of the main causes that have led towards such Eurocentric focus. This approach began to change with the growing interest in the study of China and its role in the world economy. Thus, this essay presents a historiographical review of both spaces, concluding with a comparative case study between Macau and Marseille as trans-national ports. This project is in its preliminary phases; therefore, it is only showing the principal lines. KEY Classification-JEL: B41. N20. N33. N35
N35|Holy Wars? Temple desecrations in Medieval India|We construct a unique geocoded dataset on temples, dynasties and battles in medieval India and propose a test to identify the motive for observed temple desecrations in that period. We test two competing historical narratives of temple desecrations. The first focuses on the idea of iconoclasm, i.e. destruction of religious sites and imagery deemed heretical, as embedded in Islamic theology. The second suggests that desecrations were driven by political considerations and hence occurred mainly during military battles. We use a novel instrument of Muslim ruler assassinations to address the potential endogeneity in our battles related variable. The results show that Muslim states did not desecrate temples because they were there, but only during the course of battle, probably to diminish the authority of the rival Hindu state. The battle events are crucial, the probability of temple desecration increases by over 30% when the Hindu-Muslim battle outcome is in favour of a Muslim state. Whether a temple was within the territory of a Muslim state does not impact the likelihood of its desecration. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that political tactics were the main stimulus of temple desecrations by medieval Muslim states.
N35|China, Europe, and the Great Divergence: A Study in Historical National Accounting, 980–1850|Chinese GDP per capita fluctuated at a high level during the Northern Song and Ming dynasties before trending downwards during the Qing dynasty. China led the world in living standards during the Northern Song dynasty, but had fallen behind Italy by 1300. At this stage, it is possible that parts of China were still on a par with the richest parts of Europe, but by 1750 the gap was too large to be bridged by regional variation within China and the Great Divergence had already begun before the Industrial Revolution<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|The domestic welfare loss of Syrian Civil War: An equivalent income approach|This paper uses an equivalent income approach to quantify the domestic welfare loss due to the Syrian Civil War. Focusing on the (income, life expectancy) space, we show that the equivalent income has fallen by about 60 % in comparison to the pre-conflict level. We also find that the differential between the equivalent income and the standard income for 2016 lies between $75 and $144. Although this low willingness to pay for coming back to pre-conflict survival conditions can be explained by extreme poverty due to the War, the small gap between standard and equivalent incomes tends to question the extra value brought by the latter for the measurement of standards of living in situations of severe poverty. We examine some solutions to that puzzle, including a more general specification of the utility function, the shift from an ex ante approach (valuing changes in life expectancy) to an ex post approach (valuing changes in distributions of realized longevities), as well as considering population ethical aspects. None of those solutions is fully successful in solving the puzzle.
N35|Income concentration in British India, 1885–1946|We use a novel income tax data set to present evidence on the evolution of income concentration in the last 60 years of colonial rule in India. These data allow us to study the evolution of income concentration at the country level as well as the location of top income earners across provinces. We identify three key facts: (1) the evolution of income concentration in British India was nonlinear, following a U-shape, (2) the majority of top income earners were non-Europeans, and (3) the geographical location of top income earners changed over time with the province of Bombay gaining in importance in the early XXth century. We provide an interpretation of these results in the light of the economic and political changes in British India over the period.
N35|Philippine Inequality across the Twentieth Century: Slim Evidence but Fat Questions|In spite of persistent debates about income inequality and pro-poor policy in the Philippines, its history over the past century has been ignored, at least by economists. This is surprising given that the Philippines already had its first Census in 1903, long before its neighbors, augmented by other relevant evidence embedded in official documents generated by the American insular government. It is also surprising given that we know that income distributions change only very slowly and must be examined over the long run to identify its drivers. This essay reviews the (thin) historical evidence and proposes explanations. There is no Kuznets Curve, and no Marxian, Pikettian or other grand endogenous inequality theory at work, but there are dramatic episodes of change. It appears that there was an inequality rise up to World War 1, a fall between the World Wars, a rise to high levels by the 1950s, and an almost certain rise up to the end of the century which, due to mismeasurement, looks instead like stasis . We need to collect better evidence to confirm these narratives and to assess competing hypotheses.
N35|The biological standard of living in pre-modern Korea: Determinants of height of militia recruits during the Chosŏn dynasty|This paper extends the research on the biological standard of living in the Korean peninsula back to pre-modern times. Drawing on militia rosters of the Chosŏn Dynasty from the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries, we tentatively conclude that the final height of Korean men during this period was 166cm and thus slightly above that of modern North Korean men (165cm). On the other hand, the average height of modern South Korean men is 172cm, 6cm more than what we tentatively estimate for pre-modern Korean men. Regression analysis of the height of pre-modern Korean men finds that un-free Koreans (“slaves”) were significantly shorter by about 0.6–0.7cm than commoners, whereas the average height of recruits suffering from smallpox did not differ significantly from that of other recruits. Moreover, regional, as opposed to birth-dummy, variables account, and to a significant degree, for most of the differences in height. Whether or not this is a result of socioeconomic differences across provinces or a result of other regionally-varying factors remains an open question.
N35|Teaching to the tests: An economic analysis of traditional and modern education in late imperial and republican China|A traditional education system, based on the Confucian classics, was a pillar of imperial China's social structure for centuries, preparing elites for a series of highly competitive exams conferring gentry status and civil service positions. Reformers in late imperial China called for the modernization of educational institutions, seeing in Western education the skills necessary to develop China's economy. In the late 19th century, the traditional education system was joined by a “modern”, Western track, which offered teaching in science, math, social science, law, and engineering. In this paper, early 20th century employee records from the Tianjin-Pukou Railroad are analyzed to identify differences in labor market outcomes associated with study in the traditional and modern educational systems. The employee records reveal that modern and traditional education were both associated with wage premiums, but that these were significantly larger for individuals trained at high levels in the modern system, especially those trained in engineering. Individuals trained in the traditional system worked disproportionately in the clerical department of the railroad, while those with modern education were more often in managerial and technical roles. Qualitative and quantitative evidence suggests that these results are not driven by sorting into educational institutions according to ability. These findings indicate that beyond years of schooling, the content of schooling can play an important role in the process of economic development.
N35|Teaching to the tests: an economic analysis of traditional and modern education in late imperial and republican China|A traditional education system, based on the Confucian classics, was a pillar of imperial China's social structure for centuries, preparing elites for a series of highly competitive exams conferring gentry status and civil service positions. Reformers in late imperial China called for the modernization of educational institutions, seeing in Western education the skills necessary to develop China's economy. In the late 19th century, the traditional education system was joined by a “modern”, Western track, which offered teaching in science, math, social science, law, and engineering. In this paper, early 20th century employee records from the Tianjin-Pukou Railroad are analyzed to identify differences in labor market outcomes associated with study in the traditional and modern educational systems. The employee records reveal that modern and traditional education were both associated with wage premiums, but that these were significantly larger for individuals trained at high levels in the modern system, especially those trained in engineering. Individuals trained in the traditional system worked disproportionately in the clerical department of the railroad, while those with modern education were more often in managerial and technical roles. Qualitative and quantitative evidence suggests that these results are not driven by sorting into educational institutions according to ability. These findings indicate that beyond years of schooling, the content of schooling can play an important role in the process of economic development.
N35|Disease and child growth in industrialising Japan: assessing instantaneous changes in growth and changes in the growth pattern, 1911-39|This paper assesses how the disease environment in interwar Japan influenced children’s growth and health. The data is drawn from government records from 1929 to 1939 which report the average heights of boys and girls in school at each age (6-21) for each of Japan’s 47 prefectures. We test the influence of disease in two ways. First, we test the influence of the disease environment at birth, proxied by the infant mortality rate, on the cohort growth pattern of children using the SITAR model to parameterise the growth pattern. In addition, we use a bilateral-specific fixed effects model to understand how disease instantaneously influenced growth controlling for prefecture-birth cohort effects. Our results suggest that health conditions in early life did not have a strong influence on the growth pattern of children in Japan. However, we do find a significant and economically meaningful instantaneous effect of the infant mortality rate on child height at ages 6-11 for both boys and girls. This suggests that child morbidity was very important to the increase in stature during interwar Japan, but it also suggests that the emphasis placed on preventing child stunting in the first thousand days in the modern development literature may be misplaced. The secular increase in height in interwar Japan was more strongly influenced by cumulative responses to the health environment across child development rather than being simply the outcome of improving cohort health.
N35|Impact of Psychological Needs on Luxury Consumption|This paper examines the impact of psychological needs on luxury consumption. Veblen’s Theory of the Leisure Class (1899) invented the term “conspicuous consumption” to describe luxury goods and services, in which Veblen indicated the purpose of luxury consumption was to display wealth and social status. This paper integrates the following two papers: (1) Han and Zhou (2002), who proposed an integrative model, and argued that three variables, namely Country-of-Origin, Brand Name, and Price, were major predictors for overall product evaluation and purchase intentions; and (2) Han, Nunes and Dreze (2010), who proposed a taxonomy called The Luxury 4Ps, to explain the inductive and deductive psychological needs of luxury consumption.
N35|The Impact of Early Marriage on Women’s Employment in the Middle East and North Africa|Marriage is a central stage in the transition to adulthood in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). This paper builds on the existing literature on the effect of marriage on women’s employment in MENA. Besides examining how different types of work are affected by early marriage (defined as marriage by the median age of marriage) in a multivariate setting, the contribution of this paper is to endogenize the marriage decision using an instrumental variable approach. We find that marriage by the median age reduces the probability of working for women by 47 percent in Jordan, 33 percent in Tunisia and 16 percent in Egypt. Much of the effect is due to a reduction in the probability of private wage work, which is reduced by 76 percent in Jordan, 57 percent in Tunisia and 40 percent in Egypt. Differences emerge across the three countries in the extent to which self-employment after marriage is available to women to compensate for the reduction in wage employment opportunities.
N35|The Arab Spring and the Employability of Youth: Early evidence from Egypt|This paper investigates the school-to-work transition of young people from subsequent graduation cohorts between 2005 and 2012 in Egypt. The analysis compares the early employment outcomes of those who left school after the January 25th 2011 revolution to that of those who graduated before 2011. Using recent data from the 2014 Survey of Young People in Egypt (SYPE), we estimate the probability of transition to any first job within 18-month of finishing education and that of transitioning to a good quality job, controlling for the year of end of schooling. Preliminary findings show that while transitioning to a first job seemed not to be affected by the event of the 2011 revolution, young people experienced significantly lower chances to transition to good quality jobs.
N35|East Asian Financial and Economic Development|Japan, an isolated, backward country in the 1860s, industrialized rapidly to become a major industrial power by the 1930s. South Korea, among the world’s poorest countries in the 1960s, joined the ranks of First World economies in little over a single generation. China now seems poised to follow a similar trajectory. All three cases highlight the importance of marginalized traditional elites, intensive early investment in education, a degree of economic openness, free markets, equity financing, early-stage coordination of firms in diverse industries via arrangements such as business groups, and political institutions capable of curbing the power of families grown wealthy in early-stage rapid development to make way for prosperity sustained by efficient resource allocation to high-productivity firms.
N35|The domestic welfare loss of Syrian civil war: an equivalent income approach|This paper uses an equivalent income approach to quantify the domestic welfare loss due to the Syrian Civil War. Focusing on the (income, life expectancy) space, we show that the equivalent income has fallen by about 60 % in comparison to the pre-confl ic
N35|Revenue Nodes in South India and Central Java|Studies of relations binding ruled and ruler over the form and content of revenue assessment during the colonial era are not lacking. Rather, the intellectual challenge lies in ascertaining the degree to which the relevant economic institutions of the subjected regions in southern Asia constituted continuity of tradition, modifications thereof, or completely alien constructs. Meeting that challenge is hindered by inequality of information revealing ‘before’ and ‘after’ conditions; an embarrassment of riches in information on the latter contrasts to poverty of the former. The present paper aims at least partially filling that gap by ascertaining in comparative perspective the basis of the revenue assessment systems prevailing in South India (Karnataka) and Central Java (Yogyakarta) during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. What makes such an undertaking not only desirable from a scholarly point of view but also possible in practice is the near unique finds of virtually untapped original source materials deriving from the respective institutions’ function.
N35|Geopolitics and Asia’s little divergence: State building in China and Japan after 1850|We provide a new framework to account for the diverging paths of political development in China and Japan during the late nineteenth century. The arrival of Western powers not only brought opportunities to adopt new technologies, but also fundamentally threatened the sovereignty of both countries. These threats and opportunities produce an unambiguous impetus toward centralization and modernization for small states, but place conflicting demands on larger states. We use our theory to study why China, which had been centralized for much of its history, experienced gradual disintegration upon the Western arrival, and how Japan rapidly unified and modernized.
N35|日本は「格差社会」になったのか : 比較経済史にみる日本の所得格差|日本国内では格差の問題が社会的関心を集め、日本はもはや「一億総中流社会」ではなく「格差社会」であるという認識が浸透しつつある。本論分では、比較経済史の視座から日本における所得格差の長期的変遷を俯瞰し、日本は本当に「格差社会」になったのかを検証する。高度成長期に「格差なき成長」を遂げたわが国は1980年代には国際的にみても平等度の高い社会を実現した。この「日本型平等社会」の特質は再配分前の所得における世帯を単位とする平等にあり、企業による正社員への人的資本投資と雇用保障、男性正社員を世帯主とする標準世帯、夫婦による性別役割分業、および非稼得者への私的扶助を前提としていた。しかし、1980年代以降の急速な少子高齢化と世帯構造の多様化、さらに1990年以降の長期不況はこれらの前提を大きく揺るがし、既存の制度に包摂されない社会の構成員を増大させることになった。日本における格差社会の特徴は富裕層の富裕化を伴わない「低所得層の貧困化」にあり、世界の趨勢とは一線を画している。日本の直面する真の課題は貧困化と革新力の低迷であり、世帯よりも個人を、同質性よりも多様性を尊重する新たな制度を構築しなければならない。
N35|日本は「格差社会」になったのか : 比較経済史にみる日本の所得格差|日本国内では格差の問題が社会的関心を集め、日本はもはや「一億総中流社会」ではなく「格差社会」であるという認識が浸透しつつある。本論分では、比較経済史の視座から日本における所得格差の長期的変遷を俯瞰し、日本は本当に「格差社会」になったのかを検証する。高度成長期に「格差なき成長」を遂げたわが国は1980年代には国際的にみても平等度の高い社会を実現した。この「日本型平等社会」の特質は再配分前の所得における世帯を単位とする平等にあり、企業による正社員への人的資本投資と雇用保障、男性正社員を世帯主とする標準世帯、夫婦による性別役割分業、および非稼得者への私的扶助を前提としていた。しかし、1980年代以降の急速な少子高齢化と世帯構造の多様化、さらに1990年以降の長期不況はこれらの前提を大きく揺るがし、既存の制度に包摂されない社会の構成員を増大させることになった。日本における格差社会の特徴は富裕層の富裕化を伴わない「低所得層の貧困化」にあり、世界の趨勢とは一線を画している。日本の直面する真の課題は貧困化と革新力の低迷であり、世帯よりも個人を、同質性よりも多様性を尊重する新たな制度を構築しなければならない。
N35|The impact of top incomes biases on the measurement of inequality in the United States|The paper re-estimates the Gini inequality index for the United States using the Current Population Survey between 1979 and 2014 and two alternative correction methods for top income biases. Top incomes in household surveys are affected by a variety of biases related to survey design, income measurement and post-survey data adjustments. The paper corrects for selected biases using a stochastic approach based on reweighting and a semi-parametric approach based on replacing observations. Both methodologies show that income inequality in the United States has been consistently underestimated during the period considered. The level of underestimation is up to 6.83 percentage points depending on the year considered, choice of correction method and choice of modalities within methods. The degree of underestimation is positively and significantly associated with mean income, non-response rates, the initial level of inequality and the degree of departure of the top incomes distribution from a Pareto distribution.
N35|The Effects of Lifetime Work Experience on Incidence and Severity of Elderly Poverty in Korea|This study investigates the characteristics that contribute to elderly poverty, mainly focusing on individuals' lifetime work experience. It adopts the heterogeneous relative poverty line which differs by gender, province of residence and over time. It calculates the work experience and obtains demographic variables using the Korean Labor and Income Panel Study's survey data for 2006, 2009, 2012 and 2015. The objective is to estimate poverty amongst elderly and explain its variations in relation to individual characteristics and lifetime work experience. Poverty is measured as the head count, poverty gap and the poverty severity indices. The poverty measures are based on the monetary dimensions of well-being namely income and consumption. The methodology used in this study is the logit model to explain incidence of poverty and the sample selection model to analyze the depth and severity of poverty. The results show evidence of a significant selection bias in all the poverty models based on income, but not on the consumption. In both income and consumption models increase in the total work years lessens the incidence of poverty and a decrease in the gap years downsizes the probability of being poor. High-income occupation and labor market participation greatly decrease the incidence of poverty. Most of the work relevant variables become insignificant in the poverty gap and severity models of consumption while both work years and gap years are significant in the income model. The number of jobs representing turnover rate significantly increases the probability of being impoverished only in the consumption model.
N35|Development of off-farm employment and its determinants in rural China|This study investigates the long-term trends of labor allocation in rural households of China from the late 1980s until the mid-2010s, and examines the determinants of their off-farm employment in 2002 and 2013 using the nationally representative household survey (CHIP). The estimated results indicate that working status of whether a person is employed showed the coefficients on age and education have an inverse-U-shaped relationship with employment probability for both years. The estimated results of the Tobit model of off-farm workdays as a percentage share of total workdays show that female labor was more strongly influenced by household characteristics and political networks than male labor in 2002, but no clear gender gaps were observed in 2013. This appears mainly due to the relative scarcity of off-farm employment in the early 2000s; therefore, women tended to take charge of domestic work such as child care and agricultural production. With the increase of off-farm work and the liberalization of grain marketing, the division of labor between genders has become less apparent.
N35|Theravada Buddhism and Thai Luxury Fashion Consumption|This paper reviews the Thai national character according to Hofstede’s (1991, 2001, 2017) cultural dimension theory and Komin’s (1991) nine values cluster (Psychology of the Thai people), analyses the social hierarchy of Thai consumers according to the Luxury 4P Taxonomy (Han et al., 2010), integrates the Theory of Cultural Capital (Bourdieu, 1984, 1986), and expounds the features of social class. The global luxury fashion industry has grown significantly in recent years, but much of the research has been limited to conspicuous consumption and social identity. This paper involves religious beliefs that are argued to influence luxury purchasing motives. The purpose of the paper is to develop an analytical framework to aid in understanding luxury fashion consumption in a Buddhist country such as Thailand in order to inform luxury products vendors on how to improve their marketing strategies.
N35|Different Faces of Inequality across Asia: Decomposition of Income Gaps across Demographic Groups|Economic inequality across Asia has been growing, but dimensions of this inequality and their development are unclear. This paper evaluates income inequality using household surveys from China, India, Japan, Korea, Russia and Taiwan. These countries may be viewed as jointly representative of Asia’s population, covering countries with various income levels, inequality and demographic profiles. This study assesses income gaps between various demographic groups in regard to households’ residence, administrative region, education, employment status and gender at various income quantiles, using unconditional quantile regressions. Gaps are decomposed into parts due to differentials in household endowments and due to differentials in returns to endowments. Rural/urban income gaps are evident across all evaluated countries, particularly in China, India and Russia, but have been falling in Russia and Taiwan. Inequality between disadvantaged and advantaged regions is high in China and India, followed by Taiwan. This gap stagnated in Taiwan and further deepened in Russia.
N35|Multidimensional poverty in the Philippines, 2004-13 : do choices for weighting, identification and aggregation matter ?|"Multidimensional poverty comparisons can be sensitive to the choice of welfare indicators, the weights assigned to the indicators, as well as the aggregate poverty measure used. This paper examines the robustness of trends in multidimensional poverty in the Philippines to these choices by presenting estimates for three alternative weighting schemes and three measures of multidimensional poverty. The weighting schemes range from uniform weights similar to those used in the global multidimensional poverty indexes produced by the United Nations Development Programme, to weights based on inverse incidence of different deprivations and those derived from the estimated relationship of deprivations to a survey-based measure of subjective welfare. The multidimensional poverty measures similarly range from the""dual cut-off""indexes analogous to the United Nations Development Programme's global Multidimensional Poverty Index, to ?union-based? indexes that count all deprivations, to indexes that are also responsive to the distribution of deprivations. Using data for 2004-13, the paper finds evidence of a significant decline in multidimensional poverty that is robust to these alternatives, although the magnitude of the decline in, and especially the dimensional contributions to, aggregate multidimensional poverty are quite sensitive to the alternatives considered."
N35|East Asian Financial and Economic Development|Japan, an isolated, backward country in the 1860s, industrialized rapidly to become a major industrial power by the 1930s. South Korea, among the worldâ€™s poorest countries in the 1960s,joined the ranks of First World economies in little over a single generation. China now seems poised to follow a similar trajectory. All three cases highlight the importance of marginalized traditional elites, intensive early investment in education, a degree of economic openness, free markets, equity financing, early-stage coordination of firms in diverse industries via arrangements such as business groups, and political institutions capable of curbing the power of families grown wealthy in early-stage rapid development to make way for prosperity sustained by efficient resource allocation to high-productivity firms.
N35|Inequality and Procedural Fairness in a Money Burning and Stealing Experiment|This paper presents the results of an experiment where an unequal wealth distribution was created and then subjects could act to change this wealth distribution. Subjects received money by betting and possibly by arbitrary (undeserved) gifts; they could then pay to reduce, redistribute and, in half of the sessions, steal money from others. The experimental results are incompatible with some standard models of interdependent preferences. Over 80% of redistributors were rank egalitarian, but how subjects perceived the problem significantly affected their redistribution activity: perceptions of fairness were not simply a matter of relative payoff, and changed according to whether a subject was undeservedly advantaged or otherwise.
N35|Manipulating the Constraints: hard debt, efficiency wages, and union rents|Several papers have argued that firms can hide profits from unions with hard debt commitments. Alternatively, here we argue that unions can manipulate the non-shirking constraint and win higher efficiency wages. By creating a culture of mistrust and an opposition to supervision ex ante, unions can ensure higher wages ex post. This resistance to monitoring, nevertheless, leads to deadweight losses. In the absence of debt, it is shown that a sufficiently strong union will opt to minimise monitoring costs because the non-shirking constraint will no longer bind.
N35|Economic philosophy of al-Mawardi: Review of economic behaviour in Islamic economic|Economic behaviour in the study of Islamic economics is the basis for the government to portray political ethics and ethical economic functions of individuals in functioning as a member of society. Secular ethics and religious ethics, according to al-Mawardi, as the code of conduct in conducting economic practices by the government and every member of society to uphold the principle of goodness. In the context of economic behaviour, the world ethics (adab al-dunya) and the religious ethics (adab al-din) became guidelines for economic actors in conducting business activities including other forms of cooperation or other muamalah practice.
N35|Impact of Psychological Needs on Luxury Consumption|This paper examines the impact of psychological needs on luxury consumption. Veblen’s Theory of the Leisure Class (1899) invented the term “conspicuous consumption” to describe luxury goods and services, in which Veblen indicated the purpose of luxury consumption was to display wealth and social status. This paper integrates the following two papers: __(1)__ Han and Zhou (2002), who proposed an integrative model, and argued that three variables, namely Country-of-Origin, Brand Name, and Price, were major predictors for overall product evaluation and purchase intentions; and __(2)__ Han, Nunes and Dreze (2010), who proposed a taxonomy called The Luxury 4Ps, to explain the inductive and deductive psychological needs of luxury consumption.
N35|Multidimensional Poverty in the Philippines, 2004-13: Do choices for weighting, identification and aggregation matter?|Multidimensional poverty comparisons can be sensitive to the choice of welfare indicators, the weights assigned to the indicators, as well as the choice of the aggregate poverty measure. This paper examines the robustness of trends in multidimensional poverty in the Philippines to these choices by presenting estimates for three alternative weighting schemes and three alternative measures of multidimensional poverty. Using data from the Annual Poverty Indicators Survey for 2004-13, the paper finds evidence of a significant decline in multidimensional poverty that is robust to these alternatives, though the magnitude of the decline in, and especially the dimensional contributions to, aggregate multidimensional poverty are quite sensitive to the alternatives considered.
N35|Constrained School Choice in Egypt|This paper examines patterns of school choice in Egypt from primary through higher education. We use a mixed-methods approach that combines survey data with qualitative in-depth interviews to explore schooling decisions. Some private and religious schools exist, but we find that in most geographic areas school “choice” at the pre-university level is effectively limited to public schools—despite their inadequate quality. Although there has not been much change in the attendance of private schools at the pre-university level, we find that attendance of private higher education institutions has increased over time. Azhari (Islamic religious) school attendance at the pre-university level has increased over time as well, possibly indicating a reaction to the low quality of public schools. Overall, when choices are available, families still tend to prefer public schools due to their low cost, though private and religious schools are generally perceived to be of higher quality.
N35|“The Teacher Does Not Explain in Class”: An Exploration of the Drivers of Private Tutoring in Egypt|Widespread reliance on private tutoring has raised concerns over the hidden costs of Egypt’s “free” education system. This paper examines the drivers of tutoring at different levels of education, using nationally representative survey data as well as qualitative data on youth experiences in public, private, and religious schools. Our findings indicate that the drivers of tutoring are multiple and vary by schooling level. Structured around high-stakes exams, the Egyptian education system has fostered the growth of a diverse tutoring market. In general secondary school, tutoring has become a social expectation that leads teachers and students to shirk in school to devote more attention to tutoring. In basic education, teacher pressure is a major motivation for public school students to take tutoring. In order to reduce the prevalence of tutoring and ensure greater equality in education, there is an urgent need to test mechanisms for ensuring accountability in schools.
N35|The Arab Spring and the Employability of Youth: Early Evidence From Egypt|This paper investigates the school-to-work transition of young people from subsequent graduation cohorts between 2005 and 2012 in Egypt. The analysis compares the early employment outcomes of those who left school after the January 25th, 2011 revolution to that of those who graduated before 2011. Using recent data from the 2014 Survey of Young People in Egypt (SYPE), we estimate the probability of transition to any first job within 18-month of finishing education and that of transitioning to a good quality job, controlling for the year of end of schooling. Preliminary findings show that while transitioning to a first job seemed not to be affected by the event of the 2011 revolution, young people experienced significantly lower chances to transition to good quality jobs.
N35|The Impact of Early Marriage on Women’s Employment in the Middle East and North Africa|Marriage is a central stage in the transition to adulthood in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). This paper builds on the existing literature on the effect of marriage on women’s employment in MENA. Besides examining how different types of work are affected by early marriage (defined as marriage by the median age of marriage) in a multivariate setting, the contribution of this paper is to endogenize the marriage decision using an instrumental variable approach. We find that marriage by the median age reduces the probability of working for women by 47 percent in Jordan, 33 percent in Tunisia and 16 percent in Egypt. Much of the effect is due to a reduction in the probability of private wage work, which is reduced by 76 percent in Jordan, 57 percent in Tunisia and 40 percent in Egypt. Differences emerge across the three countries in the extent to which self-employment after marriage is available to women to compensate for the reduction in wage employment opportunities.
N35|Experiences with Foreign Workers in Singapore and Malaysia: What are the Lessons for Japan's Labor Markets?| Singapore and Malaysia have a long history of relying heavily on foreign, immigrant workers in both high-skilled and low-skilled occupations. Ancestors of large portions of the local population in both countries were also immigrants. Correspondingly, economic policies have been designed to manage high levels of migration and foreign workers. In contrast, Japan limited both immigration and foreign workers quite strictly through the 1980s. Since the 1990s, however, the ratio of the stock of net inward immigrants to total population has grown much more rapidly in Japan than in Singapore or Malaysia, largely because the rapidly aging population and changes in worker preferences have resulted in strong demand for immigrant labor. Since the 1990s, Japanese policies have actively sought to entice highly skilled foreign workers and students to work and/or study in Japan. The primary purpose of this policy-oriented paper is to review the substantial economic literature on experiences with foreign workers in Japan, Singapore, and Malaysia and its implications for Japan’s labor markets and related policies.
N35|Natural disasters and social capital formation: The impact of the Great Hanshin-Awaji earthquake|The Great Hanshin-Awaji (Kobe) earthquake hit Japan in 1995, causing devastating damage to the economic landscape of southern-central Japan. However, the earthquake also caused people to realize the importance of social capital in Japan. Based on a large, individual-level database comprising 488,223 observations, this study investigates how and the extent to which the earthquake enhanced the investment in social capital through participation in community activity. The differences-in-differences method was used, and the following key findings were obtained: (1) In Japan, people were more likely to invest in social capital in 1996 than in 1991, (2) the effects of the earthquake decreased as the distance of one’s place of residence increased from Kobe, and (3) he earthquake significantly increased the social capital investment rate of Kobe residents, whereas it had no significant influence on the investment rate of residents of large cities close to Kobe.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|Population Policy: Abortion and Modern Contraception are Substitutes - Working Paper 426|There is longstanding debate in population policy about the relationship between modern contraception and abortion. Although theory predicts that they should be substitutes, the existing body of empirical evidence is difficult to interpret. What is required is a large-scale intervention that alters the supply (or full price) of one or the other – and importantly, does so in isolation (reproductive health programs often bundle primary health care and family planning – and in some instances, abortion services). In this paper, we study Nepal’s 2004 legalization of abortion provision and subsequent expansion of abortion services, an unusual and rapidly-implemented policy meeting these requirements. Using four waves of rich individual-level data representative of fertile-age Nepalese women, we find robust evidence of substitution between modern contraception and abortion. This finding has important implications for public policy and foreign aid, suggesting that an effective strategy for reducing expensive and potentially unsafe abortions may be to expand the supply of modern contraceptives.
N35|"""Get rid of the four olds"": the long-lasting impact of the Chinese Cultural Revolution on Chinese society"|This paper studies the long-term impact of the Chinese Cultural Revolution on interpersonal trust, mental health and perceived equality. The Cultural Revolution was a social upheaval in China between 1966 and 1976 initiated by China’s leader Mao Zedong that resulted in a period of anarchy, violence and chaos as well as a large number of deaths, injuries and much persecution across China and was in particular targeted at intellectuals and the wealthy. The Cultural Revolution is likely to have had a long-lasting impact on social capital and preferences as well as on mental well-being. Using data from the Chinese General Social Survey as well as county level data on the number of abnormal deaths and victims of political persecution between 1966 and 1971 from Walder and Su (2003), I use a difference-in-difference strategy comparing individuals born before the Cultural Revolution with those born thereafter as well as across different counties to estimate the impact of Cultural Revolution intensity measured by victims and abnormal deaths on interpersonal trust, depression and perceived equality. To control for potential endogeneity due to unobservables as well as for measurement error, I instrument Cultural Revolution Intensity with the number of universities in a county at the time of the Cultural Revolution. I find that the Cultural Revolution is associated with lower levels of interpersonal trust, perceived equality and depression for more educated individuals born before the Cultural Revolution. These results are largely robust to a battery of tests. This shows that violence and conflict can have long-lasting effects on societies and that the consequences of the Cultural Revolution persist in China up to today.
N35|Religious identity and the provision of public goods: Evidence from the Indian Princely States|This paper describes a simple model of how a ruler’s religious identity affects public goods provision. Our primary insight is that rulers reduce public goods expenditures to a greater degree when there are privately-provided substitutes excludable by religion.The basic idea is that if the good is provided privately to the ruler’s co-religionists, the ruler faces weaker incentives to provide this public good because his co-religionists receive lower marginal utility from its provision. Testing such a conjecture is an empirical challenge, however, since the religious identity of rulers rarely varies over time and place. We address this problem by exploiting variation in the religion of rulers in the Indian Princely States. Using data from the 1911 and 1931 Indian censuses, we find that Muslim-ruled states had lower Hindu literacy but had no significant impact on Muslim literacy. This result is consistent with our model, as Muslim religious schools provided a substitute for public schools that served both Hindus and Muslims. The model is further substantiated by the fact that the religion of the ruler had no statistically significant impact on railroad ownership or post office provision, neither of which had privately-provided substitutes.
N35|Price shocks in disaster: the Great Kantō Earthquake in Japan,1923|This paper tests the operation of markets in the wake of a sudden exogenous shock in prewar Japan, the Great Kantō Earthquake of 1923. Using a unique monthly wholesale price dataset of provincial cities, we found that the earthquake had a positive impact on the price of rice and timber in the sample cities. Our results also indicate that the wholesale price of rice in cities in the northeast of Japan, which were more closely integrated with the affected region, experienced more significant price rises than those in western Japan. Nevertheless, although further research using retail as opposed to wholesale prices of goods is needed, these preliminary findings suggest that the diffusion of price instability outwards from the affected region was on a lesser scale than might have been expected.
N35|‘The people next door’: housing and neighbourhood in eighteenth-century Ottoman Edirne|"""In this paper we compile a new dataset of c.1200 house sale contracts from one of the major cities of the Ottoman Empire (Edirne) covering the period from 1734 to 1814. We address the question of determinants of house prices by relying on modern econometric techniques, and estimate a hedonic price index. We also empirically test for the existence of income and religious segregation and price discrimination in the housing market. We show that the demand for houses was mainly driven by their proximity to the commercial centre and their size. Moreover, the housing market was subject to religious segmentation, and the cost of switching micro- neighbourhoods across religious groups was considerably high. Our hedonic price index suggests that house prices significantly increased in nominal terms during this period; however, this increase did not closely follow the loss of value of the Ottoman currency."""
N35|Population Policy: Abortion and Modern Contraception Are Substitutes|Abstract A longstanding debate exists in population policy about the relationship between modern contraception and abortion. Although theory predicts that they should be substitutes, the empirical evidence is difficult to interpret. What is required is a large-scale intervention that alters the supply (or full price) of one or the other and, importantly, that does so in isolation (reproductive health programs often bundle primary health care and family planning—and in some instances, abortion services). In this article, we study Nepal’s 2004 legalization of abortion provision and subsequent expansion of abortion services, an unusual and rapidly implemented policy meeting these requirements. Using four waves of rich individual-level data representative of fertile-age Nepalese women, we find robust evidence of substitution between modern contraception and abortion. This finding has important implications for public policy and foreign aid, suggesting that an effective strategy for reducing expensive and potentially unsafe abortions may be to expand the supply of modern contraceptives.
N35|Conflict, Institutions, and Economic Behavior: Legacies of the Cambodian Genocide|This paper examines how the Cambodian genocide under the Pol Pot regime (1975-1979) altered people fs post-conflict behaviors through institutional changes. Combining spatial genocide data and the 1998 Census microdata, we compare the impacts of the genocide on subsequent investments in children fs education between couples who had their first child during and after the Pol Pot era. Because under the Pol Pot regime private ownership was completely denied and spouses and children were owned by the state as collective property, these couples had quite distinct institutional experiences: The former were controlled as family organizations and the latter were not. We find that the genocide adversely influenced children fs education among the former couples, but not the latter ones. We discuss plausible mechanisms underlying these patterns, shedding new light on why institutions which emerged during the conflict persistently shaped people fs post-conflict behaviors.
N35|日本と韓国における養子制度の発展と児童福祉－－歴史統計を用いた比較制度分析の試み－－|養子縁組とは血縁に依存せず法的に親子関係を創出する制度であり、家庭に 恵まれない児童が新たに恒久的な家庭を得る唯一の方法である。しかし、韓国では養子制度が児童福祉に重要な役割を果たしているのに対して、日本では児童福祉政策としての機能をほとんど果たしていない。本研究では「なぜ日韓では社会的養護としての養子縁組の位置づけが大きく異なるのか」という問いを立て、政府統計を駆使して比較可能な長期統計を作成し、両国における制度発展の歴史的経路を明らかにする。分析の結果によると、日本と韓国は戦後の混乱期に児童福祉政策が導入された点で似たような初期条件にあった。しかし、政治情勢や国家の財政力などの違いからその発展経路が分かれ、韓国では政府機関と外国援助団体の連携の下に要保護児童対策における養子縁組の役割が拡大していったのに対して、日本では政府機関と社会福祉事業者の協調の下に施設養護が主流となり養子法の改革が遅れ、現在に至るまで養子縁組は児童福祉として積極的に活用されていない
N35|Asymmetric Information under the Kafala Sponsorship System: Impacts on Foreign Domestic Workers' Income and Employment Status in the GCC Countries|This paper examines the legal and policy implications of information asymmetry on foreign domestic workers employed under the Kafala sponsorship system in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. Drawing from ethnographic and field-based observations in large GCC migrant destinations – including Kuwait, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) – we investigate the information flows and market uncertainties between five key stakeholders: labor-receiving governments, labor-sending governments, recruitment agencies (subagents), sponsors (employers), and social networks. Several factors contribute to asymmetric information: the lack of bilateral labor agreements and government policy coordination, programs between and among government entities, the absence of labor law for domestic workers, and the laissez faire approach of the labor-receiving government. These sources of asymmetric information create serious market vulnerabilities for the domestic worker population, often resulting in loss of employment and early deportation. The concluding section further outlines policy implications and areas of methodological research on GCC migration.
N35|Motivational factors influencing teaching (FIT) as a career: An empirical study of the expatriate teachers in the Emirates|This study aimed to investigate the motivational factors that lead to choice of teaching career in expatriate teachers in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). A UAE version of the Factors Influencing Teaching (FIT)-Choice scale (Watt & Richardson, 2007) was developed following the pre-testing strategies used by Dillman (2000), Heinz (2013) and Sharif (2014) and applied to identify the factors that most influenced the expatriates choose teaching as a career in the UAE. In a proposed and successfully tested model in this study, altruistic &/or intrinsic and extrinsic factors were found to be the mediator in the relationship between prior teaching & learning experience and social influence, and choice of a teaching career. Some gender differences were observed in case of four factors, ie, fall back career, work with children and adolescents, salary and prior teaching and learning experiences, and implications were discussed. For recruitment campaigns, strategies based on this study findings and understanding of the expatriate teachers’ motivations to adopt teaching as a career in the UAE were discussed. Due to the fact that the most recent study by LinkedIn among 380 million global members highlighted the UAE to be the most popular destination for expatriates surpassing Australia, Canada and Singapore (Maceda, 2015), the findings of this study can be considered to be of value to: (a) altruistically/intrinsically motivated professionals who are international-minded and seeking greener pastures in the UAE, and (b) the UAE policymakers who are working hard to fill the demand-supply gap drawing the attention of expatriates with the right skills and expertise. Finally, the research attempts in this study are seemingly unique in the sense that no previous study on teaching motivation had a combined focus on ‘in-service’, ‘expatriate teachers’ and UAE using FIT-Choice scale.
N35|The Political Economy of Religion and Politics in India|The paper will examine the dramatic rise of the right-wing Hindu organisations in India, especially since the 1990s. Most prominent among these organisations are RSS, BJP, VHP, Bajang Dal and Shiv Sena. However, they all work together under the philosophy of Hindutva (i.e. Hindu-ness) and are rabidly anti-minority in their stance. They appear to need an ‘enemy’ in the form of a religious minority to unite Hindus and consolidate their support. This study is important because RSS is too politically significant to be ignored. Since the BJP (BhartiyaJanta Party) came to power in May 2014, its ministers and senior party leaders have been coming out in support of Hindutva. Attacks against Muslims have risen sharply. Cultural issues such as cow slaughter and the building of the Ram temple at Ayodhya have been raised again by the RSS as a means of dividing communities and keeping Muslims in a state of constant fear and insecurity. This study argues that the failure of India’s economic development to remove socio-economic constraints leading to slow and uneven development has intensified rivalry between castes and religious communities. Under such conditions, it became possible for extremist Hindu organisations to target people on the basis of religion.
N35|Conflict, Institutions, and Economic Behavior : Legacies of the Cambodian Genocide|This paper examines how the Cambodian genocide under the Pol Pot regime (1975-1979) altered people’s post-conflict behaviors through institutional changes. Combining spatial genocide data and the 1998 Census microdata, we compare the impacts of the genocide on subsequent investments in children’s education between couples who had their first child during and after the Pol Pot era. Because under the Pol Pot regime private ownership was completely denied and spouses and children were owned by the state as collective property, these couples had quite distinct institutional experiences: The former were controlled as family organizations and the latter were not. We find that the genocide adversely influenced children’s education among the former couples, but not the latter ones. We discuss plausible mechanisms underlying these patterns, shedding new light on why institutions which emerged during the conflict persistently shaped people’s post-conflict behaviors.
N35|Economic Philosophy of al-Mawardi: Economic Behavior in Adab al-Dunya wa-al-Din and al-Ahkam al-Sulthaniyah|Economic behavior in the study of Islamic economics is the basis for the government to portray political ethics and ethical economic functions of individuals in functioning as a member of society. Secular ethics and religious ethics, according to al-Mawardi, as the code of conduct in conducting economic practices by the government and every member of society to uphold the principle of mashlahah (goodness). By the middle or moderate principles, both ethical underpinning for anyone in private and institutional (government) in carrying out economic activities to realize the happiness of the world and the hereafter
N35|Cirebon as the Silk Road: A New Approach of Heritage Tourisme and Creative Economy|The tourism industry and creative economy in Cirebon can not be separated from the historical aspect of the city's growth and development as silk lines in the spread of Islam, trade, and acculturation is very smooth so that the ethnic diversification becomes a major part in tourist activities. With a qualitative approach that emphasizes the phenomenon of ethnic Cirebon with tourist objects that vary in every corner of this city, then this paper confirms that Cirebon is a tourist destination that is unique in terms of religion, culture, history, to the creative economy, especially religious tourism that will create this city as a friendly city for tourists.
N35|Finansal İstikrar ve Para Vakıfları Etkisi: Rumeli Para Vakıfları Örnekleri<BR>[Financial Stability and Cash Waqfs: Samples of Rumelia Cash Waqfs]|Vakıflar, İslam toplumlarında yardımlaşmanın ve toplumsal dayanışmanın yanında sosyal ve ekonomik hayatın önemli unsurları olarak karşımıza çıkmaktadır. Vakıfların en önemli özelliği bu yardımlaşma ve dayanışmayı kurumsal hale getirmeleridir. Osmanlı Devleti’nde toplumsal hayatta çok önemli bir yer tutan vakıflar, Osmanlı Devleti’nin bir vakıf medeniyeti olarak anılmasına vesile olmuştur. Yapılan akademik çalışmalar ve analizler de vakıfların ekonomik sistemde merkez hazinesi ve tımar sisteminin hemen arkasında üçüncü bir ekonomik kurum olarak ortaya çıktığını göstermektedir. Bu sebeple, Osmanlı ekonomik yapısı üzerine yapılacak çalışmalarda vakıfların rolünü incelemek de oldukça önemlidir. Bu vakıfların bir türü “para (nukud) vakıfları” bu çalışmanın konusunu oluşturacaktır. Birincil kaynaklardan incelenen vakfiyeler üzerinden para vakıfların kuruluşları ve dayandıkları İslami arka plan incelenecektir. Ayrıca bu vakıfların uyguladıkları kâr oranlarının uzun dönemli analizi üzerinde durulacaktır. Aynı dönemlerde Avrupa’da uygulanan faiz oranları ile Osmanlı para vakıflarının kâr oranlarının karşılaştırması yapılacaktır. Bölge olarak Rumeli’nin seçilmesi de bu bölge hakkında para vakıfları hakkında yeterli derecede çalışma olmamasından ötürüdür. We meet waqf not only institutions provided the assistance and social solidarity between people but also an important elements of social and economic life in Islamic societies. The most important feature of waqf is to make this cooperation and solidarity institutional. The waqfs that had a very important place in social life in the Ottoman State have been instrumental that Ottoman State is a civilization of waqfs. Academic studies and analysis also shows that waqf system was third place in economic institutions after central treasury and timar system in economic system (Özcan, 2008, p. 143). Therefore, it is important to examine the role of waqf in studies on Ottoman economic structure. One type of this waqfs, “cash waqfs” will be subject of this study. The establishment procedure of cash waqfs and Islamic background of cash waqfs will be examined from primary sources (waqfiyahs). Moreover, we will emphasized long-term analysis on the profit rates that were determined by cash waqfs. The comparison between the European interest rates and profit rates of Ottoman cash waqfs at same era will be made. The region of Rumelia is selected as subject because there are not enough works about cash waqfs in this region.
N35|Agama, ekonomi dan negara: Pemikiran ekonomi al-Mawardi pada Adab al-Dunya wa al-Din<BR>[Religion, Economy, and State: Economic Thought of al-Mawardi in Adab al-Dunya wa-al-Din]|The relation between religion, economy, and country became the main topic of building a public welfare system. Human beings have the potential to realize the political level of moral conscience to make ends meet, but man as a creature of religion must have a balance between religious morality and economy morality. With economic ethics are supported by religious morality, the welfare system can be realized systemically if the state, communities, and individuals can realize the six-dimensional: the religion that is adhered to, good governance, justice, national security, the prosperity of society, and the vision of the nation.
N35|Understanding Recent Trends in Income Inequality in the People’s Republic of China|This paper examines underlying factors that could explain the decline in income inequality in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) since 2008 and inquires whether the decline indicates that the PRC’s income inequality has peaked following the Kuznets hypothesis. The paper first identifies four key drivers of rising income inequality in the PRC since the mid-1980s: rising skill premium, declining share of labor income, increasing spatial inequality, and widening inequality in the distribution of wealth. It then provides evidence that the reversal of these drivers, with the exception of wealth inequality, could partly explain the decline in income inequality since 2008. The paper argues that since part of the reversal of these drivers is policy induced, it is important that the policy actions continue for income inequality to decline further. The paper further argues that a critical factor underlying the Kuznets hypothesis is that taxation and transfers play a bigger role in income redistribution as a country becomes more developed, while their role is still limited in the PRC, the future path of the country’s income inequality may not be one directional; and reducing income inequality significantly may require personal income tax and transfers to play a greater role over time.
N35|Billionaire Wealth, Firm Performance and Financial Crisis: An Empirical Analysis for India|Employing data for 2001â€“2012, the article analyzes the factors impacting the wealth of Indian billionaires and the performance and innovative activity of firms which these billionaires represent. The analysis indicates that billionaires in rent-thick sectors have higher wealth levels, on average. As well, the evidence also supports lower wealth for self-made and entrepreneurial billionaires. The findings also reveal that self-interested actions by billionaires tend to raise agency costs, which, in turn, dampens profitability and firm value. Finally, there is evidence which suggests a tendency on the part of billionaires to block innovative activity. JEL Classification: D31, N35, P52
N35|A conquest of rice: agricultural expansion, impoverishment, and malaria in Turkey|Serving as a parliamentarian in late-1940s Turkey, Dr. Mehmet Serif Korkut wrote of his perceptions of the gravest danger to Turkish workers and the nation: malaria. In his view as physician and politician, the greatest factor exacerbating this disease involved the rapid -though legally regulated- expansion of rice cultivation within the country. Addressing this problem through his writings, Korkut connected this commodity with conditions of unchecked agrarian capitalism and impoverishment. In such a context, he argued, rice farming caused the state to be plagued with corruption and the peasantry with malaria. Relying upon his primary texts and supported by archival research, this article presents and analyses a unique critique of agrarian capitalism from Turkey's early Cold War era. In doing so, it contributes to a broader appreciation for the diversity of sources, ideas, and linkages between histories of agriculture and public health.
N35|Understanding the Recent Trend of Income Inequality in China|This paper examines underlying factors that could explain the decline in income inequality in China since 2008 and inquires whether the decline indicates ChinaÃ­s income inequality has peaked following the Kuznets hypothesis. The paper first identifies four key drivers of rising income inequality in China since the mid-1980: rising skill premium, declining share of labor income, increasing spatial inequality, and widening inequality in the distribution of wealth. It then provides evidence that the reversal of these drivers, with the exception of wealth inequality, could partly explains the decline in income inequality since 2008. The paper argues that since part of the reversal of these drivers is policy-induced, it is important that the policy actions continue for income inequality to decline further. The paper further argues that a critical factor underlying the Kuznets hypothesis is that taxation and transfers play a bigger role in income redistribution as a country becomes more developed, while their role is still limited in China, the future path of ChinaÃ­s income inequality may not be one-directional, and may stay high before personal income tax plays a bigger role.
N35|Islamic conscious capitalism: a ‘Third Way’ in light of classical scripture|"The economic paradigm and framework advocated for in Islam is one that entails a unique combination of various socio–economic philosophies. This article advances the notion that Islam promotes a capitalistic economic model wrapped in its own garment of understanding—fashioned with threads of equity and stitched in patterns of benevolence and justice. This article examines the Islamic theological framework relating to the profit incentive and its spiritually–conscious methodology of capital procurement. The Qur’an contains around 370 references in regard to commerce, from which much of Islamic law relating to lending, banking and trading originates (Heck in Muhammad and the Arab roots of capitalism (Studien zur Geschichte und Kultur des Islamichen Orients)—Band 18. Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, p 5, 85, 2006 ). This article intends to explore the potential that these teachings have for an Islamic ‘Third Way’ (i.e. an Islamic contribution to economic philosophy and discourse that is in-between of, or an alternative to, both the purely individualistic primary concerns on prices, profits, and private property inherent in ""pure"" capitalism, and the purely communal command economics of communism, which often negates or discourages the promotion of self-interests). Part I of this paper intends to introduce the reader to the various sources of Islamic ‘law’ and its scope. In doing so, the philosophical nature and objectives of the Shariah will become evident, through the exploration of specific theological economic teachings. Part II intends to study Islam’s theological attitude toward entrepreneurship and the profit incentive, as well as the concept of the potential for salvation through ethical profits. Part III explores, in light of classical Islamic scripture, the various prohibitions within the Islamic concept of the economy. In doing so, the paper shall explore how values and theories found in classical Islamic scripture have found contemporary application within the growing modern Islamic finance industry, for example, through Shariah ‘screens’ applied on market indicies, such as the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index. Part III shall also explore Islamic edicts with regards to business practices, as well as environmental ethics. In doing so, Part IV concludes that there can indeed be such an Islamic ‘Third Way’, drawn along similar shared values found amongst other world religions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016"
N35|Does industrialization affect segregation? Evidence from nineteenth-century Cairo|We investigate the impact of state industrialization on residential segregation between Muslims and non-Muslims in nineteenth-century Cairo using individual-level census samples from 1848 and 1868. We measure local segregation by a simple inter-group isolation index, where Muslims’ (non-Muslims’) isolation is measured by the share of Muslim (non-Muslim) households in the local environment of each location. We find that relative to locations that did not witness changes in the instance of industrialization, the opening of Cairo railway station in 1856 differentially increased Muslims’ isolation from non-Muslims (conversely, decreased non-Muslims’ isolation) in its proximity and that the closures of textiles firms in 1848–1868 differentially decreased it. The results are arguably driven by an “indirect” labor market mechanism, whereby state industrialized firms crowded in private-sector unskilled jobs that attracted greater net inflows of rural immigrants and unskilled workers who were predominantly Muslims.
N35|A Life Course Perspective on Gender Differences in Cognitive Functioning in India|We examine gender differences in four measures of cognitive functioning among older Indians. We estimate the impact of childhood circumstances, choices in adulthood, and current circumstances on cognitive functioning. Baseline estimates reveal a female disadvantage across all measures. Our most detailed specification suggests that variables over the life course account for female disadvantage in one measure; sizable gaps remain in the others. Predicted cognition gaps are driven by gender differences in characteristics as well as the asymmetric returns to these characteristics. Lower cognitive functioning and higher life expectancy imply a lower quality of life for Indian women in old age.
N35|Integration Of North And South American Players In Japan'S Professional Baseball Leagues| Teams in Japan's two professional baseball leagues began to add foreign players in the early 1950s, with the average number per team reaching 5.79 in 2004. This was primarily because foreign hitters outperformed Japanese hitters. Hazard analysis shows that a poorly performing team was more likely to hire its first Caucasian and African American players earlier than a successful team. Econometric analysis of team use of foreign players over 45 seasons (1960–2004) shows that losing Central League teams used foreign players more often in following season(s), whereas past success of Pacific League teams did not affect their use of foreign players.
N35|The role of financial elites in banking supervision in Japan from 1927 to 1998|"Following the collapse of the bubble economy in Japan, banking supervisors and bank examiners were severely criticized by the media as human capital had long been viewed the key element of Japanese banking supervision. The purpose of this paper is to analyze the bank supervisors´ career paths over the long term, including ""amakudari"" appointments from among the Directors of the Financial Inspection Department of the Ministry of Finance, and the Director-Generals of the Bank Examination Department of the Bank of Japan. The paper analyzes the performance of several regional banks that accepted the appointment of an ex-Director or an ex-Director-General as their president in order to examine whether such an amakudari relationship worsened such banks´ management. The majority of ex-Directors and ex-Director-Generals entered a regional bank or a regional bank II, many of which were already experiencing problems. Regarding the regional banks, lower growth rates of loans were observed in all cases, and lower loan/deposit ratios or higher capital/asset ratios were observed in most. These findings suggest that the link between the amakudari relationship and the bubble economy in the late 1980s was not as straightforwardly negative as is generally considered."
N35|Identity-Based Policies and Identity Manipulation: Evidence from Colonial Punjab|I study identity-marker based policies and demonstrate the existence of identity manipulation. I analyze the impact of the Punjab Alienation of Land Act (1901), a caste-based legislation, on identity manipulation. Using data from the colonial census, I show that a movement of identity manipulation took place in response to the law. I estimate that in 20 years, 7.5 percent of the population that had an incentive to do so manipulated its identity. I then use an accounting exercise to estimate that the amount of mistargeting caused by this manipulation is between 3.9 percent and 8.2 percent of the land distributed. (JEL J15, N35, N45, N55, Q15, Q24, Z13)
N35|The impact of social workers on infant mortality in inter-war Tokyo: Bayesian dynamic panel quantile regression with endogenous variables|Although no comprehensive sickness insurance system existed in Japan until the mid-twentieth century, the infant mortality rate in Japan started to decline from the early twentieth century onwards, specifically owing to health improvements in low-income areas. This paper focuses on the impact of social workers called Homen iin on reducing the infant mortality rate in inter-war Tokyo. These social workers were in charge of the medical casework and provided access to medical treatment for low-income households under the District Committees System. To examine how the activities of these social workers influenced infant mortality, this paper analyses panel data for Tokyo between 1926 and 1937. By employing the dynamic panel quantile regression approach, it is found that the activities of social workers played a vital role in mitigating the risk of infant mortality, especially in areas that had a higher infant mortality rate.
N35|A World Record in the Improvement in Biological Standards of Living in Korea: Evidence from Age at Menarche|This paper uses age at menarche to understand the improvement in biological standards of living in South Korea. The main data set, the Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, provides a consistent source of nationally representative data with a large number of observations over a long period of time. We find that the mean age at menarche decreases from 16.64 years for the birth year 1941 to 12.68 years for the birth year 1992, decreasing 0.78 (or 0.81 in a regression) years per decade for the birth years 1941û 1992. Comparisons with other populations demonstrate that this is the fastest ever known. Furthermore, the decreasing rate does not appear to slow. The results are consistent with the fact that Korea achieved rapid economic growth in the second half of the 20th century. In addition, we provide suggestive evidence for height and life expectancy at birth improving at the fastest rate in the world.
N35|Diffusing Knowledge While Spreading God'S Message: Protestantism And Economic Prosperity In China, 1840–1920| We provide an account of how Protestantism promoted economic prosperity in China—a country in which Protestant missionaries penetrated far and wide during 1840–1920, but only a tiny fraction of the population had converted to Christianity. By exploiting the spatial variation in the missionaries’ retreat due to the Boxer Uprising to identify the diffusion of Protestantism, we find that the conversion of an additional communicant per 10,000 people increases the overall urbanization rate by 18.8% when evaluated at the mean. Moreover, 90% of this effect comes from knowledge diffusion activities associated with schools and hospitals erected by the missionaries. (JEL: N35, Z12, O18)
N35|Long-Term Effects of Access to Health Care: Medical Missions in Colonial India| We study the long-term effect of access to health care on individuals' health status by investigating the relationship between the proximity to a Protestant medical mission in colonial India and current health outcomes. We use individuals' anthropometric indicators to measure health status and geocoding tools to calculate the distance between the location of individuals today and Protestant health facilities founded in the nineteenth century. We exploit variation in activities of missionary societies and use an instrumental variable approach to show that proximity to a Protestant medical mission has a causal effect on individuals' health status. We find that a 50 percent reduction in the distance from a historical medical facility increases current individuals' body mass index by 0.4. We investigate some potential transmission channels and we find that the long-run effect of access to health care is not driven by persistence of infrastructure, but by improvements in individuals' health potential and changes in hygiene and health habits.
N35|Does Consuming More Make You Happier? Evidence from Chinese Panel Data|This study examines the relationship between consumption and happiness, using panel data from China Family Panel Studies (CFPS). We find that total consumption expenditure has a significant and positive effect on happiness, but we find no evidence of a non-linear relationship between consumption and happiness. There are heterogeneous effects of consumption on happiness across subsamples and for different types of consumption expenditure. We find that relative consumption matters, irrespective if the reference group is defined in terms of consumption at the community or county level or on the basis of age, education and gender. However, the extent to which comparison effects are upward looking, or asymmetric, depend on how the comparison group is defined. We also find that comparison with one’s past consumption has no significant effect on an individual’s happiness.
N35|Biological Well-Being in Late 19th Century Philippines|This paper investigates the biological standard of living toward the end of Spanish rule. We investigate levels, trends, and determinants of physical stature from the birth cohorts of the 1860s to the 1890s using data on 23,000 Filipino soldiers enlisted by the U.S. military between 1901 and 1913. We use truncated regression technique for estimating average height and use province level information for investigating the determinants of biological wellbeing. The results indicate a decline of more than 1.5 cm cm (0.6 inches) in the height of soldiers born between the early 1870s and the late 1880s. The decline in heights at the end of the 19th century occurred at a time when there was an expansion of commercial activity in cash crop production for export. Heights did not regain the level of the 1870s until the late 1930s and early 1940s. We also find that at 159.3 cm (62.7 inches), the average height of soldiers born in the mid-1870s was very short even for the time. The low biological standard of living in late 19th century was not due to the tropical disease environment alone since taller men were found in the same period in other parts of Asia.
N35|Japan and the Great Divergence, 725-1874|Japanese GDP per capita grew at an annual rate of 0.04 per cent between 725 and 1874, but the growth was episodic, with the increase in per capita income concentrated in three periods, 1150-1280, 1450-1600 and after 1730, interspersed with periods of stable per capita income. There is a similarity here with the growth pattern of Britain. The first countries to achieve modern economic growth at opposite ends of Eurasia thus shared the experience of an early end to growth reversals. However, Japan started at a lower level than Britain and grew more slowly until the Meiji Restoration.
N35|The impact of child labor on children's educational performance: Evidence from rural Vietnam|In 1998, nearly one-third of Vietnamese children engaged in non-housework labor supply, 95% of these working children residing in rural areas. This paper investigates the impact of child labor on children's educational outcomes in rural Vietnam using the 1998-Vietnam Living Standard Survey. The paper finds that child labor lowers children's academic performance and the negative impact is bigger for girls.
N35|India and the great divergence: An Anglo-Indian comparison of GDP per capita, 1600–1871|Estimates of Indian GDP are constructed from the output side for 1600–1871, and combined with population data. Indian per capita GDP declined steadily during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries before stabilising during the nineteenth century. As British growth increased from the mid-seventeenth century, India fell increasingly behind. Whereas in 1600, Indian per capita GDP was over 60% of the British level, by 1871 it had fallen to less than 15%. These estimates place the origins of the Great Divergence firmly in the early modern period, but also suggest a relatively prosperous India at the height of the Mughal Empire. They also suggest a period of “strong” deindustrialisation during the first three decades of the nineteenth century, with a small decline of industrial output rather than just a declining share of industry in economic activity.
N35|Intergenerational mobility and institutional change in 20th century China|We examine the persistence of socioeconomic status across generations, measured by educational attainment, among urban Chinese born between 1930 and 1985. The persistence of status follows a pronounced, robust U-shaped pattern, falling among cohorts educated following the Communist revolution of 1949, and rising among cohorts educated following the reforms of the late 1970s. The pattern is not driven by the Cultural Revolution or by changing associations between education and income. The U-shape also appears in complementary datasets covering rural China. We discuss the policies behind a non-monotonic relationship between educational expansion and social mobility across the institutional regimes we study.
N35|The conceptualization and measurement ofethnic and religious divisions:categorical, temporal, and spatial dimensions with evidencefrom Mindanao, the Philippines|A large body of recent quantitative work on the ‘diversity detriment’ hypothesis finds that ethno-religious diversity is linked with a host of societal ills, implying in turn a strong challenge to multiculturalist theory and policies. Given the stakes, the appropriate conceptualization and measurement of ethno-religious divisions is a matter of considerable importance. This paper provides a synthetic critique of how major measures each capture the notion of ‘divisions’ and relate to each other conceptually and empirically within a divided society. Furthermore, instead of presenting temporal snapshots of divisions at the national level, as in most previous work on the topic, we explore how measures perform at more localized levels of analysis and over time, drawing on individual level census data from Mindanao, the Philippines. We highlight four conceptually ‘big’ issues we believe deserve emphasis and further investigation: the sensitivity of measures to the choice of construct, categorization methodology, passage of time, and spatial variation. We provide guidance and discuss the key implications of these points both for quantitative scholars working with these measures and for qualitatively inclined empiricists and normative theorists wishing to interpret, evaluate or otherwise engage with the quantitative research on the merits of diversity.
N35|Locating a chronology for the great divergence: a critical survey of published data deployed for the measurement of nominal wages for Ming and Qing China|Since the publication of Kenneth Pomeranz’s seminal book The Great Divergence, the landscape of world and global history has changed dramatically. For the first time, living standards, instead of labour, land and capital productivities, have become the prime concern among historians in various parts of the world. The key to this decade-long debate hinges on quantity and quality of information for transnational and cross-regional comparisons. But due to the obvious constraints we historians constantly face, genuinely good data are frustratingly hard to obtain and thus set the upper limits for what we can possibly achieve. The task of the present study is to put some currently circulated nominal wages for the Ming-Qing Period (1368-1911) under the microscope to check their feasibility. Our main findings from Chinese sources suggest that published cash wages did not reflect the actual living wages needed in reality to support a worker and his family of the average size. This means that we may have been barking at the wrong tree.
N35|Tertiary Education and Prosperity: Catholic Missionaries to Luminosity in India|This paper estimates the causal impact of tertiary education on luminosity across Indian districts. We address the potential endogeneity of tertiary education using the location of Catholic missionaries in 1911 as an instrument for current tertiary education. We find Catholic missionaries have a large and positive impact on tertiary education. Catholics were not at the forefront of tertiary education in colonial India, but they established many high quality colleges following Indian independence. Controlling for a rich set of geographical and historical characteristics, we find a positive causal effect of tertiary education on development, as measured by light density at night. The findings are robust to different measures of development, and are not driven by alternative channels through which missionaries could impact current income.
N35|The adverse effect of child marriage on women’s economic well being in Bangladesh – can microfinance help?|This paper examines the impact of child marriage on women’s economic well being using cross sectional data from Bangladesh. Child marriage is a serious social problem in itself but it can also exacerbate the prevalence of domestic violence and undermine the empowerment of women. As such, policy makers are faced with the daunting task of tackling these three issues that are intricately interrelated. This study constructs two separate indices, one for domestic violence and another for economic empowerment, to examine how they are affected by child marriage. Using probit regression models, we obtained parameter estimates that were adjusted for cluster-level correlation and unobserved heterogeneity. Domestic Violence is defined as a dummy variable, which is equal to 1, if the woman has been ever subjected to domestic violence and 0 otherwise. The empirical results show that child marriage, greater age difference between husband and wife, and poverty contribute to an increase in the incidence of domestic violence toward women, whereas both secondary and higher education result in lowering domestic violence. The variable empowerment was constructed based on aggregating a woman’s response to five questions pertaining to women’s participation in household decision-making–(i) who controls the earnings generated by the woman; (ii) who makes decisions regarding healthcare; (iii) who makes decisions on large household purchases; (iv) who makes decisions on small household purchases; and (v) whether a woman is able to visit her family and relatives. The empowerment dummy variable takes the value 1, if the woman had some role in the decision making in at least one of the five categories and 0, if she had no role in household decision making. The results of the study show that women who get married during their adolescent years are subject to increased domestic violence and are less likely to be empowered. Not surprisingly, results also show that higher educated women are more empowered than women who have primary and secondary education. Finally, using data from three microfinance institutions in Bangladesh - Grameen Bank, BRAC, and ASA, the study investigates the role of microfinance with respect to empowerment of women. Findings of the study show that while access to microcredit enhances women’s empowerment in general, this result does not hold for women who underwent child marriage. The results are similar to earlier findings which show that access to microcredit can empower women, however, unlike previous literature, this study finds that credit has no effect on the incidence of domestic violence. The policy implications of the findings of the study underscore the importance of stricter enforcement on the prohibition of child marriage and overall benefit of female higher education.
N35|Parental styles and closeness to the domestic servant as perceived by the children of Qatar|Many domestic servants live and work in Qatar. The domestic servants are asked to care for children in addition to the house work. The purpose of this study was to understand the relationship between domestic servants and children in Qatari homes and the mediation of this relationship by negative parenting styles. A set of questions was developed along three main themes: the affiliation of children to domestic servants, fear and anxiety and sharing of personal matters. Based on factor analysis, a measure of closeness of children to domestic servants was created. A set of endogenous and exogenous variables was used to predict this measured relation using a stepwise regression equation. The endogenous variables measured the parenting styles as perceived by the children. The exogenous variables measured the background information of the domestic servants. The main predictive variables were parents demeaning of children by their parents and the mother’s lack of attention or presence as perceived by the children. The main exogenous variables of knowledge of language and years of employment were also strong predictors because the domestic servants may have worked a number of years in the homes, which made the children more easily attracted to the servants. Further studies must begin to address the impact of parenting on children’s behavior. The pressures of home and child care have led to a number of suicides and psychological and traumatic experiences of exploitation and abuse among domestic servants. Policy makers must begin to address family management and family support issues and rights of domestic servants in custodial setting. Any future studies should address the conditions of domestic servants and children, those affected the most.
N35|Parental styles and closeness to the domestic servant as perceived by the children of Qatar|Many domestic servants live and work in Qatar. The domestic servants are asked to care for children in addition to the house work. The purpose of this study was to understand the relationship between domestic servants and children in Qatari homes and the mediation of this relationship by negative parenting styles. A set of questions was developed along three main themes: the affiliation of children to domestic servants, fear and anxiety and sharing of personal matters. Based on factor analysis, a measure of closeness of children to domestic servants was created. A set of endogenous and exogenous variables was used to predict this measured relation using a stepwise regression equation. The endogenous variables measured the parenting styles as perceived by the children. The exogenous variables measured the background information of the domestic servants. The main predictive variables were parents demeaning of children by their parents and the mother’s lack of attention or presence as perceived by the children. The main exogenous variables of knowledge of language and years of employment were also strong predictors because the domestic servants may have worked a number of years in the homes, which made the children more easily attracted to the servants. Further studies must begin to address the impact of parenting on children’s behavior. The pressures of home and child care have led to a number of suicides and psychological and traumatic experiences of exploitation and abuse among domestic servants. Policy makers must begin to address family management and family support issues and rights of domestic servants in custodial setting. Any future studies should address the conditions of domestic servants and children, those affected the most.
N35|Migration, labor and business in the worlding cities of the Arabian Peninsula|This short essay, built on a foundation of more than a decade of fieldwork in the hydrocarbon-rich societies of the Arabian peninsula, distills a set of overarching threads woven through much of that time and work. Those threads include a discussion of the social heterogeneity of the Gulf State citizenries, the central role of development and urban development in these emergent economies, the multifaceted impact of migrants and migration upon these host societies, and the role of foreign 'imagineers' in the portrayal of Gulf societies, Gulf values, and Gulf social norms.
N35|Authoritarianism and labor market : preference of labor policies in the Arab Gulf countries|Migrant and labor issues are a primary concern in the Arab Gulf countries. With focus on the economic and political conditions that influence actors' decisions when framing labor policies, this study analyzes how preferences of such policies are formed and explains why the governments of the Arab Gulf countries attempt to implement less economical policies. The findings suggest that governments avoid concessions for enterprises required to implement more economical policies and chose uneconomical ones to maintain authoritarian regimes.
N35|Marriage, dowry, and women’s status in rural Punjab, Pakistan|Abstract Dowry is a common custom observed in South Asian countries. Despite alleged negative consequences caused by dowry and the legal ban or restrictions on its practice, the custom has been extended, and recently, dowry amounts seem to be increasing. Compared with public interest in and theoretical studies on dowry, empirical studies are relatively scarce mainly due to data unavailability and inadequacy. We conducted a household survey specifically designed to empirically investigate how dowry is associated with women’s status in the marital household in rural Punjab, Pakistan. The dataset is unique because it gathers information on disaggregated marriage expenses, which enables us to examine the relation between each itemized component of dowry and women’s status. Results show that a higher dowry amount, especially in terms of furniture, electronics, and kitchenware, is positively associated with women’s status in the marital household. The positive association of these illiquid items adds suggestive evidence that in rural Punjab, Pakistan, dowry serves as a trousseau that the bride’s parents voluntarily offer to their daughter.
N35|Better than nothing? : dowry in the absence of the legal protection of women's inheritance rights|The practice of dowry is often thought to be the root cause of the unequal treatment of women in India. For women without inheritance rights, however, dowry may function as their only source of protection. Using a nationwide dataset and exploiting a natural experimental situation, this study explores the effects of dowry on women's empowerment in India, a society where women do not have inheritance rights. In such a society, dowry seems to enhance women's status in the marital household. The effects reverse when women have equal inheritance rights as their brothers. Empirical analysis suggests that the outright ban on dowry that ignores the context may not necessarily benefit women.
N35|Determinants of local public expenditures on education: empirical evidence for Indonesian districts between 2005 and 2012|We provide an empirical analysis of the factors that drive expenditures on primary and secondary education in Indonesian districts. We use a panel-data set covering 398 districts between 2005 and 2012. We account for the impact of socio-economic, political and geographical factors on expenditures per pupil and on the share of the overall budget spent on education. Our results are in line studies from other countries showing that educational expenditures are rising in the municipalities’ fiscal capacity. Landlocked districts are found to spend less on education than non-landlocked ones. We find some support for the notion that the share of educational expenditures in total expenditures increases in the demand for education, though our indicators for demand are not associated with higher expenditures per pupil. Somewhat surprisingly, the characteristics of the local municipal council do not influence educational expenditures.
N35|Does consuming more make you happier? Evidence from Chinese panel data|This study examines the relationship between consumption and happiness, using panel data from China Family Panel Studies (CFPS). We find that total consumption expenditure has a significant and positive effect on happiness, but we find no evidence of a non-linear relationship between consumption and happiness. There are heterogeneous effects of consumption on happiness across subsamples and for different types of consumption expenditure. We find that relative consumption matters, irrespective if the reference group is de-fined in terms of consumption at the community or county level or on the basis of age, education and gender. However, the extent to which comparison effects are upward looking, or asymmetric, depend on how the comparison group is defined. We also find that comparison with one’s past consumption has no significant effect on an individual’s happiness.
N35|Biological Well-Being in Late 19th Century Philippines|This paper investigates the biological standard of living toward the end of Spanish rule. We investigate levels, trends, and determinants of physical stature from the birth cohorts of the 1860s to the 1890s using data on 23,000 Filipino soldiers enlisted by the U.S. military between 1901 and 1913. We use truncated regression technique for estimating average height and use province level information for investigating the determinants of biological wellbeing. The results indicate a decline of more than 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) in the height of soldiers born between the early 1870s and the late 1880s. The decline in heights at the end of the 19th century occurred at a time when there was an expansion of commercial activity in cash crop production for export. Heights did not regain the level of the 1870s until the late 1930s and early 1940s. We also find that at 159.3 cm (62.7 inches), the average height of soldiers born in the mid-1870s was very short even for the time. The low biological standard of living observed in late 19th century Philippines was not due to the tropical disease environment alone since greater average heights were recorded for the same period in other parts of Asia with a similar climate.
N35|Chinese National Income, ca. 1661–1933|This paper pulls together many primary and secondary sources to arrive at consistent estimates of national income for china between the 17th and 20th centuries. We find, in line with much of the literature, that GDP per capita declined between the mid-17th and 19th centuries. This trend reversed during the 19th century, mainly due to a shift into services and, for the late 19th century onwards, also in industry. Since these sectors exhibited higher labour productivity, this fostered economic growth. This pattern of decreasing share of services and industry from the 17th century and increasing shares in the 19th century is common in many Asian countries except Japan. The reasons for this development, however, are unclear. The standard ultimate factors of growth such as institutions (low marriage age for women, exclusive society) and geography apply to almost all Asian countries. Hence, more research is necessary.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|Service Sector Growth in India: A View from Households|This paper studies the phenomenon of service-led growth in India over the past two decades from the perspective of household expenditure. We use consumption expenditure data from four recent “thick” rounds of the National Sample Survey in 1993-94, 2004-05, 2009-10 and 2011-12, and study aggregate services as well as 5 individual categories – education, healthcare, transportation, entertainment, and personal services – for both rural India. We begin by showing that expenditures of non-rich sections of the population are, and continue to remain, a significant source of the demand that has supported growth of the service sector over the past two decades. In particular, we show that the bottom 75 percent of households in terms of monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) have been the source of between 31 and 54 percent of total expenditure on services, the larger numbers referring to urban India. Next, we show that expenditure on services, as a share of total expenditure, has increased across the expenditure distribution, even when we control for expenditure growth over time. For a poor country like India with widespread under-nutrition, this presents an unusual trend. We highlight the perverse nature of this trend in two ways. First, we estimate bivariate Lowess curves for the share of services in monthly expenditure against real MPCE, for rural and urban India separately, and show that it has been pivoting in a clockwise direction since 2004-05. Second, we confirm this finding by estimating quadratic Engel curves with an instrumental variable strategy. The clockwise pivoting of Lowess and Engel curves, especially true for urban India since 2004-05, mean that spending patterns of poor households – as captured by the share of monthly expenditure devoted to services – increasingly resemble those of the rich, even as income differentials persist. This suggests that poorer households are possibly getting constrained into spending more on services, even when they have inadequate consumption of food, due to larger structural changes beyond their control.
N35|The Science of Symbiosis and Linguistic Democracy in Early Twentieth-century Japan|Focusing on the early twentieth-century Japanese Esperantist and popular celebrity writer Miyazawa Kenji as an embodiment of a larger intellectual phenomenon of early twentieth century Japan, the essay delineates the scientific world view behind the Esperanto movement and corresponding internal logic that developed in the language movement's foundational years. It argues that Esperantism in Japan in its early years was not an isolated linguistic movement among a small number of leftist intellectuals, but part of a much larger intellectual, cultural, and social movement that reflected the particular scientific worldview of what I call 'anarchist science'. This worldview defied the conceptual bifurcations of 'modern vs. tradition' and 'nature vs. culture' in modern history. A history of its vision offers a fresh perspective on modern history, future visions of the past, and the historical meanings of Esperantism.
N35|Spatial Dynamics and the Persistence of Inequality in Siam during 1782-1855 (in Thai)|This paper analyzes the problem of spatial inequality which covered farmers living in and outside the upper Chao Phraya basin during 1782-1855. The study period was before the signing of Bowring Treaty when Siam was transitionally trapped between subsistence and market economies. The study examines the impacts of critical social and economic settings on regional productivity differentiation in Siam. These settings included the rental scheme for state land, the state monopoly power over major foreign trades, risk diversification in transition economy, and the interaction between patron and peasant under the feudal system. The study gives a rough estimate of income gap among farmers living in and outside the upper Chao Phraya basin. Average income of farmers living in the upper Chao Phraya basin was in the range from 1.46 to 2 times higher than the average income of farmers living outside the upper Chao Phraya basin during that period.
N35|The development of the Chinese household registration system and its influence on the current economic development of the country|In the paper we analyze the development of the Chinese household registration system, the hukou system, since its establishment in the 1950s until today and its influence on the economic development of the PRC. Surplus labour force was released from agriculture when the household responsibility system was introduced. Its allocation into more productive sectors of the economy was conditioned by the reform of the hukou system, which served to prevent the migration of rural population to cities. The hukou system is discriminatory for rural-urban migrants and currently hinders the effective utilization of labour. Furthermore, the relaxing of the system would most likely lead to an increase in consumption levels among Chinese households.
N35|The Long-Term Effects of Protestant Activities in China|Does culture, and in particular religion, exert an independent causal effect on long-term economic growth, or do culture and religion merely reflect the latter? We explore this issue by studying the case of Protestantism in China during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Combining county-level data on Protestant presence in 1920 and socioeconomic indicators in 2000, we find that the spread of Protestantism has generated significant positive effects in long-term economic growth, educational development, and health care outcomes. To better understand whether the relationship is causal, we exploit the fact that missionaries purposefully undertook disaster relief work to gain the trust of the local people. Thus, we use the frequency of historical disasters as an instrument for Protestant distribution. Our IV results confirm and enhance our OLS results. When we further investigate the transmission channels over the long historical period between 1920 and 2000, we find that although improvements in education and health care outcomes account for a sizable portion of the total effects of missionaries’ past activities on today’s economic outcomes, Protestant activities may have also contributed to long-term economic growth through other channels, such as through transformed social values. If so, then a significant amount of China’s growth since 1978 is the result not just of sudden institutional changes but of human capital and social values acquired over a longer historical period.
N35|China's Road to a Global Scientific Powerhouse|Drawing on the wider ‘catching up’ literature, we examine the rapid growth in Chinese spending on science and technology, which, in spite of its growing infrastructure, remains heavily reliant on foreign inputs. We examine both the economic and political drivers behind China’s scientific development, making a distinction between domestic investments and international technology trade. Firms provide over two-thirds of total R&D funding, most of which has been spent on ‘high-tech’ sectors for export production. The fastest growing research area is in environmental sciences and energy technology. China’s technology imports are shifting away from ‘technologies for production’, towards ‘technologies for innovation’, encouraged by the national development strategy on enhancing scientific research capacities. In particular, we present evidence from China’s imported technology contracts. Energy is the second largest sector after manufacturing in terms of imported technology contracts.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|Impoverished, but Numerate? Early Numeracy in East Asia (1550–1800) and its Impact on 20th and 21st Century Economic Growth|This paper first draws on a unique data set, hojok (household registers), to estimate numeracy levels in Korea from the period 1550–1630. We add evidence from Japan and China from the early modern period until 1800 to obtain a human capital estimate for East Asia. We find that numeracy was high by global standards, even considering the potential sources of upward bias inherent in the data. Therefore, the unusually high level of numeracy in East Asia in the early 21st century was already present in the early modern period. However, East Asia had low national income levels during the 19th and early 20th centuries. We assess this phenomenon in the last section and find that “Impoverished Numerates”, i.e., countries that were poor despite high early numerical human capital formation, had substantially higher growth rates during the late 20th and early 21st centuries.
N35|Parental job loss and children's health: Ten years after the massive layoff of the SOEs' workers in China|Beginning in the mid 1990s, China sped up its urban labor market reform and drastically restructured its state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which resulted in massive layoff of the SOEs' workers and a high unemployment rate. In this paper, we investigate the impact of parental job loss on their children's health, using six waves of the China Health and Nutrition Survey covering the period from 1991 to 2006. We find that paternal job loss has a significant negative effect on children's health, while maternal job loss has no significant effect. The rationale behind the findings is that the income loss resulting from maternal job loss is much smaller; meanwhile, the unemployed mothers are likely to increase their time inputs to child care, and this may alleviate the negative effect of maternal job loss. Our findings from a fixed effects model are robust to various specifications and alternative approaches.
N35|In utero exposure to the Korean War and its long-term effects on socioeconomic and health outcomes|Prenatal exposure to the disruptions caused by the Korean War (1950–1953) negatively affected the individual socioeconomic and health outcomes at older ages. The educational attainment, labor market performance, and other socioeconomic outcomes of the subjects of the 1951 birth cohort, who were in utero during the worst time of the war, were significantly lower in 1990 and in 2000. The results of difference-in-difference estimations suggest that the magnitude of the negative cohort effect is significantly larger for individuals who were more seriously traumatized by the war. Whereas the 1950 male birth cohort exhibited significantly higher disability and mortality rates at older age, the health outcomes of females are unaffected by the war. Different aspects of human capital (e.g., health and cognitive skills) were impaired by in utero exposure to the war, depending on the stage of pregnancy when the negative shocks were experienced.
N35|Does in utero exposure to Illness matter? The 1918 influenza epidemic in Taiwan as a natural experiment|This paper tests whether in utero conditions affect long-run developmental outcomes using the 1918 influenza pandemic in Taiwan as a natural experiment. Combining several historical and current datasets, we find that cohorts in utero during the pandemic are shorter as children/adolescents and less educated compared to other birth cohorts. We also find that they are more likely to have serious health problems including kidney disease, circulatory and respiratory problems, and diabetes in old age. Despite possible positive selection on health outcomes due to high infant mortality rates during this period (18%), our paper finds a strong negative impact of in utero exposure to influenza.
N35|Is body mass human capital in sumo? Outcome of globalization and formation of human capital in Japan|Sumo wrestling is a traditional fighting sport in Japan and has been popular since the 18th century (the Edo period). Using a data set for all sumo wrestlers in the post-World War II period, this paper investigates how wrestlers’ body mass index (BMI) is associated with their win rate and absence rate. Further, the effect of BMI is compared between an early period (before the emergence of foreign wrestlers) and later period (after the emergence of foreign wrestlers). After accounting for endogenous bias using instrumental variables, the key findings are that (1) there is no positive relationship between the BMI and win rate in either the early or later period and (2) there is a positive relationship between the BMI and absence rate in the later period but not in the early period. From the findings in this paper, I make the argument that an increase in the number of immigrants with human capital different from that of domestic labor leads the domestic labor to obtain human capital that does not match its characteristics, thereby reducing its performance.
N35|Clarifying data for reciprocal comparisons of nutritional standards of living in England and the Yangtze Delta (Jiangnan), c.1644 – c.1840|The Great Divergence Debate, initiated by the ‘California School’ in 1998 has revitalised a meta question for global history of “when,” “how,” and “why” the economies of Western Europe, on the one hand and the Ming-Qing Empire of East Asia, the Mughal empire of South Asia and the Ottoman Dominions of West Asia and the Balkans on the other, diverged economically and geopolitically over one long cycle of Eurasian economic development. This paper is designed to return to ‘basics’ by interrogating the estimates and proxies utilized by participants in the debate by placing them in a nutritional perspective to see whether and to what extent there was a common trajectory between the Yangtze Delta and England after 1500 for (1) a sustainable intake of food and (2) to support an increasingly urbanised, commercialised and industrialised economy. Our conclusion is that although the Yangtze Delta’s average living standards may have been respectable its economy was not modernising due to the mutually reinforcing factors of a physiocratic state, a labour-intensive farming sector, and low levels of urban development. A similar pattern might be shared by the Mughal and Ottoman empires in the same historical context?
N35|Paying the price for spiritual enlightenment: tax pressure and living standards in Kofun and Asuka-Nara, Japan (c.300-794 AD)|"""Did the twin processes of political centralization and urbanization in ancient economies affect the wellbeing of commoners? We propose a cost-benefit analysis based on institutional and quantitative information on public revenues (poll tax, land tax, and corvée labour) and expenditures during the Kofun period (ca 300-538) and the Asuka-Nara period (538-794). Our findings indicate that the tax pressure increased sharply during the Asuka-Nara period, which corresponds to the introduction a new Chinese-style political system based on economic and religious institutions legitimized by Buddhism. It appears nevertheless that the new social order was well accepted. The willingness to accept a higher tax pressure could be explained by the role played by Buddhism as pacification device reducing the exposure of commoners to warfare-related risks, while improving social stability, property rights, and contract enforcement. In the meantime, the introduction of the new Chinese-style institutional framework resulted in a decline in the nutritional status of the rural population in the core Kinai region and in surrounding provinces."""
N35|The role of public employment services in a developing country|"""Like all developed and developing economies, Japan struggled with labor market issues in the process of industrialization. The Public Employment Service (PES) was probably the only countermeasure of the Japanese government before 1938, since other labor market policies such as minimum labor standard, unemployment insurance, and unionization were highly restricted by the political climate. In this article, we discuss the importance of the institutional arrangements of the PES by examining the developing stage of the Japanese labor market. In Japan, the PES was first institutionalized officially by the Employment Exchange Act in 1921. In the wake of the Kanto earthquake disaster in 1923, the PES played a substantial role in the recovery process, which implies the capacity of the PES to reduce unemployment even in a developing economy. However, under normal economic circumstances during the 1910s and 1920s, the institutional arrangement of the PES—namely, the financial backbone of the government and the nationwide network—was not effective as shown by anecdotes and ad hoc surveys. The statistical analysis of the matching function clearly shows that the PES, at least during the 1920s, had a fundamental problem—lacking long-term relations with other economic agents. Finally, improvements were made in the PES during the 1930s to cope with the economic crisis from the Great Depression. Such improvements were realized by incorporating already-existing networks of organizations that spontaneously emerged at the grassroots level. By 1938, when the Employment Exchange Act was revised to abolish private agencies, some PES centers had already absorbed nearby private networks and the matching technique of the PES was almost the same as that of private agencies. An ad hoc physical and financial investment by the government may not lead to the provision of efficient public services, and it is important to recognize that labor market policies are based on a long-term relationship among the PES, job seekers, and employers."""
N35|Unified China And Divided Europe|This article studies the causes and consequences of political centralization and fragmentation in China and Europe. We argue that a severe and unidirectional threat of external invasion fostered centralization in China, whereas Europe faced a wider variety of smaller external threats and remained fragmented. Political centralization in China led to lower taxation and hence faster population growth during peacetime compared to Europe. But it also meant that China was more vulnerable to occasional negative population shocks. Our results are consistent with historical evidence of warfare, capital city location, tax levels, and population growth in both China and Europe.
N35|Top Incomes and the Measurement of Inequality in Egypt|This study exploits unprecedented access to income data and a combination of newly developed statistical methods to evaluate income inequality in Egypt and test for potential top incomes biases. Income inequality in Egypt is found to be low by regional and world standards; top incomes are found to follow the Pareto distribution and do not show anomalies compared to surveys worldwide. Correcting for top incomes biases increases the Gini coefficient significantly. The magnitude of the upward correction varies between 1.1 and 4.1 percentage points depending on the choice of correction method and welfare measure.
N35|Estimating the Economic Value of Statistical Life in China: A Study of the Willingness to Pay for Cancer Prevention|This paper reports the results of a Contingent Valuation (CV) study on cancer prevention where Multiple-Bounded Dichotomous Choice (MBDC) questions are asked of rural residents in China about their willingness to pay (WTP) for a hypothetical cancer vaccine which is expected to be effective for one year. The WTP data are analyzed with region-, age- and gender-specific cancer morbidity and mortality risk statistics; an upper and lower bound of the Value of a Statistical Life (VSL) are then estimated. The estimated VSL is between 481 and 814 thousand yuan (or 58 and 98 thousand US dollars) at 2000 constant prices, which is compatible with the results of previous studies.
N35|Long-term Effects of the Cambodian Genocide on Education|No abstract is available for this item.
N35|Volunteering And Life Satisfaction : An Investigation Of Endogeneity|Based upon the results of a national survey conducted in Taiwan, this study investigates the effects of volunteering on life satisfaction. We used a univariate ordered probit model and a simultaneous bivariate ordered probit model to compare the potential endogeneity between volunteering and life satisfaction. An exogenous military service variable was included in the bivariate model to correct the endogeneity of volunteering on life satisfaction. The results of the univariate ordered probit model suggest that volunteering has no effecton life satisfaction. However, the results from the simultaneous bivariate ordered probit model indicate volunteering has a significantposit ive effect on life satisfaction. The failure to account for endogeneity appears to underestimate the effect of volunteering on life satisfaction.
N35|The long-term effects of civil conflicts on education, earnings, and fertility: Evidence from Cambodia|This paper examines the long-term effects of exposure to civil war and genocide on the educational attainment, earnings, and fertility of individuals in Cambodia. Given the well-documented causal links between schooling and labor productivity, it is surprising that past studies show that civil conflicts reduce educational attainment, but generally not earnings of individuals. Using variation in the degree of Cambodians’ exposure to civil conflicts during primary school age, we find that disruption to primary education during civil conflicts decreases educational attainment and earnings, increases fertility, and has negligible effects on health of individuals several decades later. Our findings suggest that the effect of conflict on schooling disruption has adverse consequences on long-term labor productivity and economic development.
N35|The Long-Term Effects of Protestant Activities in China|Does culture, and in particular religion, exert an independent causal effect on long-term economic growth, or do culture and religion merely reflect the latter? We explore this issue by studying the case of Protestantism in China during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Combining county-level data on Protestant presence in 1920 and socioeconomic indicators in 2000, we find that the spread of Protestantism has generated significant positive effects in long-term economic growth, educational development, and health care outcomes. To better understand whether the relationship is causal, we exploit the fact that missionaries purposefully undertook disaster relief work to gain the trust of the local people. Thus, we use the frequency of historical disasters as an instrument for Protestant distribution. Our IV results confirm and enhance our OLS results. When we further investigate the transmission channels over the long historical period between 1920 and 2000, we find that although improvements in education and health care outcomes account for a sizable portion of the total effects of missionaries' past activities on today's economic outcomes, Protestant activities may have also contributed to long-term economic growth through other channels, such as through transformed social values. If so, then a significant amount of China's growth since 1978 is the result not just of sudden institutional changes but of human capital and social values acquired over a longer historical period.
N35|¿Habrá una segunda oportunidad sobre la tierra? Instituciones coloniales y disparidades económicas regionales en Colombia|Este artículo analiza el origen colonial de las desigualdades entre las regiones colombianas. Presenta los aspectos más sobresalientes de la geografía física, pues esta y las instituciones son las bases últimas de esas desigualdades económicas. Un análisis econométrico sencillo relaciona la pobreza en las ciudades de más de 100.000 habitantes con una proxy de instituciones coloniales y una medida de características geográficas. Además, discute una de las opciones más claras para que las regiones con una historia colonial de instituciones excluyentes superen esa situación: la inversión en capital humano.
N35|Access to Public Health Services: A Disaggregated Analysis of Uttar Pradesh|Access to public health care has often been equated with health outcomes. Outcomes-based analysis often misunderstands the process of access to health. This article conceives access to health as a bundled concept and decomposes access into availability, affordability and acceptability. Access to health is determined by public provisioning as well as by socio-economic characteristics of households. It attempts to examine these dimensions across different regions of the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh (UP). It shows that there are variations across regions and socio-economic characteristics of households. A particular group from one region may not have the same degree of access as its counterpart in another region and at the same time there are variations across groups in the same region. The scale of development of regions also plays an important role in promoting or hindering access to health.JEL Classification: I12, I14, I18, Z13, N35, H51
N35|Health, social policy, and inclusive growth in MENA|This paper takes stock of the current status of health sectors in MENA. From the narrow perspective of national aggregate indicators, as with most middle income countries, the region has seen significant achievements. Yet, health sectors face systemic challenges, and suffer from significant and persistent inequities in health outcomes, access, delivery, and distribution of health services. Out of pocket spending levels are amongst the highest in the world, and are driven by: privatisation, poor social protection and insurance coverage, and the inability to respond to the epidemiological transition. Consequently, the financial burden of healthcare forces significant swathes of the population into poverty, or to forgo healthcare altogether. Sectoral policies have been piecemeal and short-termist, with a clear neglect of public health sectors. These deficiencies are more evident if MENA is benchmarked against many of their peers, or against the international consensus of Universal Health Care (UHC).
N35|Are migrants discriminated against in Chinese urban labour markets?|J7; J51; O15; N35 Copyright Gagnon et al.; licensee Springer. 2014
N35|Urbanization and Inequality in Asia| This paper provides a quantitative analysis of how the changing dual economic structure and urbanization affect inequality in Asia. Focusing on data for four countries—the Peoples’ Republic of China, India, Indonesia, and the Philippines—the paper asks three questions. First, how much of the past increase in inequality can be attributed to urbanization per se—the rising share of urban population, as opposed to other drivers related to the region's dual economic structure, such as the urban–rural income gap, inequality within the urban sector, and inequality within the rural sector? Second, how might urbanization affect these countries’ inequality in the future as its process continues? Third, moving forward, what is the relative importance of each of these drivers in containing rising inequality in Asia? It is hoped that the framework developed and calculations presented in this paper provide more insights into the dynamics of rising inequality in Asia and can help policy makers prioritize policy actions for confronting it. © 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
N35|Natural Disasters and Participation in Volunteer Activities: A Case Study of the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake|The Great Hanshin-Awaji (Kobe) earthquake in 1995 has had a significant detrimental effect on the economic conditions of southern-central Japan. However, the earthquake also led people to acknowledge the importance of the many volunteer activities in Japan at that time. Using a large sample of individual-level data from 1991 and 1996, this study investigates how and the extent to which the earthquake increased the participation of students and house-workers in volunteer activities. After controlling for various individual characteristics, a Heckman-Tobit model was used and the following key findings were obtained: (1) the probability of students’ participating in volunteer activities was 2% higher after the earthquake than before, and (2) the number of days that students spent participating in volunteer activities was 4.38 days longer after the earthquake than before. However, the same did not hold true for house-workers.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|Sýrie A Její Měnící Se Pozice Na Blízkém Východě|Blízký východ je oblastí neklidnou a nestabilní, a to nejen ve vývoji hospodářském, sociálním, kulturním, ale převážně ve vývoji politickém. Dle některých odborníků je hlavním zdrojem konfliktů zasahování velmocí do blízkovýchodní politiky. Analýza vlivů v novodobé historii Blízkého východu je předmětem této studie, se zaměřením na Sýrii, která působila od svého vzniku v r. 1944 jako významný ovlivňovatel blízkovýchodní politiky, avšak v posledních dvou letech se ocitla spíše v průsečíku těchto vlivů. Tato studie si klade za cíl prozkoumat působení Sýrie jako jednoho z hlavních aktérů blízkovýchodní politiky, jejího zasahování do politik a vývoje okolních států, zejména Libanonu, a to z pohledu mladé teorie mezinárodních vztahů – neorealismu.
N35|Accounting for the great divergence|As a result of recent work on historical national accounting, it is now possible to establish firmly the timing of the Great Divergence of living standards between Europe and Asia. There was a European Little Divergence as Britain and Holland overtook Italy and Spain, and an Asian Little Divergence as Japan overtook China and India. The Great Divergence occurred because Japan grew more slowly than Britain and Holland, starting from a lower level. Key turning points are identified around 1348 and 1500, and an explanatory framework is developed that can explain these divergences via the differential impact of shocks on differently structured economies. The key shocks were the Black Death of the mid-fourteenth century and the new trade routes which opened up from Europe to Asia and the Americas at the end of the fifteenth century. The key structural factors were the type of agriculture, the age of first marriage of females, the flexibility of labour supply and the nature of state institutions.
N35|Fertility and wealth in early colonial India: Evidence from widow suicides (satis) in Bengal|Previously evidence on the pre-modern relationship between wealth and fertility almost entirely relied upon data from Europe. Using British colonial records from early 19th-century India on widow suicides (satis), we find a robust positive relationship between income and fertility.
N35|Accounting For The Great Divergence|As a result of recent work on historical national accounting, it is now possible to establish firmly the timing of the Great Divergence of living standards between Europe and Asia. There was a European Little Divergence as Britain and Holland overtook Italy and Spain, and an Asian Little Divergence as Japan overtook China and India. The Great Divergence occurred because Japan grew more slowly than Britain and Holland, starting from a lower level. Key turning points are identified around 1348 and 1500, and an explanatory framework is developed that can explain these divergences via the differential impact of shocks on differently structured economies. The key shocks were the Black Death of the mid-fourteenth century and the new trade routes which opened up from Europe to Asia and the Americas at the end of the fifteenth century. The key structural factors were the type of agriculture, the age of first marriage of females, the flexibility of labour supply and the nature of state institutions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|Trends in Korean stature, 1547-1882|"""We estimate stature trend in Korea from 1547 to 1882 using eleven sets of height records created by judicial and military authorities. Stature figures are given in terms of different yardsticks of unknown lengths and sometimes in round figures, making it difficult to estimate height precisely. Direction of height shift over several decades spanning different parts of the three and half centuries can be determined, however, which was either stagnant or downwards, but never upwards. Slaves had height advantage over free peasants, male adults were taller in northern than in southern provinces, and the effect of smallpox on height was ambiguous. """
N35|Price, quality, and organisation: branding in the Japanese silk-reeling industry from the 1880s to the 1900s|"""Transaction costs depend on the degree of informational asymmetry in trading goods. This environment provides commitment to certain quality with an opportunity to earn quality premium given the degree of asymmetry. A device of commitment to quality could be inspection and branding either by a trader or manufacturer. In the market of raw silk, the largest export of Japan from the late nineteenth century, informational asymmetry between Japan and the Western destinations was serious and Western trading companies dominated quality control by the mid-1880s. Then, Japanese manufacturers internalized inspection and branding processes, earned quality premium, and began rapid growth."""
N35|Compilation of the Regional-Level Japan Industrial Productivity Database(R-JIP) and Analyses of Productivity Differences across Prefectures|No abstract is available for this item.
N35|Impacts of Institutional Changes in Cambodia under the Pol Pot Regime|This paper presents an econometric analysis of impacts of the communist revolution by the Khmer Rouge (1975-’79) in Cambodia on economic behaviors of survivors after 1979. Specifically, we compare forced marriages in the Pol Pot regime with regular marriages after its collapse, and make econometric evaluations of their educational investments for children. Our econometric results are interpreted as meaning that forced-marriage couples invested less in their children’s education than the regular-marriage couples. We consider those results, by reflecting upon social and political structures of Cambodia under and after the Pol Pot regime.
N35|カンボジア大虐殺の教育への長期的影響|本稿では、1975年〜’79年のポル・ポト政権下のカンボジアで行われた大虐殺が、人々の経済行動に与えた長期的影響を検討する。具体的には、ポル・ポト政権下とその後の政権下で第一子を持った夫婦を対象として、当時の虐殺が、政権崩壊後の子供への教育投資行動にどのように影響を与えたかを、空間データとセンサス個票データを組み合わせて定量的に評価する。本稿の分析結果は、前者の夫婦では虐殺と教育投資の間に負の関連性があるが、後者の夫婦ではそれが無いことを示唆する。背景にある社会制度ならびに社会構造から解釈を導く。
N35|Influence Of Family Background On Current Family Wealth In Rural China|This paper examines the influence of family human capital on offspring's economic status in post reform rural China, using nationally representative cross-sectional survey of rural households for 2002. Focuses are on family class origin and occupational experiences. The major findings are as follows. First, parental experiences of a nonagricultural family business before collectivization have a positive and statistically significant effect on offspring's family wealth. Second, the offspring of landlord/rich peasant and middle peasant families are more likely to have higher family wealth than poor and lower-middle peasant families. The findings suggest the robustness of the rural family as the cultural entity.
N35|The Role of Public Employment Services in a Developing Country: The Case of Japan in the Twentieth Century|Like all developed and developing economies, Japan struggled with labor market issues in the process of industrialization. The Public Employment Service (PES) was probably the only countermeasure of the Japanese government before 1938, since other labor market policies such as minimum labor standard, unemployment insurance, and unionization were highly restricted by the political climate. In this article, we discuss the importance of the institutional arrangements of the PES by examining the developing stage of the Japanese labor market. In Japan, the PES was first institutionalized officially by the Employment Exchange Act in 1921. In the wake of the Kanto earthquake disaster in 1923, the PES played a substantial role in the recovery process, which implies the capacity of the PES to reduce unemployment even in a developing economy. However, under normal economic circumstances during the 1910s and 1920s, the institutional arrangement of the PES?namely, the financial backbone of the government and the nationwide network?was not effective as shown by anecdotes and ad hoc surveys. The statistical analysis of the matching function clearly shows that the PES, at least during the 1920s, had a fundamental problem?lacking long-term relations with other economic agents. Finally, improvements were made in the PES during the 1930s to cope with the economic crisis from the Great Depression. Such improvements were realized by incorporating already-existing networks of organizations that spontaneously emerged at the grassroots level. By 1938, when the Employment Exchange Act was revised to abolish private agencies, some PES centers had already absorbed nearby private networks and the matching technique of the PES was almost the same as that of private agencies. An ad hoc physical and financial investment by the government may not lead to the provision of efficient public services, and it is important to recognize that labor market policies are based on a long-term relationship among the PES, job seekers, and employers.
N35|Referral Hiring of Miners: Case from the Coal Industry in Early Twentieth-Century Japan|Many firms do hire workers by referral hiring and, thus, recognize its worth as one of the hiring method used personal networks. This study investigates under what circumstances and for what type of workers a firm can more efficiently use referral hiring than otherwise in the Japanese coal mining industry in the 1900s, which was the fast-growing industry in the emerging economy. We first predict, based on our model, that referral hiring is more efficient when job applicants' skills are too complicated or sophisticated for employers to decide on a right candidate. Then, building an original data set from employment contract documents from a colliery operated in the 1900s, we show that traditional manual skilled workers were likely to be hired through referrals, while modernized skilled workers and unskilled workers were not likely to be hired through referrals.
N35|A note on height and surnames: the role of networks| Many studies indicate that human height is determined largely by childhood circumstances, which in turn influences an adult's labor market opportunities. The aim of this note is to test this thesis by examining the correlation between childhood circumstances and labor market outcomes on the one hand, and heights on the other, when networks are included as proxied by surnames. The fact that, after the inclusion of this surname proxy, we find a correlation only between height and labor market outcomes suggests that while childhood circumstances affect height largely via social status and networks as captured by surnames, the same does not apply for labor market outcomes.
N35|Health Expenses: Evidence from the Club Clustering Approach|This paper explores convergence of real health expenses across the Indian states. The new panel convergence methodology developed by Phillips and Sul (Econometrica 75:1771–1855, 2007 ) is employed. The empirical findings suggest that these states form distinct convergent clubs, exhibiting considerable heterogeneity in the underlying health expenses patterns. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2013
N35|The biological standard of living and body height in colonial and post-colonial Indonesia, 1770–2000|How did the biological standard of living develop in Indonesia during colonial times? Did it increase substantially after decolonization? In our study, we use four sets of anthropometric data to construct time series of average human height since the 1770s. The paper observes a significant decline in heights in the 1870s, followed by only modest recovery during the next three decades, both of which are related to a sequence of disasters. Average heights increased from the 1900s and accelerated after World War II. The World Economic Crisis, the Japanese occupation and the war of independence in the 1930s and 1940s constituted a difficult period. Average height growth thereafter is related to improvements in food supply and the disease environment, particularly hygiene and medical care. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
N35|Superstition effects versus cohort effects: is it bad luck to be born in the year of the fire horse in Japan?|The year of the fire horse (called “Hinoeuma” in Japanese) is one of the sixty Chinese zodiac symbols used to count years. According to superstition, fire horse women are said to have troubled marriages, to mistreat men, and to cause early deaths for their husbands and fathers. No such stigma applies to men born in these years. This paper attempts to investigate the impact of women’s birth in the most recent fire horse year (1966) on the outcome of their lives by using individual-level microdata. We find that there is no evidence of disadvantages to fire horse women in human capital investment, performance in the marriage market, or intra-household allocation of resources after marriage. We provide two plausible explanations for this lack of impact from the stigma: a cohort size effect and a dynamic transition in the share of arranged and love marriages. The latter affected parents’ decisions in 1966 as well as the performance of fire horse women in the marriage market and in intra-household resource allocation after marriage. This finding suggests the importance of careful attention to the dynamic effects of society and the economy that may occur before the emergence of a cohort size effect. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
N35|Land Reform and Sex Selection in China|China’s land reform in 1978–84 unleashed rapid growth in farm output and household income. In new data on reform timing in 914 counties, we find an immediate trend break in the fraction of male children following the reform. Among second births that followed a firstborn girl, sex ratios increased from 1.1 to 1.3 boys per girl in the 4 years following reform. Larger increases are found among families with more education. The land reform estimate is robust to controlling for the county-level rollout of the One Child Policy. Overall, we estimate land reform accounted for about 1 million missing girls.
N35|"""Unfinished Business"": Ethnic Complementarities and the Political Contagion of Peace and Conflict in Gujarat"|I examine how the historical legacies of inter-ethnic complementarity and competition influence contemporary electoral competition and its effects on patterns of ethnic violence. Using local comparisons within Gujarat, a single Indian state known for its non-violent local traditions yet also for widespread ethnic pogroms in 2002, I provide evidence that while towns with close votes in the preceding state elections do predict an increased incidence of ethnic riots, these effects are diminished in medieval port towns that historically enjoyed exogenous inter-ethnic complementarities. Furthermore, unlike other towns where pre-riot electoral competitiveness coincided with historic inter-ethnic competition and where the ruling party reaped well-targeted electoral dividends from the riots, medieval port constituencies exhibited a relative vote swing of more than seven percentage points against that party. These rendered medieval port constituencies marginal constituencies in future elections, which also saw less ethnic violence. I interpret these results as consistent with the existence of a fundamentally conditional, yet magnifying interaction between electoral competition and local institutions in generating incentives for ethnic violence. Where marginal electoral constituencies coincide with or reflect pre-existing inter-ethnic economic competition, politicians have both enhanced local and state-wide incentives to foster ethnic mobilization and violence. On the other hand, when the focus of electoral competition shifts to constituencies enjoying complementary norms and organizations supporting local inter-ethnic tolerance, this can reduce state-wide incentives for ethnic violence.
N35|Policies for Inclusive Urbanisation in China|Urbanisation in China has long been held back by various restrictions on land and internal migration but has taken off since the 1990s, as these impediments started to be gradually relaxed. People have moved in large numbers to richer cities, where productivity is higher and has increased further thanks to agglomeration effects. In the process, the rural-urban income differential has narrowed. Urbanisation also entails costs, however, notably in the form of congestion, all the more so as public transport provision has not kept up. Demand for living space is set to continue to increase as living standards improve, putting pressure on land prices. This can be offset by relaxing the very stringent restrictions on the use of agricultural land for building. For migrants to better integrate in the cities where they work, their access and that of their families to education, health and other social services must continue to improve, in particular via further changes to the registration system, coupled with more market-based rules on land ownership and use. Comment favoriser une urbanisation plus inclusive en Chine Alors que l’urbanisation était depuis longtemps freinée en Chine par diverses restrictions appliquées au marché foncier et aux migrations internes, elle s’intensifie depuis que ces obstacles ont commencé à être progressivement levés dans les années 90. Les villes plus riches, caractérisées par une productivité élevée et en constante progression du fait des économies d’échelle générées par l’urbanisation, enregistrent un afflux massif de migrants. Parallèlement, l’écart de revenus entre zones rurales et urbaines s’est resserré. Néanmoins, l’urbanisation a aussi un coût, notamment illustré par les problèmes de congestion, aggravés par le développement insuffisant de l’offre de transports publics. La demande de surface habitable devrait rester orientée à la hausse sous l’effet de l’amélioration du niveau de vie, ce qui exercera une pression sur les prix des terrains. Cette pression peut être atténuée en assouplissant les restrictions très sévères appliquées à l’usage des terres agricoles à des fins de construction. Pour veiller à une meilleure intégration des migrants dans les villes où ils travaillent, il faut continuer à améliorer leur accès et celui de leurs familles à l’éducation, aux soins de santé et aux autres types de services sociaux, notamment en poursuivant la réforme du système d’enregistrement et en adoptant une réglementation plus axée sur le marché en ce qui concerne la propriété et l’utilisation des terres.
N35|China's March to Prosperity: Reforms to Avoid the Middle-income Trap|China is well-placed to avoid the so-called “middle-income trap” and to continue to converge towards the more advanced economies, even though growth is likely to slow from near double-digit rates in the first decade of this millennium to around 7% at the 2020 horizon. However, in order to sustain vigorous growth and improve the well-being of most citizens, renewed reform momentum is required in a number of areas. The following ones are discussed in this paper: financial sector liberalisation; strengthening competition in markets for goods and services; education, research and innovation. Progress is also needed in other areas, notably in fostering more socially-inclusive forms of urbanisation and more environmentally-friendly growth. En marche pour la prospérité : Réformer pour poursuivre le rattrapage en Chine La Chine est bien placée pour ne pas rester un pays à revenu intermédiaire et continuer à converger vers les économies les plus avancées, même si la croissance est vraisemblablement amenée à ralentir, passant d’un rythme à deux chiffres pendant la première décennie de ce millénaire à environ 7% à l’horizon 2020. Toutefois, le maintien d’une croissance vigoureuse et améliorant le bien-être de la majorité des citoyens nécessite une accélération des réformes dans un certain nombre de domaines. Sont passés en revue dans ce document : la libéralisation du secteur financier ; renforcer la concurrence sur les marchés des biens et services ; l’éducation, la recherche et l’innovation. Des progrès sont également requis dans d’autres domaines, notamment pour promouvoir des formes d’urbanisation socialement plus inclusives et une croissance plus respectueuse de l’environnement.
N35|Urban laboring poor against Infant Mortality at Osaka city of the early 20th century : Who saved babies?|The average infant mortality rate (IMR) was 155.4 in rural areas in Japan, and IMR in Osaka city was 231.6 during 1906 to 1910. The outstanding level of IMR in Osaka city might have been influenced by somewhat negative urban factors, which we can call the gurban penalty. h Dr. Hiroshi Maruyama discovered the ƒ¿-index in 1938. The ƒ¿-index represents infant mortality number divided by neonatal mortality number. After all, Maruyama set one month after birth as a boundary to divide endogenous and exogenous. The ƒ¿-index shows a qualitative measure of infant mortality. Post neonatal mortality was increased due to acquired diseases such as diarrhea, pneumonia and beriberi. This shows that the effect of the urban penalty was raising the ƒ¿-index. The ƒ¿-index of the industrial zones shows that bad maternal conditions affected endogenous factors. Most mothers suffered from a deficiency of breast-feeding capability. The first reason was anemia. The second reason was mothers f ignorance about breast-feeding. The third reason was mother fs illnesses. They had to rely on bottle-feeding without any knowledge to handle artificial milk. Those babies often died from diarrhea or pneumonia.
N35|The Determinants of Household Level Fertility in India|Using NSS data for 1993-94 and 2004-05 this paper highlights the impact of growing incomes, social and household decisions of households, and regional and ethnic factors on patterns of household level fertility in India. These have helped determine the composition of India's young (aged 9 to 34) today. Demographic transition is well underway in India with rising incomes associated with fewer children and smaller family size. The number of women in the childbearing age group significantly affects the number of children. Households with more women in the age group 26-35 have more children, are more likely to have children than not having them as well as having larger family size, ceteris paribus. Average education of females lowers household size whereas (instrumented) shares of expenditure on education and health have varying effects. The impact of a household being SC or ST varies by year and by the regression model chosen. Over both time periods Muslim households have more children and are more likely than the general population to have larger family sizes. Households in BIMARU states have more children and have larger family sizes as do urban households. Thus demographic transition has occurred unevenly across various groups in India.
N35|Developing Economies with Industrial Policy: Towards a Toolbox for Economic Growth. With Case Studies of Jordan and Egypt|During the past two decades, the “Washington Consensus” has been the dominant recipe for unleashing economic growth in developing countries. In view of the strong criticism mounted against it, it seems to have lost prominence recently. The success of the East Asian newly industrialized economies and recently of China is often seen as an alternative way towards economic development. However, most instruments stipulated in the Washington Consensus can be reconciled with successful measures employed by industrialized or fastly industrializing Asian economies. Most likely, the stability and market orientation of the Washington Consensus as a recommendation for developing countries is not wrong in itself but rather incomplete. In order to give developing countries a perspective for durable and preferably inclusive growth, it must be complemented by a modern and market-oriented industrial policy aimed at upgrading the economy's competitiveness. Such a “newer” industrial policy offers a host of instruments that can enhance economic growth in a generally favorable macroeconomic framework that can be achieved through the Washington Consensus. This article undertakes to integrate industrial policy in a comprehensive toolbox for economic growth and takes Jordan and Egypt as examples for how industrial policy measures are employed in practice.
N35|Is body mass human capital in sports? Outcome of globalization of sumo wrestling and generation of human capital in Japan|Using a data set for all sumo wrestlers in the post-World War II period, this paper investigates how wrestlers’ body mass index (BMI) is associated with wrestlers’ winning rate and absence rate. Further, the effect of BMI is compared between an early period (before the emergence of foreign wrestlers) and latter period (after the emergence of foreign wrestlers). After accounting for endogenous bias using instrumental variables, the key findings are that (1) there is no positive relation between the BMI and winning rate in either the early or latter period and (2) there is a positive relation between the BMI and absence rate in the latter period but not in the early period.
N35|Women Financing and Household Economics|This study has uniquely established that financing women though Self Help Groups has a significant role in empowering women, which is a smart economics indeed in achieving the objective of economic development of the weaker sections. The findings of this study establish using the statistical technique and robust sample size that women financing through groups has significant impacts on the food security as well as non-food expenses of the poor families. The study has evidenced significant outreach of impact of women financing in terms of physical as well as qualitative factors on the socially weaker sections of the society such as Women, Scheduled Castes /Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes category of the poor
N35|Structural Change or Social Fluidity? Examining Intergenerational Mobility in Education in India|Capability formation through education is crucial in a competitive world to reap so called demographic dividend. Parental influence on children’s educational level is a reality that often hinders such progress. In a diverse society like India it is also important to examine how social background influences intergenerational educational mobility and what part of observed mobility is due to structural changes in the society and what part is due to exchange of ‘places’ between people from different social strata or social fluidity. This paper uses current econometric techniques to explore these issues in Indian context over the last two decades
N35|Protestantism and Human Capital in Guatemala and the Republic of Korea|Protestant missions from the United States entered the Republic of Korea and Guatemala at the same time (1884 and 1882, respectively). Yet, their impact on human capital has been divergent. The analysis presented in this paper supports the findings of Woodberry (2004, 2009, 2011) and Nunn (2009) in the case of the Republic of Korea. Mainline Protestant missions—Presbyterian and Methodist— promoted the Social Gospel and were the largest in the Republic of Korea implementing successful strategies such as using Korean (Hangul) as the lingua franca in their schools, churches, and medical facilities. Whereas the mainline Protestant denominations in the Republic of Korea successfully promoted investment in human capital, the case of Guatemala does not follow this pattern. Evangelical, Pentecostal, and neo-Pentecostal denominations and churches focused their efforts on evangelizing. Their premilliennialist beliefs translated into an eschatological urgency of conversion with little investment in human capital. As a result, institution-building requisite for investment in human capital (establishing educational institutions and medical facilities) characterized Protestant missions in the Republic of Korea, but not Guatemala. These diverging approaches to exporting Christianity have had differing longterm effects on the two societies.
N35|On the Road to Heaven: Self-Selection, Religion, and Socio-Economic Status|Inter-religion socioeconomic differences are often attributed to religion. Instead, I trace the phenomenon in Egypt to self-selection-on-socioeconomic-status during Egypt’s conversion from Coptic Christianity to Islam. Self-selection was driven by a regressive tax-on-religion that was imposed upon the Arab Conquest of Egypt in 641 and lasted until 1856. Using novel data sources, I document that (a) the long-term trends of the tax, conversions, and the Coptic-Muslim occupational differences are consistent with the selection hypothesis, and (b) districts with a higher tax in 641- 1100 had relatively fewer, but differentially better-off, Copts in 1848-1868. I discuss why the initial selection persisted over time.
N35|On the Road to Heaven: Taxation, Conversions, and the Coptic-Muslim Socioeconomic Gap in Medieval Egypt|Inter-religion socioeconomic differences are often attributed to religion. Instead, I trace the phenomenon in Egypt to self-selection-on-socioeconomic-status during Egypt’s conversion from Coptic Christianity to Islam. Self-selection was driven by a regressive tax-on-religion that was imposed upon the Arab Conquest of Egypt in 641 and lasted until 1856. Using novel data sources, I document that (a) the long-term trends of the tax, conversions, and the Coptic-Muslim occupational differences are consistent with the selection hypothesis, and (b) districts with a higher tax in 641- 1100 had relatively fewer, but differentially better-off, Copts in 1848-1868. I discuss why the initial selection persisted over time.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|The Decline in BMI among Japanese Women after WWII|The age-specific body mass index (BMI) of adult Japanese women has steadily decreased over time, while that of Japanese men has increased. This study examines the long-term trend of age-specific BMI in Japan, by combining unique historical data sets and conducting nonparametric regression analysis. We find that the decline in female BMI is a cohort-specific phenomenon with women born in the 1930s having the highest BMI. However, the age-specific BMI of young girls has continuously increased throughout the 20th century. We conclude that the BMI decline can be traced back to females in their late teen years shortly after WWII.
N35|Back to the 'normal' level of human-capital driven growth? A note on early numeracy in Korea, China and Japan, 1550 - 1800|This paper draws on a unique data set, hojok (household registers), to estimate numeracy levels in Korea, 1550-1630, and evidence on Japan and China from the early modern period until 1800. We found that a substantial share of East Asians rounded their ages to multiples of five. However, the extent of age-heaping was quite low by global standards, even considering the potential sources of upward bias inherent in the data. Therefore, the unusually high level of numeracy in East Asia in the early 21st century was already present in the early modern period. The findings imply that in the Korean case, for example, the foundations of the human-capital based catch-up growth were laid very early. More broadly, we argue that Korea, Japan, and China returned to the growth-path at different points of the 20th century, and this return was pre-determined by their early numeracy development.
N35|Ethnic Risk Sharing among the Rural Population in Vietnam - An Experimental Approach|We investigate the impact of mutual support in case of financial losses within a multi-ethnical society in Vietnam by using an experimental approach. We test for the effects of ethnic discrimination with regards to risk sharing by conducting the Solidarity Game based on Selten & Ockenfels (1998). We find no evidence for ethnic discrimination between the groups. But, we can show remarkable differences in behavior when it comes to mutual support in times of idiosyncratic shocks where the richer group showed a rather altruistic behavior of mutual support towards the poorer and the poorer group based their decisions in the experimental lab on past real life experiences.
N35|Delivery at Home Versus Delivery at a Health Care Facility – A Case Study of Bihar, India| Improvement in maternal health care is at the center stage of policy making for many developing countries including India, which is faced with a high maternal mortality rate of 540 deaths per 100,000 live births. In India, 36% of women are underweight and an important policy question is whether maternal health care has any effect on the longterm health of mothers. In this paper, we investigate whether place of delivery (delivery at health care facility versus delivery at home) has any effect on the body mass index of women and children. This relationship is estimated in the context of Bihar, India where only one in five births take place at a health facility. Data on Bihar is taken from the third round of National Family Health Survey conducted in 2005-2006. The data set contains information on women aged between 15 to 49 years and children below the age of 5. We use the program evaluation approach to estimate the treatment effects associated with deliveries at health care institutions for women. Propensity score matching is used to estimate the average treatment effect on the treated (ATT). For underweight women, we find that ATT is positive and highly significant. This implies that there are average gains from delivering at a health facility as compared to delivering at home for underweight women. Using the propensity score results we find that education, urbanization, and higher household wealth increase the likelihood of using health institutions for child deliveries. Therefore, we recommend that (i) awareness should be spread about the positive health impacts of institutional deliveries though educational programs, (ii) there is a need for more investment in health infrastructure in Bihar, and (iii) maternal health care should be made accessible and affordable to poor households.
N35|Consumption Of Cotton Cloth In India, 1795–1940|Using data on the production and usage of cotton, the paper develops estimates for the production and consumption of cotton cloth in India during 1795-1940, and based on these numbers, revisits three issues central to interpretations of economic change in colonial India. These are: (a) trends in levels of living, (b) the correlation between production of textiles and consumption of textiles, and (c) consumption of clothing in India in relation to the rest of the world.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|Vývoj čínskeho systému registrácie domácností a jeho vplyv na súčasný ekonomický rozvoj krajiny|V prezentovanom článku skúmame vývoj, ktorým prešiel čínsky systém registrácie domácností, systém hukou, od jeho zavedenia v 50. rokoch do súčasnosti a jeho vplyv na ekonomický rozvoj ČĽR. K uvoľneniu nadbytočnej pracovnej sily z poľnohospodárstva došlo zavedením systému zodpovednosti domácností. Jej alokácia do produktívnejších sektorov hospodárstva bola podmienená reformou systému hukou, ktorý slúžil ako prevencia migrácie vidieckeho obyvateľstva do miest. Systém hukou je voči pracovnej sile migrujúcej do miest z vidieka diskriminačný a v súčasnosti je brzdou efektívneho uplatnenia časti výrobného faktora práce. Uvoľnenie systému by navyše zvýšilo úroveň spotreby čínskych domácností.
N35|The political economy of mass printing: Legitimacy and technological change in the Ottoman Empire|New technologies have not always been greeted with full enthusiasm. Although the Ottomans were quick to adopt advancements in military technology, they waited almost three centuries to sanction printing in Ottoman Turkish (in Arabic characters). Printing spread relatively rapidly throughout Europe following the invention of the printing press in 1450 despite resistance by interest groups and temporary restrictions in some countries. We explain differential reaction to technology through a political economy approach centered on the legitimizing relationships between rulers and their agents (e.g., military, religious, or secular authorities). The Ottomans regulated the printing press heavily to prevent the loss it would have caused to the ruler’s net revenue by undermining the legitimacy provided by religious authorities. On the other hand, the legitimizing relationship between European religious and political authorities was undermined over a century prior to the invention of the press. European rulers thus had little reason to stop the spread of printing as public policy, nor could the Church have stopped it had it wanted to. The Ottomans eventually sanctioned printing in Arabic script in the 18th century after alternative sources of legitimacy emerged.
N35|Rural Reforms, Agricultural Productivity, and the Biological Standard of Living in South Korea, 1941-1974|This paper analyzes effects of the Republic of Korea’s two major rural reforms in 1950 and 1962/63 on agricultural productivity and individual well-being. The 1950 Land Reform resulted in a large-scale redistribution of land while ‘green revolution’-type reforms in 1962/63 pushed forward the application of modern agricultural technologies and improved rural infrastructure. This study’s findings indicate that both reforms had significant positive impacts on agricultural productivity. Using the link between final height outcomes and early childhood nutrition further allows an assessment of the effects of the interventions on the biological standard of living using adult height outcomes. Korean mean adult height grew by a remarkable 8.1 to 12 cm for women and 7 to 9.6 cm for men born between 1920 and 1987. Two thirds of this growth took place after the 1950 reform, and about 40 to 50 percent after the 1962/63 reforms. Structural break analyses of height trends reveal significant upward shifts in trend around the years of the reforms. While Korea can be considered a case of successful land reform, the years between the two major reforms can be considered Korea’s lost decade.
N35|Vietnam in XXI Century: Institutional Development of S&T and Innovation Policy|Since the beginning of 1990s the Vietnamese economy has been undergone structural changes that until recently have resulted in fast modernization and GDP growth. Recognizing the need to point economic development towards innovation, the government has undertaken institutional reform. This paper assesses the evolution of science, technology and innovation policy for the last decade in Vietnam, with emphasis on the coherence and efficiency of policy instruments. The study shows that despite major steps forward in the formation of a legislative and institutional framework for the national innovation system, there are factors working against it. The mixed character of the Vietnamese economy (combining market institutions with tight public regulation and a significant share of public property) fostered by inconsistent and ineffective policies, discourages the innovation environment and synergy of reforms. There is also a huge gap between policy and implementation. Another factor is difficulties with setting strategic goals and defining policy priorities: policy tasks are overwhelming in number, but also there is overlap. There is no interdepartmental agency able to provide horizontal and vertical co-ordination of governmental initiatives. The bias towards fostering «technology push» as well as preserving dominance of state actors in science and industry is the most important inconsistency; «market pull» based tools remain underdeveloped. A new set of measures envisaged by the Strategy of Scientific, Technological and Innovation Development for 2011-2020 provides some opportunity for new policies. The government will need to revise the framework conditions restricting the development of competition, introduce demand-driven and inclusive development oriented tools as well as develop targeted and complementary regulation. Qualitative improvement of institutions requires introducin competitiveness where now economic elites dominate, and this, again, forces into the open the tension between economic pluralism and political monopoly. Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.
N35|Price, Quality, and Organization: Branding in the Japanese silk-reeling industry|Transaction costs depend on the degree of informational asymmetry in trading goods. This environment provides commitment to certain quality with an opportunity to earn quality premium given the degree of asymmetry. A device of commitment to quality could be inspection and branding either by a trader or manufacturer. In the market of raw silk, the largest export of Japan from the late nineteenth century, informational asymmetry between Japan and the Western destinations was serious and Western trading companies dominated quality control by the mid-1880s. Then, Japanese manufacturers internalized inspection and branding processes, earned quality premium, and began rapid growth.
N35|Agriculture-Nutrition Pathway in India|Our analysis illustrates one pathway between agriculture and nutrition through production of nutrients by crop and size as well as through livestock. As this pathway is subsumed in agriculture and nutrition studies focusing on anthropometric outcomes, and hardly any light is thrown on the contribution of smallholders, it is emphasised that they play an important role as producers of nutrients. Specifically, despite various disadvantages (e.g. inadequate access to extension, technology, credit and markets), they contribute largest shares of calories, protein and fats. However, profits earned (using an approximate measure) are considerably lower among them than among medium and large landholders. At least two reasons are identified in our analysis: one is limited access to markets and another is lower crop prices. A much greater emphasis on enabling higher investment, access to technology and markets through better rural infrastructure would help increase profitability of crop production. Equally important are market imperfections that manifest in lower crop prices for smallholders. How economies of scale could be exploited through farmers' groups needs careful scrutiny.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N35|Agriculture-Nutrition Pathway in India|Our analysis illustrates one pathway between agriculture and nutrition through production of nutrients by crop and size as well as through livestock. As this pathway is subsumed in agriculture and nutrition studies focusing on anthropometric outcomes, and hardly any light is thrown on the contribution of smallholders, it is emphasised that they play an important role as producers of nutrients. Specifically, despite various disadvantages (e.g. inadequate access to extension, technology, credit and markets), they contribute largest shares of calories, protein and fats. However, profits earned (using an approximate measure) are considerably lower among them than among medium and large landholders. At least two reasons are identified in our analysis: one is limited access to markets and another is lower crop prices. A much greater emphasis on enabling higher investment, access to technology and markets through better rural infrastructure would help increase profitability of crop production. Equally important are market imperfections that manifest in lower crop prices for smallholders. How economies of scale could be exploited through farmers' groups needs careful scrutiny.
N35|An Exploratory Research Over The Chinese Products On The Romanian Market|In this paper we studied the influence on the Asian products over the consumer decision making. We observed that because of the economic crisis most of the people are buying products made in China, although they now that the quality and the price are lower. The factors that change the habits and the consumer behavior decision making are: the lower wage, the small number of work places and the prices of the products. Regarding the low price of Chinese products quality, some times arouses suspicions. Romania is a parts of the European Union and on the market there are various products made in European countries but also products made in China. People with low wages from the last step of social classes are prone to buy lower prices products. Other consumers on the contrary became more sensitive and they prefer to pay more than to buy products made in China. The quality prevails over the price and sometimes over the quantity although the money to spend are dwindled. The crisis affected consumer behavior, consumers have become more attentive to the country of origin and the disposable income for shopping. In order to validate some of the ideas the authors undertook a quantitative online research. The research had as purpose to identify the main influences of the decision making when the consumer buys Chinese products. The chosen investigation was the selective survey, the research technique was the exploratory interrogation and the research instrument -structured in online questionnaire. After research we found that the economic crisis caused consumer behavior change as a result of diminishing the income buyers, the consumer is placed in a position to buy products of questionable quality at low prices, mostly from China. Lower purchase price often makes Chinese goods represent an attractive option for consumers. On the other hand, the quality of Chinese products has proven to not comply with the quality expectations of the consumers, based on the use of products manufactured in other countries. Romanian consumer has been shifted his chooses because of the very low income and at the same time the culture purchasing pattern. For this reason, this research focuses on the changing buying behaviour in the period of economic crisis.
N35|Scotch Whisky in Thailand. Strategic implications of international alliances and product adaptation. A secondary data research case study|"According to an article in 2008 issue of The Globe titled “Newly Introduced Alcohol Marketing Strategies: Thai experience” provided by the Global Alcohol Policy Alliance, Thailand is classified as an ""emerging market"" in regards to the growth and development of the alcohol industry. The industry growth and expansion is caused by the international entrepreneurs that have invaded and populated the Thai scene. International labels are now becoming more widespread; however, the domestic producers and operators are still powerful in the industry with the low price point being a contributor to its domestic labels steady market and industry success. The appeal of international labels and brands is mostly due to the ""created image of life success and friendship"" (Newly Introduced Alcohol Marketing Strategies: Thai Experience). Consumers of international labels are fascinated by the elegance of associating with such products. It seems as if only the well-off and well-rounded of business people consume international alcoholic beverages. This differentiation is important to consider especially when delivering the product to a new market. Unique promotions and marketing strategies must be considered as the international brands move into these foreign markets. Possible alternatives for international alliances are explored as well in this paper."
N35|Towards Effective Emerging Infectious Diseases Surveillance: Evidence from Kenya, Peru, Thailand, and the U.S.­‐Mexico Border|This paper examines the political economy of emerging infectious disease (EID) surveillance programs. It provides lessons learned for U.S. military medical research laboratories collaborating with developing countries and is comprised of four case studies: Kenya (U.S. Army Medical Research Unit-K or USAMRU-K), Peru (U.S. Naval Area Medical Research Unit-6 or NAMRU-6), Thailand (Armed Forces Research Institute of Medical Sciences or AFRIMS), and the U.S.-Mexico Border (Early Warning Infectious Disease Surveillance or EWIDS). The paper provides policy makers tools for improving the effectiveness of new or existing EID surveillance programs. Moreover, it offers host countries the opportunity to incorporate ideas, provide opinions, and debate the management of political and economic constraints facing their programs. Constraints are found for each case study and general recommendations are given for improving global emerging infectious disease surveillance across political, economic, and cultural dimensions. Recommendations: Involve local experts in EID surveillance; Support technology that facilitates communication (e.g. U.S.-Mexico); Develop projects in a way that benefits both parties (e.g. host country Principal Investigator instead of a foreign PI); Centralize health networks, and separate civilian and military sector influence in EID surveillance so functions do not overlap; To improve outcomes, use lessons from other regions that have experienced outbreaks.
N35|The Five-Phases of Economic Development and Institutional Evolution in China and Japan|ï»¿Based on the variable rate of gross domestic product per capita growth and its sources, this paper first identifies five phases of economic development that are common to China, Japan, and Korea : M (Malthusian), G (government-led), K (Ã la Kuznets), H (human capital based) and PD (post demographic-transition). But there are also marked differences in the onset, duration, and institutional forms of these phases across these economies. In order to understand these differences, this paper explores the agrarian origins of institutions in Qing China and Tokugawa Japan (and briefly ChosÅ n Korea) and their path-dependent transformations over those phases. In doing so, the paper employs game-theoretic reasoning and interpretations of divergent institutional evolution between China and Japan, which also clarifies the simplicity of prevailing arguments that identify East Asian developmental and institutional features with authoritarianism, collectivism, kinship-dominance, Confucianism and the like. Finally, the paper examines the relevance of the foregoing developmental discussions to the institutional agendas faced by China and Japan in their respective emergent phase-transitions. In what way can China avoid the â€œmiddle income trapâ€ ? What institutional shortcomings become evident from the Fukushima catastrophe and how can they be overcome in an aging Japan?
N35|A Cross-Cultural View of Strategic Competency: The Perspective of SME Entrepreneurs|The present study attempts to understand the prevalence of strategic competency among entrepreneurs in small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) in Australia and Malaysia. A sample of 20 SME entrepreneurs from Australia and Malaysia participated in this study. A series of interviews were conducted to probe into the behaviours that delineate strategic competency among these entrepreneurs. The results showed that SME entrepreneurs in both countries highlighted the importance of strategic competency in managing and running their ventures despite some minor variations in terms of the practices across country. This study provides entrepreneurs with knowledge about the way they should operate their business and encourages them to be conscious of the importance of strategic competency in managing their business and increasing the odds of success. The study also shows that entrepreneurs are capable of minimising the negative impact of business environment if they are willing to equip themselves with strategic competency.
N35|In Utero Exposure to the Korean War and its Long-Term Effects on Economic and Health Outcomes|Prenatal exposure to the disruptions caused by the Korean War (1950?1953) negatively affected the individual socioeconomic and health outcomes at older ages. The educational attainment and labor market performance of the subjects of the 1951 birth cohort, who were in utero during the worst time of the war, were significantly lower in 1990 and in 2000. The results of difference-in-difference estimations suggest that the magnitude of the negative cohort effect is significantly larger for individuals who were more seriously traumatized by the war. As for health outcomes, the 1950 male birth cohort exhibited a significantly higher disability rate in 2005. Women married to the men in the 1950 birth cohort are more likely to be disabled at old age. If potential selections in pregnancy, birth, and survival are considered, the negative effects of the war may be even greater than the findings in this study. The longterm effects of in utero circumstances differ by gender. This difference may be partly attributed to the strong population selection for the 1951 female cohort and the potent influence of the husband¡¯s health status over the woman¡¯s own health. Different aspects of human capital (e.g., health and cognitive skills) were impaired by in utero exposure to the war, depending on the stage of pregnancy when the negative shocks were experienced.
N35|Determinants of Mobile Telecommunication Adoption in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq|This study attempts to analyze Kurdistan Region's potentials in the effective usage of mobile telecommunication. The purpose is to identify the key factors determining the adoption of mobile telephony service. A conceptual model is specified and a number of hypotheses tested with a sample of 1,458 Kurdish mobile phone users in 2010. Discrete choice methodology is used to test two models of mobile telephony acceptance: Choice of Service Providers and Usage Pattern. The results show that Korek is the most favorite service provider in Kurdistan Region and the subscribers are mostly using the service for their work. The finding has implications for competition in the market and flows of investment resources to targeted market segments with potential expansion.
N35|Determinants of Mobile Phone Customer Satisfaction in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq|This study examines the customer satisfaction of telecomm-unication service in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. The purpose is to identify the key factors determining the customer satisfaction of telecommunication service. A conceptual model is specified and a number of hypotheses tested with a sample of 1,458 Kurdish mobile phone users in 2010. Discrete choice methodology is used to test three models of user satisfaction: Binomial logit model for overall satisfaction, and multinomial logit model for brand use and for handset preferred features. Overall the findings show that the Kurdish customers are generally satisfied with purchased mobile telecomm-unication service. The findings have implications for competition in the market and flows of investment resources to targeted market segments with potential expansion.
N35|Determinants Of Mobile Phone Customer Satisfaction In The Kurdistan Region|This study examines the customer satisfaction of the telecommunications service in Kurdistan region of Iraq. The purpose is to identify the key factors that determine the customer satisfaction of the telecommunications services. A conceptual model is specified and a number of hypotheses are tested with a sample of 1,458 Kurdish mobile phone users in 2010. Discrete choice methodology is used to test the three models for user satisfaction: Binomial logit model for overall satisfaction, and multinomial logit model for brand use and for handset preferred features. Overall the findings show that the Kurdish customers are generally satisfied with the purchased mobile telecommunication services. The findings have implications for competition in the market and the flows of investment resources to the targeted market segments for potential expansion.
N35|Lighting a Path in Pakistan (Innovations Case Narrative: Bareeze and CARE Foundation Pakistan)|No abstract is available for this item.
