N46|Análisis demográfico de la Violencia en Colombia|En este artículo se argumenta que en la historiografía colombiana existe falta de consenso en cuanto a la duración y al número de víctimas de la Violencia de mediados del siglo XX. Ambas controversias son resueltas analizando las características demográficas de la población colombiana. A partir de censos y registros vitales de la época, se estimaron algunos componentes básicos: tablas de vida, tasas de natalidad y tasas específicas de muertes violentas. Considerando el tamaño y la distribución de la población colombiana, se estimó un máximo de 57.737 víctimas mortales en el periodo 1949-58. Teniendo en cuentas que no todas las muertes violentas tendrían una causa política, esta cifra se reduce a 39.142 bajo supuestos más conservadores. Por lo tanto, las cifras estimadas en este artículo controvierten las más de 200 mil víctimas que usualmente se citan en la literatura, pero que carecen de soporte cuantitativo. Aunque fueron menos muertes que las usualmente aceptadas, los avances que permitieron reducir la mortalidad durante el siglo XX se vieron parcialmente atenuados por el exceso de mortalidad durante los años de la Violencia. **** ABSTRACT: This paper argues that there is a lack of consensus in the Colombian historiography regarding the duration and the number of victims of the political violence of the mid-twentieth century. Demographic characteristics of the Colombian population were analyzed in order to examine both controversies. Based on population censuses and vital records of the time, some basic components were estimated: life tables, birth rates, and specific rates of violent deaths. Considering the size and distribution of the Colombian population, a maximum of 57,737 deaths were estimated for the period 1949-58. Inasmuch as not all violent deaths would have a political cause, the death toll is estimated to be 39,142 people under more conservative assumptions. Therefore, the figures estimated in this paper rebut the more than 200 thousand victims that are usually cited in the literature without quantitative support. Although there were fewer deaths than those usually accepted, the advances that allowed reducing mortality during the 20th century were partially attenuated by the excess mortality during the years of la Violencia.
N46|Coca, Cocaine and Drug Trafficking|The increase in the area cultivated with coca in Colombia has cast doubt on the country’s anti-drug strategy and has encouraged skepticism about the possibility of a complete and definitive peace. Furthermore, this perception of failure has given rise to policy proposals based on the idea that illicit crops are a criminal issue, not a development one. This paper is a complete review of the available evidence and aims at organizing the information related to this debate and shedding light on the convenience or inconvenience of certain policies. There are six highly relevant facts: (i) With respect to reducing cocaine supply, the efforts in seizures and destruction of infrastructure are more efficient than the efforts in eradication. (ii) Seizures and destruction of infrastructure may help in reducing coca plantations. (iii) There is no evidence to support the hypothesis that the consumption of cocaine in Colombia has increased. (iv) Most regions of the country have seen a decrease in the amount of coca crops. However, at least one armed group is present in the regions where the cultivated area has increased. (v) Coca growing municipalities are, on average, poorer than the rest of the country. These municipalities have a low tax revenue, and reduced levels of connectivity and institutional development. (vi) The increase in the consumption of cocaine in the United States is concentrated in a specific age group and in certain states. This fact makes it difficult to relate the increase in consumption to an exogenous increase in the supply.
N46|Historical grievances and war dynamics: Old land conflicts as a cause of current forced displacements in Colombia|We explore the role of unfairly resolved land conflicts on the long-run dynamics of Colombia’s war. We claimed that inadequately or unfairly resolved land conflicts can explain not only the emergence of rebel groups but also their repertoires and targets of violence—notably forced displacements. The identification strategy used combines the use of instrumental variables — distance of the municipality to the railroad in 1900- with a methodology of neighbor-pair fixed effects to test the causal relation between old land conflicts and recent forced displacements. Moreover, we use mediation analysis to test the mechanisms that we hypothesize as links between the independent and dependent variables—presence of armed groups and unfair land reform allocations. Our results show that, indeed, early 20th century land conflicts and recent forced displacements are causally linked, and their connection is mainly produced through the mediation of unfair land reform allocations and the presence of violent armed groups. We argue that unfair land reforms harbor the formation of peasant-based rebel groups and such groups promote displacements in the very same places that experienced old land conflict.
N46|Análisis demográfico de la Violencia en Colombia|En este artículo se argumenta que en la historiografía colombiana existe falta de consenso en cuanto a la duración y al número de víctimas de la Violencia de mediados del siglo XX. Ambas controversias son resueltas analizando las características demográficas de la población colombiana. A partir de censos y registros vitales de la época, se estimaron algunos componentes básicos: tablas de vida, tasas de natalidad y tasas específicas de muertes violentas. Considerando el tamaño y la distribución de la población colombiana, se estimó un máximo de 57.737 víctimas mortales en el periodo 1949-58. Teniendo en cuentas que no todas las muertes violentas tendrían una causa política, esta cifra se reduce a 39.142 bajo supuestos más conservadores. Por lo tanto, las cifras estimadas en este artículo controvierten las más de 200 mil víctimas que usualmente se citan en la literatura, pero que carecen de soporte cuantitativo. Aunque fueron menos muertes que las usualmente aceptadas, los avances que permitieron reducir la mortalidad durante el siglo XX se vieron parcialmente atenuados por el exceso de mortalidad durante los años de la Violencia. **** ABSTRACT: This paper argues that there is a lack of consensus in the Colombian historiography regarding the duration and the number of victims of the political violence of the mid-twentieth century. Demographic characteristics of the Colombian population were analyzed in order to examine both controversies. Based on population censuses and vital records of the time, some basic components were estimated: life tables, birth rates, and specific rates of violent deaths. Considering the size and distribution of the Colombian population, a maximum of 57,737 deaths were estimated for the period 1949-58. Inasmuch as not all violent deaths would have a political cause, the death toll is estimated to be 39,142 people under more conservative assumptions. Therefore, the figures estimated in this paper rebut the more than 200 thousand victims that are usually cited in the literature without quantitative support. Although there were fewer deaths than those usually accepted, the advances that allowed reducing mortality during the 20th century were partially attenuated by the excess mortality during the years of la Violencia.
N46|The Geography of Dictatorship and Support for Democracy|We show that proximity to military bases during the Pinochet dictatorship in Chile (1973-1990) exposed civilians to more state repression and led to (i) stronger electoral opposition to Pinochet and (ii) a long-lasting strengthening of democratic values. Our empirical strategy exploits the location of military bases during the many decades of democratic rule before the military coup, which we show is unrelated to pre-coup electoral outcomes. We find that residents of counties housing these bases both registered and voted â€œNoâ€ to Pinochetâ€™s continuation in power at higher rates in the crucial 1988 plebiscite that bolstered the democratic transition. These counties also experienced more civilian deaths and forced disappearances during the dictatorship, indicating that increased exposure to repression affected voters' behavior. After democratization, residents of these counties who were exposed to the military coup report greater support for democracy in surveys, but there are no persistent effects on electoral outcomes.
N46|Geography of Dictatorship and Support for Democracy|We study whether exposure to the military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet in Chile (1973-1990) affected political attitudes and behavior, exploiting the plausibly exogenous location of military bases shortly before the coup that brought Pinochet to power. We show that residents of counties housing military bases both registered to vote and voted “No” to Pinochet’s continuation in power at higher rates in the crucial 1988 plebiscite that bolstered the democratic transition. Counties with military bases also experienced substantially more civilian deaths during the dictatorship, suggesting that increased exposure to repression is an important mechanism driving the larger rates of political participation and regime opposition. Evidence from survey responses and elections after democratization shows that military presence led to long-lasting support for democracy without changing political ideologies or electoral outcomes.
N46|Geopolítica do minério de ferro brasileiro no entreguerras<BR>[Geopolitics of the Brazilian iron ore in the interwar period]|This work explores the conflict in the international sphere in the interwar period regarding the exploitation of the large iron ore reserves in the central region of the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, along with some of their implications. The literature that covers the debate about the steel-making problem and iron ore export, which occurred in Brazil from the 1910s to the early 1940s, largely neglected the differentiation of interests and antagonism between the world powers regarding the exploitation of these mineral resources. I argue here that this exploitation had significant strategic potential implications to the balance of power among European powers within the configuration established after the Treaty of Versailles. This circumstance unfolded into relevant events in Brazil, and allows us to understand both that ARBED came to the country to create the Companhia Siderúrgica Belgo-Mineira and the emergence of an openly antiexport discourse from some prominent politicians from Minas Gerais.
N46|The impact of the EU-MERCOSUR deal on Africa in times of growing protectionism|ABSTRACT & RÉSUMÉ & ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : The EU-Mercosur deal of 2019 was heralded as a milestone of free trade agreements worldwide in times of growing protectionism and nationalism. Critics condemned deficient ecological and sanitary standards as well as persistent non-tariff barriers to trade. The EU farm lobby complained about a sell-out of European interests in advantage of dominating multinationals. However, the fatal repercussions of the deal on Africa have rarely been mentioned. They include increasing cut-throat competition and asymmetrical partnership to the detriment of the African poor. Given the additional destructive impact of the Brexit crisis, African governments should use their increased bargaining power vis à vis the EU27 and the UK, in times of stiffening competition concerning the EU’s Africa trade with new global players such as China and India, to enforce EPAs re-negotiations on a level playing field. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RÉSUMÉ : L'accord de 2019 entre l'UE et le Mercosur a été qualifié de jalon dans les accords de libre-échange dans le monde entier à une époque de protectionnisme et de nationalisme grandissants. Les critiques ont condamné les normes écologiques et sanitaires déficientes, ainsi que les obstacles non-tarifaires persistants au commerce. Le lobby agricole de l'UE s'est plaint de la vente d'intérêts européens au profit de multinationales dominantes. Cependant, les répercussions fatales de l'accord sur l'Afrique ont rarement été mentionnées. Ils incluent une concurrence acharnée et un partenariat asymétrique au détriment des pauvres en Afrique. Compte tenu de l'impact destructeur supplémentaire de la crise du Brexit, les gouvernements africains devraient utiliser leur pouvoir de négociation accru vis-à-vis de l'UE27 et du Royaume-Uni, en période de durcissement de la concurrence concernant le commerce africaine de l'UE avec des nouveaux acteurs mondiaux tels que la Chine et l'Inde, pour imposer des renégociations des APEs sur un pied d’égalité. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : Das Abkommen zwischen der EU und dem Mercosur von 2019 wurde als Meilenstein für weltweite Freihandelsabkommen in Zeiten wachsenden Protektionismus und Nationalismus eingeläutet. Kritiker bemängelten unzureichende Umwelt- und Hygienestandards sowie anhaltende nichttarifäre Handelshemmnisse. Die EU-Agrarlobby beschwerte sich außerdem über einen Ausverkauf europäischer Interessen zugunsten dominierender multinationaler Unternehmen. Die fatalen Auswirkungen des Abkommens auf Afrika wurden jedoch selten erwähnt. Dazu gehören ein zunehmender Verdrängungswettbewerb und eine asymmetrische Partnerschaft zum Nachteil der afrikanischen Armen. Angesichts der zusätzlichen destruktiven Auswirkungen der Brexit-Krise sollten die afrikanischen Regierungen, in Zeiten zunehmenden Wettbewerbs im Afrikahandel der EU mit neuen globalen Akteuren wie China und Indien, ihre verstärkte Verhandlungsmacht gegenüber der EU27 und Großbritannien einsetzen, um Neuverhandlungen der Wirtschaftlichen Partnerschaftsabkommen auf Augenhöhe durchzusetzen.
N46|L'impact de l'accord UE-MERCOSUR sur l'Afrique à l’heure de protectionnisme croissant<BR>[The impact of the EU-MERCOSUR deal on Africa in times of growing protectionism]|ABSTRACT & RÉSUMÉ & ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : The EU-Mercosur deal of 2019 was heralded as a milestone of free trade agreements worldwide in times of growing protectionism and nationalism. Critics condemned deficient ecological and sanitary standards as well as persistent non-tariff barriers to trade. The EU farm lobby complained about a sell-out of European interests in advantage of dominating multinationals. However, the fatal repercussions of the deal on Africa have rarely been mentioned. They include increasing cut-throat competition and asymmetrical partnership to the detriment of the African poor. Given the additional destructive impact of the Brexit crisis, African governments should use their increased bargaining power vis à vis the EU27 and the UK, in times of stiffening competition concerning the EU’s Africa trade with new global players such as China and India, to enforce EPAs re-negotiations on a level playing field. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RÉSUMÉ : L'accord de 2019 entre l'UE et le Mercosur a été qualifié de jalon dans les accords de libre-échange dans le monde entier à une époque de protectionnisme et de nationalisme grandissants. Les critiques ont condamné les normes écologiques et sanitaires déficientes, ainsi que les obstacles non-tarifaires persistants au commerce. Le lobby agricole de l'UE s'est plaint de la vente d'intérêts européens au profit de multinationales dominantes. Cependant, les répercussions fatales de l'accord sur l'Afrique ont rarement été mentionnées. Ils incluent une concurrence acharnée et un partenariat asymétrique au détriment des pauvres en Afrique. Compte tenu de l'impact destructeur supplémentaire de la crise du Brexit, les gouvernements africains devraient utiliser leur pouvoir de négociation accru vis-à-vis de l'UE27 et du Royaume-Uni, en période de durcissement de la concurrence concernant le commerce africaine de l'UE avec des nouveaux acteurs mondiaux tels que la Chine et l'Inde, pour imposer des renégociations des APEs sur un pied d’égalité. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ZUSAMMENFASSUNG : Das Abkommen zwischen der EU und dem Mercosur von 2019 wurde als Meilenstein für weltweite Freihandelsabkommen in Zeiten wachsenden Protektionismus und Nationalismus eingeläutet. Kritiker bemängelten unzureichende Umwelt- und Hygienestandards sowie anhaltende nichttarifäre Handelshemmnisse. Die EU-Agrarlobby beschwerte sich außerdem über einen Ausverkauf europäischer Interessen zugunsten dominierender multinationaler Unternehmen. Die fatalen Auswirkungen des Abkommens auf Afrika wurden jedoch selten erwähnt. Dazu gehören ein zunehmender Verdrängungswettbewerb und eine asymmetrische Partnerschaft zum Nachteil der afrikanischen Armen. Angesichts der zusätzlichen destruktiven Auswirkungen der Brexit-Krise sollten die afrikanischen Regierungen, in Zeiten zunehmenden Wettbewerbs im Afrikahandel der EU mit neuen globalen Akteuren wie China und Indien, ihre verstärkte Verhandlungsmacht gegenüber der EU27 und Großbritannien einsetzen, um Neuverhandlungen der Wirtschaftlichen Partnerschaftsabkommen auf Augenhöhe durchzusetzen.
N46|¿Coludir o no? Las negociaciones entre Brasil y Colombia para limitar la oferta de café en la década de 1930|Con la crisis de 1929 y el consecuente desplome de los precios del café, que solo tuvieron una recuperación apreciable tras el Convenio Interamericano de cuotas firmado en 1940, Brasil y Colombia buscaron llegar a acuerdos que permitieran garantizar un precio rentable para los productores y así mantener el funcionamiento de sus economías, altamente dependientes del comercio internacional del grano. Con la ayuda de la teoría de juegos, muestro cómo factores internos de cada país y algunos acontecimientos externos como la guerra entre Colombia y Perú (1932-1934) y la Segunda Guerra Mundial fueron fundamentales en la posición que cada país asumió en los diferentes periodos de negociación y, por lo mismo, en los equilibrios resultantes en cada uno de estos.
N46|Conflicto Armado, Estado y Homicidios en Colombia: Una Aproximación a Nivel Local|En este documento se estudian las relaciones causales entre conflicto armado, disuasión del crimen y violencia homicida. Se emplean datos de corte transversal a nivel municipal que comprenden el periodo del 2000 al 2014. El estudio utiliza una muestra que contiene aquellos municipios que tuvieron presencia del Estado en 1794 y a los municipios adyacentes. Lo anterior con el fin de tener una muestra más homogénea y realizar comparaciones entre municipios similares. La estrategia de identificación emplea efectos fijos de municipios vecinos, variable instrumental y análisis de mediación. Como variable instrumental se utiliza la distancia lineal de la cabecera municipal a la frontera de la zona de distensión, creada en 1998. Los resultados muestran que indicadores de disuasión del crimen, como fuerza policial y capturas, se afectan negativamente por la presencia del conflicto armado. Pero que este efecto negativo no es la causa de un aumento en los homicidios municipales. Por tanto, se muestra que la fuerza policial y las capturas no son canales a través de los cuales el conflicto afecta a los homicidios. Por último, se encuentran efectos heterogéneos de la presencia histórica de Estado. En aquellos municipios con una presencia más larga del Estado en el tiempo, el gobierno asigna mayor número de policías como respuesta al conflicto armado. Como consecuencia de esto, las tasas de homicidios en esos municipios disminuyen.
N46|Tierras, poder político y violencia en Cereté, Chinú, Ciénaga de Oro y Sahagún: un breve recuento histórico y condiciones actuales|Este trabajo estudia los procesos históricos bajo las cuales se han configurado las condiciones actuales de cuatro municipios pertenecientes a la región Atlántica Media de la Encuesta Longitudinal Colombiana de la Universidad de los Andes (ELCA). El artículo analiza con evidencia histórica cuatro procesos fundamentales: la fallida transición de una economía agraria a una moderna, la distribución y tenencia de la tierra, la relación entre la economía hacendataria y el poder político, y el surgimiento de la movilización y violencia. El análisis muestra que la debilidad estatal y la adjudicación de baldíos permitieron la concentración de la tierra alrededor de aquellas familias que accedieron rápidamente al poder político. Pese a los intentos de reforma adelantados a nivel central, el proceso de concentración continuó a lo largo del siglo XX y permitió a estas familias cooptar los espacios de representación a través de la adopción del clientelismo moderno, compatible con el patronazgo agrario que caracterizó la organización social de dichos municipios desde el siglo XIX. Esto llevó a la movilización del campesinado y a diferentes formas de violencia a lo largo del siglo XX, además del estancamiento económico y social que viven estos municipios actualmente. El estudio usa fuentes primarias que van desde documentos oficiales y no oficiales del siglo XIX hasta las estadísticas de la ELCA para la última década.
N46|The Geography of Repression and Support for Democracy: Evidence from the Pinochet Dictatorship|We show that exposure to repression under dictatorship increases support for democracy and contributes to regime change when a democratic window of opportunity arises. Studying the military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet in Chile, we exploit the fact that the predetermined location of military bases predicts local levels of civilian victimization, but is unrelated to historical political preferences. Using two-stage least squares, we show that increased exposure to repression during the dictatorship led to higher voter registration and higher opposition to Pinochet’s continuation in power in the 1988 plebiscite that triggered the democratic transition. Complementary survey data confirms that individuals with greater exposure to repression during the military regime continue to have stronger preferences for democracy. However, exposure to repression does not affect election outcomes after democratization.
N46|Do Museums Promote Reconciliation? A Field Experiment on Transitional Justice|Can transitional justice museums promote reconciliation after political violence? Existing scholarship suggests that transitional justice policies aid processes of reconciliation and promote tolerance by acknowledging and imparting a shared history of past events. These notions motivate the widespread construction of transitional justice museums. Skeptics, however, caution that such policies can induce a polarizing effect, ingraining societal divisions. This project draws on evidence from a novel field experiment studying the Museum of Memory and Human Rights in Santiago, Chile to answer this question. Our findings suggest that though perceptions of the museum vary along ideological lines, Chilean university students display greater support for democratic institutions, are more likely to reject institutions associated with the repressive period, and are more likely to approve of restorative transitional justice policies after visiting regardless of their ideological priors. These results suggest that memorial museums can support processes of reconciliation by influencing political attitudes of visitors.
N46|The Geography of Repression and Support for Democracy: Evidence from the Pinochet Dictatorship|We show that exposure to repression under dictatorship increases support for democracy and contributes to regime change when a democratic window of opportunity arises. Studying the military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet in Chile, we exploit the fact that the predetermined location of military bases predicts local levels of civilian victimization, but is unrelated to historical political preferences. Using two-stage least squares, we show that increased exposure to repression during the dictatorship led to higher voter registration and higher opposition to Pinochet’s continuation in power in the 1988 plebiscite that triggered the democratic transition. Complementary survey data confirms that individuals with greater exposure to repression during the military regime continue to have stronger preferences for democracy. However, exposure to repression does not affect election outcomes after democratization.
N46|What determines administrative capacity in developing countries?|Abstract While it is recognised that effective state institutions are pivotal for economic development, their origins and what explains their cross-country differences are not well understood. We focus on the quality of budgetary institutions in developing economies, as efficient public financial planning in such countries is crucial for public goods and services provision. We argue that political institutions, seen as the system of checks and balances on the executive, are a key ingredient for building such capacity. Exploiting a recent database on public financial management performance in developing economies and an instrumental variable strategy, we generally find that stronger constraints on the executive have a positive effect on the ability of states to design, implement and monitor their budget. Our findings are robust to different specifications, controls and estimation methods.
N46|La mortalidad de la Guerra de los Mil Días, 1899-1902|La Guerra de los Mil Días fue la más letal y costosa guerra civil de Colombia. Hay cierto consenso sobre las consecuencias materiales, pero menos atención ha recibido la pérdida de vidas humanas. Aunque muchos historiadores repiten la cifra de 100.000 víctimas, no está respaldada por un análisis formal. Dado que la población apenas superaba los 4 millones, es una cantidad elevada que amerita una revisión cuidadosa. Utilizando los censos colombianos y los registros del Human Mortality Database, este documento estima el patrón de edad de la mortalidad y evalúa el aumento que estaría relacionado con la guerra. Observando la experiencia de otros países, los modelos ayudan a estimar un valor máximo posible de pérdidas humanas. Si la mortalidad colombiana hubiera aumentado tanto como en Francia durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, el número de víctimas no superaría los 100.000. En un caso mucho menos extremo, si hubiera aumentado tanto como en Inglaterra y Gales durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, el número de muertos sería de 38.724. ******ABSTRACT: The War of the Thousand Days was the most deadly and costly civil war in Colombian history. There is some consensus about the material consequences, but less attention has been paid to human losses. Although the figure of 100,000 casualties is repeated, no support has been provided by formal analysis. Since the population barely exceeded 4 million, it is a high figure deserving a careful reexamination. Using Colombian censuses and the Human Mortality Database, this paper estimates the age-pattern of mortality and assesses the increase that would be related to war. Observing the experience of other countries, models help to estimate maximum possible human losses. If the Colombian mortality had increased as much as in France during World War I, the number of casualties would not exceed the 100,000. In a far less extreme case, if the it had increased as much as in England and Wales during WWI, the death toll would be as high as 38,724.
N46|Forming State through Land Reform Policy: The Dynamics of Baldío Allocation in Peripheral Colombia|This paper analyses land policy when the state lacks the monopoly of legitimate violence (MLV) through a territory. I use historical data for Colombia to empirically assess the dynamics through which the central state allocates land in such a scenario. I argue that colonization processes directed towards peripheral areas with lack of the MLV induces the state to attempt building capacity using land policy. Public goods nevertheless do not follow. I use an instrumental variable strategy in order to examine these hypotheses. Results show that rural migration towards the peripheral areas accounts for 42.01% of the total number and 68.55% of the total hectares of public land allocations. Allocations however account for only the 7.89% of the number policemen and the 6% of the number of policemen per inhabitant in these regions. Moreover, both their total and per hectare effect on police presence is much higher in the integrated zones than in the peripheral ones.
N46|Violencia, Procesos de Paz e Inversión Industrial en Colombia|El acuerdo de paz entre el gobierno de Colombia y el grupo guerrillero de las FARC alcanzado en noviembre de 2016 ha despertado interés académico desde diferentes áreas del conocimiento. Desde la economía, en particular, surgen preguntas acerca de los posibles efectos del acuerdo de paz sobre la productividad, la asignación de factores y el crecimiento económico. Con el objeto de contribuir a la identificación de los efectos económicos de los procesos de paz y de la violencia, en este documento se investiga el efecto de los procesos del Caguán (1999-2002), Santa Fe de Ralito (2003-2006) y de los actos violentos sobre la inversión privada en Colombia. Con este propósito, se analiza la inversión anual bruta en activos fijos de las firmas manufactureras de todo el país en un periodo de tiempo caracterizado por el recrudecimiento del conflicto armado, por un posterior descenso en los niveles de violencia y por dos negociaciones de paz. Los resultados sugieren que: (i) la presencia de las FARC tiene un efecto negativo en la inversión manufacturera, (ii) la presencia de las AUC genera un aumento de la inversión, (iii) las tácticas ofensivas de las FARC generan caídas significativas en la inversión de la industria, (iv) ataques a la propiedad privada llevadas a cabo por las AUC producen reducciones en la inversión y v) ninguno de los dos procesos de paz generó un efecto significativo en la toma de decisiones de inversión.
N46|Coca, cocaína y narcotráfico|El aumento en el área cultivada con coca en Colombia ha generado dudas con respecto a la estrategia antinarcóticos del país, y ha estimulado el escepticismo con respecto a las posibilidades de lograr una paz completa y definitiva. Asimismo, la percepción de fracaso ha dado pie a propuestas de política basadas en la idea de que los cultivos ilícitos son un problema de criminalidad y no de desarrollo. En este documento, se hace una revisión completa de la evidencia disponible con el fin de ordenar la información asociada a este debate y arrojar luces acerca de la conveniencia o inconveniencia de algunas medidas de política. En particular, hay seis hechos de alta relevancia: (i) Para educir la oferta de cocaína son más eficientes los esfuerzos en incautaciones y destrucción de infraestructura que los esfuerzos en erradicación. (ii) Asimismo, las incautaciones y la destrucción de infraestructura también ayudan a reducir los cultivos de coca. (iii) No hay evidencia que apoye la hipótesis de que el consumo nacional de cocaína ha aumentado. (iv) En la mayoría de las regiones del país han caído los cultivos de coca. No obstante, las regiones donde ha aumentado el área cultivada tienen presencia de uno o más grupos armados. (v) Los municipios cocaleros son, en promedio, más pobres que el resto de municipios del país. Estos municipios tienen ingresos tributarios bajos, bajos niveles de conectividad y bajos niveles de desarrollo institucional. (vi) El aumento del consumo de cocaína en Estados Unidos está concentrado en un grupo etario y en algunos estados. Este hecho hace difícil relacionar el aumento en consumo con un aumento exógeno en la oferta.
N46|Political Economics and Possibilism: Towards an Open Notion of Development|Hirschman was both a pioneer and a dissenter of development economics. He shares with the high theory the virtues and misfortunes of committing to modernize the underdeveloped world, but his exposure to the politics of development in Latin America gave new life to his early insights. Revealing the political dimensions of his concepts on economic development, Hirschman provides some mini-building blocks for a political economics consistent with an open notion of development. This inquiry, however, should not be seen exclusively through a methodological lens; it is grounded on his possibilism, a claim about modernity and the possibility of change. This article reconsiders the legacy of Hirschman’s thought for current debates on development and calls for recuperating his commitment to open societies.
N46|La mortalidad de la Guerra de los Mil Días, 1899-1902|La Guerra de los Mil Días fue la más letal y costosa guerra civil de Colombia. Hay cierto consenso sobre las consecuencias materiales, pero menos atención ha recibido la pérdida de vidas humanas. Aunque muchos historiadores repiten la cifra de 100.000 víctimas, no está respaldada por un análisis formal. Dado que la población apenas superaba los 4 millones, es una cantidad elevada que amerita una revisión cuidadosa. Utilizando los censos colombianos y los registros del Human Mortality Database, este documento estima el patrón de edad de la mortalidad y evalúa el aumento que estaría relacionado con la guerra. Observando la experiencia de otros países, los modelos ayudan a estimar un valor máximo posible de pérdidas humanas. Si la mortalidad colombiana hubiera aumentado tanto como en Francia durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, el número de víctimas no superaría los 100.000. En un caso mucho menos extremo, si hubiera aumentado tanto como en Inglaterra y Gales durante la Primera Guerra Mundial, el número de muertos sería de 38.724. ******ABSTRACT: The War of the Thousand Days was the most deadly and costly civil war in Colombian history. There is some consensus about the material consequences, but less attention has been paid to human losses. Although the figure of 100,000 casualties is repeated, no support has been provided by formal analysis. Since the population barely exceeded 4 million, it is a high figure deserving a careful reexamination. Using Colombian censuses and the Human Mortality Database, this paper estimates the age-pattern of mortality and assesses the increase that would be related to war. Observing the experience of other countries, models help to estimate maximum possible human losses. If the Colombian mortality had increased as much as in France during World War I, the number of casualties would not exceed the 100,000. In a far less extreme case, if the it had increased as much as in England and Wales during WWI, the death toll would be as high as 38,724.
N46|Regulatory policy in Latin America: An analysis of the state of play|Regulation is a critical tool by which governments seek to foster economic growth and social well-being. Countries in Latin America are increasingly investing in processes and institutions that support regulatory quality. Based on the OECD Indicators of Regulatory Policy and Governance (iREG) for Latin America 2016, this paper explores the state of play of regulatory policy in seven countries in Latin America and identifies potential opportunities to improve. The annex includes individual profiles of each of the countries covered, highlighting key achievements and challenges. The analysis of the data shows that countries in the LAC region have taken steps to improve their regulatory governance framework but important gaps remain in most countries in terms of the implementation of key tools, such as consultation with stakeholders, Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) and ex post evaluation. Strengthening the institutional oversight of the regulatory process will be critical to ensure the consistent implementation of these tools in the future.
N46|El Estado Rentista. El ejemplo del Perú en el siglo XIX| Una indudable herencia del Estado colonial, era el concepto de “regalías de la Corona”, aplicado a los bienes “sin dueño” (res nullius para el derecho romano). Las del Estado republicano siguieron la misma tónica, con las “rentas de aduana” y el tributo indígena; esos conceptos doctrinarios se aplicaron luego al guano y al salitre. Sobre esta base la ponencia persigue como objeto desarrollar y analizar las finanzas estatales hasta la guerra del Pacífico, por el período 1836-80, aproximadamente. JEL Classification-JEL: H20, H63, N46
N46|Unlikely Democrats: Economic Elite Uncertainty under Dictatorship and Support for Democratization|Influential recent scholarship assumes that authoritarian rulers act as perfect agents of economic elites, foreclosing the possibility that economic elites may at times prefer democracy absent a popular threat from below. Motivated by a puzzling set of democratic transitions, we relax this assumption and examine how elite uncertainty about dictatorship—a novel and generalizable causal mechanism impacting democratization—can induce elite support for democracy. We construct a noisy signaling model in which a potential autocrat attempts to convince economic elites that he will be a faithful partner should elites install him in power. The model generates clear predictions about how two major types of elite uncertainty—uncertainty in a potential autocratic successor's policies produced by variance in the pool of would‐be dictator types, and uncertainty in the truthfulness of policy promises made by potential autocratic successors—impact the likelihood of elite‐driven democratization. We demonstrate the model's plausibility in a series of cases of democratic transition.
N46|Direitos de propriedade, agricultura e controle social: representações oficiais sobre aldeamentos de índios e colônias agrícolas da Amazônia, décadas de 1840-80|This article aims to determine the public agents’ understanding of land rights granted to Indian settlements (aldeamentos) and settlers in agricultural colonies in nineteenth century Amazonia. A grant of the right to use the land, that is, the legal warrant granting the permanence of the Indians’ and the settlers’ rights to use the land resources allocated to the settlements and colonies was contingent on regular cultivation of the land and on agricultural activities. Based on the reports and correspondence of the provincial administrations, we will show that both the Indian settlements and the agricultural colonies were represented as model spaces for socialization, evidencing a governmental policy of institutionalizing land usage rights subject to the requirement of agricultural work. This relationship is represented as one of social stratification, in which the settlers were afforded the social status of autonomous farmers and granted individual but initially conditional property rights, while the Indians were allocated the status of apprentice labourers on collective land managed by an appointed settlement director; they could earn autonomous farmer status through gradual and conditional acquisition of the property rights of parcels of land. Finally, we offer some instances of conflict, resistance and difficulties in implementation of this policy, as found in official communications.
N46|El Contralor de Exportaciones e Importaciones en Uruguay (1941-1959)|Entre 1931 y 1959, la economí­a uruguaya estuvo caracterizada por el protagonismo del Estado en materia económico-social y la adopción de medidas (sanción de normas, creación de organismos públicos y público-privados, etc.) para instrumentar el dirigismo estatal. De especial relevancia, dentro de las polí­ticas económicas estatales, fue la defensa de la moneda local y el manejo estatal de las divisas disponibles y que ingresaban al paí­s. En este sentido, Uruguay implementó el sistema de Control de Cambios (mayo/1931), siendo uno de los pilares de esta estructura administrativa el Contralor de Exportaciones e Importaciones, creado a principios del año 1941, luego de 10 años en que se sucedieron distintas oficinas y organismos públicos encargados del manejo del comercio exterior y de la disposición de las divisas provenientes de la exportación de bienes. Este documento analiza el panorama institucional del Contralor de Cambios hacia principios de los cuarenta en que alcanza su consolidación con la creación del Contralor de Exportaciones e Importaciones (enero/1941). Se estudia, en particular, la gestión de este Instituto que actuará hasta fines de 1959, momento en que se eliminó el sistema de Control de Cambios, en su estado más puro, al sancionarse la 'Ley de Reforma Cambiaria y Monetaria' (Ley 12.670, diciembre/1959).
N46|Fiscalidad e independencia en Quito, 1780-1830|In this article an analysis is made of the changes and continuities of taxation in Quito between 1780 and 1830, looking at its development as a dependent variable of wars between imperial powers and the independence war, the outcome of which determined the jurisdiction and fiscal policy in the city. In this sense, an overview is provided of the dynamics and composition of the income and expenditure through the reconstruction of a quantitative series, which show that, during 1780 and 1830, there was the process of militarization in the investment of resources and a loss of the central role of the city in the region, due to the reduction of the fiscal transfer. KEY Classification-JEL: N4. N46. N460. H2
N46|Usury laws and private credit in Lima, Peru. Evidence from notarized records|I examine the impact of usury laws on the Peruvian credit market between 1825 and 1852. Using a new data set of nearly 2,000 loans from archival sources, I show that the repeal of colonial anti-usury laws in early 1833 had an important effect on the allocation of credit in Lima. It increased interest rates and promoted access to credit. Furthermore, lenders made loans with greater maturities after the repeal of usury laws.
N46|Revealing the preferences of the FARC|Currently the FARC and the Colombian Government are negotiating a peace agreement in the city of Havana in Cuba. Although the results of these talks are uncertain and the final goal of the rebels is not observable, it is possible to analyze their strategy under different scenarios and associate the actions undertaken by the insurgents with their real willingness to cease violence. We model the strategy of an insurgent group that follows a pattern of prolonged popular war but negotiates with the government. The main results of the model are the following: (i) If the marginal probability of signing a peace treaty is significantly low when the guerrilla invests little on non-violent strategies, then they will continue to fight and allocate all its resources on military power. (ii) If the guerrillas value political participation as they value a complete revolution, and the depreciation of its military power is higher than the budget they can allocate; then the optimal strategy is to avoid military confrontation and devote all the resources to sign a peace treaty. (iii) By increasing its military power the government can generate a change in the strategy of the rebels and, particularly, a reduction in the budget allocated to military power.
N46|La miseria en Colombia|Durante la mayor parte de la historia del país, la mayoría de los colombianos han vivido en pobreza absoluta y han estado atestados de violencia e inseguridad. Mi argumento es que el alcance y la persistencia de la pobreza y la violencia en Colombia son una consecuencia de las facetas extractivas de las instituciones políticas. Estas tienen dos dimensiones principales: la baja calidad de la “democracia que en realidad existe” y la naturaleza “de doble cara” del débil e inefectivo Estado colombiano. Proporciono un análisis de la lógica política que mantiene en su lugar los aspectos extractivos de estas instituciones y cómo estos interactúan como los aspectos incluyentes de las instituciones colombianas. Argumento que las instituciones colombianas lentamente se han tornado menos extractivas con el paso del tiempo, debido a los intentos de las élites por contrarrestar algunas de las contradicciones internas de la coexistencia de las instituciones extractivas e incluyentes. Esto ha resultado en disminuciones de la pobreza y violencia, así como en una modernización gradual del país. Sin embargo, las poderosas fuerzas que han hecho que Colombia siga siendo un país pobre y violento siguen funcionando y reproduciéndose. Planteo cómo podría ser la solución de estos problemas en Colombia.
N46|El impacto de las petroleras extranjeras en Colombia: El caso de Standard Oil, 1919 - 1930|Este trabajo examina el papel del Estado colombiano en las negociaciones con las compañías extranjeras para la explotación de hidrocarburos en Colombia en la década de 1920. Se toma como estudio de caso las desventajosas negociaciones del gobierno colombiano con la Standard Oil de Nueva Jersey, controlada por la familia Rockefeller, a través de dos filiales: la Tropical Oil Company, para la explotación de los primeros yacimientos petroleros colombianos, y la Andian National Corporation, para la construcción del primer oleoducto Barrancabermeja-Cartagena. El trabajo se basa en la investigación de archivo que realizó la autora en 2015, en el Rockefeller Archive Center, en Sleepy Hollow, Estado de Nueva York. La principal conclusión es que, en esa época, Colombia carecía de las instituciones financieras, los conocimientos técnicos y la legislación petrolera para poder pactar de manera justa la explotación de sus recursos mineros. El débil Estado colombiano no estaba en condiciones de asumir la explotación de sus recursos, y menos aún de imponer las condiciones de negociación a unas millonarias corporaciones petroleras con gran poder de manipulación política.
N46|Symbioses imperative and convenient: The Evolution of Crony Capitalism in Puebla, Mexico, 1920-1940|Several historians have used “crony capitalism” to label the cozy and inefficient relationships between business and political elites prevailing in Mexico since the 19th century. But it is a nebulous term, stigmatizing various behaviors not all of which are harmful to state formation or economic growth. I seek to solve this problem of conceptual vagueness by differentiating between forms of state-capital interdependence. The first, necessary to both parties at times of uncertainty, I term a “symbiotic imperative,” which operates between institutions and purports to serve the greater good. The second, involving exchanges of favors that are merely advantageous, I term “symbiotic convenience,” which tends to operate at a more interpersonal level. As a case study, I consider relations between governors and the leading industrialist William Jenkins in Puebla after the Revolution.
N46|When the Victor Cannot Claim the Spoils: Institutional Incentives for Professionalizing Patronage States|Merit-based selection of bureaucrats is central to state capacity building, yet rare in developing countries. Most executives instead favor patronage -political discretion- in public employment. This paper proposes and tests an original theory to explain when executives forsake patronage for merit. The theory exploits exogenous variation in the institutional design of patronage states. In some, constitutions and budget laws monopolize patronage powers in the executive; in others, patronage benefits accrue to the legislature and public employees. When institutions fragment patronage powers and challengers control other government branches, merit becomes more incentive-compatible: it enables executives to deprive challengers of patronage while enhancing public goods provision to court electoral support. Drawing on 130 face-to-face elite interviews, a comparison of reforms in Paraguay, the Dominican Republic and the United States validates the theory. How patronage states are institutionally designed thus shapes their reform prospects: fragmented control over bad government can incentivize good government reforms.
N46|Was it Uruguay or coffee? The causes of the beef jerky industry’s decline in southern Brazil (1850 – 1889)[Was it Uruguay or coffee? The causes of the beef jerky industry’s decline in southern Brazil (1850 – 1889)]|"What caused the decline of beef jerky production in Brazil? The main sustenance for slaves, beef jerky was the most important industry in southern Brazil. Nevertheless, by 1850, producers were already worried that they could not compete with Uruguayan industry. Traditional interpretations attribute this decline to the differences in productivity between labor markets; indeed, Brazil utilized slave labor,whereas Uruguay had abolished slavery in 1842. Recent research also raises the possibility of a Brazilian ""Dutch disease"",which resulted from the coffee export boom. We test both hypotheses and argue that Brazilian production's decline was associated with structural changes in demand for low-quality meat. Trade protection policies created disincentives for Brazilian producers to increase productivity and diversify its cattle industry."
N46|Symbioses imperative and convenient: The Evolution of Crony Capitalism in Puebla, Mexico, 1920-1940|Several historians have used “crony capitalism” to label the cozy and inefficient relationships between business and political elites prevailing in Mexico since the 19th century. But it is a nebulous term, stigmatizing various behaviors not all of which are harmful to state formation or economic growth. I seek to solve this problem of conceptual vagueness by differentiating between forms of state-capital interdependence. The first, necessary to both parties at times of uncertainty, I term a “symbiotic imperative,” which operates between institutions and purports to serve the greater good. The second, involving exchanges of favors that are merely advantageous, I term “symbiotic convenience,” which tends to operate at a more interpersonal level. As a case study, I consider relations between governors and the leading industrialist William Jenkins in Puebla after the Revolution.
N46|Exports from the Visegrad Group to Latin America - Factors of attractiveness between 2001 and 2013|This paper focuses on the identification of the variables determining the attractiveness of the exports from the Visegrad Group to Latin American and Caribbean countries using methods of economic history and cliometrics. There are a total of twenty-two countries represented over a period of ten years, from 2001 to 2013. It considers institutional and technological variables traditionally not taken into account, such as corruption control, patent applications and FDI inflow per GDP. As shown in the analysis and results presented in this paper, these factors not only point back to traditional variables such as GDP, inflation, population, the share of GDP by sector, etc. but also have an influence in attracting trade flows. This research will also analyze the main export trends from V4 to Latin America and Caribbean in a historical perspective between 2001 and 2013.
N46|Swans sing and the green wave passes. The Agricultural Congresses of 1878 and the demand for farming by capital|In this paper we analyse the proceedings of the two Agricultural Meetings that took place in 1878: in July in Rio de Janeiro, and in October in Recife. We compare the two different call processes of the events. Then we focus our attention on the discussions about the availability of capital for the plantations, and on the suggestions about stimulating the supply of credit to the farmers. For each meeting, we analyse separately some of the aspects that stood up in those discussions. In our closing remarks, we resume the comparison of the two events, and consider the eventual existence of a segmentation among the farmers at the Rio de Janeiro Meeting.
N46|Political Instability, Institutions and Private Capital Markets in Lima, Peru|This article analyzes the evolution of the private credit market of Lima between 1835 and 1865. In particular, it explores the effects of political instability and institutional change on the allocation of medium-term and long-term credit. By relying on a sample of more than 1,200 notarized records, the article shows that institutions had an important effect on the cost of credit. Political instability and institutional uncertainties led to high interest rates. As Peru became more stable after the mid-1840s and the risk of lending declined, interest rates declined.
N46|Big push or big grab? Railways, government activism, and export growth in Latin America, 1865–1913|" type=""main""> Railways were one of the main engines of the Latin American trade boom before 1914. Railway construction often required financial support from local governments, which depended on their fiscal capacity. However, since the main government revenues were trade-related, this generated a two-way feedback between government revenues and railways, with a potential for multiple equilibria. The empirical tests in this article support the hypothesis of such a positive two-way relationship. The main implication of our analysis is that the build-up of state capacity was a necessary condition for railway expansion and also, to a large extent, for export expansion in Latin America during the first globalization."
N46|Fiscal and Urban Policies: the State as a Space Producer in the Fordist- Keynesian Era|The theoretical and historical discussion that this paper intends to establish involves the perception that each historical moment has a suitable spatial arrangement for economic growth, for driving-industries and for the dominant techno-economic paradigm in each period, and that such arrangements are articulated and promoted by State action. More clearly and specifically, this work shares the view of many authors who state that the metropolis would have been a combined product of Fordist industrialization and the performance of the Keynesian State, while the contemporary post-metropolitan urban form is marked by post-Fordist industry and the Neoliberal State. From this perspective, Brazilian economic history during the period between 1930-1980 is present in a way of exemplifying that kind of spatial-temporal relationship. Besides offering a critical analysis covering that historical period, the paper concludes with a wider view of International Political Economy, mentioning a number of “Neo-something” phenomena that emerged in this new Era of “Something-Isation”.
N46|Cali: Narcotráfico, poder y violencia|Este ensayo sugiere que la estabilidad de la violencia letal de los ultimos veinte años en Cali, es el resultado de la interacción de los remanentesdel sistema de seguridad de los grandes señores del narcotráfico de los años 1980, con la renuncia de las elites locales a la dirección de la seguridad ciudadana, los negocios ilegales y legales, y la reconfiguración de la ciudad inducida por la guerra irregular, el influjo de desterrados y la trasnformación del narcotráfico y la protección extorsiva en actividades locales que afectan a los más pobres.
N46|Los orígenes contemporáneos del centralismo fiscal en las relaciones intergubernamentales en méxico (1970-1990)|Resumen El presente trabajo analiza la consolidación del centralismo fiscal en México a partir de las reformas fiscales que se instrumentaron entre 1970 y 1990, en contradicción con la estructura federal de la República Mexicana. El centralismo fiscal surgido de este proceso de reformas institucionales determinó dos rasgos fundamentales de las relaciones fiscales intergubernamentales contemporáneas en México, por un lado, la centralización del poder de decisión sobre el sistema fiscal en el Gobierno federal y, por el otro, la conformación de unos gobiernos locales dependientes de la política fiscal y las transferencias de recursos federales. Ambos han sido factores cruciales en la debilidad fiscal del Estado mexicano.
N46|Voting for the environment: the importance of Democracy and education in Latin America|This study found that doubling the level of democracy in Latin America reduces CO2 emissions per capita by up to 6%. This relationship is estimated by using a fixed effects panel system of equations for 19 Latin American countries, between 1995 and 2008. Democracy acts as a conduit for increasing demands on environmental quality in Latin America, due to urban population growth and economic prosperity. Nevertheless, this study has, at least, two caveats: first it cannot unveil the long run relationship between democracy and environmental quality in the region; and, secondly, this study assumes that democracy entails positive outcomes for countries adopting this political system.
N46|Capacidad estatal, fiscalidad y subyugación: Panamá entre 1903-1945|Panamá constituye un caso excepcional de construcción de Estado bajo el sometimiento a un imperio que ocupaba su territorio más preciado y ejercía el monopolio de la fuerza. El desarrollo de una capacidad tributaria durante los gobiernos liberales, y mantenida por los regímenes nacionalistas, fue acompañado de movilizaciones populares que le permitieron ganar una creciente autonomía de Estados Unidos. La organización de una policía en los años cuarenta del siglo XX y la posterior Guardia Nacional le devolvió el monopolio (compartido) del uso de la fuerza. Sin embargo, la fortaleza de su Estado se vio minada por un régimen tributario desigual que afectó poco el excedente económico de la sociedad y por una administración pública politizada, incapaz de recaudar y gastar adecuadamente los recursos públicos.
N46|El imaginario de la crisis: caricatura económica en Colombia en la época de la Gran Depresión|En el presente documento utilizamos las caricaturas económicas que aparecieron en el principal periódico colombiano (El Tiempo) entre 1928 y 1937, como una fuente primaria válida para el análisis de las tensiones que los fenómenos y situaciones económicas generaron en Colombia en una época tensa para la economía mundial. A través de la caricatura económica es posible ver la percepción de la opinión pública respecto a las políticas económicas y el temor e incertidumbre que éstas causaban en el común de la gente.
N46|Projecting a Range of Possible Results in the December 2015 Elections for National Assembly in Venezuela|This paper finds that a wide range of outcomes are possible in the December 6 National Assembly elections, based on current polling data; and that there is potential for significant disparity between the popular vote and the distribution of seats among the opposing parties and coalitions. The paper simulates, based on the 2010 election results, the 2015 election under various assumptions regarding the government’s share of the vote and the degree to which the opposition is fractured among different coalitions. The projections look at the percent increase in votes the opposition would need in order to secure a simple majority, three-fifths, and two-thirds majority in the Assembly. These results are potentially important because of widespread misunderstanding of the Venezuelan electoral system, and the emphasis on national polls which may differ considerably from the election results for a legislative body under the current voting system. The paper also shows how the current system of disproportional representation for sparsely populated states — similar to a combination of the U.S. Senate and House into a single chamber — will favor the government.
N46|Da Diplomacia do Dólar à Diplomacia da Boa Vizinhança: continuidades e diferenças na política dos Estados Unidos para a América Latina (1898-1933) [From dollar diplomacy to good neighbor policy: continuities and differences in the policies of the United States towards Latin America (1898-1933)]|The paper studies the economic policies of the United States towards Latin America shifting from the Dollar Diplomacy to the Good Neighbor Policy in the 1930’s. The paper discusses Dollar Diplomacy, tracing its origins to an earlier period than conventionally accepted. It was concluded that the policy, in South America, was unable to create a reliable and long-lasting security and economic zone: it was threatened by difficulties originating in the Great Depression, the German thrust and Latin American nationalism in the 1930’s. Afterwards, the paper approaches the Good Neighbor Policy, arguing that the idea that it focused on military issues instead of economic ones should be rejected. Although national security gained importance before World War II, economic objectives remained essential, acquiring an even more strategic role due to the necessity of export markets, imports of minerals and other goods, and the political pressure of nationalistic movements against foreign affiliates.
N46|Roberto Simonsen and the Brazil-U.S. Trade Agreement of 1935: Economic ideas and political action [Roberto Simonsen and the Brazil-U.S. Trade Agreement of 1935: Economic ideas and political action]|In this paper we identify elements that reveal the specificity of Roberto Simonsen’s economic thought and his singular interpretation of Brazilian economic history, based on documents related to the debate held in Congress when the Brazil-U.S. Trade Agreement was signed, in 1935. We have verified how in a concrete political struggle Simonsen used diverse theoretical references in order to support his arguments and how at the same time this participation in the political scene contributed to the formation of his economic thought. Simonsen’s appropriation of the ideas of two German authors, namely Adolph Wagner and Karl Rodbertus, is analyzed by means of the study of Simonsen’s quotations and of the works of the authors themselves. Simonsen’s participation in the debates around the Trade Agreement is of a particular character, because of the consistent manner in which he defended class interests, resorting to the works of international economists and to well-informed historical digressions. This differentiates Simonsen from other industrialists, his colleagues, who defended industry based on moral arguments.
N46|La recaudación del impuesto predial: un análisis de sus determinantes económicos en el periodo 1969-2010<BR>[Property tax collection in Mexico: an analysis of its economic determinants in the period 1969-2010]|This article analyzes the factors explaining the differences among states in collecting the property tax in Mexico during the 1969-2010 period. We concentrate on some variables that the literature has identified as determinants of tax collection performance, emphasizing the substitution effect hypothesis which asserts that local governments reduce their taxation when they have access to alternate funding sources with fewer political costs. We also analyze the effect of two constitutional reforms to article 115 that aimed to improve property tax collection. Based on an econometric model with panel data, our results show that only conditional transfers (from the Ramo 33) have a negative effect on local taxation, but revenue-share transfers from the federal government no dot. The main obstacle that the property tax faces to improve its performance comes from rural areas for three reasons: the property value is low, local governments have weaker administrative capacities to collect taxes, and the Mexican ejido has historically be exempted from paying the property tax. Finally, we show that the constitutional reforms were ineffective in improving the tax-collection performance of municipalities.
N46|Salarios agrícolas durante la industrialización en Chile: factores económicos e institucionales|El rol del sector agrícola durante la ISI y el debate respecto del salario agrícola y las condiciones de vida de los campesinos tienen una larga historiografía, sin embargo hasta la actualidad existe poca información empírica relativa a los ingresos del campesinado en el largo plazo. En este trabajo nos proponemos reflexionar acerca del nivel que alcanzaron los salarios durante el período y para ello presentaremos una nueva serie de salarios reales para 1934-1973. Buscamos analizar su comportamiento en función de la productividad laboral del sector, en relación con los jornales industriales y considerando el marco institucional en este período.
N46|La regulación bancaria en el Uruguay durante la industrialización dirigida por el Estado: entre la seguridad del sistema y el control de la expansión monetaria, 1938-1965|This paper analyses banking regulation in Uruguay during the period of state-led industrialization. We aim to fill a hole in the national economic historiography, which has paid scant attention to this topic, and to advance in consonance with recent developments in the Latin American historiography. The major legislative actions taken in regard to the private banking sector are identified, the motives for these actions are examined and their impact on private banking activity is evaluated. The research activities consisted primarily of reviewing the National Register of Laws and Decrees, the recorded sessions of both houses of Congress and the specialized national economic journals of the period, as well as of the construction of a database of banking activity during the period. Four major regulatory moments are discussed: in 1938 the first general banking law of the 20th century looked to strengthen the safety and soundness of the banking system; during the 1940s minimum reserve ratios were adjusted as a means of restricting monetary expansion; in the 1950s the rediscount mechanism was liberalized in order to control monetary policy and, to a much lesser extent, credit policy; finally, as a response to Uruguay's first major banking crisis of the 20th century, a new banking law was passed that looked to increase the safety and soundness of the system, implement greater control over bank assets and apply measures for directing credit towards strategic activities. In general, banking regulation appears to have focused on safety and soundness, and rather than aiming to direct financial resources towards productive activities, it tended to respond to monetary problems, such as inflation or scarcity of credit. At the same time, even though credit selectivity was an explicit goal of policy makers starting in the late-1940s, it was overshadowed by other problems of greater importance, the very problems that contributed to the collapse of the development model pursued during these decades.
N46|Seguro de paro y protección a los desempleados en Uruguay (1958-2014): legislación y desempeño|"From the beginning of the 20th century the issue of unemployed workers' protection has occupied a central place in the political agenda of Uruguay. The problem has been attempted to address through three mechanisms: the so-called ""pension for dismissal"" (""jubilación por despido"", 1904-1979), the seasonal unemployment insurance (1944-1979) and the compulsory and autonomous unemployment insurance (from 1958 onwards). By the mid-1950s, in moments when the economic stagnation of the country started to be perceived, authorities felt the need to organize a scheme of unemployed workers' protection that should be autonomous of retirement benefits. This aim is reached in 1958 when a compulsory an autonomous unemployment insurance program is approved for the private workers of industry and commerce. This paper examines the legislation that has ruled the program since 1958, its financial performance and real coverage, in comparison with international experience. Its conclusion is that in Uruguay unemployment insurance has been a marginal tool regarding its coverage and financial dimension, in spite of being Uruguay a country with a highly formalized labour market in relation to the rest of Latin America. This reveals the limitations of state's action."
N46|Public policies of science, technology and innovation: an empirical research of Brazilian innovation act|This paper aims to analyze, from a legal perspective, the public policies of Science, Technology and Innovation offered by the Brazilian government, more specifically, the Innovation Act (Lei de InovaÃ§Ã£o), in order to verify the effectiveness and impact of this measure for development, in the Brazilian entrepreneurial scene. Through empirical research and comparative method, this research seeks to answer, preliminarily, the following questions: a) What is innovation? b) The State should act in the innovation process?; c) What is the relationship beetween Â innovation and development?; d) What are the aspects of public policies of Science, Technology and Innovation offered by the Brazilian government made available to entrepreneurs in the Innovation Law? What is the effectiveness and impact of this measure in the Brazilian entrepreneurial scenario? The questioning of the article was analyzed based on the premise that innovation is essential to the development of a society and its economy. Innovation is not only limited to radical ruptures, such as the introduction of smart watches or autonomous cars, but it also covers moderate advances, such as new product specific production methods, new ways of customer service or (re)configuration of bureaucratic procedures in order to speed them up. Thus, innovation is presented from the need to solve problems that citizens, whether entrepreneurs or not, appears in any given moment. An innovative society tends to have a higher quality of life, higher productivity and, consequently, the factors for the nation?s economic growth in which it resides. It turns out that in developing countries, the private sector, that is, entrepreneurs, don't always have the resources, opportunity, know-how and structure to take the risk of investments in Research, Development and Innovation (RD&I) as assumed initially by Schumpeter. These entrepreneurs prefer to license technology from foreign nations or larger companies, which have been tested and proven, rather than take the risk of spending millions of dollars on products, services, innovative processes that do not have the expected profit, or even, doesn't go beyond a mere prototype. Thus, as highlighted by neo-schumpeterians economists, the State presents itself as a key player in these countries, since it has conditions, financial and technical, to stimulate, either through direct measurements, either through indirect measures, innovation. We concluded that Brazil presents advances in this sector and most of public policies managed to have efficacy for entrepreneurs, but it is also necessary institutional changes in the process of receiving these incentives and in its supervision, improving them, so that companies incubated may have the same competitivety of foreign companies.
N46|Monetary policy in Argentina: From the inflation of the 1970s to the default of the new millennium|Since the end of World War II, Argentina has been through an uninterrupted series of financial/fiscal and monetary crises that have gradually eroded the credibilityof the economic institutions of the country. In the period from 1970 to 1990 alone, the Argentine economy experienced seven currency crises and three banking crises. The main objective of this contribution is to investigate the reasons for economic policy choices that, since the military dictatorship of Colonel Perón, have led the country to default, causing unemployment, runs on banks and popular uprisings.
N46|La disputa por la Nación: rentas y aduanas en la construcción estatal argentina, 1850-1865|En el presente trabajo se analizan de manera minuciosa las rentas y las políticas fiscales de la Confederación Argentina, confrontándolas con las del entonces Estado de Buenos Aires. La historiografía, en general, ha postulado que el papel de la Confederación fue poco relevante desde el punto de vista de sus rentas y, por consiguiente, inviable como proyecto exitoso. Sin embargo, tales impresiones se fraguaron sobre suposiciones más que sobre números reales. El estudio aquí propuesto, a través del análisis de diversas Memorias de Hacienda y de documentación inédita de variada procedencia, muestra que no era así. Aun con las limitaciones que imponen la escasez y dispersión de las fuentes, resulta claro que el «destino manifiesto» de Buenos Aires como rectora de la Nación Argentina no estaba escrito en ningún lado. KEY Classification-JEL: N16. N26. N46
N46|A estrutura tecnológica das exportações dos países em desenvolvimento nos anos 2000: análise e implicações para o crescimento|This paper examines the technological structure of exports from developing countries between 2000 and 2010, according to the classification by technological intensity proposed by Lall (2000). It compares data on exports from developing and developed countries, and from the main export regions among developing countries. Considering the idea that the technological structure of exports has crucial implications for development, the paper also investigates the relation between export structure and economic growth, using panel data. The estimation results suggest that – despite the boom in commodities demand and prices during most of the decade – countries with export structures with higher technological content have presented higher growth rates during the period of analysis.
N46|Legislando minas. Breve recuento de la legislación minera en Colombia (1829 – 2001)|Este documento presenta un breve recuento de la legislación minera en el país durante su vida republicana, esto es, desde 1829, fecha en que Simón Bolívar expidió el decreto sobre minas o Ley minera, hasta 2001, cuando se expidió el Código de Minas que rige en la actualidad. El objetivo del texto consiste en describir cómo han cambiado, a lo largo del tiempo, el conjunto de reglas y los objetivos de la política minera a nivel nacional para así identificar sus rasgos centrales, principales cambios y continuidades. La descripción se estructura alrededor de los siguientes ejes temáticos: 1) propiedad del recurso minero; 2) sistemas legales o instrumentos jurídicos que regularon el proceso de su aprovechamiento; 3) relación entre minería y entorno (ambiente y comunidades); y 4) legalización y formalización. El documento hace un breve recuento de cerca de doscientos años de historia de la legislación minera y busca servir de herramienta académica de consulta general para nutrir e informar el debate actual, ubicándolo en su contexto histórico.
N46|Algunos efectos y retos económicos de la constitución colombiana de 1991|Este documento analiza los efectos económicos de la Constitución de 1991 sobre Colombia, en materia de inflación; sostenibilidad de las finanzas públicas; coberturas y calidad de los servicios públicos; pobreza y pobreza extrema; pensiones y vivienda. Los temas se presentan de forma pedagógica y pensando en un público amplio, estudiando las reformas que se llevaron a cabo; la magnitud e importancia de algunos de esos efectos y algunas áreas en las que hay campo para mejorar. En el documento se argumenta que dicha Constitución ha tenido efectos positivos, efectos negativos y aspectos que generan inquietud, con respecto a lo sucedido antes y después de 1991 en América Latina y en el mundo.
N46|Zonas no interconectadas eléctricamente en Colombia: problemas y perspectiva|Las Zonas No Interconectadas (ZNI) en Colombia impiden que la población residente en dichas regiones tenga un acceso a la energía eléctrica constante y de calidad, lo que afecta directamente la calidad de vida, restringiendo oportunidades de educación, productividad y acceso a las TIC. Dadas las restricciones financieras y ambientales que impiden la conexión al Sistema de Interconexión Nacional, el objetivo de este trabajo será mostrar el estado actual de las ZNI y las implicaciones que tiene en la calidad de vida, con el objeto de estudiar las oportunidades para la aplicación de energías alternativas.
N46|El tamaño del Estado y su impacto redistributivo en América Latina|Este ensayo analiza la evolución del gasto público en América Latina a lo largo de las dos últimas décadas, y ofrece como referencia una perspectiva de más larga duración cuando la disponibilidad de estadísticas lo permite. Utiliza con tal propósito distintas fuentes de información, aunque mayoritariamente de la CEPAL. La tarea no resulta fácil porque la información disponible de diferentes fuentes no es necesariamente consistente entre sí y presenta grandes vacíos, particularmente en relación con el alcance de las empresas públicas y, por ende, a la estimación del gasto público consolidado.
N46|Fiscalidad e independencia en Panamá, 1780-1845|El artículo analiza la historia fiscal de Panamá entre 1780 y 1845 a través del estudio de las leyes y series fiscales, interpretadas con base en la situación política y económica de la época. El trabajo está dividido en cuatro secciones: la primera abarca la aplicación de las reformas borbónicas en Panamá; la segunda se ocupa del estudio del fisco durante la crisis del Estado colonial en América; la tercera abarca el período de existencia de la Gran Colombia, y la última concierne a la conformación de la República de la Nueva Granada, hasta 1845. En cada uno de los apartados se hace énfasis en el conflicto presentado entre la élite comercial de Panamá, las autoridades españolas y las bogotanas como producto de la necesidad del comercio libre para la prosperidad económica y estabilidad política en el Istmo.
N46|Estratégias de desenvolvimento em questão: O debate sobre o papel do Estado no Brasil, México e República Bolivariana da Venezuela, 1989-2010|O presente artigo tem por objetivo prover uma perspectiva histórica e comparativa das políticas de desenvolvimento no Brasil, México e Venezuela, com especial atenção ao período de emergência do paradigma neoliberal no fim dos anos 1980 e início dos 1990. Procuramos delimitar os principais aspectos do debate político em cada um dos países, indicando os atores mais participativos na esfera de decisão das políticas públicas e o lugar que atribuíram ao Estado na estratégia de desenvolvimento. Este debate é interessante na medida em que atualmente se consolidam três estratégias distintas nos países analisados, em comparação com a semelhança ideológica da política econômica aplicada nos anos 1990. O artigo também dedica especial atenção às transformações institucionais daquele período que permaneceram vigentes até a retomada de certos aspectos do paradigma desenvolvimentista dos anos 2000.
N46|America's deadly export: Evidence from cross-country panel data of deportation and homicide rates|Changes in US Immigration laws between the mid-1980s to the late 1990s led to a sharp increase in criminal deportations. During the same years many poor countries, especially in Latin America and the Caribbean, experienced a sharp increase in homicides. Using panel data for a sample of 38 developed and developing countries, I find a statistically significantly positive relationship between an increase in the number of criminal deportees received by a country and a corresponding increase in that country's homicide rate, and I establish causality through instrumental variables. My analysis suggests that about 23 percent of the increase in the homicide rate in developing countries between 1985 and 1996 can be attributed to the increase in the inflow of criminal deportees from the United States.
N46|The impact of individual wealth on posterior political power|I exploit a unique historical event to explore the causal relationship between individual wealth and posterior political power. Shortly after the founding of Buenos Aires, plots of land in the outskirts of the city were randomly assigned to all heads of household that participated in the expedition. Using this random allocation of land as a source of exogenous variation in individuals’ wealth, I find that wealth causes political power. I also explore possible mechanisms and find support for the hypothesis that wealth signals (or improves) ability.
N46|Colonial Institutions, Commodity Booms, and the Diffusion of Elementary Education in Brazil, 1889-1930|We explain how the decentralization of fiscal responsibility among Brazilian states between 1889 and 1930 promoted a unequal expansion in public schooling. We document how the variation in state export tax revenues, product of commodity booms, explains increases in expenditures on education, literacy, and schools per children. Yet we also find that such improvements did not take place in states that either had more slaves before abolition or cultivated cotton during colonial times. Beyond path-dependence, ours story emphasizes the interaction between colonial institutions and subsequent fiscal changes to explain radical changes in the ranking of states which persists until today.
N46|Crecimiento económico en el Perú bajo los Borbones, 1700-1820|El siglo dieciocho fue uno de robusto crecimiento económico en el virreinato del Perú. Pero tanto la cronología, cuanto las raíces de este crecimiento son imprecisas. El inicio de la expansión suele ubicarse hacia el final de la gran epidemia de 1718-1723, que afectó a la población indígena de la sierra sur, ocasionando severos problemas inmediatos al flujo comercial, así como al suministro de trabajadores para las haciendas y minas en los años siguientes. Pero otros han apuntado al efecto que tuvieron ciertas medidas relacionadas a la tributación minera y a la introducción de nuevas tecnologías en ese sector, hacia 1736- 1745. El final del ciclo de crecimiento se ubicaría hacia 1800 o, en todo caso, durante la primera década del siglo diecinueve. Se trataría, así, de un ciclo de crecimiento que habría durado unos tres cuartos de siglo, lo que lo convertiría en uno de los más prolongados de la historia económica peruana. El papel que en este proceso tuvieron las reformas borbónicas es otro tema de debate. En este documento me propongo ordenar la información pertinente a este proceso de crecimiento económico, así como reflexionar acerca de sus determinantes. JEL Classification-JEL: N16, N46, N56
N46|FDI attractiveness in Latin America|This paper focuses on the identification of the variables determining the attractiveness of foreign direct investment in Latin America, represented by 17 countries over a period of time from 1996 to 2011. It considers variables traditionally not taken into account, such as the tax rate and institutional factors, which have revealed important explanatory variables also traditionally considered as GDP, inflation, population, the share of GDP by sector, the income level, etc. According to the analysis in this paper and the results obtained, it is very clear that institutional factors such as the size of the economy and the population have an influence in attracting FDI flows. The institutional quality is determinative for the attraction of foreign direct investment to these countries. Property rights, monetary freedom and investment freedom, are institutional indicators of great relevance as explanatory factors for attracting foreign direct investment, while government expenditures follows to a lesser degree.
N46|"La herramienta ""Parques industriales"" y el desarrollo territorial: algunas reflexiones sobre la iniciativa en Uruguay"|The paper is based on the results of an IECONÅ½s research requested by the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining, which analyzes the situation and prospects of the Law on Industrial Parks in Uruguay. This involved fieldwork and interviews with different actors related to public authorities (national and local), managers and companies. The paper begins with a brief conceptual framework on regional economic development. After that, analyzes the objectives and fundamentals that are behind the industrial parks considering the dimensions of industrial policy, spatial planning and land use. At this point, it critically analyzes the industrial Parks Act and its implementation in Uruguay. It discusses the expected benefits and the difficulties to materialize this in localization advantages. Based on the previous discussion, the article proposes a reorientation towards a territorial development framework, with more emphasis on the objectives and content of the policy instead of in the formal aspects of the instrument.
N46|Immigrant Skill Selection and Utilization: A Comparative Analysis of Australia, Canada, and the United States|We compare literacy test scores and relative wage and employment outcomes of Australian, Canadian and U.S. immigrants using the 2003/2006 Adult Literacy and Life Skills Survey (ALLS). We find substantially higher immigrant skill levels at the lower end of the distribution in Australia, especially among recent arrivals, but little difference across countries at the top. In addition, we identify substantially larger wage returns to immigrant skill in the U.S., which we argue reflects language-skill complementarities, as opposed to more efficient skill utilization or unobserved productivity characteristics. Our results suggest that the benefit of a point system for the U.S. lies in its potential to limit unskilled immigration flows, rather than in raising skills at the top end of the distribution where the economic growth potential of immigration is likely greatest.
N46|Quantifying the Value of a Political Connection: The Case of Presidential Elections in Colombia|Using a novel biographical database including all Presidents and presidential candidates in Colombia for the period 1833-2010 I show that the value of a political connection can be quantified in terms of the votes transferred within a political network. I consider three types of political networks depending on whether links are created by a cabinet or foreign service appointment and a family connection. I find that a one standard deviation increase in votes received by connections generates a maximum gain of three-fourths of a standard deviation. I also reject for the presence of network endogeneity that may bias the estimates.
N46|Gasto Público y Movilidad y Equidad Social|La medición del gasto público social tiene importantes inconvenientes en el caso colombiano, problema que se ve reforzado por el hecho de que la discusión política alrededor del tema es escasa y, por ende, poco exigente. No obstante lo anterior, con base en la información disponible, puede decirse que el impacto del gasto público social ha sido mixto. La focalización aún sufre problemas de inclusión y de exclusión, y sólo hasta ahora empieza a mostrar una relación más estrecha con el nivel de pobreza. En el contexto de la reforma constitucional a las regalías, debe hacerse un esfuerzo por sistematizar la recolección de información sobre gasto público social a nivel regional.Palabras Claves: Clasificación JEL:
N46|The rise in female participation in Colombia: Fertility, marital status or education?|Colombia has experienced a secular increase in the labor participation of urban women, going from nearly 47% in 1984 to 65% in 2006. We decompose the evolution of participation into changes in the composition of the population and changes in the participation rates by groups (defined according to the variables that appear most relevant: educational attainment, fertility and marital status). The increase in participation is driven by the increase in the participation rate of married or cohabiting women and women with low educational attainment. Fertility status appears to be less important. Changes in the population composition by educational attainment are also relevant in explaining the increase in participation. However, changes in composition by marital status or fertility are second order effects.
N46|The rise in female participation in Colombia: Fertility, marital status or education?|Colombia has experienced a secular increase in the labor participation of urban women, going from nearly 47% in 1984 to 65% in 2006. We decompose the evolution of participation into changes in the composition of the population and changes in the participation rates by groups (defined according to the variables that appear most relevant: educational attainment, fertility and marital status). The increase in participation is driven by the increase in the participation rate of married or cohabiting women and women with low educational attainment. Fertility status appears to be less important. Changes in the population composition by educational attainment are also relevant in explaining the increase in participation. However, changes in composition by marital status or fertility are second order effects.
N46|Las externalidades de los Programas de Transferencias Condicionadas sobre el crimen: el caso de Familias en Acción en Bogotá|"En este trabajo estudiamos los efectos indirectos del mayor Programa de Transferencias Condicionadas (PTC) en Colombia, Familias en Acción, sobre los niveles de criminalidad en el área urbana de la ciudad de Bogotá. Para realizar este estudio combinamos las siguientes dos fuentes de información: el Sistema de Información de beneficiarios de Familias en Acción (SIFA) y los reportes administrativos de criminalidad de la Policía Nacional. En el estudio evaluamos dos posibles canales por los cuales Familias en Acción puede afectar los niveles de criminalidad. Por un lado, el efecto ingreso, para el cual explotamos la variación existente en las fechas de pago del programa. Nuestros resultados indican que a través de este efecto el programa reduce el crimen a la propiedad. Específicamente, encontramos que las transferencias del programa reducen la tasa de hurto a personas y de hurto a vehículos en 7.2% y 1.3%, respetivamente, en los días posteriores a las trasferencias de Familias en Acción. Por otro lado, estudiamos si las condicionalidades de asistencia escolar como requisito para obtener los subsidios que otorga el programa incapacitan"" (o impiden) que los adolescentes se vinculen a actividades delictivas. Para estimar dicho efecto hacemos uso de las fechas de vacaciones del sistema educativo y las fechas de los paros del principal sindicato de trabajadores del sector educación (FECODE). Nuestros resultados indican que el programa Familias en Acción no tiene efectos sobre la criminalidad a través del efecto incapacitación. Con esto, los resultados muestran que las transferencias que otorga el programa Familias en Acción disminuyen el crimen (efecto ingreso), pero el efecto a través de la incapacitación de los adolescentes de vincularse a actividades delictivas no parece operar. """
N46|Estilo de desarrollo y sesgo anticampesino en Colombia|Al usar el criterio de los bienes sociales primarios para evaluar el estilo de desarrollo colombiano se puede concluir que su tendencia es la de una senda rawlsiana inversa, cuyas principales características son: estrechez del mercado y sesgo anticampesino. Este artículo explora los mecanismos de esa senda que refuerzan la ruptura de la amistad política y alientan la duración de la guerra. Esos mecanismos pueden, ante la eventualidad de una negociación política, reforzar el carácter violento de la paz que se pudiera llegar a acordar. Hasta ahora, han brindado una plétora de oportunidades a los competidores armados del Estado. ***** Taking primary goods as a yardstick to evaluate styles of development in Colombia, the authors argue that the prevailing model displays an inverted Rawlsian path whose main features are: the narrowness of the market and anti-peasant bias. The article explores the mechanisms which reinforce the breakdown of the polity and bolster the continuation of war. These mechanisms may –if the current peace negotiations lead to the signing of an agreement– impart a decidedly violent character to the resulting “peace”. They have hitherto provided manifold opportunities to the various armed competitors of the State. ***** Lorsqu’on utilise le critère des biens sociaux primaires pour évaluer le style de développement colombien, la conclusion est que la tendance est celle d’un sentier rawlsien inversé, dont les principales caractéristiques sont : l’étroitesse du marché et le biais anti-paysan. Cet article examine les mécanismes de ce sentier qui renforcent la rupture de l’amitié politique et favorisent la prolongation de la guerre. Dans l’éventualité d’une négociation politique, ces mécanismes pourraient renforcer le caractère violent de la paix qui serait éventuellement signée. Jusqu’à présent, ces mécanismes ont fourni une pléthore d’opportunités aux opposants armés de l’État colombien.
N46|Estado, planificación y cambio institucional en Venezuela (1936-1941)|Resumen En el presente trabajo se muestra que el Sistema Nacional de Planificación de 1958 fue el resultado de un proceso que se inició con el ascenso al poder de Eleazar López Contreras en 1936. Así, durante su gobierno, concurrieron acciones ejecutadas por el Estado que teóricamente han sido definidas como facilitadoras de los objetivos de la planificación: Un diagnóstico y un conjunto de políticas presentados en el Programa de Febrero de 1936, y un plan de acción con su respectivo presupuesto, propuesto en el Plan Trienal de 1939. La contundencia de la intervención se plasmó en las distintas realizaciones, tantos institucionales como materiales, que llevaron a Venezuela a la mo- dernización. El estudio se desarrolla siguiendo el enfoque neoinstitucional de Douglass North.
N46|Crecimiento, Conflicto Armado y Crimen Organizado: Evidencia para Colombia|Este artículo desarrolla un modelo de Solow-Swan modificado para incluir las consecuencias del conflicto armado y el crimen organizado en el ingreso de una economía. Utilizando un panel de datos a niveldepartamental para Colombia en el periodo 1988 - 2009 se estima la ecuación estructural que se deducedel modelo teórico por efectos fijos y se encuentra que la elasticidad del logaritmo del PIB departamental con respecto al conflicto armado y el crimen organizado es del -0.04 y -0.36 respectivamente. Finalmente no se encuentra cambio en estos estimativos en el periodo del gobierno de Alvaro Uribe (2003-2009) relativo al periodo anterior (1988-2002).
N46|Sovereign debt in Latin America, 1820-1913|En este artículo se analizan algunos aspectos de la deuda soberana de América latina y el Caribe durante el período 1820-1913. Se examinan las cuatro oleadas del auge crediticio y del movimiento de capitales que terminaron en episodios de defaults generalizados pero que no obstaculizaron a priori sucesivos retornos al mercado de capitales en la mayoría de los casos estudiados. A pesar de defaults que se extendieron en el tiempo, los países de la región atrajeron en cada oleada a una mayor cantidad de inversores internacionales. A períodos de aislamiento del mercado de deuda soberana se le suceden otros de una alta integración con el mercado global medido por el «premio» a pagar por el riesgo soberano o riesgo país. Se discuten las imperfecciones en el mercado de la deuda soberana; los aspectos macro y microeconómicos y se discuten un menú de opciones que algunos de estos países utilizaron para reestablecer el canal de fondeo internacional luego de los defaults. El paralelismo con los vaivenes en el mercado de deuda soberana contemporánea en América latina y el Caribe resulta sorprendente.
N46|Taxation and Economic Growth in Latin America|Tax policy is among the most common and relevant instruments in the toolkit of policy-makers when thinking about promoting growth, yet there is not compelling evidence regarding its effect in Latin American countries. Using a variety of approaches, we estimate the effects on growth of the most important taxes for the region, namely personal income tax, corporate income tax, general taxes on goods and services, including value added and other sales taxes, and revenues from natural resource. We evaluate the effect of these tax instruments on growth for Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and Chile using vector autoregressive techniques, and for close to the entire region and a worldwide sample of developing and developed countries using panel data estimation. We find that, for the most part, personal income tax does not have the expected negative effect on economic growth in Latin America, which is largely explained by the small collections in the region. For corporate income tax, our results suggest reducing tax evasion and greater reliance on collection may boost economic growth in the region as a whole and especially for natural resource exporting countries. But, we also find small negative effects of corporate income tax on growth for individual countries, specifically Argentina, Mexico, and Chile. Finally, our results suggest that greater reliance on consumption taxes has significant positive effects on growth in Latin American in general, although we again find slight negative effects in some of the selected countries. On the other hand, natural resource revenues do not seem to contribute to growth.
N46|Can Institutions Cure Clientelism? Assessing the Impact of the Australian Ballot in Brazil|This paper examines how the adoption of the Australian ballot (AB), and ipso facto, the transition from the nominal to effective secret vote, shaped the nature of party politics in Brazil. Engaging the literature on political clientelism, the impact of the AB on three outcomes is studied: 1) the ideological leanings of voters at the ballot box; 2) the degree of electoral control enjoyed by local vote brokers; and 3) the capacity of citizens to effectively participate in the electoral process. In order to get leverage on these issues, the paper utilizes an original dataset -painstakingly assembled from regional electoral archives- which contains municipal-level vote returns for federal deputy and senate contests during the period before and after the AB's introduction in Brazil (1958-1962). The dataset exploits the fact that the AB was introduced at different times in different states and for different offices in the country, thereby creating an unprecedented opportunity to assess the impact of this institution. Using a triple difference-in-difference procedure, the study finds that the AB: 1) shifted the ideological balance of power from Right to Left; 2) did not greatly weaken the hand of vote brokers; and 3) greatly increased the proportion of wasted votes cast in elections.
N46|The encomienda and the optimizing imperialist: an interpretation of Spanish imperialism in the Americas|During the conquest and early administration of Spain’s American colonies the most controversial policy was the granting of temporary encomiendas, or temporary rights to collect tribute from Indians, as a reward for conquest. The contribution of the encomienda to the destruction of Indian populations was recognized by Spanish authorities at the time, yet the Crown persisted in introducing the most destructive form of the institution during the early stage of each colonial venture for over 200 years. Because the Crown financed the defense of its colonial possessions against other European imperialists, an addition to colonial capital, by increasing the return to an aggressor, imposed a defense-cost externality on the Crown. Since the cost of defending additional assets was higher in the Americas than in Spain, an efficient policy would have been to encourage the rapid transformation of human services into durable assets that could be transported to Spain. According to our defense-externality argument, the temporary encomienda and its parallel modification in each colonial episode becomes a rational Crown policy. The administration of Spain’s distant colonial possessions, especially the adjustments in the restrictions on encomiendas, required information about the local conditions, and we argue that the Church, as designated “protector of the Indians,” may have played an unwitting role in the communication of information. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
N46|Political institutions and sovereign borrowing: evidence from nineteenth-century Argentina|I study the relationship between political institutions and sovereign borrowing when constitutional constraints are systematically chosen to obtain better credit conditions. I argue that the impact of institutional constraints on country risk premia depends on the government’s concern with the country’s creditworthiness and its “willingness to repay”; two variables that are hardly observable. To properly evaluate the relationship between political institutions and sovereign borrowing, I focus on the link between institutional constraints and the risk premia of Argentine bonds between 1822 and 1913. Specifically, I analyze whether a “structural break” in the government’s cost of borrowing time-series exists. I use the Perron-Volesang test for structural change with unknown break dates. The statistical analysis indicates that the adoption of institutional constraints led to significant improvements in borrowing terms: the series has a single structural change; and the distinctive break point is associated with the country’s adoption of constitutional checks and balances. Time-series regressions and instrumental variables (IV) estimation reinforce these findings. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
N46|Political Inequality and the Origins of Distrust: Evidence for Colombia|This paper aims to identify the effect of political exclusion on social capital in Colombia, suggesting social capital as an important channel through which political inequality has been central for Colombian economic development. I use the Colombian National Front agreement during 1958-1974 to test my hypothesis, as it institutionalized the political exclusion of non-traditional parties in that country. Whereas it affected all regions at the same time, it implied differential effects according to the municipalities’ initial political diversity. The empirical strategy deals with the potential endogeneity in the variation of the treatment by using region fixed effects and relevant control variables in a cross-section model, as well as performing robustness checks. I further use panel fixed effects models with electoral turnout as a measure of social capital. I find that political exclusion imposed by the National Front may have led to less trusting individuals today, to a higher perception of free riding behaviors and to lower levels of electoral turnout. I also find that a possible channel through which political exclusion in the past may be able to explain social capital in the present is distrust towards the state.
N46|These Are the Good Old Days: Foreign Entry and the Mexican Banking System|"In 1997, the Mexican government reversed long-standing policies and allowed foreign banks to purchase Mexico's largest commercial banks and relaxed restrictions on the founding of new, foreign-owned banks. The result has been a dramatic shift in the ownership structure of Mexico's banks. For instance, while in 1991 only one percent of bank assets in Mexico were foreign owned, today they control 74 percent of assets. In no other country in the world has the penetration of foreign banks been as rapid or as far-reaching as in Mexico. In this work we examine some of the important implications of foreign bank entry for social welfare in Mexico. Did liberalization lead to an increase (or decrease) in the supply of credit? Did liberalization lead to an increase (or decrease) in the cost of credit? Did liberalization lead to an increase (or decrease) in the stability of the banking system? In order to answer these questions, we must first ask, ""increase (or decrease), measured on what basis?"" There are, in fact, two distinct conceptual frameworks through which one can assess the impact of foreign bank entry. One is concerned with measuring the short-run impacts of foreign entry on credit abundance, pricing, and observable stability using reduced form regressions. The other is an institutional economics conception of how to measure performance. It is focused on understanding whether foreign entry gave rise to difficult-to-reverse changes in the political economy of bank regulation, which will affect competition and stability in the long term, outside the period that may be observed empirically. We employ both conceptions in this paper."
N46|Nuestra América invertida|A lo largo de su historia, el capitalismo se ha visto en la necesidad de abrirse nuevos espacios para imponer su lógica de mercado; Europa y Estados Unidos no eran capaces de consumir la gran masa de mercancías producidas, de manera tal, que un país, un grupo de países, un continente ya no era suficiente, el horizonte ahora era el mundo entero. En este contexto, la meta no sólo fue encontrar nuevos mercados para que consumieran los productos, también fue de suma importancia encontrar mercancías para producir, tanto materias primas, que constituye el capital constante, como fuerza de trabajo o capital variable. Dentro de este proceso Nuestra América, ha tenido vital importancia debido a su riqueza. Lo paradójico es que a pesar de esto, América Latina tiene altos índices de pobreza, mala calidad de vida y una fuerte desigualdad. Esto se debe en gran medida a que América no es para los americanos, o por lo menos no para todos. El punto central de este ensayo es el tema de la explotación de América Latina por las potencias extranjeras. Tal como describe Eduardo Galeano, nuestro continente ha sido víctima de constantes saqueos desde su “descubrimiento”. Problemático resulta descubrir que a pesar de haber pasado más de quinientos años, las cosas no son tan distintas como parecen. Si bien, en teoría, somos libres de las potencias extranjeras hace unos doscientos años aproximadamente, la práctica nos demuestra todo lo contrario. En relación a esto, este trabajo analiza desde dos puntos de vista la explotación en América Latina: el primero da un breve marco teórico; y el segundo trata el problema desde el aspecto práctico.
N46|Demand for Cuban Tobacco as seen through Cuban Exports|During the nineteenth century Spain did not import the majority of Cuban tobacco, nor was most of it consumed in Spain. Spain neither consumed nor re-exported Cuban tobacco. Cuban tobacco, due to its high quality, was too expensive to be able to compete with tobacco of lesser quality which was, therefore, cheaper. The Spanish tax office preferred to take in huge amounts of money by taxing consumption in general rather than promoting Cuban tobacco. For this reason, Spain imported tobacco of mediocre and poor quality and taxed it through the government-licensed tobacconists. However, Cuban tobacco was successful as it could be exported freely in exchange for lower customs duties, thus allowing an increase in production as well as the possibility of reaching, on the international market, prices matching its quality. This paper attempts to discern how Spain grew in its colonies the world's best tobacco but did not consume it nor re-exported it. The analysis of Cuban tobacco exports reveals the most relevant aspects that influenced the consolidation of these circumstances.
N46|Contract enforcement, investment and growth in Uruguay since 1870|"Institutions and their quality are central concepts in the recent development and institutional economics literatures. Our hypothesis is that inadequate contract enforcement has hindered investment and, in consequence, indirectly has had a negative effect on Uruguay's long-term growth performance. We first review the main concepts and the approaches to define and measure the quality of contract enforcement. We then introduce one measure that has the advantages of being measurable into the past and not depending on subjective judgments; namely, the ""contract intensive money"" (CIM)indicator proposed by Clague et al. (1999). Using our long series for the CIM indicator, and extending key macroeconomic variables backwards to 1870, we are able to estimate a structural model to explore the plausibility of our hypothesis. In the estimation, based on the seemingly unrelated regressions (SUR) method, we find support for the thesis that the quality of contract enforcement influences growth through its impact on investment. Put differently, our results suggest that poor contract enforcement played a significant role at the root of Uruguay's underperformance, and in its experience of (relative) long-run decline."
N46|Protección frente al desempleo estacional y bolsas de trabajo en Uruguay (1944-1979)|During the first half of the 20th century the Uruguayan government tried to implement, although with no success, a general unemployment insurance (UI) scheme for workers in the private sector, which included an employment service. The only time that employersÅ½ traditional opposition to an employment service was overcome and a regime of this type was implemented occurred in order to address seasonal unemployment in the meatpacking and wool and leather warehousing sectors (1944-1979). These were key sectors in the Uruguayan economy of the time, considering their position as exporters and foreign currency earners, and taking into account that the government was promoting economic structural change via a process of industrialization. Although these institutions offered protection and job stability to a large number of seasonal workers, the financial design of the UI repeated a recurring defect of the Uruguayan social security system, namely structural failures in its sources of finance. A few years after the system was launched, it began registering continuous financial deficits. These deficits required government assistance, turning these benefits for seasonal workers into an economic weight for Uruguayan society as a whole.
N46|Intraregional trade in South America, 1913-50. Economic linkages before institutional agreements|With the exception of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), trade integration is still modest in Latin America, at around 20% of total trade. Surprisingly, these levels were higher in 1945, when the figure for imports stood at 25.6%. Paradoxically, this result shows that trade integration reached its peak before trade integration agreements were signed. To understand the reasons for this, we examine intraregional trade throughout the interwar period (1913-1950). We analyze five national cases: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile and Peru. As far as we know, this is the first paper in the literature on intraregional trade during the interwar period. There are other papers on intraregional trade in Latin America, but they focus on the period after the 1960s. The analysis of intraregional trade in the interwar period is also useful to the Latin American industrialization debate. Given the disruption in world trade flows and the existence of some industrial capacity, the paper looks at any possible increase in intra-industry trade. There are two main conclusions: a) with the exception of the World War periods, intraregional trade has been low since 1913; b) in general, intraregional trade reflects the overall trade specialization: there is a high concentration of low value added products.
N46|¿Quién manda aquí? Poder regional y participación de la costa Caribe en los gabinetes ministeriales, 1900-2000|En este trabajo hemos analizado la composición regional de los diferentes gabinetes ministeriales que tuvo Colombia durante el siglo XX con el fin de conocer la influencia regional tanto en la cantidad de ministros como en el tipo de ministerios. Es bien conocido que en Colombia las identidades regionales son muy marcadas y que ellas influyen en la vida política del país. En la composición de los gabinetes una de las dimensiones que los presidentes tienen en cuenta es el origen regional. Para analizar la participación regional en los ministerios se construyó una base de datos con los nombres de las 702 personas que en algún momento fueron ministros durante el siglo XX. El trabajo se enfoca sobre la región Caribe, por cuanto queríamos estudiar su participación en la vida política nacional, durante un siglo en que su economía se rezagó en relación a la del centro del país. Sin embargo, como se requería una perspectiva regional comparativa, también hemos discutido ampliamente el caso antioqueño y bogotano y, en menor extensión, el de otras zonas del país. Los resultados muestran la fuerte influencia de Antioquia y los departamentos del eje cafetero en los gabinetes de la primera del siglo XX, así como el ascenso bogotano en las últimas décadas del siglo.
N46|The Role of Canadian Financial Institutions in the Development of Colombia’s Financial Markets, 1896-1939|Canadian financial institutions played an important role in the development of financial markets within Colombia´s urban centers. Specifically, insurance companies such as Manufacturers Life Insurance Company and Life Assurance Company of Canada were crucial in the expansion of the insurance business across the Caribbean coast, while Royal Bank of Canada contributed to the development of personal banking operations throughout the nation. This paper looks at the experience of Canadian financial companies in Colombia from the late 1800s to the beginning of World War II. It highlights the competitive nature of international financial business and the role of business leaders, policy, and governments in efforts to secure market shares in emerging nations such as Colombia. This historical research also contributes to a better understanding of the bilateral relations between Colombia and Canada, and the ways in which capitalism expanded across the western hemisphere.
N46|The Role of Canadian Financial Institutions in the Development of Colombia’s Financial Markets, 1896-1939|Canadian financial institutions played an important role in the development of financial markets within Colombia’s urban centers. Specifically, insurance companies such as Manufacturers Life Insurance Company and Life Assurance Company of Canada were crucial in the expansion of the insurance business across the Caribbean coast, while Royal Bank of Canada contributed to the development of personal banking operations throughout the nation. This paper looks at the experience of Canadian financial companies in Colombia from the late 1800s to the beginning of World War II. It highlights the competitive nature of international financial business and the role of business leaders, policy, and governments in efforts to secure market shares in emerging nations such as Colombia. This historical research also contributes to a better understanding of the bilateral relations between Colombia and Canada, and the ways in which capitalism expanded across the western hemisphere.
N46|Violencia y derechos de propiedad: El caso de la violencia en Colombia|La literatura económica que estudia la violencia ha analizado la forma en que un menor desarrollo de los derechos de propiedad puede generar las condiciones para que surjan procesos violentos. Sin embargo, son escasos los estudios que analizan la manera como la violencia, en el largo plazo, puede afectar las estructuras de propiedad en las zonas que han sido afectadas. Este trabajo hace una primera aproximación para establecer una causalidad del efecto de la violencia sobre las tasas de informalidad en la tenencia de la tierra en Colombia en el largo plazo. A partir del estudio de caso de uno de los periodos de violencia más intensa en Colombia en el siglo XX, se encuentra evidencia que los municipios que fueron afectados en este periodo con una probabilidad mayor en 10 puntos porcentuales de tener brotes de violencia tienen tasas de informalidad en la tenencia de la tierra que son superiores en cerca de 2.9 puntos porcentuales (0.15 desviaciones estándar).
N46|Violencia y derechos de propiedad: El caso de La Violencia en Colombia|La literatura económica que estudia la violencia ha analizado la forma en que un menor desarrollo de los derechos de propiedad puede generar las condiciones para que surjan procesos violentos. Sin embargo, son escasos los estudios que analizan la manera como la violencia, en el largo plazo, puede afectar las estructuras de propiedad en las zonas que han sido afectadas. Este trabajo hace una primera aproximación para establecer una causalidad del efecto de la violencia sobre las tasas de informalidad en la tenencia de la tierra en Colombia en el largo plazo. A partir del estudio de caso de uno de los periodos de violencia más intensa en Colombia en el siglo XX, se encuentra evidencia que los municipios que fueron afectados en este periodo con una probabilidad mayor en 10 puntos porcentuales de tener brotes de violencia tienen tasas de informalidad en la tenencia de la tierra que son superiores en cerca de 2.9 puntos porcentuales (0.15 desviaciones estándar).
N46|Transportes, modernização e formação regional: subsídios a história da era ferroviária em Minas Gerais|This study examines the process of railway modernization in Minas Gerais. It uses theoretical classification that combines external variables, especially the expansion of the capital into the periphery, with internal variables, above all the hegemony of the raw material exporting model, marked by strong regional diversity. It was noted that the inappropriateness of the dominant standard of railway modernization in Brazil in relation to the structure of the economy of Minas did not prevent expansion of the tracks from reaching their greatest length in the territory of Minas Gerais. Political and financial factors presided over the Minas railway fever, which, in spite of being contemporary, underlined the irrational, onerous and dysfunctional nature of the system of concession, public subsidies and maintenance by the State of the regional network. On the ideological level, a supposedly legitimating association was mobilized between railways and modernity. On the substantive level, elements of the history of railway companies with activities in Minas Gerais were covered, were covered, and a time period is proposed for the Minas railway age, accompanied by systematization of the expansion process of the railway network based on.
N46|Direct Distribution of Oil Revenues in Venezuela: A Viable Alternative?|Venezuela is a textbook example of a resource-dependent country—between 1950 and 2008, oil generated over a trillion dollars of income for the state. Nevertheless, Venezuela currently combines an economy that is stagnant, despite high oil prices, with an increasingly authoritarian government. The authors argue that large oil rents that accrue to the state, together with a lack of formal and transparent mechanisms to facilitate citizen oversight, are a large part of the problem. They consider the nature of the fiscal contract between the Venezuelan government and its people. This has been characterized by increasing discretion of the executive; only a small share of the rents is now subject to political oversight within the framework of the budgetary system. The authors consider the case for direct distribution of rents, distinguishing it from a populist approach to transfers as effected through Venezuela’s misiones. They also report on focus group discussions of the direct- distribution approach and the political viability of direct transfers.
N46|Movilidad social en Colombia|En Colombia el debate acerca de la movilidad social, debido a la carencia de datos, se ha basado principalmente en anécdotas y opiniones. El presente trabajo exhibe una propuesta metodológica, a partir de encuestas con preguntas retrospectivas, que no solo busca aportar información al debate, sino proponer una forma para que aquellos países que carezcan de encuestas longitudinales debidamente implementadas puedan calcular la movilidad social. Finalmente, buscando hacer un estudio integro, ésta se va a medir de dos formas distintas (educación y nivel socioeconómico) para Colombia, Chile y México (estos últimos se hacen buscando un punto de comparación) y en tres generaciones distintas (para poder describir el comportamiento de la movilidad a través del tiempo).
N46|¿Quién manda aquí?Poder regional y participación de la Costa Caribe en los gabinetes ministeriales, 1900-2000|En este trabajo hemos analizado la composición regional de los diferentes gabinetes ministeriales que tuvo Colombia durante el siglo XX con el fin de conocer la influencia regional tanto en la cantidad de ministros como en el tipo de ministerios. Es bien conocido que en Colombia las identidades regionales son muy marcadas y que ellas influyen en la vida política del país. En la composición de los gabinetes una de las dimensiones que los presidentes tienen en cuenta es el origen regional. Para analizar la participación regional en los ministerios se construyó una base de datos con los nombres de las 702 personas que en algún momento fueron ministros durante el siglo XX. El trabajo se enfoca sobre la región Caribe, por cuanto queríamos estudiar su participación en la vida política nacional, durante un siglo en que su economía se rezagó en relación a la del centro del país. Sin embargo, como se requería una perspectiva regional comparativa, también hemos discutido ampliamente el caso antioqueño y bogotano y, en menor extensión, el de otras zonas del país. Los resultados muestran la fuerte influencia de Antioquia y los departamentos del eje cafetero en los gabinetes de la primera del siglo XX, así como el ascenso bogotano en las últimas décadas del siglo.
N46|Politica y legislación de tierra en Colombia en los siglos XIX y XX|Se presenta en este documento una descripción de la política y la legislación de tierras en Colombia durante los siglos XIX y XX. El problema de la adjudicación de baldíos es el aspecto más notable de la legislación en el siglo XIX. También son importantes el tema de los resguardos y el de la desamortización. Como se verá, la forma en que se enfrentó el conflicto sobre baldíos entre los ocupantes productivos y los terratenientes y detentores de los bonos de tierra incidirá de forma determinante en los conflictos agrarios del siglo XX. En este último siglo pueden distinguirse cuatro etapas asociadas a otras tantas leyes fundamentales en las que se plasma la orientación de la política. La ley 200 de 1936 define la primera, orientada principalmente a la legitimación de los títulos y subsidiariamente a la redistribución. En 1944, con la ley 100 de ese año, se entra en una especia de interregno: regularizar las formas de trabajo en el campo era su objetivo. Con la ley 135 de 1961 se retoma con fuerza el problema de las redistribución. Sin renunciar expresamente a la intervención estatal directa en la distribución de la propiedad rural, las leyes 4 y 5 de 1973 y 6 de 1975 reorientan la política hacia el fomento de la producción y bajan el énfasis a las cuestiones la tenencia. Con la ley 160 de 1994 se busca dejar en el mercado la cuestión de la tenencia apoyando el acceso del campesinado pobre a la tierra con el crédito subsidiado.
N46|Pensamiento económico en América Latina (1950-2010). Antecedentes y perspectivas|Esta investigación profundiza sobre los antecedentes y las perspectivas del pensamiento económico en América Latina, entre 1950 y 2010. Se identifican el pensamiento económico, los principales postulados y contextos históricos de la Comisión Económica para América Latina -CEPAL- y el estructuralismo latinoamericano, fundamentados en los trabajos de Prebisch de 1949; el neoestructuralismo de Fanjzilber, y la teoría de la dependencia de Cardoso y Faletto. Se describe la integración económica en América Latina, sus postulados y fuentes de pensamiento económico, y se plantea que la Unión Suramericana de Naciones y la Alternativa Bolivariana para las Américas -Tratado de Comercio de los Pueblos-, incorporan ideas que transforman el pensamiento económico.
N46|Los conflictos alrededor del “cambio institucional” petrolero venezolano entre 1936 y 1943 [Primera parte]|Los ministros Néstor Luis Pérez (1936-1938) y Manuel Rafael Egaña (1938-1941 y 1949) en el gobierno de López Contreras (1936-1941) hicieron importantes contribuciones al desarrollo del marco institucional petrolero después de la muerte de Gómez en diciembre de 1935. La gestión de estos ministros tuvo que enfrentar las demandas que las compañías petroleras internacionales ejercieron en bloque contra la nación desde 1937, a raíz de la promulgación de la Ley sobre Hidrocarburos y demás Minerales Combustibles de 1936. Con esa ley, el Estado intentó suprimir la exoneración de derecho de importación a las concesiones anteriores a esa ley. A pesar de que la nación perdió todas las demandas entre 1938 y 1941, Pérez y Egaña lograron encontrar los mecanismos adecuados para compensar esas derrotas jurídicas formales. Con esos mecanismos informales lograron promocionar los éxitos que desesperadamente necesitaba el Estado venezolano para configurar el cambio institucional que el país estaba pidiendo en cuanto a obligar a las compañías internacionales a someterse a un régimen de impuestos no específicamente petroleros (derechos de importación). Aquí se examina ese proceso que allanó el camino para el espectacular éxito de la posterior Ley de Hidrocarburos de 1943 desde el enfoque neoinstitucional de Douglass North.
N46|Los conflictos alrededor del “cambio institucional” petrolero venezolano entre 1936 y 1943|Resumen Los ministros Néstor Luis Pérez (1936-1938) y Manuel Rafael Egaña (1938-1941 y 1949) en el gobierno de López Contreras (1936-1941) hicieron importantes contribuciones al desarrollo del marco institucional petrolero después de muerte de Gómez en diciembre de 1935. La gestión de estos ministros tuvo que enfrentar las demandas que las compañías petroleras internacionales ejercieron en bloque contra la Nación des- de 1937 a raíz de la promulgación de la Ley sobre Hidrocarburos y demás Minerales Combustibles de 1936. Con esa ley, el Estado intentó suprimir la exoneración de dere- cho de importación a las concesiones anteriores a esta. A pesar de que la Nación perdió todas las demandas entre 1938 y 1941, Pérez y Egaña lograron encontrar los mecanis- mos adecuados para compensar esas derrotas jurídicas formales. Con esos mecanismos informales, lograron promocionar los éxitos que desesperadamente necesitaba el Estado venezolano para configurar el cambio institucional que el país estaba pidiendo en cuan- to a obligar a las compañías internacionales a someterse a un régimen de impuestos no específicamente petroleros (derechos de importación). Aquí se examina ese proceso que allanó el camino para el espectacular éxito de la posterior Ley de Hidrocarburos de 1943 desde el enfoque neo institucional de Douglass North.
N46|Los impuestos en la época de la Independencia, su impacto social, evolución e implicaciones en el sistema tributario actual|resumenla evolución histórica de los tributos en colombia se encuentra inmersaen una serie de acontecimientos que hacen parte de la historia patria. elsistema impositivo colombiano fue implementado por españa durante lacolonización a semejanza del aplicado en dicho país; el incremento de losimpuestos para financiar sus actividades y las guerras que sostenía por lalucha de territorios hizo que los habitantes de las colonias se sublevaranen contra del régimen opresor; un claro ejemplo de ello es la rebelión delos comuneros, la cual se genero debido al incremento del impuesto de laarmada de barlovento. los constantes abusos y la discriminación a la queestaban sometidos por parte de los españoles desencadenaron una seriede hechos que posteriormente llevaron a la independencia; al instalarse elnuevo gobierno una de las primeras reformas realizadas en esta materia fueabolir algunos impuestos, como el Tributo de indios.conocer el origen y evolución del sistema impositivo actual en colombia esde gran utilidad para realizar un estudio más profundo del tema y mejorarla comprensión del mismo, desde un contexto no sólo político y económicosino también social y cultural.desde épocas antiguas los tributos han constituido la principal fuente deingresos del estado, incluso en la prehistoria estos hacían parte de la religióny sus creencias, lo cual permite evidenciar que han hecho parte de losprocesos evolutivos del hombre.abstractThe historic evolution of taxation in colombia is immersed in a series of eventsthat make part of national history. The domineering colombian system wasimplemented by spain during the colonization following its own model. Theincrease of taxes to finance its activities and wars held for territories resultedin the uprising of the colonies inhabitants against the oppressive regime. aclear example is the rebellion of the communards, which originated due tothe tax increase of the armada de barlovento.The constant abuse and discrimination by the spaniards unleashed the eventsthat lead to the independence. after the installation of the new government,one of the first reforms made was the abolishment some taxed like the indianTribute (Tributo de indios).Knowing the origin and evolution of the current imposing system incolombia is of great help to make a deeper study of the topic and improveits understanding not only from its political context but also the social andcultural one.from ancient times, taxes have been the main source of the states income.even in prehistory, taxes were part of religion and beliefs, which is the evidenceto prove that taxes have been part of the evolution process of mankindresumoa evolução histórica dos tributos na colômbia se encontra imersa em uma sériede acontecimentos que fazem parte da história pátria. o sistema impositivocolombiano foi implementado pela espanha durante a colonização asemelhança do aplicado em tal país; o incremento dos impostos para financiarsuas atividades e as guerras que sustentava pela luta de territórios fez queos habitantes das colônias se insurgiram contra o regime opressor; um claroexemplo disso é a rebelião dos comuneros, a qual se gerou devido ao aumentodo imposto da armada de barlovento. os constantes abusos e a discriminaçãoà que estavan submetidos por parte dos espanhóis desencadearam uma sériede feitos que posteriormente levaram à indepêndencia; ao instalar-se o novogoverno uma das primeiras reformas realizadas nesta matéria foiu aboliralguno impostos, como o Tributo de indios.conhecer a origem e evolução do sistema impositivo atual na colômbiaé de grande utilidade para realizar um estudo mais profundo do tema emelhorar a compreensão do mesmo, desde um contexto não só político eeconômico senão também social e cultural.desde épocas antigas os tributos tem constituído a principal fonte deingressos do estado, inclusive na pré-história estes faziam parte da religiãoe suas crenças, o qual permite evidenciar que tem feito parte dos processosevolutivos do homem.résumél´évolution historique des impôts en colombie est plongée dans une séried´événements qui font partie de notre histoire nationale. le système fiscalcolombien a été mis en oeuvre par l´espagne pendant la colonisation.l´augmentation d´impôts pour financer les activités espagnoles et les guerresqu´ils avaient par la lutte des territoires ont fait que les habitants des coloniesse révoltent contre le régime oppressif. un exemple clair, c´est la révolte descommunards, qui a été généré en raison de l´augmentation d´impôt du ventmarine. l´abus et la discrimination constante à laquelle ils ont été soumis parles espagnols ont déclenché une série d´événements qui ont ensuite conduità l´indépendance, quand le nouveau gouvernement des premières réformesdans ce domaine a été d´abolir certaines taxes, comme le Tribute des indiens.connaitre l´origine et l´évolution du régime fiscal actuel en colombie esttrès utile pour réaliser une étude plus approfondie du sujet et améliorer lacompréhension de celui-ci, à partir d´un contexte politique non seulementéconomique mais aussi social et culturel.depuis les temps anciens, les impôts ont été la principale source de revenus,même dans les temps préhistoriques elles faisaient partie de la religion etles croyances, ce qui permet de montrer qu´ils on fait partie intégrante desprocessus évolutifs de l´homme.
N46|Sistemas Económicos, Tecnología y Acción Oficial en Defensa de la Libre Competencia: Chile 1810-2010|Este artículo hará un breve recuento histórico del tema de la protección a la libre competencia a nivel internacional y de la lógica de la acción pública para asegurar la libre competencia, para luego centrarse en la experiencia histórica de Chile, que en estricto rigor data en el mejor de todos los casos sólo desde 1959. La tesis es que en un país pequeño como el nuestro la apertura comercial es la política más efectiva para asegurar la libre competencia, sin perjuicio que acciones legales específicas como aquellas que prevé la actual institucionalidad a favor del libre comercio son un complemento indispensable de la política comercial.
N46|Technology and institutions: Theoretical aspects of institutional innovation and its deficiency in Haiti|In the recent decades, in Haiti, a growing propensity to accept new technologies is observed. More than ever, the national market represents a potential advantage, as well as the cheapness of the labor force. Meanwhile, the country cannot take plenty advantage of its technological development potential in order to stimulate the economic growth. The paper analyzes the disadvantage factors. The conclusion show that in addition to the low level of education and the expatriation of skilled human resources, institutional characteristics may help to understand the ineffectiveness of economic development strategies implemented in Haiti in recent years. Then, we propose institutional innovation as both an analytical framework and a challenge to understand and foster economic development through technology in Haiti.
N46|El federalismo y la fiscalidad del Estado Soberano de Panamá, 1850-1886|La historia económica de Panamá durante el siglo XIX es bastante desconocida en Colombia y la de sus cuentas fiscales es un laberinto difícil de entender. Esta investigación enfrenta ambos problemas, recurriendo a la demografía, a la geografía y a los presupuestos del Estado Soberano de Panamá. Se plantea, además, que el sistema federal de 1855 y 1886 constituyó un modus vivendi aceptable para los dirigentes del istmo. Los intereses estratégicos de Panamá se vieron comprometidos por el centralismo que se consolidó con la Constitución de 1886. El reparto inequitativo de la renta del ferrocarril entre Bogotá y Panamá, el fracaso en la construcción del canal interoceánico, la Guerra de los Mil Días que ganaron los conservadores, y la negación del tratado Herrán-Hay se conjugaron para que las élites panameñas abandonaran a Colombia.
N46|From Foreign to State Investment in the Brazilian Electric Power Sector: the Expropriation of the American Foreign and Power in Brazil (1959-1965)|The first half of the 1960s was a hallmark in the process of nationalization of the electric power sector in Brazil. The Brazilian State raised its participation in terms of installed capacity from 6.8% in 1952 to more than 54% in 1965. After the Second World War, the demand for energy in Brazil soaked, pulled by an increasing process of industrialization and urbanization. Since the private-owned concessionaries (both national and foreign firms)seemed not interested in meeting that demand, the State was called to play a more preeminent role in energy’s production, setting the stage for the increase of the government share in the field. Thus, the paper deals with the six last years of Amforp’s involvement in the Brazilian electric power sector, employing original data from US and Brazilian archives. The US enterprise came to Brazil in the 1920s, but by the late 1950s its participation and its role in the country was being challenged by many people. Personified as a representative of US interests in Brazil, and charged of not only spoiling national resources as well as of being negligent as to the services provided to society, Amforp faced many judicial charges in courts, leading in 1959 to the takeover of one of its subsidiaries in the state of Rio Grande do Sul by the governor Leonel Brizola. What could be only a matter of the provision of public services in a regional arena, settled by a financial and juridical agreement, became a major diplomatic issue between Brazil and the United States at the early 1960s. At that period, Brazil faced serious balance of payment constrains. As a crucial money-lender, Washington used this condition to blackmail the Brazilian government. Credits were withheld to force the administration of Joao Goulart (1961-1964) to settle Amforp’s expropriation in the ways desired by the company. In this sense, the paper analyses the diplomatic agreements that led to Amforp’s departure of the Brazilian market, showing how this established not only a redefinition of the strategies of foreign investments in Brazil, but also a change of the role played by the Brazilian state in the local electric power sector.
N46|Inicios de la protección a los trabajadores desempleados en Uruguay 1904-1958): la jubilación por despido|"Protection of unemployed workers constituted a subject of concern in the Uruguayan politic agenda already in the early 20th century. The problem was tried to be solved basically through three instruments: retirement by dismissal (""jubilación por despido"") and unemployment insurance, directed to protect from non-seasonal unemployment,and funds for unemployment compensation, directed to seasonal unemployment. During the first half of the 20th century the instrument applied was the retirement by dismissal. This working paper investigates the characteristics of this instrument and its performance, both in terms of unemployed's protection and with respect to the fundsÅ½ finances. The study is based in data, reports and statements collected from the parliamentary sessions acts, messages that yearly the Executive sends to Legislative, and bulletins and yearbooks from the pensions funds.It arises from the investigation that this retirement benefit ended up distorted as a result of problems of design, organization and application. It also had negative effects on the fundsÅ½ finances. Several measures were taken in order to solve the problem, the main of them being the so-called unemployment subsidy. However, this tool also ended up distorted. It would have to wait until 1958 so that Uruguay had a system of compulsory unemployment insurance that protected unemployed workers in a more consistent way."
N46|Bargaining for Fiscal Control: Tax Federalism in Brazil and Mexico, 1870-1940|This paper studies the historical origins of the federalist institutions in Mexico and Brazil. Using a bargaining game model, I argue that the type of commodities each country produced by the end of the nineteenth Century determined the negotiation power of local governments. This led to the buildup of opposite federalist institutions in both countries, which have persisted until nowadays. The model shows that countries with regions with more autonomy to produce and trade their commodities increase the local power to collect more taxes. While in Brazil coffee was the most important commodity, Mexico relied on mining products. Coffee was produced by local landowners who became economically powerful and they were able that export taxes were collected locally with the proclamation of the 1891 Constitution. Empirical estimates show that, after 1891, exporter states increased significantly their own fiscal revenue. On the other hand, mining was capital and technology intensive, inputs that were domestically scarce in Mexico. To finance those activities foreign investment was promoted centrally, weakening the relative power of local elites.
N46|¿Qué ganó y qué perdió la economía de la Nueva Granada con la independencia?|En este artículo se indaga acerca de la relación costo/beneficio de la Independencia del Virreinato de Nueva Granada de España en términos económicos. Para ello, primero se hace un repaso de la situación de la economía en el Virreinato de la Nueva Granada hacia 1810. Luego nos referimos a los principales costos y beneficios económicos de la Independencia, para proponer, de manera muy cualitativa, un balance final. Para sintetizar —en términos de la división braudeliana del tiempo histórico— se puede afirmar que los costos de la Independencia se reflejaron durante el desarrollo de los mismos eventos, es decir, durante la guerra y su coyuntura posterior, un periodo de unos cincuenta a sesenta años, que es lo que Braudel considera como el tiempo de la coyuntura. En cambio, el grueso de los beneficios se recibió en el tiempo de larga duración, en un horizonte de siglos, empezando con el siglo XX.
N46|Crecimiento, mestizaje y presión fiscal en el virreinato de la Nueva Granada, 1761-1800|En este trabajo se analizan los recaudos tributarios de todas las Cajas Reales que había en el Virreinato de la Nueva Granada entre 1761 y 1800. Es la primera vez que esta información se presenta de manera consolidada para todo el virreinato y para un periodo de tiempo extenso. Las cifras se analizan a nivel de las regiones principales: el occidente minero, el centro artesanal y agrícola y el Caribe portuario. De esa manera es posible entender las especializaciones productivas regionales y las características en cuanto a sus ingresos fiscales. También se presentan los diferentes ingresos de las Cajas Reales de acuerdo al tipo de impuesto que se cobraba. El principal resultado que se obtiene es que en el periodo 1761-1800 las autoridades virreinales lograron aumentar drásticamente el recaudo per cápita de las Cajas Reales. Los excedentes generados por esos ingresos se usaban básicamente para financiar las defensas de Cartagena, que absorbían el grueso de ese concepto. Sólo en las décadas finales del siglo XVIII fue que el aumento en la presión fiscal permitió enviar algunos recursos a la Tesorería General en Madrid.
N46|La desamortización en el Caribe colombiano: Una reforma urbana liberal, 1861-1881|En este trabajo se estudia, por primera vez en la historiografía económica colombiana, el proceso de desamortización en los estados federales de la Costa Caribe, Magdalena y Bolívar. El proceso de desamortización se realizó en Colombia entre 1861 y 1881. Esa reforma fue muy importante en la Costa, pero tuvo características diferentes a las que se observaron en el interior andino. En primera instancia, hay que señalar que en la Costa Caribe la desamortización fue abrumadoramente un proceso urbano. Además, el grueso de los bienes y censos desamortizados en la Costa Caribe estaban en Bolívar. El Magdalena tuvo una escasa participación en este sentido y en términos per cápita fue el estado federal con los valores más bajos en toda Colombia. Por último, la mayoría de los bienes desamortizados en la Costa Caribe fueron casas ubicadas en el recinto amurallado de Cartagena y construidas durante el periodo colonial. En la medida en que esas casas pudieron ser comerciadas libremente a partir de esa época, la ciudad se benefició de una manera importante con la desamortización y ese fue uno de los factores que contribuyeron a la recuperación económica de la ciudad en las dos últimas décadas del siglo XIX.
N46|Crecimiento, Mestizaje Y Presión Fiscal En El Virreinato De La Nueva Granada, 1761-1800|En este trabajo se analizan los recaudos tributarios de todas las Cajas Reales que había en el Virreinato de la Nueva Granada entre 1761 y 1800. Es la primera vez que esta información se presenta de manera consolidada para todo el virreinato y para un periodo de tiempo extenso. Las cifras se analizan a nivel de las regiones principales: el occidente minero, el centro artesanal y agrícola y el Caribe portuario. De esa manera es posible entender las especializaciones productivas regionales y las características en cuanto a sus ingresos fiscales. También se presentan los diferentes ingresos de las Cajas Reales de acuerdo al tipo de impuesto que se cobraba. El principal resultado que se obtiene es que en el periodo 1761-1800 las autoridades virreinales lograron aumentar drásticamente el recaudo per cápita de las Cajas Reales. Los excedentes generados por esos ingresos se usaban básicamente para financiar las defensas de Cartagena, que absorbían el grueso de ese concepto. Sólo en las décadas finales del siglo XVIII fue que el aumento en la presión fiscal permitió enviar algunos recursos a la Tesorería General en Madrid.
N46|La desamortización en el Caribe colombiano: Una reforma urbana liberal, 1861-1881|En este trabajo se estudia, por primera vez en la historiografía económica colombiana, el proceso de desamortización en los estados federales de la Costa Caribe, Magdalena y Bolívar. El proceso de desamortización se realizó en Colombia entre 1861 y 1881. Esa reforma fue muy importante en la Costa, pero tuvo características diferentes a las que se observaron en el interior andino. En primera instancia, hay que señalar que en la Costa Caribe la desamortización fue abrumadoramente un proceso urbano. Además, el grueso de los bienes y censos desamortizados en la Costa Caribe estaban en Bolívar. El Magdalena tuvo una escasa participación en este sentido y en términos per cápita fue el estado federal con los valores más bajos en toda Colombia. Por último, la mayoría de los bienes desamortizados en la Costa Caribe fueron casas ubicadas en el recinto amurallado de Cartagena y construidas durante el periodo colonial. En la medida en que esas casas pudieron ser comerciadas libremente a partir de esa época, la ciudad se benefició de una manera importante con la desamortización y ese fue uno de los factores que contribuyeron a la recuperación económica de la ciudad en las dos ultimas décadas del siglo XIX.
N46|Lauchlin Currie y el desarrollo colombiano|RESUMENEl presente artículo estudia la teoría del crecimiento acelerado, del profesor Lauchlin Currie, y su relación con los problemas socioeconómicos colombianos. Muestra que las ideas de Currie constituyen el intento más serio que se haya realizado en el país por elaborar una teoría del desarrollo fundamentada en la experiencia del atraso, la pobreza y la violencia que caracterizaron a la Colombia de postguerra hasta bien entrada la década de 1980. Sus ideas articulan el crecimiento económico con el desarrollo social y han contribuido al ordenamiento urbano evitando que la marginalidad en las ciudades sea mucho mayorque en otras urbes de países de la región que tienen un desarrollo similar al nuestro. De ahí que muchas de las estrategias de la teoría del crecimiento acelerado sean todavía vigentes, sobre todo en momentos en que la violencia y la marginalidad mantienen en vilo la seguridad del país.ABSTRACTThis article studies Lauchlin Currie´s accelerated growth theory and its connection to the colombian socio-economic problems. It shows that Currie´s ideas are the most serious attempt ever made in the country to elaborate a developmenttheory based on the experience of economic slowdown, poverty and violence that characterized Colombia from the postwar until well into the 80s. His ideas articulate economic growth with social development and have contributed tothe urban management avoiding that the marginality in cities is greater that in cities of other countries in the region who have a similar development as ours. Consequently, many of the accelerated growth theories are still valid, especially intimes in which violence and marginality still keep the country´s safety in suspense.RESUMOO presente artigo estuda a teoria do crescimento acelerado, do professor Lauchlin Currie, e sua relação com os problemas sócio-econômicos colombianos. Mostra que as ideias de Currie constituem a tentativa mais séria que se tenha realizadono país por elaborar uma teoria do desenvolvimento fundamentado na experiência do atraso, a pobreza e a violência que caracterizaram à Colômbia de pós-guerra até bem entrando a década de 1980. Suas ideias articulam o crescimento econômico com o desenvolvimento social e tem contribuído à organização urbana evitando que a marginalidade nas cidades seja muitomaior que em outras urbes de países da região que têm um desenvolvimento similar ao nosso. Daí que muitas das estratégias da teoria do crescimento acelerado sejam ainda vigentes, sobretudo em momentos em que a violência e a marginalidade mantenham apreensiva a segurança do país.RÉSUMÉCet article examine la théorie de la croissance rapide créé par le professeur Lauchlin Currie et leur relation avec les problèmes socio-économiques en Colombie. L´article montre que les idées de Currie sont la tentative la plus sérieuse faite pour développer une théorie basée sur l´expérience de l´arriération, la pauvreté et la violence qui a caractérisé la Colombienaprès la guerre et dans les années 1980. Ses idées articulent la croissance économique avec le développement social, et ils ont contribué à l´urbanisme en prévenant la marginalisation des villes. Par conséquent, un nombre important des stratégies de la théorie de la croissance rapide sont toujours en vigueur, en particulier à un moment où la violence et la marginalisationrestent sur le bord de la sécurité du pays
N46|Deuda pública interna, patrón metálico y guerras civiles: interconexiones institucionales, la Colombia del siglo XIX|This article analyzes the monetary and institutional impacts of the domestic public debt in 19th century Colombia. It shows the nature of this debt and its evolution so as to ultimately sketch one side of the institutional matrix of that century. The article draws upon the New Economic Institutionalism and it is derived from a broader research where fiscal data and qualitative information were built by using primary sources. It points out the close link between the issuing of debt notes and civil wars, and displays evidence on how this debt structured an impure gold standard. It is found that this debt had impact on the price level and strengthened the persistence of the monetary chaos and civil wars
N46|Technological Integration and Income Gaps|Resumen: Leontief (1963) sostiene que los países subdesarrollados son pobres porque son en gran medida, económicamente menos diversificados. Este artículo muestra que un modelo de equilibrio general con una estructura de insumo-producto estable y con una externalidad de la productividad generada por diversificación de factores, puede ser consistente con la hipótesis de Leontief. Una versión del modelo en economía abierta permite la posibilidad de violar el teorema de la igualación del precio de los factores, permitiendo así que las economías desarrolladas obtengan una alta remuneración de capital y un alto nivel de ingreso. Se presenta alguna evidencia empírica sobre la relación entre la integración tecnológica y el ingreso real.
N46|Pensadores económicos en la segunda mitad del siglo XIX en Colombia|"Las concepciones doctrinarias en cabeza de personalidades de la política, son la respuesta a un proceso anacrónico de adopción de patrones ideológicos que no correspondieron al ordenamiento económico de la segunda mitad del siglo XIX en Colombia. Esto acarreó una mentalidad modernizadora"" sustentada en experiencias individuales e ideas foráneas, a partir de las cuales se pretendió desarrollar una idea de lo económico, lo social y lo político, sin guardar correspondencia con las dinámicas incipientes de acumulación y con el nivel de madurez o inmadurez jurídico política del país.""<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N46|Pensadores económicos de la segunda mitad del siglo XIX en Colombia|"Resumen:Las concepciones doctrinarias en cabeza de personalidades de la política, son la respuesta a un proceso anacrónico de adopción de patrones ideológicos que no correspondieron al ordenamiento económico de la segunda mitad del siglo XIX en Colombia. Esto acarreó una mentalidad modernizadora"" sustentada en experiencias individuales e ideas foráneas, a partir de las cuales se pretendió desarrollar una idea de lo económico, lo social y lo político, sin guardar correspondencia con las dinámicas incipientes de acumulación y con el nivel de madurez o inmadurez jurídico política del país.Abstract:The doctrinarias conceptions in head of personalities of the policy, are the answer to an anachronistic process of adoption of ideological patrons who did not correspond to the economic ordering of second half of century XIX in Colombia. This carried ""a modernizadora"" mentality sustained in individual experiences and foreign ideas, from which it was tried to develop an idea of the economic thing, social and the politician, without keeping correspondence with the dynamic incipientes from accumulation and the level from maturity or political legal immaturity from the country."""
