N51|Immigrant Communities and Knowledge Spillovers: Danish-Americans and the Development of the Dairy Industry in the United States|Despite the growing literature on the impact of immigration, little is known about the role existing migrant settlements can play for knowledge transmission. We present a case which can illustrate this important mechanism and hypothesize that nineteenth century Danish-American communities helped spread knowledge on modern dairying to rural America. From around 1880, Denmark developed rapidly and by 1890 it was a world-leading dairy producer. Using a difference-in-differences strategy, and data taken from the US census and Danish emigration archives, we find that counties with more Danes in 1880 subsequently both specialized in dairying and used more modern practices.
N51|Immigrant Communities and Knowledge Spillovers: DanishAmericans and the Development of the Dairy Industry in the United States|Despite the growing literature on the impact of immigration, little is known about the role existing migrant settlements can play for knowledge transmission. We present a case which can illustrate this important mechanism and hypothesize that nineteenth century Danish-American communities helped spread knowledge on modern dairying to rural America. From around 1880, Denmark developed rapidly and by 1890 it was a world-leading dairy producer. Using a difference-in-differences strategy, and data taken from the US census and Danish emigration archives, we find that counties with more Danes in 1880 subsequently both specialized in dairying and used more modern practices.
N51|Cooperation work of the U.S. Reclamation Bureau and Department of Agriculture in the early 20th century|With the passage of the Reclamation Act in 1902, the federal government launched the Reclamation Projects, which include large-scale irrigation in the West. In order to promote agricultural development, the Reclamation Bureau and the Department of Agriculture worked together to grasp the situation of agriculture in the region and provided agricultural training to settlers. In this paper, we examine the development of this cooperative work, and the constraints that influenced the work. Farm land reclamation did not go well in the early period of the Projects. Previous researches have argued that one of the main reasons why it had difficulties is due to initial conditions at the time of passage of the Reclamation Act. The conditions can be summarized into the following two points. First, the cost was erroneously estimated very low, and an unbearable number of projects were developed. Second, the staff of the Reclamation Bureau, which was in charge of the project, lacked knowledge of agriculture, did not consider the climate and soil of the project area, and had optimistic assumptions on farmer's agricultural knowledge. However, the Reclamation Bureau worked with the USDA to manage experimental farms and provide agricultural advisors in an attempt to alleviate agricultural problems. It is necessary to consider the reasons for the limited impact of this effort. While our analysis confirms the effects of the initial conditions proposed by the previous studies, we also find factors different from the initial conditions. It is argued that the budget shortfall of the USDA played a pivotal role in the malfunction of the projects. Although the USDA wanted to increase the budget, the agricultural committee of the Congress, which was in charge of the budgeting of agriculture, was reluctant to disburse the amount the USDA claimed for their promotive work. The period up to the 1920s was a period of effort to maintain the budget that had already been earned.
N51|Ice(berg) transport costs|"Iceberg transport costs are one of the main ingredients of modern trade and economic geography models: transport costs are modelled by assuming that a fraction of the goods shipped ""melts in transit''. In this paper, we investigate whether the iceberg assumption applies to the costs of transporting the only good that literally melts in transit: ice. Using detailed information on Boston's nineteenth-century global ice trade, we show that ice(berg) transport costs in practice were a combination of a true ad-valorem iceberg cost: melt in transit, and freight, (off)loading and insurance costs. The physics of the melt process and the practice of insulating the ice in transit imply an immediate violation of the iceberg assumption: shipping ice is subject to economies scale."
N51|Ice(berg) Transport Costs|Iceberg transport costs are one of the main ingredients of modern trade and economic geography models: transport costs are modelled by assuming that a fraction of the goods shipped “melts in transit”. In this paper, we investigate whether the iceberg assumption applies to the costs of transporting the only good that literally melts in transit: ice. Using detailed information on Boston’s nineteenth-century global ice trade, we show that ice(berg) transport costs in practice were a combination of a true ad-valorem iceberg cost: melt in transit, and freight, (off)loading and insurance costs. The physics of the melt process and the practice of insulating the ice in transit imply an immediate violation of the iceberg assumption: shipping ice is subject to economies scale.
N51|Property Rights to Frontier Land and Minerals: US Exceptionalism|Property rights are the most fundamental institution in any society. They determine who has decision-making authority over assets and who bears the costs and benefits of those decisions. They assign ownership, wealth, political influence, and social standing. They make markets possible; define timelines; and provide incentives for investment, innovation, and trade. They mitigate the losses of open access and provide the basis for long-term economic growth. Economists and economic historians have long recognized the importance of secure property rights for economic outcomes. Other political economy, philosophy, historical, and legal literatures emphasize different, but critical attributes based on how property rights are allocated and to whom. The linkages among the social, political, and economic effects are examined here with respect to US and Latin American frontier land and minerals. Property rights were sharply different across the two frontiers with apparent long-term consequences for economic growth, innovation, wealth distribution, private investment in public goods, as well as social and political stability. The distinct assignment of property rights to land and minerals is likely a basis for long-term US exceptionalism in economic performance, individualism, mobility, and optimism. The mechanisms through which property rights to land in a frontier society affect outcomes in a contemporary, highly urban one are complex. Because property rights to land were broadly distributed, Americans could participate in capital markets using land as collateral. This ability shaped opinions regarding markets, capitalism, and individual opportunity. In the 21st century, these critical attributes may be eroding, inviting more analysis from economists and economic historians.
N51|Federal Lands, Opportunity Costs, and Bureaucratic Management|The federal government owns and administers 472, 892,659 acres or 21% of the land area of the lower US, making it both the country’s largest land owner and among the largest by a central government among western democracies. This condition is surprising, given that the US generally is viewed as more oriented toward private property rights and markets. The land largely is managed by the US Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management, staffed by unelected, career civil servants who hold tenure to their positions. Access and use regulations are administered by agency officials who have wide latitude under all-purpose legislation passed by Congress. Their actions are influenced by bureaucratic incentives and by lobby groups seeking to influence federal land policy. General citizens have little information about how policies are determined and only costly recourse to challenge them. Other than the comparatively small, 27,400,000 acres in National Parks, most of the land has no important amenity values nor apparent major externalities associated with use. These lands were to be transferred to private claimants under 19th century land laws. This paper examines how this vast area came to be withheld by the federal government and the role of the environmental movement in the process. Market failure and externalities were asserted justifications, but there is no strong supportive evidence. Although externalities were possible, the most obvious solution was to define property rights more completely. This option was and remains rejected by politicians, agency officials, and those lobby groups that sought permanent management and control over federal lands. Sustained-yield was an overarching objective, but it is a biological and not an economic concept and the human welfare outcomes of bureaucratic management may be large.
N51|The Economics of African American Slavery: The Cliometrics Debate|This working paper explores the significant contributions to the history of African-American slavery made by the application of the tools of cliometrics. As used here “cliometrics” is defined as a method of scientific analysis marked by the explicit use of economic theory and quantitative methods. American slavery of the late antebellum period [1840-1860] was one of the earliest topics that cliometricians focused on and, arguably, the topic upon which they made the largest impact.
N51|Capital Destruction and Economic Growth: The Effects of Sherman's March, 1850-1920|Using General William Sherman’s 1864–65 military march through Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina during the American Civil War, this paper studies the effect of capital destruction on medium and long-run local economic activity, and the role of financial markets in the recovery process. We match an 1865 US War Department map of Sherman’s march to county-level demographic, agricultural, and manufacturing data from the 1850-1920 US Censuses. We show that the capital destruction induced by the March led to a large contraction in agricultural investment, farming asset prices, and manufacturing activity. Elements of the decline in agriculture persisted through 1920. Using information on local banks and access to credit, we argue that the underdevelopment of financial markets played a role in weakening the recovery.
N51|Agricultural Diversity, Structural Change and Long-run Development: Evidence from the U.S|This paper examines the role of agricultural diversity in the process of development. Using data from U.S. counties and exploiting climate-induced variation in agricultural production patterns, I show that mid-19th century agricultural diversity had positive long-run effects on population density and income per capita. Examining the effects on development outcomes over time, I find that early agricultural diversity fostered structural change during the Second Industrial Revolution. Besides stimulating industrialization, agricultural diversity boosted manufacturing diversification, patent activity, and new labor skills, as well as knowledge- and skill-intensive industries. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that diversity spurs the acquisition of new ideas and new skills because of the presence of cross-sector spillovers and complementarities.
N51|Role of the US Reclamation Service and Bureau of Reclamation in the early 20th century \the crop revenue of the first five projects \|The US Reclamation Service (1902-1923) and Bureau of Reclamation (1923 - ) of the Department of Interior conducted many reclamation projects in the west. This paper examines the first five of them, with special focuses on the role played by this federal agency for the agricultural revenue per acre in each project area. The profitability seems to have been affected by (1) the profit from industrial crops, such as sugar beets and cotton, (2) national trends of agricultural prices, (3) local, geographical factors of each area (precipitation excluded). It should be borne in mind that the two agencies were reluctant to be directly involved in improvement of the agricultural conditions in the region, though they showed some interests in agriculture itself. As a result, choices of crops, solution of inundation damage, improvement of agricultural knowledge, and other challenges in the local agriculture were left to the private sector and other authorities. We can find some of their contributions, but their role was confined to irrigation for agricultural water supply partly because the officials were ill-prepared at the initial stage and mainly because of the small budget. However, the irrigation had fundamental importance for the future development in each region. It was the foundation for the mixed agriculture of fodder crops and animal husbandry, and cultivation of industry crops which brought in much higher cash income. Based on this foundation, later development projects, conducted by other Federal and local offices, private companies as well as individual farmers, were made possible. While the contributions made by the reclamation agencies were limited, their construction of water infrastructure had considerable significance.
N51|Israel and the 1990-2015 Global Developments: Riding with the Global Flows and Weathering the Storms|The global economy has been buffeted by several unprecedented economic events during the past 35 years. We survey the impact of these events on Israel’s development, institutions, and economic policies. Israel had a remarkable development during this time, from a low income high-inflation developing economy in the 1970s, to a medium to high income stable- inflation advanced economy in the 2000s, while increasingly integrated into the world economy. The extraordinary events surveyed include: (1) The collapse of the Soviet Union and the massive immigration to Israel which followed; (2) The Great Moderation in inflation and employment fluctuations in the advanced economies; (3) The 2008 global financial crisis, epi-centered in the US, and the contagion of the financial crisis to Europe; and (4) The rise of East Asia high-growth economies. Moderating spillovers from the advanced economies during the Great Moderation, the global information technology revolution, the influx of skilled immigrants from the former Soviet Union, the gradual buildup of robust and well-regulated financial institutions over decades after the hyper-inflation crisis, and the deep and extensive integration into the global economy, all provided the Israeli economy with an entry “ticket” to the OECD; the 35-member group of the world advanced economies. It came, however at a cost of rising income inequality.
N51|Russian food embargo: minor losses in western countries|Most of the countries counter-sanctioned by Russia have seen no decline in food exports, increasing them to other countries to compensate for losses in the Russian market. Only a few countries have experienced a decline in exports due to the Russian food embargo, namely Norway (a total decline of 11.3%, of which the Russian market accounts for 10.1%), Finland (respectively 24.5% and 20.9%), Lithuania (20.7% and 20.6%), Latvia (21.5% and 11.5%), Estonia (22.8% and 12.2%), Poland (4.8% and 4.6%).
N51|Импортозамещение В Сельском Хозяйстве|Продовольственное эмбарго так и не создало благоприятных условий для развития сельхозпроизводства. Зато их сформировала девальвация рубля, превратившая импортные товары внутри страны в неконкурентоспособные. С одной стороны, девальвация осложнила жизнь российских сельхозпроизводителей ввиду удорожания импортных ресурсов, с другой стороны, в 2015 г. они все же смогли увеличить производство основных продовольственных культур, изменили структуру производства, ориентируясь на спрос внутри страны и на внешних рынках.
N51|Экспорт Пшеницы Россией|Россия стала крупнейшим в мире экспортером пшеницы и имеет шанс сохранить этот статус. Тренд на снижение цен на мировых рынках продовольствия и ослабление эффекта девальвации рубля могут сделать экспорт российского зерна менее успешным уже в ближайшие годы.
N51|Агропродовольственный Сектор|Сельское хозяйство продолжает демонстрировать рост, хотя его темпы замедляются. Сокращаются располагаемые доходы населения, что приводит к снижению его покупательной способности. Рост производства и снижение покупательного спроса сдерживают цены на продовольствие в условиях ограниченного экспорта. Производители продовольствия ищут выход на внешние рынки.
N51|Результаты Эмбарго На Поставки Сельскохозяйственной Продукции Из Турции|Продолжение запретов в отношении овощей из Турции не слишком заметно для российских граждан из-за незначительных объемов поставок. В летние месяцы потребности в этой продукции будут удовлетворяться за счет собственного производства и партнеров по ЕАЭ С – Армении, Киргизии, Казахстана. Ограничения поставок томатов и огурцов привели к разным последствиям для Турции. Экспорт томатов как продуктов более длительного хранения переориентировался на другие страны. Производители огурцов понесли существенные потери – экспорт снизился на 40% (доля России в турецком экспорте была 50%).1
N51|Российское Продовольственное Эмбарго: Потери Западных Стран Несуществен|Продолжение запретов в отношении овощей из Турции не слишком заметно для российских граждан из-за незначительных объемов поставок. В летние месяцы потребности в этой продукции будут удовлетворяться за счет собственного производства и партнеров по ЕАЭ С – Армении, Киргизии, Казахстана. Ограничения поставок томатов и огурцов привели к разным последствиям для Турции. Экспорт томатов как продуктов более длительного хранения переориентировался на другие страны. Производители огурцов понесли существенные потери – экспорт снизился на 40% (доля России в турецком экспорте была 50%).
N51|The Wild West IS Wild: The Homicide Resource Curse|We document interpersonal violence as a dimension of the resource curse. We rely on a historical natural experiment in the United States, where mineral discoveries occurred sometimes before, sometimes after formal institutions were established in the county of discovery. In places where mineral discoveries occurred before formal institutions were established, there were more homicides per capita historically and the effect has persisted to this day. Today, the share of homicides and assaults explained by the historical circumstances of mineral discoveries is comparable to the effect of education or income. Our results imply that short-term and quasi-exogenous variations in the institutional environment can lead to large and persistent differences in cultural and institutional development.
N51|Collective Action by Contract: Prior Appropriation and the Development of Irrigation in the Western United States|We analyze the economic determinants and effects of prior appropriation water rights that were voluntarily implemented across an immense area of the US West, abruptly replacing common-law riparian water rights. At the same time and place, vast private irrigation infrastructure added to the US capital stock. We build upon Ostrom and Gardner (1993) and model irrigation as a coordination problem to show how prior appropriation facilitated greater private infrastructure development than was possible under the baseline riparian system by i) securing access to water against future entry and ii) defining a property right that formed the basis for contracting around collective action problems among numerous, heterogeneous agents. We construct a dataset of 7,800 rights in Colorado, established between 1852 and 2013 including location, date, size, infrastructure investment, irrigated acreage, crops, topography, stream flow, soil quality, and precipitation to test the predictions of the model. We find that prior appropriation facilitated cooperation, doubling infrastructure investment and ultimately contributing between 3% and 21% of western state income in 1930. These outcomes are relative to the baseline alternative of a riparian system. The analysis reveals institutional innovation that informs our understanding of the development of property rights, prior appropriation, and contemporary water policy.
N51|Estimating Path Dependence in Energy Transitions|What induces clean energy transitions? When transitional dynamics exhibit strong path dependence, a temporary shock to input composition can trigger permanent structural change. I examine whether such dynamics characterize the U.S. energy sector's use of coal - the most climate-damaging fuel - over the 20th century. Exploiting local coal supply shocks driven by changing regional accessibility of subsurface coal, I find increasing imbalance in the coal composition of electricity capital lasting ten decades following a shock. A structural change model enables recovery of a key structural parameter from reduced-form estimates and explores conditions for triggering sustained future clean energy transitions.
N51|"Railroads and American Economic Growth: A ""Market Access"" Approach"|"This article examines the historical impact of railroads on the U.S. economy, with a focus on quantifying the aggregate impact on the agricultural sector in 1890. Expansion of the railroad network may have affected all counties directly or indirectly—an econometric challenge that arises in many empirical settings. However, the total impact on each county is captured by changes in that county’s ""market access,"" a reduced-form expression derived from general equilibrium trade theory. We measure counties’ market access by constructing a network database of railroads and waterways and calculating lowest-cost county-to-county freight routes. We estimate that county agricultural land values increased substantially with increases in county market access, as the railroad network expanded from 1870 to 1890. Removing all railroads in 1890 is estimated to decrease the total value of U.S. agricultural land by 60%, with limited potential for mitigating these losses through feasible extensions to the canal network or improvements to country roads. JEL Codes: N01, N51, N71, F1, O1, R1."
N51|The Historical “Roots” of U.S. Energy Price Shocks: Supplemental Results|Sustained energy price increases in the United States have preceded declines in economic activity as far back as 1890. This finding applies to two different historical GDP data sets. It suggests a much longer national experience with rising energy prices that began well before the period after World War Two. This problem emerged well before the US transition towards petroleum products when coal was an important energy source. This relationship varies with the state of the economy and appears less evident during some periods, as in the years following the 1929 stock market crash.
N51|The Historical Roots of U.S. Energy Price Shocks|Sustained energy price increases in the United States have preceded declines in economic activity as far back as 1890. This finding applies to two different historical GDP data sets. It suggests a much longer national experience with rising energy prices that began well before the period after World War Two. This problem emerged well before the U.S. transition towards petroleum products when coal was an important energy source. This relationship varies with the state of the economy and appears less evident during some periods, as in the years following the 1929 stock market crash.
N51|Convergence in Adaptation to Climate Change: Evidence from High Temperatures and Mortality, 1900-2004|This paper combines panel data on monthly mortality rates of US states and daily temperature variables for over a century (1900-2004) to explore the regional evolution of the temperature-mortality relationship and documents two key findings. First, the impact of extreme heat on mortality is notably smaller in states that more frequently experience extreme heat. Second, the difference in the heat-mortality relationship between hot and cold states declined over 1900-2004, though it persisted through 2004. Continuing differences in the mortality consequences of hot days suggests that health motivated adaptation to climate change may be slow and costly around the world.
N51|More hands, more power? Estimating the impact of immigration on output and technology choices using early 20th century US agriculture|We study the impact of immigration-induced changes in labor supply within agriculture in the US during early 20th century, a sector where shifting output mix may be easier than in previously studied industries (manufacturing), on output and production choices. We find evidence of output mix adjustments at the county-level in response to immigration as predicted by trade models. Moreover, that response is only visible in diversified counties. Counties with higher initial specialization, likely with higher degree of factor (land) specificity, responded instead through input mixes and organizational changes. Suggestive evidence indicates that crop mix adjustments alone, without organizational changes, absorbed an important part of changes in labor endowments in diversified counties.
N51|The rise and fall of an industry: Entry in U.S. copper mining, 1835–1986|The principal forces that led to the rise and fall of the U.S. copper industry are explored: cost-lowering technical change, formation of expectations, consolidation of the industry, and depletion of investment opportunities. I find that the introduction of the steam shovel, which enabled open-pit mining, was the most important technological breakthrough. Revisions of expectations of success were statistically significant but economically less important. Contrary to the conventional wisdom, concentration of ownership encouraged entry. Finally, depletion was primarily responsible for the decline in entry in later years. However, the same forces that led to success also contributed to decline.
N51|A Century of Environmental Legislation|Abstract At the beginning of the 20th century, three intertwined ambitions drove federal legislation over wildlife and biodiversity: establishment of multiple-use federal lands, the economic development of natural resources, and the maintenance of option values. We examine this federal intervention in natural resource use by analyzing roll call votes over the past century with a Random Utility Model (Manski, 1977) and conclude that economics mattered. So did ideology, but not uniformly. After World War II, the pro-environment vote which had been conservative shifted to being liberal. All these votes involved decisions regarding public land that reallocated the returns to users by changing the asset’s physical character or its usage rights. We suggest that long-term consequences affecting current resource allocations arose from disparities between broadly dispersed benefits and locally concentrated socioeconomic and geophysical (spatial) costs. We show that a primary intent of public land management has become to preserve multiple-use option values and identify important factors in computing those option values. We do this by demonstrating how the willingness to forego current benefits for future ones depends on the community’s resource endowments. These endowments are defined not only in terms of users’ current wealth accumulation but also from their expected ability to extract utility from natural resources over time.
N51|Modular Approach to Designing Computer Cultural Systems: Culture as a Thermodynamic Machine|"Culture is a complex non-linear system. In order to design computer simulations of cultural systems, it is necessary to break the system down into sub-systems. Human culture is modular. It consists of sets of people that belong to economic units. Access to, and control over matter, energy and information is postulated as the key to development of cultural simulations. Because resources in the real world are patchy, access to and control over resources is expressed in two related arenas: economics (direct control) and politics (non-direct control). The best way to create models for cultural ecology/economics lies in an energy-information-economic paradigm based on general systems theory and an understanding of the ""thermodynamics"" of ecology, or culture as a thermodynamic machine."
N51|Frictionless Technology Diffusion: The Case of Tractors|Many new technologies display long adoption lags, and this is often interpreted as evidence of frictions inconsistent with the standard neoclassical model. We study the diffusion of the tractor in American agriculture between 1910 and 1960-a well-known case of slow diffusion-and show that the speed of adoption was consistent with the predictions of a simple neoclassical growth model. The reason for the slow rate of diffusion was that tractor quality kept improving over this period and, more importantly, that only when wages increased did it become relatively unprofitable to operate the alternative, labor-intensive, horse technology.
N51|Frictionless technology diffusion: the case of tractors|Empirical evidence suggests that there is a long lag between the time a new technology is introduced and the time at which it is widely adopted. The conventional wisdom is that these observations are inconsistent with the predictions of the frictionless neoclassical model. In this paper we show this to be incorrect. Once the appropriate driving forces are taken into account, the neoclassical model can account for 'slow' adoption. We illustrate this by developing an industry model to study the equilibrium rate of diffusion of tractors in the U.S. between 1910 and 1960.
N51|The Historically Evolving Impact of the Ogallala Aquifer: Agricultural Adaptation to Groundwater and Drought|Agriculture on the American Plains has been constrained historically by water scarcity. Post-WWII technologies enabled farmers over the Ogallala aquifer to extract groundwater for large-scale irrigation. Comparing counties over the Ogallala with nearby similar counties, groundwater access increased agricultural land values and initially reduced the impact of droughts. Over time, land use adjusted toward water intensive crops and drought sensitivity increased. Viewed differently, farmers in nearby water-scarce areas maintained lowervalue drought-resistant practices that fully mitigate naturally higher drought sensitivity. The evolving impact of the Ogallala illustrates the importance of water for agricultural production, but also the large scope for agricultural adaptation to groundwater and drought.
N51|Rainfall Risk and Religious Membership in the Late Nineteenth-Century US|Insurance among the members of religious organizations should be more valuable in communities facing greater risk, making membership in religious organizations more attractive in high-risk environments. We examine the link between rainfall risk and church membership as well as seating capacity across US counties in the second half of the nineteenth century. Our results indicate that church membership and seating capacity were significantly larger in counties likely to have been subject to greater rainfall risk. This link is present among the most agricultural counties and among counties with low population densities, but not among less agricultural or more densely populated counties. Among the most agricultural counties, a one-standard-deviation increase in rainfall risk is associated with an increase in church seating capacity of around 32 percent in 1890 and 65 percent in 1860.
N51|Economic growth in the Mid-Atlantic region: Conjectural estimates for 1720 to 1800|We construct decadal estimates of GDP per capita for the colonies and states of the Mid-Atlantic region between 1720 and 1800. They show that the region likely achieved modest improvements in per capita GDP over this period despite a number of demographic factors that tended to slow the pace of growth. Nonetheless the rate of growth we find is below that commonly assumed to have prevailed in eighteenth century North America and calls those estimates into question. The striking feature of the region's economy in the eighteenth century was not the rising living-standard, but its ability to achieve rapid extensive growth without a decline in living standards. To contemporaries this extensive growth and short-term volatility in incomes must have been much more visible than any trend improvement in overall well-being.
N51|Land Confiscations and land reform in Natural-Order States| Social scientists argue that post-World War II land reforms in East Asia were critical ingredients in the regionâ€™s strong economic growth, but pay little attention to how large-scale land confiscations might affect the security of property rights in each country. A review of the history of large-scale land confiscations in early modern Europe, the United States and Hawaiâ€˜i provides a foundation for understanding the nature of modern land reform policies. The key insight is to recognize that East Asian states after World War II were natural state social orders in which new governments confiscate and redistribute property to bolster their coalitionâ€™s position and weaken opponents. In East Asia, land confiscations after World War II followed the pattern observed elsewhere, with victors taking and redistributing land from the losers of the war and subsequent civil wars primarily to bolster their newly installed political coalition and to maintain social order.
N51|Agricultural Risk and the Spread of Religious Communities|Building on the idea that members of religious communities insure each other against some idiosyncratic risks, we argue that religious communities should be more widespread where populations face greater common risk. Our theoretical argument builds on idiosyncratic and common risks aggravating each other. When this is the case, individuals have a greater incentive to mutually insure against idiosyncratic risk when greater common risk makes the worst case scenario of bad realizations of common and idiosyncratic risks more likely. Our empirical analysis exploits common rainfall risk as a source of common county-level agricultural risk in the 19th-century United States. We find that a greater share of the population was organized in religious communities in counties with greater common agricultural risk, holding expected agricultural output constant. The link between rainfall risk and membership in religious communities is stronger among more agricultural counties and counties exposed to greater rainfall risk during the growing season. We also find that among the historically more agricultural counties, more than 1/3 of 19th-century differences in religious membership associated with rainfall risk persist to the turn of the 21st century.
N51|Intergenerational Occupational Mobility in Great Britain and the United States since 1850: Comment|Using historical census and survey data, Long and Ferrie (2013) found a significant decline in social mobility in the United States from 1880 to 1973. We present two critiques of the Long-Ferrie study. First, the data quality of the Long-Ferrie study is more limiting than the authors acknowledge. Second, and more critically, they applied a method ill-suited for measuring social mobility of farmers in a comparative study between 1880 and 1973, a period in which the proportion of farmers dramatically declined in the United States. We show that Long and Ferrie's main conclusion is all driven by this misleading result for farmers.
N51|Nutrition and signaling in slave markets: a new look at a puzzle within the antebellum puzzle|Between 1800 and 1860, mean adult stature of (U.S.) white males declined by nearly an inch, while real output grew substantially, creating the “Antebellum Puzzle.” In contrast, male slaves did not experience a comparable decrease in heights. To explain this puzzle within a puzzle, we show that the benefit of the marginal nutrient exceeded the cost throughout the antebellum era. As a result, it paid for slave owners to engage in the supplemental feeding of slaves, which increased their stature. While this is consistent with a productivity explanation of increased stature, we also argue that informational asymmetries played an important role in the market for slaves. Slave owners had an incentive to signal that their slaves were high-productivity laborers by supplying them with additional food, which positively impacted slave heights. We provide evidence that, distinct from a productivity explanation, signaling mattered in the trend of slave heights.
N51|Inequality and school funding in the rural United States, 1890|This paper examines the relationship of inequality to school funding in counties of the U.S. in 1890. Inequality, measured here on the basis of farm-size distributions, is found to be negatively related to local school property tax revenues across the whole sample of 1345 rural counties. However, further analysis shows that this relationship is not consistent across the sample. In the North, there is a significant negative relationship between inequality and school funding, and this relationship is shown to be consistent with the fact that assessed values of property did not rise linearly with wealth. Across the South, there is no distinct relationship between inequality and school funding. The results also indicate that inequality in the South cannot directly explain the gap in school funding with the North, in the sense that redistributing farms in the South to match the Northern distributions leads to no predicted increase in school funding.
N51|Nineteenth Century US Black and White Physical Activity and Nutritional Trends among the Working Class|Much has been written about 19th century African American and white statures and body mass index values. However, little is known about their physical activity and calories required to sustain height and weight. This paper considers two alternative measures for biological conditions that address physical activity and available calories: basal metabolic rate and energy accounting. African-Americans had greater BMRs and required more calories per day than whites. Farmers and unskilled workers were in better physical condition and required more calories per day than workers in white-collar and skilled occupations. Nineteenth century BMRs and calories were greater in rural locations where greater physical activity was required and more calories were available.
N51|Legacy, location, and labor: Accounting for racial differences in postbellum cotton production|Many postbellum southern farms specialized in cotton, but black-operated farms planted much larger shares of cotton than white-operated farms. This paper tests various explanations for the pattern of specialization using 1879 farm-specific data. We find that the cross-sectional racial variation in cotton share is largely explained by location and on-farm labor supply conditions, consequences of the legacy of slavery, rather than debt constraints.
N51|Good schools make good neighbors: Human capital spillovers in early 20th century agriculture|Formal schooling has a significant impact on modern agricultural productivity but there is little evidence quantifying the historical importance of schools in the early development of the American agricultural sector. I present new data from the Midwest at the start of the twentieth century showing that the emerging public schools were helping farmers successfully adapt to a variety of agricultural innovations. I use a unique dataset of farmers containing detailed geographical information to estimate both the private returns to schooling and human capital spillovers across neighboring farms. The results indicate that public schools contributed substantially to agricultural productivity at the turn of the century and that a large portion of this contribution came through human capital spillovers. These findings offer new insights into why the Midwest was a leader in the expansion of secondary education.
N51|Strategic Aspects Of Human Resource Management In The Business Organization|Under conditions of the contemporary „Knowledge economy” human resources become more and more important for the successful development of the business organization. In the present article there is drawn the nature of strategic human resource management. There are presented in a generalized form the results of empirical studies of the interrelation between human re source management in the business organization and the results of its activity. There are generalized the peculiarities of the main approaches to strategic human resource management: the universal, adaptive, configurational, contextual and integrative approach.
N51|"Reflections on ""Some Unsettled Problems of Irrigation"""| It is instructive to read the article that Katharine Coman published in the first issue of the American Economic Review to gain insight into the problems of collective action related to irrigation in the American West. One gains further understanding of the problems Coman identifies by using a social-ecological system (Ostrom 2007, 2009) to organize the diverse variables identified by Coman. One gains a general lesson from this analysis that changing the formal governance structure of irrigation is not sufficient to ensure efficient investment in facilities or that farmers are able to acquire property and make a reasonable living. Building knowledge and trust are, however, essential for solving collective-action problems. (JEL B31, N51, Q15, Q25)
N51|"Institutional Path Dependence in Climate Adaptation: Coman's ""Some Unsettled Problems of Irrigation"""|" Katharine Coman's ""Some Unsettled Problems of Irrigation,"" published in March 1911 in the first issue of the American Economic Review , addressed issues of water supply, rights, and organization. These same issues have relevance today, in the face of growing concern about the availability of fresh water worldwide. The central point of this article is that appropriative water rights and irrigation districts that emerged in the American West in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries in response to aridity to facilitate agricultural water delivery, use, and trade raise the transaction costs today of water markets. These markets are vital for smooth reallocation of water to higher-valued uses elsewhere in the economy and for flexible response to greater hydrological uncertainty. This institutional path dependence illustrates how past arrangements to meet conditions of the time constrain contemporary economic opportunities. They cannot be easily significantly modified or replaced ex post. (JEL N51, Q15, Q25, Q54)"
N51|Climate Variability and Water Infrastructure: Historical Experience in the Western United States|Greater historical perspective is needed to enlighten current debate about future human responses to higher temperatures and increased precipitation variation. We analyze the impact of climatic conditions and variability on agricultural production in five semi-arid western states. We assemble county-level data on dams and other major water infrastructure; agricultural crop mixes and yields; precipitation and temperature; soil quality, and topography. Using this extensive data set, we analyze the impact of water infrastructure investments on crop mix and yields in affected counties relative to similarly-endowed counties that lack such infrastructure. We find that water infrastructure smoothes agricultural crop production and increases the likelihood of a successful harvest, especially during times of severe drought or excessive precipitation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N51|Large Scale Institutional Changes: Land Demarcation Within the British Empire|This paper examines the economics of large scale institutional change by studying the adoption of the land demarcation practices within the British Empire during the 17th through 19th Centuries. The advantages of systematic, coordinated demarcation, such as with the rectangular survey, relative to individualized, haphazard demarcation, such as with metes and bounds, for reducing transaction costs were understood by this time and incorporated into British colonial policy. Still, there was considerable variation in the institutions adopted even though that the regions had similar legal structures and immigrant populations. We study the determinants of institutional change by developing an analytical framework, deriving testable implications, and then analyzing a data set that includes U.S., Canadian, Australian, and New Zealand temperate colonies using GIS data. We find that a simple framework that outlines the costs and benefits of implementing the demarcation systems can explain the different institutions that are observed. Once in place, these institutions persist, indicating a strong institutional path dependence that can influence transaction costs, the extent of land markets, and the nature of resource use. The agricultural land institutions that we examine remain in force today, in some cases over 300 years later. In this regard, institutions of land are durable, much as are other institutions, such as language and law.
N51|Covered Farm Mortgage Bonds in the Late Nineteenth Century U.S|Covered mortgage bonds have been used successfully in Europe for two centuries, but failed in the U.S. when introduced as farm mortgage debentures in the 1880s. Using firm-level data and a sample of loans made by one Kansas mortgage company, I find that debenture programs grew out of established loan brokerage operations and were used to fund mortgages that were difficult to broker because of size, term or risk characteristics. Debentures broadened access to the interregional mortgage market and facilitated an expansion of western farm mortgage debt before the innovation failed in the mortgage crisis of the 1890s.
N51|"Institutional Path Dependence in Climate Adaptation: Coman's ""Some Unsettled Problems of Irrigation"""|"Katharine Coman's ""Some Unsettled Problems of Irrigation,"" published in March 1911 in the first issue of the American Economic Review addressed issues of water supply, rights, and organization. These same issues have relevance today 100 years later in face of growing concern about the availability of fresh water worldwide as demand grows and as supplies become more uncertain due to the potential effects of climate change. The central point of this article is that appropriative water rights and irrigation districts that emerged in the American West in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in response to aridity to facilitate agricultural water delivery, use, and trade raise the transaction costs today of water markets. These markets are vital for smooth re-allocation of water to higher-valued uses elsewhere in the economy and for flexible response to greater hydrological uncertainty. This institutional path dependence illustrates how past arrangements to meet conditions of the time constrain contemporary economic opportunities. They cannot be easily significantly modified or replaced ex post."
N51|Property Rights, Standards Of Living, And Economic Growth: Western Canadian Cree|No abstract is available for this item.
N51|Panic in the plains: agricultural markets and the panic of 1893|Nearly every previous study of the 1893 bank panic acknowledges its regional concentration in the Western states yet few provide any in-depth study of what caused such a distinct regional pattern. Here, I recast the 1893 crisis as having its origins in agricultural markets and then spreading to Western banks that were highly exposed to agricultural shocks. Negative shocks to agricultural yields and the relative importance of the wheat crop for specific states emerge as important explanations for the regional pattern of bank closures and thus for the panic itself.
N51|Old World versus New World : the origins of organizational diversity in the international wine industry, 1850-1914|Wine production in Europe today is dominated by small family vineyards and cooperative wineries, while in the New World viticulture and viniculture is highly concentrated and vertically integrated. This paper argues that these fundamental organizational differences appeared from the turmoil in wine markets at the turn of the twentieth century. As technological change endangered existing rents, growers, wine-makers, and merchants lobbied governments to introduce laws and create new institutions that regulated markets in their favor. The political voice and bargaining power of the economic agents varied greatly both within, and between, countries, leading to the introduction of very different policies.
N51|Old World versus New World: the origins of organizational diversity in the international wine industry, 1850-1914|"""Wine production in Europe today is dominated by small family vineyards and cooperative wineries, while in the New World viticulture and viniculture is highly concentrated and vertically integrated. This paper argues that these fundamental organizational differences appeared from the turmoil in wine markets at the turn of the twentieth century. As technological change endangered existing rents, growers, wine-makers, and merchants lobbied governments to introduce laws and create new institutions that regulated markets in their favor. The political voice and bargaining power of the economic agents varied greatly both within, and between, countries, leading to the introduction of very different policies. """
N51|Cultural Persistence as Behavior Towards Risk: Evidence from the North Carolina Cherokees, 1850-1880|Can economic theory help explain the persistence of a cultural enclave among the Cherokee Indians living in North Carolina during the nineteenth century? To date, Fogelson and Kutsche (1961) and Finger (1984) have identified the continuation of a communal, labor-sharing, agricultural institution called the gadugi as an example of Cherokee agency during a period of substantial upheaval. I contribute to the historiography on ancestral labor traditions by adopting Kimball’s (1988) framework on the function of farming cooperatives to test whether this arrangement sprung up as a form of insurance against the idiosyncratic risk inherent in southern agriculture. Data collected from the 1850-1880 manuscript census returns on North Carolina Cherokee farms are used to compute the variance of household self-sufficiency, which appears substantial enough to warrant a non-market mechanism to pool risk.
N51|Harvests and Business Cycles in Nineteenth-Century America|Most major American industrial business cycles from around 1880 to the First World War were caused by fluctuations in the size of the cotton harvest due to economically exogenous factors such as weather. Wheat and corn harvests did not affect industrial production; nor did the cotton harvest before the late 1870s. The unique effect of the cotton harvest in this period can be explained as an essentially monetary phenomenon, the result of interactions between harvests, international gold flows, and high-powered money demand under America's goldstandard regime of 1879–1914.
N51|The Demarcation of Land and the Role of Coordinating Institutions|This paper examines the origins and economic effects of the two dominant land demarcation systems: metes and bounds (MB) and the rectangular system (RS). Under MB property is demarcated by its perimeter as indicated by natural features and human structures and linked to surveys within local political jurisdictions. Under RS land demarcation is governed by a common grid with uniform square shapes, sizes, alignment, and geographically-based addresses. In the U.S. MB largely is used in the original 13 states, Kentucky, and Tennessee. The RS is found elsewhere under the Land Ordinance of 1785 that divided federal lands into square-mile sections. We develop an economic framework for examining land demarcation systems and draw predictions. Our empirical analysis focuses on a 39-county area of Ohio where both MB and RS were used in adjacent areas as a result of exogenous historical factors. The results indicate that topography influences parcel shape and size under a MB system; that parcel shapes are aligned under the RS; and that the RS is associated with higher land values, more roads, more land transactions, and fewer legal disputes than MB, all else equal. The comparative limitations of MB appear to have had negative long-term effects on land values and economic activity in the sample area.
N51|Agricultural Improvements and Access to Rail Transportation: The American Midwest as a Test Case, 1850-1860|During the 1850s, land in U.S. farms surged by more than 100 million acres while almost 50 million acres of land were transformed from their raw, natural state into productive farmland. The time and expense of transforming this land into a productive resource represented a significant fraction of domestic capital formation at the time and was an important contributor to American economic growth. Even more impressive, however, was the fact that almost half of these total net additions to cropland occurred in just seven Midwestern states which comprised barely less than one-eighth of the land area of the country at that time. Using a new GIS-based transportation database linked to county-level census, we estimate that at least a quarter (and possibly two-thirds or more) of this increase can be linked directly to the coming of the railroad to the region. Farmers responded to the shrinking transportation wedge and rising revenue productivity by rapidly expanding the area under cultivation and these changes, in turn, drove rising farm and land values.
N51|The impact of military forts on agricultural investments on the Great Plains in 1880|We empirically investigate the relationship between agricultural development and proximity to military forts in Kansas, Nebraska, and Colorado in 1880. Agricultural investments are substantially higher in counties where a military fort is present, suggesting that military forts stimulated agricultural development on the Great Plains. However, the reverse is not true; there is no statistical support for the notion that forts necessarily located in counties where substantial development was already occurring. Moreover, we found that while the presence of a military fort has the effect of increasing agricultural development, there is no evidence that such a presence sustained agricultural development.
N51|Resources, Trade, And The Aboriginal Population: Lessons From The 1780s Smallpox Epidemic In The Hudson Bay Region|No abstract is available for this item.
N51|El republicanismo agrario en Estados Unidos, 1785-1824|This article examines the evolution of American agrarian republicanism in the period between the publication of Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on the State of Virginia in 1785, and the speech on tariffs given by Henry Clay in 1824, when the economic plan known as American System was promoted -which meant the end of the ascendancy of Jeffersonian agrarian republicanism. The text analyses the intellectual roots of American agrarian republicanism, its key theoretical features, and the political economy of the early republic. The clash, which started at the end of the eighteenth century between two opposite models of state —the financial model promoted by Alexander Hamilton and the agrarian model led by Jefferson and James Madison— is integrated into a secular trend of thought that discussed the relationship between liberty, power, agriculture, and commerce. The article also highlights the way in which classical republican agrarism was combined with the economic theory of free trade. The article finishes with some comparative reflections and a historical contextualization of Jeffersonian agrarian republicanism.
N51|California and the creation of a modern wine industry : 1860-1919|The very different factor endowments of the New World to those found in Europe implied that the wine industry developed its own style and characteristics. In California production was located at a considerable distance from the main markets on the East Coast, and trade was initially controlled by the East Coast merchants, who imported wines from Europe and purchased California wine in bulk, selling it under their own brands. The problems of marketing and the fight against fraud and adulteration, produced a struggle between the wine-makers and San Francisco’s merchants for the control of the industry, and the creation of the world’s largest, vertically integrated wine company, the California Wine Association.
N51|Wealth Distribution and the Provision of Public Goods: Evidence from the United States|This paper examines the role of inequality in the provision of public goods. County level data from the U.S. in 1890 provides comparable units of analysis operating with similar property tax systems, ensuring that we do not empirically confuse differences in tax systems with differences in public goods provision. Climatic data is used as an instrument for land inequality to provide identification of the effect of inequality. The results indicate that land inequality caused significantly lower overall property tax rates. This effect is driven almost exclusively by the effect of land inequality on taxes related directly to schooling. In contrast, non-school funding was not significantly affected by inequality. While informative about the effect of land inequality on public goods provision, an examination of the details of the tax system suggests that these results should not necessarily be taken as a rejection of median voter predictions.
N51|Wealth Distribution and the Provision of Public Goods: Evidence from the United States|This paper examines the role of inequality in the provision of public goods. County level data from the U.S. in 1890 provides comparable units of analysis operating with similar property tax systems, ensuring that we do not empirically confuse differences in tax systems with differences in public goods provision. Climatic data is used as an instrument for land inequality to provide identification of the effect of inequality. The results indicate that land inequality caused significantly lower overall property tax rates. This effect is driven almost exclusively by the effect of land inequality on taxes related directly to schooling. In contrast, non-school funding was not significantly affected by inequality. While informative about the effect of land inequality on public goods provision, an examination of the details of the tax system suggests that these results should not necessarily be taken as a rejection of median voter predictions.
N51|The rise of the US Portland cement industry and the role of public science|American Portland cement rose spectacularly during the 1890s from being a niche product to dominating a much larger market. The contributions of innovations, factor endowments and public science—factors highlighted as contributing to the more general American industrialization occurring at the same time—are analyzed. The successful commercialization of the rotary kiln, enabled by abundant supplies of fuels and minerals, played a key role, as did greater demand. Geological surveys, as highlighted by David and Wright, assisted in some states, but an econometric entry model does not demonstrate that they made a systematic significant contribution to the rise.
N51|Railroads and Local Economic Development: The United States in the 1850s|We use county and individual-level data from 1850 and 1860 to examine the economic impact of gaining access to a railroad. Previous studies have found that rail access was positively correlated with the value of agricultural land at a point in time, and have interpreted this correlation as evidence that rail access chiefly benefitted agricultural land owners in the manner predicted by the Hekscher-Ohlin or Von Theunen models. We use a difference-in-difference strategy, comparing changes in outcomes in counties that gained rail access in the 1850s to those that either gained access earlier or did not have access before the Civil War. Most of the estimated effects are small and the signs are not wholly consistent with either model, under the null hypothesis that agriculture was the chief beneficiary of rail access. For example, we find that rail access appears to have increased urbanization, raised the likelihood of participation in the service sector, decreased agricultural yields, and reduced the share of improved acreage in total land area, opposite to the patterns predicted by either the Heckscher-Ohlin or Von Theunen models.
N51|A re-examination of the origins of American industrial success|Wright (1990) argues the origins of American industrial success are in the institutions that enabled exploitation of natural resources. These institutions, argue David and Wright (1997), included the state and US geological surveys and universities that worked closely with industry. However, their work does not directly analyse how US re- source intensive manufacturers directly competed with their European predecessors. In this paper we analyse the rise of the US cement industry, the features of which closely resembles the pattern described by David and Wright. This was in part due to the US successfully adapting a more resource intensive production technology from England, and a rise in demand due to the gradual diffusion of reinforced concrete. Consistent with David and Wright, there is some direct evidence of university-industry links and econometric evidence of geological surveys creating a first mover advantage. However, it is argued the rise in the US industry would not have occurred without adapting German methods of quality control and standardised product and test specifications, and to credibly signal this. This is supported by the failure of the US industry to become a large scale exporter (while European firms continued to do so). This result is also suggestive of factors that may have influenced which US industries rose to domestic dominance and which rose to dominate world markets.
N51|Managerial Strategies of the Cotton South|Relative efficiencies of antebellum slave farms are suggested by many empirical studies. This paper considers a theoretical aspect of those results using a repeated principal-agent problem. Within its theoretical analysis, with relevance to profitability of slave farms, it will be shown that when inter-temporal punishments are necessary and when they can perform efficiently in production. Applying those theoretical results, some empirical studies on relative profitability and relative efficiencies are discussed. In the empirical study, relative efficiencies of each farm scale—free farms, task farms, and gang farms—are estimated region by region by a stochastic profit frontier model.
N51|Factors Influencing the Adoption of Breeding Technologies in U.S. Hog Production| An important aspect of structural change in the U.S. hog industry has been the adoption of breeding technology. The adoption of each of four breeding technologies, weekly farrowing, intensive breeding, terminal crossbreeding, and artificial insemination, in U.S. hog production is analyzed using multivariate probit analysis. Results suggest that diversification, whether the producer raised breeding stock, debt and asset levels, and producer’s education influence adoption rate. Larger, more risk-averse producers were more likely to adopt technology. Producers who rated the quality of labor available as higher were more likely to adopt management-intensive technologies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N51|Factors Influencing the Adoption of Breeding Technologies in U.S. Hog Production| An important aspect of structural change in the U.S. hog industry has been the adoption of breeding technology. The adoption of each of four breeding technologies, weekly farrowing, intensive breeding, terminal crossbreeding, and artificial insemination, in U.S. hog production is analyzed using multivariate probit analysis. Results suggest that diversification, whether the producer raised breeding stock, debt and asset levels, and producer’s education influence adoption rate. Larger, more risk-averse producers were more likely to adopt technology. Producers who rated the quality of labor available as higher were more likely to adopt management-intensive technologies.
N51|The Development of Water Rights in Colorado|Property rights will be more carefully defined and enforced when the value of a resource rises or the probability of losing the resource increases. A simple model is estimated on litigation data for Colorado to test this hypothesis. According to the model, the number of water rights cases will rise when the demand for water increases or the supply of water decreases. Several versions of such a model with a deterministic and, alternatively, a stochastic trend component are estimated. The estimates are robust across model type and confirm the theoretical conclusions on the determinants of water rights cases.
N51|Strikes, Scabs, and Tread Separations: Labor Strife and the Production of Defective Bridgestone/Firestone Tires|This paper provides a case study of the effect of labor relations on product quality. We consider whether a long, contentious strike and the hiring of replacement workers at Bridgestone/Firestone's Decatur, Illinois, plant in the mid-1990s contributed to the production of defective tires. Using several independent data sources and looking before and after the strike and across plants, we find that labor strife at the Decatur plant closely coincided with lower product quality. Monthly data suggest that defects were particularly high around the time concessions were demanded and when large numbers of replacement workers and returning strikers worked side by side.
N51|Mules In Southern Agriculture: Revisited| This article provides additional empirical evidence concerning the choice of the mule as the dominant draft animal in southern agricultural production in the latter 19th and early 20th century. While the mule was uniquely suited to the crops and climate of the region, two divergent arguments have been presented as to why the mule was the dominant draft animal in southern agricultural production. This research reevaluates these arguments and provides evidence that it was, in fact, the characteristics of this hybrid that made it the preferred draft animal for the South.
N51|In Pursuit of Leviathan: Technology, Institutions, Productivity, and Profits in American Whaling, 1816-1906|No abstract is available for this item.
N51|Growth And The Standard Of Living In A Pioneer Economy: Upper Canada, 1826 To 1851|Building on the work of McCalla, McInnis and others we describe the early income of Upper Canada over the period 1826 to 1851. The Municipal Assessments, which report ownership of land, livestock and other property, allow us to develop conjectural estimates of farm income; and various Provincial Accounts help us describe the pattern of trade as well as the development of the school system. Although we find little evidence of intensive growth in that per capita incomes stayed about the same over the period, there were remarkable increases in aggregate output and population.
N51|"Were Free Southern Farmers ""Driven to Indolence"" by Slavery? A Stochastic Production Frontier Approach"|Antebellum critics of slavery argued that it was responsible for the relative inefficiency of free southern farms. We examine this issue, employing a stochastic production function, which allows us to distinguish between technological superiority and technical inefficiency, and controlling for crop mix, which we treat as endogenous. We find that although large plantations enjoyed a technological advantage, slave farms were less efficient than free northern farms but more efficient than free southern farms. In addition, free southern farms were significantly less efficient than comparable northern farms.
