N53|Weather shocks, poverty and crime in 18th-century Savoy|Did weather shocks increase interpersonal conflict in early modern Europe? I address this question by exploiting year-to-year seasonal variations in temperature and detailed crime data I assembled from Savoyard criminal procedures over the period 1749–89. I find that temperature shocks had a positive and significant effect on the level of property crimes, but no significant effect on violent crimes. I further document how seasonal migration may help to increase the coping capacity of local communities in which they were widely used. Migrant labourers brought remittances to supplement communities’ resources and also temporarily relieve their communities of the burden of feeding them. I show that temperature shocks were strongly associated with increase in the property crimes rate, but the effect is much lower in provinces with high levels of seasonal migration. I provide historical evidence to show that the inflow of remittances may drive this relationship.
N53|The year 1819 epitomizing the issues and challenges of modernity after the Revolution and Empire|After the recess imposed by the intensification of Napoleonic wars and defeat in 1810-1815, the Restauration regime had to restart the leverage forces of growth. Economic and academic elites struggled to conceive the paths of renewal of innovative and entrepreneurial spirits, in order to foster French competitiveness. The philosophy of liberalism was renewed; calls for innovation, for spreading new techniques across industry, and to stimulate refreshed flows of savings and banking loans constituted a package able to renew with the hopes of the 1795-1810 years. Thus the 1819 year could be inserted into intercrossing schemes of narrative and business histories as it gathered so many signs of such a renewal and of the move towards the first industriel and banking revolutions.
N53|High Wages or Wages For Energy? An Alternative View of The British Case (1645-1700)|Energy was one of the keys to the remarkable increase in English GDP between 1650 and 1700. Increased per head physical activity and basal metabolic rate led to increased energy consumption. In response, subsistence wages, productivity, wages and incomes increased. Malthusian adjustment explains only 50 per cent of the increase in calorie intake, the other 50 per cent is associated with higher energy consumption. Non-agricultural wages began to differ from agricultural wages. British economic development occurred everywhere, in the city and in the countryside. This approach opens new perspectives to the debate between enclosures and open fields and why underemployment became common among the philosophers' British debates.
N53|Do the Right Thing! Leaders, Weather Shocks and Social Conflicts in Pre-Industrial France|I use spatial and temporal variation in temperature shocks to examine the effect of adverse weather conditions on the onset of social conflicts in seventeenth- and eighteenth-century France. The paper’s contribution is threefold. First, I document the effect of temperature shocks on standards of living using cross-section and panel prices data. Second, I link high-resolution temperature data and a new database of 8,528 episodes of social conflicts in France between 1661 and 1789. I use a linear probability model with subregional and year fixed effects to establish a causal connection between temperature shocks and conflicts. One standard deviation increase in temperature increased the probability of social conflicts by about 5.3 per cent. To the best of my knowledge, these results are the first to quantify the effect of temperature shocks on intergroup conflict in pre-industrial Europe. Finally, I investigate the role of local leaders– the intendants– in the mitigation of temperature shocks. I show that leaders with higher level of local experience were better able to cope with adverse weather conditions. I argue that years of local experience were a key determinant in the intendant’s ability to administer efficiently his province. This interpretation is supported by historical evidence.
N53|"""Cholera Forcing"" and the Urban Water Infrastructure: Lessons from Historical Berlin"|"Did cholera function as a potent catalyst for the reform of urban water infrastructure in 19th century Europe's disease-ridden cities, serving as ""our old ally"" in the struggle for urban sanitation (Robert Koch)? Based on a detailed case study of Berlin's hydrological reconfiguration, this paper challenges popular narratives that paint the emergence of safe tap water supplies and sanitary sewers as an efficient, scientifically motivated reaction to Europe's recurrent cholera epidemics since 1831. While historians have long stressed the dominance of aesthetical and industrial over sanitary concerns, the study of Berlin's contemporary discourse suggest that the causal link between cholera and water infrastructure reform was not only weak, but ambiguous. Far from motivating the right actions for the wrong reasons, cholera's conception through the dominant miasmatist frameworks and limited proto-epidemiological tools of the prebacteriological era inspired inefficient, at times even counterproductive approaches that potentially deepened the urban mortality penalty. Berlin's role as a political and scientific center of 19th century Europe suggests that her experience was the norm rather than the exception. A nuanced understanding of Western Europe's sanitary past has important implications for the continuing struggle for urban sanitation in today's developing world."
N53|Reconsidering the Role of Farmer Politics in Swedish Democratization|In discussions of Scandinavian democratization, it is commonplace to argue that long-standing farmer representation in parliament and a lack of feudalism encouraged a democratic-participatory civic culture within the peasant farmer class – or perhaps in the population as a whole. The present essay questions this interpretation in the Swedish case. It centers on a re-interpretation of farmer politics at the national level from a two-chamber system of representation after the 1866-67 reform to the alliance between the farmers’ party and Social Democracy in 1933 and offers a new analytical account of the way that one class’s attitude to democratic inclusion can change over time, owing to changed political and economic relationships to other classes. I show that Swedish farmers did not organize themselves independently of nobles and land-owners until the 1920s, and that they did not play the role of an independent pro-democratic force. On the contrary, the broad-based organizations of farmers in the 1920s and 1930s, with their democratic, participatory culture, appear to have been heavily influenced by the political culture of liberals and the labor movement, which in democratic society opened the door to a re-shaping of Swedish farmer politics that abandoned the old (subservient) alliance with estate owners. It was not democratic farmers who gave rise to Social Democracy – rather, it was Social Democracy that caused farmers to become democratic. Understanding farmer politics correctly also opens up a new understanding of the determinants of Swedish democratization.
N53|Technology Adoption in Agrarian Societies: the Effect of Volga Germans in Imperial Russia|This paper examines technology adoption in pre-industrial societies. We use the case of a technologically advanced and spatially concentrated German minority in Saratov province of the Russian Empire to study adoption patterns among Russian peasants in late 19th–early 20th century. We find that distance from German colonies predicts the prevalence of heavy ploughs, fanning mills and wheat sowing among Russians, who traditionally sowed rye and plowed with wooden ard (sokha). We show a significant rise in labor productivity in agriculture resulting from the adoption of heavy ploughs. However, we find no evidence for the adoption of non-codified knowledge like blacksmithing, carpentry, textile manufacture, tanning and other artisan skills. Hence, the adoption of advanced tools does not necessary induce the diffusion of skills required to produce those tools. This may well be the key to the problem of slow technological convergence
N53|Revisiting Allen's nitrogen hyphotesis from a climate perspective (1645-1740)|Building on Allen’s Nytrogen Hypothesis, this paper assesses the role of climate change in the English Agricultural Revolution. Our results show that, while Nitrogen-fixing plants, better cultivation and improved seeds explain half of the variation in yields, the changing climatic conditions characterizing the cooling period (1645-1715) and the subsequent warmer phase account for the remaining variation. Given that the colder and more humid climate existing during the second half of the 17th-century and early 18th-century negatively affected yields, farmers’ efforts during this period were even higher than what it is implied by the observed yields. Increasing temperatures in the next phase (starting c.1715), however, had a positive effect on agricultural productivity, so the role of the farmers in this stage has been previously over-rated.
N53|Why the first cooperative wineries produced poor quality wine, why they were so scarce and why they were set up: evidence from Spain|Since the 1950s a substantial part of all European wine has come from cooperative wineries, which since their appearance around the year 1900 have mostly produced cheap, poor quality wine. This paper discusses whether this has been a consequence of their inability to solve a collective action problem. After showing that this is not so, it examines why cooperatives concentrated on the production of bad wine and studies why their market share was small before the 1950s. Lastly, it uses data from Spain to analyse the factors determining the creation of cooperative wineries in the early twentieth century.
N53|Landscape Change and Trade in Ancient Greece: Evidence from Pollen Data|In this paper we use pollen data from a number of sites in southern Greece and Macedonia to study long-term vegetation change in these regions from 1000 BCE to 600 CE. Based on insights from environmental history, we interpret our estimated trends in the regional presence of cereal, olive, and vine pollen as proxies for structural changes in agricultural production. We present evidence that there was a market economy in ancient Greece and a major trade expansion several centuries before the Roman conquest. Our results are consistent with auxiliary data on settlement dynamics, shipwrecks, and ancient oil and wine presses.
N53|‘Getting to Denmark’: the Role of Elites for Development|We explore the role of elites for development and in particular for the spread of cooperative creameries in Denmark in the 1880s, which was a major factor behind that country’s rapid economic catch-up. We demonstrate empirically that the location of early proto-modern dairies, so-called hollænderier, introduced onto traditional landed estates as part of the Holstein System of agriculture by landowning elites from the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein in the eighteenth century, can explain the location of cooperative creameries in 1890, more than a century later, after controlling for other relevant determinants. We interpret this as evidence that areas close to estates which adopted the Holstein System witnessed a gradual spread of modern ideas from the estates to the peasantry. Moreover, we identify a causal relationship by utilizing the nature of the spread of the Holstein System around Denmark, and the distance to the first estate to introduce it, Sofiendal. These results are supported by evidence from a wealth of contemporary sources and are robust to a variety of alternative specifications.
N53|European goods market integration in the very long run: from the Black Death to the First World War|The paper examines price convergence and increases in the efficiency of wheat markets across Europe from the mid-fourteenth to the early twentieth century. The analysis is based on a new data set of prices from more than 500 markets. Unlike previous research, we find that convergence was a predominantly pre-modern phenomenon. It started in the late fifteenth and reached a first high point in the early seventeenth century - a level of integration that was surpassed only in the nineteenth century. In terms of market integration, the ‘little divergence’ between parts of North-Western Europe and the rest of the continent appears since about 1600. Long-term improvements in market efficiency began in the early sixteenth century, with advances being temporarily as uneven as in price convergence. We trace this to uneven institutional change and the non-synchronous spread of modern media and systems of information transmission that affected the ability of merchants to react to news.
N53|The Economic Effects of the Abolition of Serfdom: Evidence from the Russian Empire|We document substantial increases in agricultural productivity, industrial output, and peasants' nutrition in Imperial Russia as a result of the abolition of serfdom in 1861. Before the emancipation, provinces where serfs constituted the majority of agricultural laborers lagged behind provinces that primarily relied on free labor. The emancipation led to a significant but partial catch up. Better incentives of peasants resulting from the cessation of ratchet effect were a likely mechanism behind a relatively fast positive effect of reform on agricultural productivity. The land reform, which instituted communal land tenure after the emancipation, diminished growth in productivity in repartition communes.
N53|How to become a leader in an emerging new global market: The determinants of French wine exports, 1848-1938|When studying the emergence of new global markets it is essential to consider how countries and companies compete to obtain advantageous positions. Our objective is to study how France obtained an initial leadership position in the new global wine market which it subsequently consolidated. We will also analyse the main determinants of its exporting success. In order to do this we have quantified its exports and examined its evolution and its principal export markets. We have also used a gravity model for both ordinary wine and high quality wine in order to establish the key variables that explain this evolution. The article highlights the great efforts made by the exporters to improve the quality of their products and increase their sales using modern marketing techniques. Our econometric results also show some significant differences between the determinants of exports for the two types of wine. However, the exports of both products suffered the strong impact of a series of major events, such as The First World War, the Russian Revolution, the Prohibition in the United States and the Great Depression. The case of wine shows that the collapse of the first globalisation was not the same for all types of product.
N53|‘Getting to Denmark’: the Role of Elites for Development|We explore the role of elites for development and in particular for the spread of cooperative creameries in Denmark in the 1880s, which was a major factor behind that country’s rapid economic catch-up. We demonstrate empirically that the location of early proto-modern dairies, so-called hollænderier, introduced onto traditional landed estates as part of the Holstein System of agriculture by landowning elites from the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein in the eighteenth century, can explain the location of cooperative creameries in 1890, more than a century later, after controlling for other relevant determinants. We interpret this as evidence that areas close to estates which adopted the Holstein System witnessed a gradual spread of modern ideas from the estates to the peasantry. Moreover, we identify a causal relationship by utilizing the nature of the spread of the Holstein System around Denmark, and the distance to the first estate to introduce it, Sofiendal. These results are supported by evidence from a wealth of contemporary sources and are robust to a variety of alternative specifications.
N53|The Great Moderation of Grain Price Volatility: Market Integration vs. Climate Change, Germany, 1650–1790|In Malthusian economies, crop shortages could be a matter of life and death. The development of regional and national markets for grain held the potential to provide insurance against the demographic consequences of local crop failure. Weather shocks that are reﬂected in price data, however, entail a measurement problem for market integration studies, which we solve against the background of the end of the Little Ice Age. We exemplify our method to measure price convergence and the link from grain prices to mortality for Germany based on a new data set of rye prices for 15 cities in 1650–1790. We ﬁnd price convergence in North-Western Germany as well as along major rivers. In addition, a substantial moderation of aggregate rye price volatility occurred, which we link theoretically to increased arbitrage. Mortality was positively related to the aggregate rye price and thus, the decline of rye price volatility decreased the risk to die of hunger in pre-industrial Germany.
N53|The wealth of the Swedish peasant farmer class 1750–1900: Composition and distribution|Using about 1,730 probate inventories, this paper studies the wealth of peasant farmers in Sweden for the years 1750, 1800, 1850 and 1900. The Gini coefficient for the farmers’ wealth grew from 0.46 in 1750 to 0.73 in 1900. Average wealth grew rapidly, tripling over the nineteenth century. Looking in greater depth at four local areas (Kullings, Sjuhundra, Lagunda, and Bara hundreds), we show that over the period the diversity of farmers’ wealth grew, as did their financial sophistication; borrowing and lending patterns became more complex and the use of banks and other institutions grew while personal financial transactions became rarer. Farmers who lived close to the major grain markets in Stockholm and the mining district Bergslagen were wealthier than others, as were farmers on fertile plains and, in 1900, those living in coastal areas. Increased market access by 1900 – in terms of cities and foreign demand – meant that farmers well-placed in terms of geography and infrastructure benefited much more than farmers on what became the periphery, as regional inequality within the farmer class increased. Over the nineteenth century land prices increased much more in some areas than in others, but in the country as a whole they rose steeply.
N53|The energy transition in the Swedish iron and steel sector, 1800-1939|This article analyses the particular energy transition of the Swedish iron and steel sector (1800- 1939), a relevant actor in the European context during the nineteenth and twenteenth century. The Swedish iron and steel sector is an interesting case to analyse in the perspective of energy transition and the composition and change of the capital stock (classified by energy technology). An in-depth study of the change of the capital stock in the sector will enable us to study the dynamics of energy transition; moreover, the Swedish iron and steel sector, with particular emphasis in technology adoption, lock-in carbon infrastructure and energy transitions is a powerful tool to understand current difficulties to change our infrastructure towards cleaner energy sources.
N53|Without coal in the age of steam and dams in the age of electricity: An explanation for the failure of Portugal to industrialize before the Second World War|We provide a natural resource explanation for the divergence of the Portuguese economy relative to other European countries before the Second World War, based on a considerable body of contemporary sources. First, we demonstrate that a lack of domestic resources meant that Portugal experienced limited and unbalanced growth during the age of steam. Imports of coal were prohibitively expensive for inland areas, which failed to industrialize. Coastal areas developed through steam, but were constrained by limited demand from the interior. Second, we show that after the First World War, when other coal-poor countries turned to hydro-power, Portugal relied on coal-based thermal-power, creating a vicious circle of high energy prices and labor-intensive industrialization. We argue that this was the result of (i) water resources which were relatively expensive to exploit; and (ii) path-dependency, whereby the failure to develop earlier meant that there was a lack of capital and demand from industry.
N53|Why cooperative wineries produced poor quality wine and why they were set up: Evidence from Spain (1895-1935)|Since the 1950s a substantial part of all European wine has come from cooperative wineries, which since their appearance around the year 1900 have mostly produced cheap, poor quality wine. This paper discusses whether this has been a consequence of their inability to solve a collective action problem. After showing that this is not so, it examines why cooperatives concentrated on the production of bad wine and studies why their market share was small before the 1950s. Lastly, it uses data from Spain to analyse the factors determining the creation of cooperative wineries in the early twentieth century.
N53|Trade and terroir. The political economy of the world’s first geographical indications|The world’s first geographical indications (GIs) were in the wine sector and focused on the delineation of the location of production, the ‘terroirs’: the Burgundy wines in the fifteenth century, the Port wines and Chianti wines in the eighteenth century, and the Champagne wines in the early twentieth century. We analyze the causes for the introduction of these GIs (‘terroirs’) and for changes in their delineation (expansion) later on. Trade played a very important role in the creation of the ‘terroirs’ but the mechanisms through which trade stimulated GIs varied. For the Port and Chianti GIs it was exports to foreign markets (Britain) that were crucial; for Burgundy it was domestic trade to Paris; and for the Champagne GI it was not exports but pressure from wine imports and new wine regions that played a crucial role. For the expansions of the GIs later in history, other factors seem to have been more important. Expansions of the GIs in the years and centuries after their introduction followed (1) major changes in political power; (2) the spread of a new philosophy in liberal and free markets across Europe; (3) and infrastructure investments which opened up markets and made exports cheaper from “new” producers.
N53|The Value of Terroir. A historical analysis of Bordeaux and Champagne geographical indications|Previous studies on the value of terroir, or more generally geographical indications (GI), used hedonic techniques. We use historical data and exploit temporal and geographical variations in the introduction of wine GIs in early twentieth century France to study the impact on the price of specific wines in the years and decades following their introduction. We find large effects of GIs on prices of some Champagne wines, but no significant impact on Bordeaux or other Champagne wines.
N53|The Growth of the Italian Economy, 1861-1913: Revised Second-Generation Expenditure-Side Estimates|This paper presents revised expenditure-side constant-price historical national accounts for Italy from Unification to 1913. The extant estimates at 1911 prices by the present author on the one hand and Alberto Baffigi on the other are both derived from the better-documented production side, but with significantly different algorithms and results. The new estimates are based on the new, extensively revised production-side accounts; the underlying methodology remains the present author’s, arguably altogether sounder than Baffigi’s.
N53|Sharia hotels in Indonesia: Concept and potential analysis|This article describes the concept and analysis of potential sharia hotels in Indonesia. Using a phenomenological approach, this study concludes that sharia hotels have become part of the halal tourism industry and the need for Muslim communities in Indonesia in the future.
N53|En torno al Comunal en España: una agenda de investigación llena de retos y promesas|This working paper outlines the challenges faced by scholars studying issues around Spanish common lands from a historical perspective. The text is structured around found main topics: the typology of the commons, the quantification of collective resources, the role of the communal regime and the political economy of these resources.
N53|The Next World and the New World: Relief, Migration, and the Great Irish Famine|Ireland on the eve of the Great Famine was a poor and backward economy. The Great Irish Famine of the 1840s is accordingly often considered the classic example of Malthusian population economics in action. However, unlike most historical famines, the Great Famine was not the product of a harvest shortfall, but of a major ecological disaster. Because there could be no return to the status quo ante, textbook famine relief in the form of public works or food aid was not enough. Fortunately, in an era of open borders mass emigration helped contain excess mortality, subject to the limitation that the very poorest could not afford to leave. In general, the authorities did not countenance publicly assisted migration. This paper discusses the lessons to be learned from two exceptional schemes for assisting destitute emigrants during and in the wake of the Famine.
N53|The Stolypin Reform and Agricultural Productivity in Late Imperial Russia|We study the effect of improvements in peasants’ land tenure, launched by the 1906 Stolypin reform, on agricultural productivity in late Imperial Russia. The reform allowed peasants to obtain land titles and consolidate separated land strips into single allotments. We find that consolidations increased land productivity. If the reform had been fully implemented, it would have doubled grain production in the empire. We argue that an important factor determining the positive impact on productivity is a decrease in coordination costs, enabling peasants to make independent production decisions from the village commune. In contrast, the titling component of the reform decreased land productivity and we present evidence that transaction costs explain this short-run decline.
N53|Prix du blé, régulations et croissance économique : L’analyse cliométrique permet-elle de trancher le débat sur les bleds des années 1750?|Au cours des années 1750, le débat sur les blés a secoué l’opinion française et contribué à faire naître la science nouvelle de l’économie politique. Il opposait notamment les défenseurs de la règlementation du commerce des grains aux partisans du libre-échange. Dans cet article, nous testons certains de leurs arguments grâce aux outils cliométriques. Nous les appliquons aux données disponibles et à de nouvelles bases constituées. Nous montrons que si la liberté des échanges a été favorable à une diminution de la volatilité des prix, elle n’a pas eu véritablement d’effet sur l’évolution de la production de grains.
N53|The fruit of inequality: wine, efficiency, agrarian contracts and property rights in Catalonia (1898-1935)|With the aim of drawing lessons that can act as a reference for reforms in today’s developing countries, economic historians are showing a renewed interest in the European experiences of agrarian reform. But in some developing countries property rights over the land show‘oddities’ with respect to the ‘Western canon’. Drawing on the case of Catalonia, this paper maintains that, if their work is to be useful, historians should be sensitive to the fact that in Europe – including the United Kingdom – oddities were not rare either. In Catalan vineyards, sharecropping contracts that granted the sharecropper ownership rights over the land were in widespread usage. Around 1900, sharecroppers’ rights became insecure, which led to several dysfunctions that the paper analyses.
N53|The Stolypin Reform and Agricultural Productivity in Late Imperial Russia|We study the effect of improvements in peasants’ land tenure, launched by the 1906 Stolypin reform, on agricultural productivity in late Imperial Russia. The reform allowed peasants to obtain land titles and consolidate separated land strips into single allotments. We find that consolidations increased land productivity. If the reform had been fully implemented, it would have doubled grain production in the empire. We argue that an important factor determining the positive impact on productivity is a decrease in coordination costs, enabling peasants to make independent production decisions from the village commune. In contrast, the titling component of the reform decreased land productivity and we present evidence that transaction costs explain this short-run decline.
N53|Winter is Coming: The Long-Run Effects of Climate Change on Conflict, 1400-1900|This paper investigates the long-run effects of climate change on conflict by examining cooling from 1400-1900 CE, a period that includes most of the Little Ice Age. We construct a geo-referenced and digitized database of conflicts in Europe, North Africa, and the Near East from 1400-1900, which we merge with historical temperature data. We first show that during this time, cooling is associated with increased conflict. Then, turning to the dynamics of cooling, we allow the effects of cooling over a fifty-year period to depend on the extent of cooling during the preceding fifty-year period. We find that the effect of cooling on conflict is significantly larger if the same location experienced cooling during the preceding period. We interpret this as evidence that the adverse effect of climate change intensifies with its duration.
N53|Climate Risk, Cooperation, and the Co-Evolution of Culture and Institutions|This research examines the historical relationship between economic risk and the evolution of social cooperation. We hypothesize that norms of generalized trust developed in pre-industrial times as a result of experiences of cooperation triggered by the need of subsistence farmers to cope with climatic risk. These norms persisted over time, even after climate had become largely unimportant for economic activity. We test this hypothesis for Europe combining high-resolution climate data for the period 1500-2000 with survey data at the sub-national level. We find that regions with higher inter-annual variability in precipitation and temperature display higher levels of trust. This effect is driven by variability in the growing season months, and by historical rather than recent variability. Regarding possible mechanisms, we find that regions with more variable climate were more closely connected to the Medieval trade network, indicating a higher propensity to engage in inter-community exchange. These regions were also more likely to adopt inclusive political institutions earlier on, and are characterized by a higher quality of local governments still today. Our findings suggest that, by favoring the emergence of mutually-reinforcing norms and institutions, exposure to environmental risk had a long-lasting impact on human cooperation.
N53|Historical energy price shocks and their changing effects on the economy|The purpose of this paper is to identify the changes in the impact of energy shocks on economic activity — with an interest in assessing if an economy's vulnerability and resilience to shocks improved with economic development. Using data on the United Kingdom over the last three hundred years, the paper identifies supply, aggregate demand and residual shocks to energy prices and estimates their changing influence on energy prices and GDP. The results suggest that the impacts of supply shocks rose with its increasing dependence on coal, and declined with its partial transition to oil. However, the transition from exporting coal to importing oil increased the negative impacts of demand shocks. More generally, the results indicate that improvements in vulnerability and resilience to shocks did not progress systematically as the economy developed. Instead, the changes in impacts depended greatly on the circumstances related to the demand for and supply of energy sources. If these experiences are transferable to future markets, a transition to a diversified mix of renewable energy is likely to reduce vulnerability and increase resilience to energy price shocks.
N53|Historical energy price shocks and their changing effects on the economy|The purpose of this paper is to identify the changes in the impact of energy shocks on economic activity – with an interest in assessing if an economy's vulnerability and resilience to shocks improved with economic development. Using data on the United Kingdom over the last three hundred years, the paper identifies supply, aggregate demand and residual shocks to energy prices and estimates their changing influence on energy prices and GDP. The results suggest that the impacts of supply shocks rose with its increasing dependence on coal, and declined with its partial transition to oil. However, the transition from exporting coal to importing oil increased the negative impacts of demand shocks. More generally, the results indicate that improvements in vulnerability and resilience to shocks did not progress systematically as the economy developed. Instead, the changes in impacts depended greatly on the circumstances related to the demand for and supply of energy sources. If these experiences are transferable to future markets, a transition to renewable energy sources is likely to reduce vulnerability and increase resilience to energy price shocks.
N53|Did higher inequality in agriculture enhance productivity? The case of Cisleithania, 1902|No abstract is available for this item.
N53|Portugal’s wine globalization waves, 1750-2015|From 1750 to 2015 we may detect three waves of globalization of wines produced in Portugal, namely, port wine exports for the British market in the 18th century, common wines exports to France in the second half of the 19th century, and finally the growth of exports to European markets from the last decade of the 20th century up to the present times. This chapter explores the fundamentals of such waves looking at trends in output, productivity, domestic and foreign consumption, commercial agreements and economic policies. The first two waves came to halt as conditions in the foreign markets changed, because they did not have a solid domestic base of production and commercialization. The chapter argues that the third wave is of a different kind as it developed from a more solid domestic base of the wine sector that had developed for decades based on domestic consumption. Thus we may conclude that wine globalization is also about changing domestic economic conditions. The process was however long and painful, as the sector had a very irregular performance throughout the 20th century which is however related to the overall backwardness of the Portuguese economy in the European context.
N53|ÔRationalÕ Farmers and the Emergence of Modern Accounting in Danish Dairying|We argue that Danish agriculture provides an ideal opportunity to understand how and why modern accounting emerged. Denmark underwent an unusually rapid and successful agricultural transformation in the second half of the nineteenth century, largely based on dairying, for which we present unique Ôreal timeÕ data on the process of the development of accounting. We observe that economic actors first argued for the introduction of modern accounting at a time of crisis during the Napoleonic Wars and immediately after, when the proscriptive arguments offered failed to take hold. Then, in the 1850s and 1860s, a group of Ôrational farmersÕÐ owners and administrators of landed estates Ð made a second attempt. During this latter period, they succeeded in spreading their ideas: initially to their peers, but later even to the peasantry through the cooperative movement, thus transforming agricultural practice in their wake. We analyze this within a theoretical framework borrowed from the international relations literature, and see the rational farmers as an example of the creation of an Ôepistemic communityÕ: they emerged during a period of uncertainty, offered interpretations based on their normative understanding of reality, and finally institutionalized praxis through for example scientific journals and schooling.
N53|The Political Economics of Growth, Labor Control and Coercion: Evidence from a Suffrage Reform|In this paper, we analyze how a suffrage reform in 1862/63 that shifted the de jure distribution of political power from landowners to industrialists affected Sweden’s industrialization and economic and social development from the 1860s to the 1910s. Using a newly constructed, comprehensive historical data set of the universe of approximately 2,400 Swedish local governments, we document that the change in suffrage affected a very large number of development and social outcomes at the local level, such as labor coercion, factor price manipulation in the form of entry barriers including investments in local public goods (i.e., schooling) and transportation (i.e., local railways), the real wage structure, technology adoption in both agriculture and industry, labor productivity in both agriculture and industry, changes in the composition of employment and the structure of production, demographic transition, organized labor, and persistence in dysfunctional local political institutions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that political institutions are a key determinant of long-run development and growth. Specifically, our results suggest that politically powerful landowners can block economic development using labor coercion and factor price manipulation, i.e., using entry barriers and other distortionary policies.
N53|Estimating agricultural production in Scania, 1702–1881 : User guide for the Historical Database of Scanian Agriculture and overall results|The Historical Database of Scanian Agriculture (HDSA) is a micro-level database over farm production in the most southern Swedish region of Scania (Skåne) based on flexible tithes. It contains over 85,000 farm level observations of both vegetable and animal production for the period 1702 to 1881. Moreover, this information is supplemented by information on the farmer, the farm, on enclosures, natural conditions, and distances from the farmstead to towns. The database is an open source and this paper provides information on the sources behind the data, the composition of the sample, and the way the database can be used to estimate production. The second part of the paper performs an overall analysis of the agricultural revolution in the area, showing the development over time of the vegetable and animal production, their respective significance, and an estimation of production per capita 1702 to 1865.
N53|The Growth of the Italian Economy, 1861-1913: Revised Second-Generation Production-Side Estimates|This paper presents revised production-side constant-price historical national accounts for Italy from Unification to 1913; these amend the extant estimates at 1911 prices by the present author on the one hand and Alberto Baffigi on the other. The time series are updated to allow for short-term movements of agricultural production, to include the results of recent research on industry, to remove conspicuous overestimates in the services sector, and more: estimated total product appears more volatile, and generally lower, than the extant series suggest.
N53|La industria vinícola del jerez y la replantación del viñedo, 1894-1914: una aportación de historia empresarial|This article examines the relationship between viticulture and the sherry industry during the difficult times of the phylloxera plague and changes in international markets prior to 1914. Based on company documents, this study offers a new set of statistics on the main indicators of the sherry sector (vineyards, musts, wines, export prices, and the added value of the industrial phase). It demonstrates the high added value in sherry wine production and the dominance of export firms. Although the loss of vineyards caused an increase in the price of musts, high production costs and a decrease in sherry demand limited the size of new vineyards, thus limiting their extension. This favored replanting vineyards, but only winegrowers with sufficient financial resources were able to carry this out. Some winegrowers demanded a restrictive regional appellation, but the opposition of the export firms obstructed the establishment of a collective brand.
N53|Land, Food and Labour in Pre-Industrial Agro-Ecosystems: a Socio-Ecological Perspective on Early 19th Century Seigneurial Systems|Research on seigneurial agriculture and its role for agricultural changes in general has a long tradition within European Agricultural History. Still, much discussion arises on whether to emphasize «peasant paths» or “landlord paths” of agricultural development. This study contributes to the debate by introducing a social ecology perspective. Using the nineteenth-century case study of Grundherrschaft (manor) Grafenegg, we offer a first attempt at conceptualizing and empirically scrutinizing resource use and distribution in (late) Central European seigneurial agriculture. We integrate rich archival material to reconstruct the distribution of three central resources –land, food and labour– among the agrarian agents (e.g. manorial farmsteads, peasant farms and smallholdings). We found that the three central resources in pre-industrial agriculture were distributed unequally between the various farmsteads involved; labour was abundant, whereas food and land were scarce. The labour surplus extracted by the landlords caused subsistence pressure on most of the peasants, forcing them to use their modest resource base more efficiently, which in turn had effects on the local agroecology.
N53|Promovendo a subericultura? A política florestal de Espanha e Portugal (1852-1914)|Portugal currently leads worldwide all the facets of the cork business, from the forest market, through manufacturing and the trade of cork products. This scenario is enhanced with the fact that in Portugal the cork oak trees have the best conditions for their development. However, up to 1930s, this role was played by other countries, especially by Spain, and is important to understand the factors that contributed to this situation. Recent historiography has highlighted the public policies pursued by Portugal during the Estado Novo, in comparison with those followed by the Franco regime, as one of the main reasons for the rise of the portuguese cork sector, which includes forestry policy. Therefore, it’s important to carry out a similar exercise for the chronology in question, thus the aim of this work is to analyze, in a comparative perspective, the nineteenth-century forest and cereal policies of Portugal and Spain, in the latter case due to the implications that cereal protectionism had towards the cork oak forests. Legislative sources, technical reports and official agricultural statistics were used, and it was concluded that there was no clear advantage derived from any agroforestry public policy by the spanish cork industry compared to the portuguese one. In the matter of fact, as we will demonstrate, both States procedured with great similarity.
N53|Agricultural crisis in Spain (19th and 20th centuries)|Spanish agriculture over the last two centuries has been mostly analysed from the perspective of its evolution, on many occasions over the long term, and with respect to its contribution to Spain's economic development (or, on the contrary, its possible “responsibility” for the relative backwardness of Spain). Here, however, the emphasis is placed on the opposite case, on the difficulties or crises which have affected it. Agricultural crises are not only important for explaining difficult periods during which the population and the agricultural sector have faced problematic circumstances. They have also generated a sufficiently large impact so as to provoke a reorganisation of the agricultural sector and significant changes within it. The crisis of the Ancien Régime brought about a complete transformation of the predominant agrarian institutions. On occasions, technological change was fostered by crisis situations. The depression at the end of the nineteenth century gave rise to the introduction of new technologies which profoundly modernised the sector to maintain its feasibility. In the same way, international integration affected agriculture and profound changes were required in order to maintain leading positions in international markets. Therefore, without a clear understanding of the agricultural crises, it is difficult to obtain a clear and precise perspective of the profound transformations experienced by Spanish agriculture throughout history.
N53|Negocio, tecnología e instituciones en la molienda del trigo en Castilla la Vieja y León a mediados del siglo XVIII|This text offers an approximation to the milling of wheat in the middle of the eighteenth century with respect to its mercantile, technological and institutional nature. For this purpose, the general responses of the Catastro del Marqués de la Ensenada in Palencia have been used. The hypothesis is that the conditions for obtaining flour were extremely archaic in these three dimensions, but at the same time efficient enough to guarantee the bread supply to the Castilian population without altering the status quo between the nobility, the church and the councils. However, a review of the accounts of the large wheat mills reveals that this balance started to break down around 1780, just when the new Enlightenment agricultural policy was implemented.
N53|Prix du blé, régulations et croissance économique : L’analyse cliométrique permet-elle de trancher le débat sur les bleds des années 1750 ?|Au cours des années 1750, le débat sur les blés a secoué l’opinion française et contribué à faire naître la science nouvelle de l’économie politique. Il opposait notamment les défenseurs de la règlementation du commerce des grains aux partisans du libre-échange. Dans cet article, nous testons certains de leurs arguments grâce aux outils cliométriques. Nous les appliquons aux données disponibles et à de nouvelles bases constituées. Nous montrons que si la liberté des échanges a été favorable à une diminution de la volatilité des prix, elle n’a pas eu véritablement d’effet sur l’évolution de la production de grains.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N53|Population Size Effects in the Structural Development of England|The English structural transformation from farming to manufacturing was accompanied by rapid technological change, expansion of trade, and massive population growth. While the roles of technology and trade in this process have been investigated, the literature has largely ignored the role of population growth. We examine population size effects on various aspects of structural development, characterizing their explicit dependence on preference-side and production-side characteristics of the economy, and trade. Our quantitative analysis of the English transformation assigns a major role to population growth, with especially notable contributions to post-1750 rise in the manufacturing employment share and the relative price dynamics.
N53|The Economic Development and the Rise and Fall of Únĕtice Populations: A Case of Ecologically Unsustainable Economic Growth? Initial Thoughts|After a long period of substantial economic growth and population increase in the Early Bronze Age, the reason(s) for the relatively rapid disappearance of Únĕtice populations in Central Europe and the subsequent lack of population in much of their former territory for around 200 years remains a mystery. Various theories have been proposed for these developments, such as changed long distance trade routes or the depletion of materials for bronze-making. However, these fail to explain why large areas formerly occupied by the Únĕtice remained unoccupied (or virtually so) for so long after their abandonment by the Únĕtice. We argue on the basis of demographic and other scientific evidence that the collapse of the Únĕtice was in all probability primarily the result of unsustainable ecological development. Human-induced changes to ecosystems eventually reduced agropastoral productivity, substantially reduced the standard of living of the Únĕtice and resulted in the abandonment of many of their settlements. The extent and nature of ecological damage was such that it took much time for natural ecosystems to recover sufficiently before the affected former Únĕtice areas were economically suitable for resettlement. The possibility that resource shortages for bronze-making and changed trade routes contributed to the unsustainable development of Únĕtice settlements is also considered.
N53|Input Shortages and the Lack of Sustainability of Bronze Production by the Únĕtice| After a long period of prosperity, the Únĕtice (2300-1600 BC) – a central European Early Bronze Age culture –collapsed without obvious reason. Thus, the academic literature has favored multiple explanations but without providing much evidence of the latter. Our aim is to provide an empirically grounded explanation consistent with the features of this culture. We claim that the 1600 BC collapse could be the result of simultaneous shortages of two main inputs of the bronze production process, namely tin and fuel. Periodical tin shortages are possible because Únĕtician were using tin alluvial deposits. Moreover, the production of bronze requires huge quantities of wood and charcoal used as fuel, leading to deforestation. Evidence of deforestation around 1600 BC is provided.
N53|Did the agrarian product decrease in early modern Europe? The case of Castile|This work quantifies the growth of agricultural product and per capita agricultural product in four provinces of Castile between the late sixteenth century and the third quarter of the eighteenth century. For this purpose we have resourced to tithe documentation generated by the dioceses of Avila, Burgos, Salamanca and Segovia for the distribution of the Subsidio and the Excusado. Our most noticeable conclusion is that the negative image shown by some of the recent literature on the evolution of the primary sector in Castile in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries is at odds with the evidence. Between 1588-1592 and 1771-1775, both the agricultural product and per capita agricultural product, far from declining, grew in the aforementioned region.
N53|Building an English wheat annual series in an intriguing era (1645-1761): Methodology, Challenges and Opportunities. A first assessment from the relationship between Landrace seeds and the Agrarian Revolution|This article presents a new methodology to elaborate various British wheat annual series, in physical units, during an intriguing period: 1645-1761. Under this perspective, it can be proved that the recent agrarian GDP which appears in the literature is very precise. Davenant’s Law follows the logic of a minor crop variability in the long term, but it is also in keeping with the yield obtained from probate inventories, farm accounts and weather changes. This takes us to consider the idea that it was a common rule, not just intellectual speculation. Income was not a factor of decision of consumption until the middle of the 18th century. However, it gradually became more and more important since then.Lengthening the series until 1884 we observe a period of stagnation of production in the second half of the 18th century followed by a spectacular take off. Under a physical and environmental perspective, the timing of the Agrarian Revolution seems to be a phenomenon prior to 1750 and later than 1800. In a first practical assessment of the series with the example of the landrace seeds, everything seems to indicate that their improvement might have been one of the keys of the first wave of the agrarian change.
N53|Obstáculos comerciales y salariales a la transición nutricional en la España de comienzos del siglo xx|The characteristics of the internal market trading networks, the foreign trade policy and the low wage levels were some of the circumstances that determined the access to food in the Spanish cities at the beginning of the 20th century. For the impact of the trade policy, the prices in the major peninsular cities in 1909-1913 are compared with the prices of Gibraltar and with some of the main cities round the world, such as Madrid in1925. To assess the effects of the trade problems, the prices of each Spanish city in 1909-1913 are compared with the one combined with the minimum prices of all of them. The possibilities of accessing the consumption patterns of each city in 1964-1965 are compared with the prices and wages in the years before the First World War. KEY Classification-JEL: N33. N53. Q11. Q13
N53|Malthus Meets Luther: The Economics Behind the German Reformation|The Reformation provided a powerful source of legitimacy for secularization of governance and enabled the regional authorities to change the institutional structure to eliminate the inefficiencies under the prevailing (Catholic) regime. We investigate this idea in a simple model of regime change and show that the regions where the prevailing institutions are less appropriate, i.e. poorer regions with greater economic potential, should have been more likely to adopt the Reformation. Using detailed data on religious denominations, city characteristics and exogenous measures of agricultural potential, we empirically confirm this hypothesis for the cities in the 16th century Holy Roman Empire. This finding points to an economic rationale of the adoption of Protestantism as a vehicle of institutional change.
N53|Spanish Agriculture in the Little Divergence|This paper explores the role of agriculture in Spain's contribution to the little divergence in Europe. On the basis of tithes, long-run trends in agricultural output are drawn. After a long period of relative stability, output suffered a severe contraction during 1570-1620, followed by stagnation to 1650, and steady expansion thereafter. Output per head shifted from a relatively high to a low path that persisted until the nineteenth century. The decline in agricultural output per head and per worker from a relatively high level contributed to Spain falling behind and, hence, to the Little Divergence in Europe. Output per worker moved along labour force in agriculture over the long run, supporting the depiction of Spain as a frontier economy. Institutional factors, in a context of financial and monetary instability and war, along climatic anomalies, provide explanatory hypotheses that deserve further research.
N53|Spanish Agriculture in the Little Divergence|This paper explores the role of agriculture in Spain’s contribution to the little divergence in Europe. On the basis of tithes, long-run trends in agricultural output are drawn. After a long period of relative stability, output suffered a severe contraction during 1570-1620, followed by stagnation to 1650, and steady expansion thereafter. Output per head shifted from a relatively high to a low path that persisted until the nineteenth century. The decline in agricultural output per head and per worker from a relatively high level contributed to Spain falling behind and, hence, to the Little Divergence in Europe. Output per worker moved along labour force in agriculture over the long run, supporting the depiction of Spain as a frontier economy. Institutional factors, in a context of financial and monetary instability and war, along climatic anomalies, provide explanatory hypotheses that deserve further research.
N53|Agriculture and Economic Development on the European Frontier : Portugal, 1000-2000|This chapter follows the steps of renovation of European economic history towards a more unified interpretation of sources of growth and stagnation. To better understand the diversity of patterns of growth, we need to look beyond the study of the industrialization of the core economies, and explore the centuries before it occurred. Portuguese agriculture was hardly ever at the European productivity and technological forefront and the distance from it varied substantially across the second Millennium. Yet if we look at the periods of the Christian Reconquista, the recovery from the Black Death, the response to the globalization of the Renaissance, to the eighteenth century economic enlightenment, or to nineteenth century industrialization, we may conclude that agriculture in this country of the European periphery was often adaptive and dynamic. The fact that economic backwardness was not overcome by the end of the period is no longer the most relevant aspect of that story. Long-term agricultural transformation in Portugal replicate to a large extent what occurred elsewhere in Western Europe, as far as our knowledge of both developments through such a long time span can tell, both in terms of timing and intensity, albeit at a distance. European agrarian transformation was not too different on the southwestern frontier.
N53|Capitalising on the Irish land question: land reform and state banking in Ireland, 1891–1938|Land reform and its financial arrangements are central elements of modern Irish history. Yet to date, the financial mechanisms underpinning Irish land reform have been overlooked. The paper outlines the mechanisms of land reform in Ireland and the importance of land bonds to the process. The paper introduces a new database on Irish land bonds listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange from 1891 to 1938. It illustrates the nature of these b onds and presents data on their size, liquidity and market returns. The paper finds a high level of state banking in Ireland: large issues of land bonds were held by state owned savings banks.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N53|Industry structure, entrepreneurship, and culture: An empirical analysis using historical coalfields|There is mounting evidence demonstrating that entrepreneurship is spatially clustered and that these spatial differences are quite persistent over long periods of time. However, especially the sources of that persistence are not yet well-understood, and it is largely unclear whether persistent differences in entrepreneurship are reflected in differences in entrepreneurship culture across space as it is often argued in the literature. We approach the cluster phenomenon by theorizing that a historically high regional presence of large-scale firms negatively affects entrepreneurship, due to low levels of human capital and entrepreneurial skills, fewer opportunities for entry and entrepreneurship inhibiting formal and informal institutions. These effects can become self-perpetuating over time, ultimately resulting in persistent low levels of entrepreneurship activity and entrepreneurship culture. Using data from Great Britain, we analyze this long-term imprinting effect by using the distance to coalfields as an exogenous instrument for the regional presence of large-scale industries. IV regressions show that British regions with high employment shares of large-scale industries in the 19th century, due to spatial proximity to coalfields, have lower entrepreneurship rates and weaker entrepreneurship culture today. We control for an array of competing hypotheses like agglomeration forces, the regional knowledge stock, climate, and soil quality. Our main results are robust with respect to inclusion of these control variables and various other modifications which demonstrates the credibility of our empirical identification strategy. A mediation analysis reveals that a substantial part of the impact of large-scale industries on entrepreneurship is through human capital.
N53|On the use of palynological data in economic history: New methods and an application to agricultural output in Central Europe, 0–2000AD|In this paper we introduce a new source of data to economic history: palynological data or, in other words, information about pollen grains which are preserved in the bottom sediments of various water basins. We discuss how this data is collected and how it should be interpreted; develop new methods for aggregating this information into regional trends in agricultural output; construct an extensive dataset with a large number of pollen sites from Central Europe; and use our methods to study the economic history of Greater Poland, Lesser Poland, Bohemia, Brandenburg, and Lower Saxony since the first century AD.
N53|The role of demesnes in the trade of agricultural horses in late medieval England|This paper examines the role of demesnes – the farms of lords, as opposed to the lands of their peasant tenants – in the trade of agricultural horses in medieval England. The introduction of horse power is recognised to have been a major factor in the development of the medieval English economy, increasing labour productivity in farming and the efficiency of overland transport, but the infrastructures through which these animals were produced and distributed has remained poorly understood. This paper uses a national sample of over 300 manorial accounts from c.1300 to assess the role of demesnes in the production and distribution of working horses. It finds that demesnes were significant net consumers of horses, primarily relying upon the market for their supply. This illustrates that there was a well established market for these animals by c.1300, but also that these large institutional farms did not breed enough horses to sustain their own demand, let alone a surplus that could have supplied the market. Demesnes (and their managers) did, however, fill an important distributive role in the trade of agricultural horses by acting, perhaps inadvertently, as ‘middle men’ in marshaling the various channels of work horse acquisition and dispersion.
N53|Japanese colonialism in comparative perspective|The paper examines the economic consequences of Japanese colonialism in Taiwan, Korea and Manchuria in the years from 1910 to 1945, and compares Japanese policies with those implemented by other colonial powers in Southeast Asia. In particular it addresses the writings of an influential group of American scholars who have published widely on Japanese colonial policies over the last fifty years. Their work has been used to support the argument that Japanese colonial policy was more developmental than that of other colonial powers, and laid the foundations for the stellar economic performance of Taiwan and the Republic of Korea in the decades after 1950. The paper challenges this argument by comparing a number of economic and social indicators in Korea, Taiwan and Manchuria with those from other Asian colonies and also from Thailand. The main conclusion is that while the Japanese colonies, especially Taiwan, score well on some indicators, they do less well on others. The idea of Japanese exceptionalism cannot be accepted uncritically.
N53|Witch Trials: Discontent in Early Modern Europe|This paper examines the relationship between income and witch trials in early modern Europe. We start by using climate data to proxy for income levels. This builds on previous work by exploiting a far richer panel dataset covering 356 regions and 260 years, including both seasonal temperature and rainfall, as well as over 30,036 witch trials newly documented for this study. We find that a one degree temperature shock leads to a near quadrupling in witch trials in any given year. The second part looks at incomes more directly, and we find that different measures of income have different effects on witch trials. Furthermore, the impact may depend on the structure of the economy and how different stakeholder groups are affected. We also present evidence that the stage in the business cycle is important in predicting witch trials, with the bottom of the business cycle coinciding with a doubling of witch trials in England.
N53|The Economic Development and the Rise and Fall of Únĕtice Populations: A Case of Ecologically Unsustainable Economic Growth? Initial Thoughts| After a long period of substantial economic growth and population increase in the Early Bronze Age, the reason(s) for the relatively rapid disappearance of Únĕtice populations in Central Europe and the subsequent lack of population in much of their former territory for around 200 years remains a mystery. Various theories have been proposed for these developments, such as changed long distance trade routes or the depletion of materials for bronze-making. However, these fail to explain why large areas formerly occupied by the Únĕtice remained unoccupied (or virtually so) for so long after their abandonment by the Únĕtice. We argue on the basis of demographic and other scientific evidence that the collapse of the Únĕtice was in all probability primarily the result of unsustainable ecological development. Human-induced changes to ecosystems eventually reduced agropastoral productivity, substantially reduced the standard of living of the Únĕtice and resulted in the abandonment of many of their settlements. The extent and nature of ecological damage was such that it took much time for natural ecosystems to recover sufficiently before the affected former Únĕtice areas were economically suitable for resettlement. The possibility that resource shortages for bronze-making and changed trade routes contributed to the unsustainable development of Únĕtice settlements is also considered.
N53|The Gross Agricultural Output of Portugal: A Quantitative, Unified Perspective, 1500-1850|This paper presents the first estimate to date of the anual output of Portugal’s agriculture between 1500 and 1850. It adopts the well-known indirect approach, which uses a consumption function for agricultural products. Prices and wages for this come from a recently created data base. It also verifies the assumption that agricultural consumption is equal or very close to national output. The method for calculating the income variable in the function is innovative since labour supplied per worker is not constant over time as in many estimates. Instead, it is made to vary, reflecting the ‘industrious revolution’ which occurred in Portugal during much of the period considered. The main finding is that the country’s agriculture displays a long-run upward trend, contrary to traditional stagnationist views. It was unable, however, to keep up with the even stronger concomitant growth of population. Food consumption consequently declined, sharply in the 16c. but more slowly in the 17c. It recovered during part of the 18c. but after the 1750s it slipped again and down to 1850 it lost all these welfare gains.
N53|The chronic food deficit of early modern Portugal: curse or myth?|Two historiographical currents have debated whether early modern Portugal was cursed by an excessive dependence on foreign food imports as a result of being unable to feed its population, or not. In this short paper, the first long-run systematic quantitative study of this question, we show that the former view is a myth and therefore could not be a curse. Throughout the entire period, a certain amount of grain was in fact imported but cereal purchases abroad never represented more than a diminutive percentage of total food consumption. More importantly, the country carried out a diversified trade in foodstuffs which was seldom seriously out of balance. Portuguese agriculture showed itself consistently capable of specializing in different foodstuffs for export. It was thus not hopelessly inefficient and succeeded reasonably well in meeting the basic nutritional needs of the population.
N53|Coal Smoke and the Costs of the Industrial Revolution|While the Industrial Revolution brought economic growth, there is a long debate in economics over the costs of the pollution externalities that accompanied early industrialization. To help settle this debate, this paper introduces a new theoretically-grounded strategy for estimating the impact of industrial pollution on local economic development and applies this approach to data from British cities for 1851-1911. I show that local industrial coal use substantially reduced long-run city employment growth over this period. Moreover, a counterfactual analysis suggests that plausible improvements in coal use efficiency would have led to substantially higher urbanization rates in Britain by 1911.
N53|Revising England's Social Tables Once Again|In the 1980s, Lindert and Williamson famously revised the social tables of King, Massie, Colquhoun, Smee, and Baxter that traverse the British industrial revolution. This paper extends their work in three directions: Servants are removed from middle and upper class households in the tables of King, Massie, and Colquhoun and tallied separately, estimates are made for the same tables of the number and incomes of women and children employed in the various occupations, income estimates are broken down into rents, profits, and employment income. These extensions to the tables allow variables to be computed that can be checked against independent estimates as a validation exercise. The tables are retabulated in a standard format to highlight the changing social structure of Britain during the industrial revolution. Changes in the social structure, the evolution of incomes by classes, and the pace of structural transformation are revealed.
N53|Antes de la política hidráulica: la gestión del agua bajo el Estado liberal en España (1833-1866)|The regulation of water use in Spain went through a profound transformation during the first decades of the Liberal State. Liberalism introduced institutional changes that affected all aspects of the use and administration of water resources. Water property rights were established and water was to a large extent declared of public ownership. Priorities were set on the use of water resources and common organizational structures were introduced in all irrigation communities. In this regard the Spanish state permitted extensive autonomy in water management, though it maintained control of supervision and the right to intervene in matters within those communities. All irrigation systems were required to document their regulations and internal rules were homogenized. The outcome was a new institutional framework developed in tandem with the establishment of the new public administration system. This process culminated in 1866 with the unification of these rules in a Water Law which would regulate this natural resource for more than a century.
N53|Las instituciones intercomunitarias de gestión colectiva del riego. El fracaso del Sindicato General de Riegos del Turia (1850-1883)|Collective institutions for irrigation management in Spain have become a regular matter of reference in the study of common pool resources. However, the success of local water management of irrigation contrasts with a significant failure in the management of this common pool resource at the basin scale. During the second half of the nineteenth century, the water users' associations of the large huertas (market gardens) of eastern Spain attempted to constitute intercommunity institutions to coordinate water management at the basin or sub-basin level. The aim of this fairly unsuccessful institutional initiative, at that time, was to reduce the number and intensity of conflicts and to attain a higher level of enforcement of water rights. This article describes the case of the Sindicato General de Riegos del Turia, whose short experience (1850-1883) was defined by the firm opposition of the upper and middle Turia water users, who were reluctant to join this institutional project. The institution examined here was designed prior to the model set out in the 1866 Water Law, and sought to transpose to the basin level principles successfully implemented at the local level of irrigation management. This article analyses the institutional design principles followed in the creation of the Sindicato, and explores the importance of up-scaling processes in the development of nested institutions.
N53|Estrategias y actitudes del poder local ante la privatización de las tierras concejiles en la España interior (Ciudad Real, 1855-1910)|Interest in the issue of communal land and the attitude of rural society and its elites to the disentailment process has increased in recent years. Much progress has been made in learning about what happened in various parts of Spain, but we know very little about the specific case of the interior. This paper aims to fill this historiographical gap through an examination of what happened in the province of Ciudad Real, a territory with important communal assets that virtually disappeared due to the disentailment process. Based on a wide range of sources that are mostly unpublished, this study focuses on the attitudes and strategies of local authorities in relation to the sale of municipal land. The findings indicate that there was no consensus among the local authorities; their range of actions was extremely variable and ranged from positions in favour of disentailment among the most powerful local elites to an attitude of resistance among mid to small-sized towns. The end result of this research offers a model that differs significantly from what happened in other parts of Spain.
N53|El negocio de la trashumancia en el siglo XVIII: la cabaña de Rojas (1746-1808)|This article attempts to clarify how sheep and goat transhumance developed within the Crown of Castile during the second half of the eighteenth century. It analyses the case of the Rojas herd from the accounting and administrative documentation preserved in the Count of Bornos Archive (Nobility Section of the National Historical Archive). The study establishes that although the evolution of prices adversely affected overall income from sheep and goat commerce, it continued to be profitable until the War of Independence. Nevertheless, in order to maintain the total volume of revenue, the decrease in the profit per unit had to be compensated with an increase in the number of heads of cattle, which required access to new pastures. As a result, the social position of the herd owners grew in importance. Moreover, it seems that over the course of this period there was a significant redistribution of the income generated by transhumance, which benefitted large-scale ranchers at the expense of the smaller-scale operations and shepherds.
N53|El comercio de vinos entre España e Inglaterra en la segunda mitad del siglo XVII: Problemas que plantea la construcción de una serie anual y primeros resultados|Wine became the prime commodity amongst Spanish exports to England in the seventeenth century. This article offers a review of current data and a new annual data series on Spanish wine exports to England from 1664 to 1697, derived from the London and Bristol Port Books. An analysis is offered of the changes that took place in the regional provenance of Spanish wine in those years, most notably the decline of wine from Málaga and the Canary Islands along with the rise of imports of Cádiz sherry. As outlined in this article, the main importers of Spanish wines in 1676, 1686, and 1696 were a small group of merchants that controlled this trade. Some lines of further research are suggested.
N53|"La lucha de los ""rabassaires"": análisis de largo plazo de un movimiento social y político"|In 1964, Emili Giralt described the ‘rabassaire’ struggle in the late 19th century as “the most intense unrest in the Catalan countryside since the rebellion of the 'remences' in the 15th century”. As Giralt explained, this conflict subsided momentarily only to reappear in the 1920s with the creation of a peasant union, ‘Unió de Rabassaires’, which in the 1930s became the major organization in the Catalan countryside and led the way to the social and political struggle of the Catalan peasantry until the Civil War. We want to address this peasant struggle in the long-term. Following Charles Tilly, we understand this social movement as a form of political action which had an early period in the late 18th century and reached its maturity in the late 19th century and the early 20th century. Its development was shortened by the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War. Beyond the organizational changes arising from the different social and political situations, a new long-term overview can shed light to the continuities in this movement, especially in terms of building a social identity and legitimating its claims and its struggle.
N53|The Deep Roots of Rebellion: Evidence from the Irish Revolution|This paper studies how cultural norms shaped by negative historical shocks can explain conflicts in the long-run. Exploiting a unique dataset constructed from historical archives, we test whether the Irish Famine (1845-1850), one of the most lethal starvation in history, changed political attitudes and contributed to the Irish Revolution (1913-1921). First, we investigate the determinants of joining the rebellion movement on the basis of the 1911 Irish Census and the official lists of rebels. We find that rebels are more likely to be male, young, catholic and literate. Second, we explore whether the famine played a role in the probability of joining rebellion activities. Controlling for the level of economic development and other potential concurring factors, we provide evidence of the role of the great Irish famine as an exceptional legacy of rebellion during the movement of independence.
N53|Entrepreneurship in Wiltshire, England, almost 1,000 years ago|In the eleventh-century England, the principal economic activity was agricultural production on manorial estates. The paper exploits the Domesday Survey data, collected in 1086, to investigate the entrepreneurial ability of managers of the main classes of estate, king’s, ecclesiastical and lay estates. Wiltshire data are used to assess whether similar production functions describe production on the three classes of estate. Then, data envelopment analysis (DEA) methods are used to assess whether, after controlling for factors that could have affected efficiency, one class of estate was worked more efficiently. Finally, the Wiltshire results are compared with those from an earlier study of Essex. The Wiltshire analysis confirms the conclusions of the Essex study. In both counties, despite differences in institutional structures, there was little difference between production processes and management performance on the three classes of estate.
N53|The Collapse of Some Ancient Societies Due to Unsustainable Mining Development (A Draft)| The literature explaining social collapse mainly focuses on factors such as wars, climate change or disease, as exemplified by numerous examples of collapses which have occurred during the Late Bronze Age in the Near East and in the South-eastern Mediterranean region. This paper aims at demonstrating that collapse can also have economic reasons. Indeed, collapse may be the outcome of an economic growth process which is inherently unsustainable. More precisely, we claim that several ancient societies collapsed because the form of economic development which they relied on eventually proved to be unable to sustain their standard of living. It is believed that the Únĕtice societies – central European Early Bronze Age - were among those that collapsed for that reason. A simple model is presented to demonstrate that, in this agricultural economy, the introduction of bronze mining and metallurgy led to unsustainable development and its subsequent collapse.
N53|Hacienda y agricultura en España durante el siglo XIX|Este trabajo estudia las relaciones entre Hacienda y agricultura en España durante el siglo XIX, a través de la presión fiscal soportada por la renta agraria. Un primer apartado es de carácter metodológico. El segundo describe brevemente la reforma tributaria de 1845 que implantó en España la Hacienda liberal, y analiza la valoración de los contemporáneos sobre si la agricultura pagó más al fisco antes o después de la misma. En los apartados tercero y cuarto, se mide la presión fiscal sobre el sector agrario desde un punto de vista macroeconómico, y estimamos cuánto pagó aquél en relación a la industria entre 1850 y 1900, para valorar si el sistema fiscal tuvo o no un sesgo industrialista. El apartado quinto aborda la presión fiscal desde una perspectiva microeconómica, utilizando datos aportados por las contabilidades privadas de grandes patrimonios, en distintos puntos de la geografía española. Las cifras arrancan, en algunos casos, de 1801; esto nos permitirá presentar las grandes líneas de evolución de la carga fiscal soportada por las rentas de los grandes propietarios durante todo el siglo XIX.
N53|State intervention in wine markets and collective action in France and Spain during the early twentieth century|In the early twentieth century winegrowersin Europe faced a crisis of overproduction, with steeply falling prices and sharp increases in wages and production costs. Since the markets showed no signs of correcting themselves, the winegrowers called for state intervention. In the major wine producing countries such as France and Spain, large winegrowers’ associations were created which lobbied their governments to regulate domestic wine markets through tariffs, quality controls, the creation of regional appellations and bodies investigating fraud in winemaking, and also promoted other measures to increase the consumption of unadulterated wine. However, while winegrowers in France were highly successful in obtaining government support to protect their market interests, in Spain the legislation introduced was much more eclectic; it aimed to satisfy on the one hand the winegrowers and on the other the alcohol producers, wine merchants and exporters, even though the interests of these groups often clashed head on. This paper aims to explain the differences in state intervention and wine market regulation in these two major producer countries in the early twentieth century, by analysing the particular features of their markets and productive systems in the aftermath of the phylloxera plague, as well as the winegrowers’ collective action and the political framework in each country.
N53|La industria de la pizarra española en perspectiva histórica|The article analyses the birth and growth of the slate industry in Spain from a long-term perspective. It takes into account the limitations of the public statistics, the time series of production and employment that have been gathered since the early 20th century to the present day, and the stages of the long-term evolution of the slate sector, and inserting it within the international framework. From modest beginnings in the 16th century under royal patronage, the industry started its development at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. During the first third of the 20th century, the upward supply shows figures lower than the world market leaders. The gap was reduced in the 1960s when the slate industry was modernized, thanks to the French demand. Spain then became the international leader in the production and export of slate. KEY Classification-JEL: L72. N54. N53. O14
N53|Ekonomiczne i etyczne cele ziemianskiego stronnictwa “klemensowczyków” w latach czterdziestych XIX wieku/The economic and ethical aims of the landowning party of “klemensowczycy” in the 1840s|The 1840s brought a certain revival both in intellectual life and efforts to modernize agriculture in the Kingdom of Poland. Count Andrzej Zamoyski (1800–1874) played an inspiring role here. In all his properties replaced feudal service by rents. Moreover, even though the villein system was still in place, he was a spokesman for a transition to this more modern form of managing for the totality of the landed gentry. On his initiative, the periodical “Roczniki Gospodarstwa Krajowego” (“Polish Farming Annual”) came out. “Roczniki” brought in representatives of the Kingdom’s landed gentry supporting actions aimed at economic development and the promotion of civilization, soon to be called organic work. Representatives of the landowning party supporting the idea of organic work were popularly called “klemensowczycy”, because of their participation in conventions held in Andrzej Zamoyski’s estate in the village of Klemensów. The leader of the “klemensowczycy” blazed a trail for Poland’s progress of civilization, where he was characterized by Occidentalism, understood as referring to historical experiences of the Western world.
N53|La peur du déclin économique face à l’épuisement des ressources naturelles, de W. Stanley Jevons à Herbert S. Jevons (1865-1915)|From the 1860s, the unprecedent prosperity state of Great Britain faced a new threat : the exhaustion of coal resources. W. Stanley Jevons is the first to clearly emphasize the risks of coal depletion for the economic future of his country. Fifty years after him (in 1915), his son, Herbert S. Jevons, extended his father’s analysis in multiple ways. If these two authors share the same idea that resource depletion is a matter of production costs more than physical shortage, both do not indicate the same channels to avoid industrial decline, a fear that remains a strong feature of the late-19th century British economic thought. Classification JEL : B13, N13, N53, Q32
N53|Italian Industrial Production, 1861-1913: A Statistical Reconstruction. B. The Extractive Industries|This paper is the second section of Italian Industrial Production, 1861 1913: A Statistical Reconstruction (in progress). It documents the derivation, from the historical sources, of the 27 time series that trace the physical product of the (abundantly documented) mining industry, of the further five series that trace the physical product of the (largely undocumented) quarrying industry, and of the corresponding estimates of value added per unit at 1911 prices. The quarrying output estimates are derived from the likely consumption of those materials by downstream industries; they are accordingly tied to domestic construction movements, rather than assumed to have followed the path of the documented component of the industry (the production of marble, which was largely exported). The unit value added estimates are presented in two versions: one is the conventional measure, which fails exceptionally to exclude the value of the principal raw material consumed by extractive activity, that is, the valuable stuff under ground; the other is the correct measure of the sectorâ€™s industrial value added, using the same definitions as are used for all other industries.
N53|Italian Industrial Production, 1861-1913: A Statistical Reconstruction. C. The Non-metallic Mineral Products Industries|This paper is the third section of Italian Industrial Production, 1861 1913: A Statistical Reconstruction (in progress). It documents the derivation, from the historical sources, of the eight time series that trace the physical product of the kiln-products industry, of the further two series that trace the physical product of processed marble on the one hand, and of other materials on the other, and of the corresponding estimates of value added per unit at 1911 prices. The marble series is based on the apparent consumption of block marble; the others are based on a few benchmarks, interpolated and extrapolated primarily on the basis of construction movements.
N53|Contracts and cooperation: the relative failure of the Irish dairy industry in the late nineteenth century reconsidered|Why did the establishment of cooperative creameries in late nineteenth-century Ireland fail to halt the relative decline of her dairy industry compared with other emerging producers? This paper compares the Irish experience with that of the market leader, Denmark, and shows how each adopted the cooperative organizational form, and highlights that an important difference was institutional: specifically, regarding the enforcement of vertically binding contracts. We argue that this failure, combined with a strong proprietary sector which was opposed to cooperation, reinforced the already difficult conditions for dairying in Ireland due to poor social capital.
N53|Agriculture in Europe's Little Divergence: The Case of Spain|This paper explores the role of agriculture in Spain's contribution to the little divergence in Europe. On the basis of tithes collected by historians over the years, long-run trends in agricultural output are drawn. After a long period of relative stability, output suffered a severe contraction during 1570-1590, followed by milder deterioration to 1650. Output per head moved from a relatively high to a low path that persisted until the Peninsular War. The demand contraction, resulting from the collapse of domestic markets, monetary instability, and war in Iberia, helps to explain a less intensive use of labour and land as incentives to produce for the market sharply diminished. Agricultural output per head moved along population up to 1750. This finding confirms the view of Spain as a land abundant frontier economy. Only in the late eighteenth century a Malthusian pattern emerged.
N53|Producer cooperatives and regulation in Europe's wine industry, 1880-1980|Wine cooperatives were relatively scarce in Europe before the Second WorldWar, but accounted for more than half of all wines made in France, Italy, and Spain, thethree major producer countries, by the 1980s. This article argues that their initial slowdiffusion was caused by the difficulties in measuring and controlling grape quality, andthat this provided incentives for members to produce large volumes of poor fruit whichadversely affected the wines. Cooperatives only became popular when the state offeredmaterial incentives to growers that helped compensate these problems of collectiveaction. This initially involved cheap credit to help build wineries but, from the 1950s,growers enjoyed additional incentives to join cooperatives as governments attempted toregulate wine markets and provide income support. The problems associated with grapequality were never resolved and, with the major decline in consumption from the 1980sand move away from bulk towards premium wines, cooperatives became increasinglyuncompetitive in the market place.
N53|State price densities implied from weather derivatives|A State Price Density (SPD) is the density function of a risk neutral equivalent martingale measure for option pricing, and is indispensable for exotic option pricing and portfolio risk management. Many approaches have been proposed in the last two decades to calibrate a SPD using financial options from the bond and equity markets. Among these, non and semiparametric methods were preferred because they can avoid model mis-specification of the underlying. However, these methods usually require a large data set to achieve desired convergence properties. One faces the problem in estimation by e.g., kernel techniques that there are not enough observations locally available. For this situation, we employ a Bayesian quadrature method because it allows us to incorporate prior assumptions on the model parameters and hence avoids problems with data sparsity. It is able to compute the SPD of both call and put options simultaneously, and is particularly robust when the market faces the data sparsity issue. As illustration, we calibrate the SPD for weather derivatives, a classical example of incomplete markets with financial contracts payoffs linked to non-tradable assets, namely, weather indices. Finally, we study related weather derivatives data and the dynamics of the implied SPDs.
N53|Spanish Land Reform in the 1930s: Economic Necessity or Political Opportunism?|Spanish land reform, involving the break-up of the large southern estates, was a central issue during the first decades of the twentieth century. This paper uses new provincial data on landless workers, land prices and agrarian wages to consider if government intervention was needed because of the failure of the free action of markets to redistribute land. Our evidence shows that the relative number of landless workers decreased significantly from 1860 to 1930 before the approval of the 1932 Land Reform. This was due to two interrelated market forces: the falling ratio between land prices and rural wages, which made land cheaper for landless workers to rent and buy land plots, and structural change that drained rural population from the countryside. Given that rural markets did not restrict access to land, the government-initiated land redistribution had no clear-cut economic justification.
N53|Did Climate Change Influence English Agricultural Development? (1645-1740)|In this paper I analyze the ÔNitrogen ParadoxÕ stated by Robert Allen in his interpretation of the English Agricultural Revolution as an adaptive response to the agro-climatic impacts of the last phase of the Little Ice Age. The colder and more humid climate during the second half of the 17th century negatively affected the yield of the land, but it also accelerated change in the agrarian sector. The first evidence suggests that the efforts from farmers could begin to be felt in the cold period from 1660-70. Although the results were not very visible at first, this increased effort prevented a greater fall in production. This can be seen in the wheat series, where production rose slightly. As wheat demand stagnated due to a slowdown in the rise of the population, wheat prices fell, determining the evolution of relative prices and a diversification in production. In others words, the crucial driving forces of the transition from the crisis to the agrarian revolution were climate, population and the capacity of adaptation. In order to prove this hypothesis, I developed new intermediate tools, opening an interesting research field in economic history.
N53|Agriculture in Europe's little divergence: the case of Spain|This paper explores the role of agriculture in Spain's contribution to the little divergence in Europe. On the basis of tithes collected by historians over the years, long-run trends in agricultural output are drawn. After a long period of relative stability, output suffered a severe contraction during 1570-1590, followed by milder deterioration to 1650. Output per head moved from a relatively high to a low path that persisted until the Peninsular War. The demand contraction, resulting from the collapse of domestic markets, monetary instability, and war in Iberia, helps to explain a less intensive use of labour and land as incentives to produce for the market sharply diminished. Agricultural output per head moved along population up to 1750. This finding confirms the view of Spain as a land abundant frontier economy. Only in the late eighteenth century a Malthusian pattern emerged.
N53|Was Gerschenkron right? Bulgarian agricultural growth during the Interwar period in light of modern development economics|The classical view of BulgariaÕs failed industrialization prior to the Second World War was established by Alexander Gerschenkron. According to his interpretation, an inherently backward small peasant agriculture and well-organized peasantry not only retarded growth in agriculture but obstructed any possible industrialization strategy. Following Hayami and Ruttan, we utilize the decomposition of farm labor productivity into land productivity, and land-to-man ratio to analyze the sources of growth in BulgariaÕs agriculture 1887-1939. Our results show that BulgariaÕs peasants did cross the threshold to modern growth during the Interwar period. Rich qualitative evidence supports the findings of our quantitative analysis that contrary to GerschenkronÕs view and conventional wisdom, BulgariaÕs peasants substantially contributed to the modernization of BulgariaÕs economy and society. We interpret our results in light of modern development economics, and conclude that agriculture formed no impediment to BulgariaÕs industrialization. The reasons that a Ôlarge industrial spurtÕ did not occur in Bulgaria until 1945 are not to be found in the agricultural sector.
N53|Spanish land reform in the 1930s: economic necessity or political opportunism?|Spanish land reform, involving the break-up of the large southern estates, was a central issue during the first decades of the twentieth century. This paper uses new provincial data on landless workers, land prices and agrarian wages to consider if government intervention was needed because of the failure of the free action of markets to redistribute land. Our evidence shows that the relative number of landless workers decreased significantly from 1860 to 1930 before the approval of the 1932 Land Reform. This was due to two interrelated market forces: the falling ratio between land prices and rural wages, which made land cheaper for landless workers to rent and buy land plots, and structural change that drained rural population from the countryside. Given that rural markets did not restrict access to land, the government-initiated land redistribution had no clear-cut economic justification.
N53|Pre-industrial population and economic growth: Was there a Malthusian mechanism in Sweden?|This study examines whether there was a Malthusian equilibrium mechanism in Sweden 1630–1870. A unique data set on harvests, deaths, marriages and births is used to calculate cumulative elasticities of vital rates with respect to harvest. While earlier studies have mostly focused on the impact of real wage, this study contents that the calorie content of harvests is more related to Malthus’ concept of the ‘produce of land’. It finds that there indeed was a response of vital rates to harvest fluctuations, but there were important structural breaks. While positive checks attenuated after 1720, preventive checks were strengthened. After 1870 preventive checks disappeared, even if positive checks existed up to 1920. The results are robust to different models – DLM, ARMAX and SVAR – and trend specifications.
N53|A Holy Alliance: Collusion in the Renaissance Europe Alum Market|On June 11, 1470, representatives of Pope Paul II and Ferdinand, King of Naples concluded a cartel agreement to restrict competition in the sale of alum. The agreement was one element of a broader plan to monopolize the sale of alum throughout Christendom. We discuss the background of the cartel agreement and analyze its terms (which include arrangements to facilitate detection of and reduce the profitability of defection) and the constraints that limited, but did not eliminate, Rome’s ability to extract economic profit from the European alum market. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
N53|Pollution and Mortality in the 19th Century|Mortality was extremely high in the industrial cities of the 19th century, but little is known about the role played by pollution in generating this pattern, due largely to a lack of direct pollution measures. I overcome this problem by combining data on the local composition of industries in Britain with information on the intensity with which industries used polluting inputs. Using this new measure, I show that pollution had a strong impact on mortality as far back as the 1850s. Industrial pollution explains 30-40% of the relationship between mortality and population density in 1851-60, and nearly 60% of this relationship in 1900. Growing industrial coal use from 1851-1900 reduced life expectancy by at least 0.57 years. A back-of-the envelope estimate suggests that the value of this loss of life, expressed as a one-time cost, was equal to at least 0.33-1.00 of annual GDP in 1900. Overall, these results show that industrial pollution was a major cause of mortality in the 19th century, particularly in urban areas, and that industrial growth during this period came at a substantial cost to health.
N53|The Two Revolutions, Landed Elites and Education during the Industrial Revolution|How we are to understand the Industrial Revolution, the process of transition from a Malthusian equilibrium to today’s Modern Economic Growth, has been the subject of passionate debate. This paper adds more insights to the process of industrialization and the demographic transition that followed this period. By applying the theory of interest groups to landownership and by analyzing landed elites incentives to allow education, it is shown that their political power is important for an understanding of the main events that marked the Industrial Revolution. Contributions are also made to the existence and role of the Agricultural Revolution. It is advanced that it played a significant role in hastening the process of industrialization. A model and numerical simulations are presented to demonstrate these results.
N53|La circulación del ganado y los poderes locales en el Pirineo entre Navarra, Labourd y Bearne (siglos XIII y XIV)|The Western Pyrenees were for the Navarrese an area of livestock grazing during the central Middle Ages, thanks to age-old usage of the mountain passes, along with the benefits of lower altitude lands such as Ultrapuertos in Navarre. In contrast with the surrounding mountainous areas, these lands were well suited to transhumance. Therefore, we consider livestock flows essential to understanding the geographic features of this region that bordered the important French, Navarrese and English medieval kingdoms of that period. This article seeks to identify a whole network of relationships that go from the principal livestock movements to gains obtained by local authorities or the king by means of taxing or leasing pastures. Also pertinent are the commercial dynamics affecting livestock in regional markets on both sides of the Pyrenees. This signals an area of exchange and collaboration between the people of Navarre, Labourd and Béarn, in a relationship which has survived until the present. One can see this in the fact that some treaties rooted in the Middle Ages have survived until today, such as the facerias.
N53|La producción oleícola del Aljarafe según el diezmo del almojarifazgo de Sevilla (siglo XV)|This article reconstructs olive oil production in the main olive-growing region of Seville (Aljarafe) during the fifteenth century, using the olive oil tithe records. This particular tax belonged to the Castilian Crown, even though it was established during the Islamic period. The sources for this study include tax data from the Crown Treasury of Castile (at the Archivo General de Simancas) and original tax collection files from the Municipal Archives of Seville. The article questions the supposed increase in olive oil production that other scholars hold to be the cause of tax revenue increases. To test this increase, oil tithes and other taxes have been compared here. This leads to the conclusion that the rising oil tax revenues were not due to an increase in oil production, but to an improvement in tax administration and the Monarchy’s efforts to reduce fiscal fraud, when the political conflicts that hampered tax-collection and favoured the latter were over.
N53|Agronomists and accounting. The beginnings of capitalist rationalisation on the farm (1800-1850)|At the dawn of the nineteenth century numerous debates took place on the development of capita-list agriculture and the ways of making as much profit as possible from farm land. Until now this subject has hardly been examined and is unique in that it pertains to the economic history of agriculture, the history of agronomy and the history of managerial thinking. This article aims to highlight the usage of double-entry accounting for agronomic experiments in the first half of the nineteenth century, as well as the significance of the results and the way these were debated. Our aim is to present the authors’ reasons and the role played by bookkeeping in the construction of economically rational knowledge and reasoning. Thus we will bring to light two mechanisms which are common to this accounting quantification drive: data tabulation and the inclusion of data in balance sheets, making it possible to compare inputs and outputs in production processes.
N53|Origen y desarrollo de la huerta de Tortosa (siglos IV-XII). El proceso de formación de un macro-espacio irrigado en el levante peninsular|Using the example of the city of Tortosa, this article focusses on the origin and development of an urban irrigated field in the Mediterranean watershed. This case exemplifies processes that were common between Antiquity and the Middle Ages. The analysis has included the study of both printed and unpublished sources, as well as the archaeological results of two years of fieldwork. Main objectives have been an examination of the historical implications of an urban irrigated field that supplied the city and of small agricultural areas on the banks of rivers. Once again, historiography on Andalusian hydraulics and its impact on the indigenous population have been examined thanks to extensive fieldwork and an intensive review of historical sources. Certain conclusions about the acculturation level of this region have been drawn from this analysis and incorporated into the historical debate on the overall Islamisation process of the Iberian Peninsula.
N53|Consideraciones acerca de la «hidráulica feudal» desde la perspectiva de los molinos valencianos (siglos XIII-XVIII)|The enormous economic and social importance of water on the Mediterranean coast adds significance to the theoretical frameworks employed in explaining water uses. It is rewarding to compare monographs on mills in feudal Valencia with the proposal drawn up by Miquel Barceló (and followed by the “agrarian archaeology” group). Their statement of general approach has helped to conceptualise data, yet case studies published since 1988 suggest the need for a new appraisal of this topic. Water use in feudal societies cannot be analysed with no theoretical framework to guide it, using empiricism alone, nor can its foundations be a mere appendage of Andalusian water systems. Institutional features, such as local control based on communal cooperation, flexible operating mechanisms used to distribute water flows, consensual rules for irrigators, and the formulas employed to limit the enormous potential for conflict over water are important when examining the social strategies adopted. It is therefore imperative to launch a discussion of the challenge of building a family of models that shed light on the features of feudal water systems in the Mediterranean. Given its usefulness in attracting the interest of researchers to the critical study of constant institutional adjustments, the proposal by Arthur Maass and T.E Glick should play an important role in addressing this complicated matter.
N53|El transporte ferroviario de ganado y el mercado entre 1848 y 1913|This paper analyses the transport of livestock by rail between 1848 and 1913. To do this, first of all it has been necessary to previously establish two methodologies that have allowed us to reconstruct the quantitative evolution of live animal shipping and the origin-destination characteristics of rail journeys. The results of this research suggest: first, that during the last third of the nineteenth century the transportation of sheep and pigs grew at a slower pace than that of cows, goods and cereals. And, second, that railways offered from a very early stage enough mobility to meet the demand for fresh meat coming from a national market mainly based on urban consumers. Demand for fresh meat was high and could not have caused the weak trend in sheep and pig transportation growth. Thus, the explanatory factor must be the supply. Although further research on this subject is needed, a plausible hypothesis emerges, namely, that there were two different tendencies in the Spanish farming system, which is consistent with the argument of an agrarian sector for which environmental aspects are a determinant factor. In consequence, while pig and sheep production increased below what the market demand could absorb in the extensive farming model characteristic of dry Spain, in the intensive farming of the rainy part of Spain beef production could grow with few obstacles. Rail transport flows reflect these circumstances, which disappeared after 1900.
N53|El comercio de cabotaje del vino de Jerez en el siglo XIX: un análisis cuantitativo|In this paper, we tackle the most relevant aspects of the evolution in the market for sherry wine by studying the coastal trade in the region of Cadiz during the period 1857-1900. We develop a database using the information contained in the Estadísticas Generales del Comercio de Cabotaje en España (General Statistics of Coastal Trade in Spain) over the second half of the nineteenth century. We use these data to divide the period into different phases, in order to study the major historical features of the domestic market of sherry. Then we formulate a series of hypotheses to be tested empirically. In particular, we investigate the causal links between the dynamics of coastal trade and exports, as well as major historical events such as the outbreak of phylloxera or the global crisis of the late twentieth century. We find empirical evidence to support our hypotheses by estimating econometric time-series models.
N53|Agricultura y desarrollo económico en España, 1870-2000|The aim of this paper is to offer a general reflection on the role played by agriculture in the economic development of Spain during the period 1870-2000. It first begins placing emphasis on the unfavourable starting point suffered by the Spanish agricultural sector in the 19th century. The paper then analyses the models of agricultural development that were followed, as well as the productive and institutional conditioning factors of that development. The paper concludes that although Spanish agriculture followed a growth path that was coherent with the endowment and prices of its productive factors, and obtained reasonable results thereby, it was not, in itself, dynamic enough to give momentum to the process of industrialization, but not was it so static as to be the causal factor in the slow pace of industrial development in Spain.
N53|Institutional Inertia: Persistent Inefficient Institutions in Spain|In 1966, after over 700 years, the irrigation community in Mula (Spain) switched from auctions to a quotas to allocate water from its river. This change happened in the absence of either political or technological change. Quotas were more efficient but required that farmers own water property rights. A farmer would promise to pay over time and became a borrower. However, she would not work hard because the output went to the lender. Anticipating this outcome, the lender would not sell the water rights. A temporary increase in output prices increased their collateral solving the commitment problem.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N53|Competition between organisational forms in Danish and Irish dairying around the turn of the twentieth century|By 1914, Danish butter had captured a sizeable share of the British market, largely at the expense of Irish suppliers. This is usually attributed to a more successful adoption of the cooperative organisational form, where cultural and legal issues put the Irish at a disadvantage. We argue that there were also significant differences in the private sector in the two countries, where large incumbent proprietary creameries in Ireland were in a stronger position to defend their interests. Even if the cooperativ es were able to operate like their Danish counterparts, they would still have faced much tougher competition from proprietary incumbents.
N53|Notarial Credit in Eighteenth-Century Trentino: Dynamics and Trends|This paper investigates the informal credit market in Trentino in the second half of the eighteenth century by drawing upon notaries' loan contracts. The analysis focuses on four benchmark years: 1750, 1760, 1770, and 1780. More than 10,000 contracts from the period were examined, including 1,200 credit transactions registered in two different cities, Trent and Rovereto. The research aims to analyze dynamics and trends, as well as the mechanisms that characterize the two credit markets, specifically who the borrowers and the lenders were, what capital was borrowed for, and at what price. The findings show stark differences between the two cities' financial markets. In Trent, whose population amounted to some 9,000, credit activity accounted for 7.7% of all notarial transactions, whereas in nearby Rovereto, with about half that population, credit contracts represented twice as much, 15% of business. Likewise, capital flow reflects the different nature and dynamism of the two towns. In Trent, loans were mainly to finance agriculture and the urban economy (craftsmen, retailers). In Rovereto, where capital flow was nearly three times that of Trent, went largely to sustain agriculture and the flourishing international silk trade. The political and institutional frameworks around the two towns were indeed quite different. Trent, as the capital of the Prince- Bishopric, was chiefly an administrative town and apparently impervious to innovation. But Rovereto, part of the Habsburg Monarchy, was a well-integrated node in an international trade network of rapidly expanding silk manufacturing, whose growth was fostered by the vivid and effective credit market.
N53|The French Revolution and German industrialization: The new institutional economics rewrites history|Our purpose here is to challenge the big-bang approach to economic history in which some alleged institutional imposition - a deus machine - is claimed to launch a series of new economic behaviors. This so-called prime mover is then carried forward by the inexorable forces of path dependency to change the course of history. The specific creation story under investigation here is the French Revolution and the subsequent Napoleonic conquest of parts of Germany. We show that recent efforts to re-write German economic history using this theoretical model cannot be supported by the abundant and concerted empirical evidence.
N53|Obstáculos comerciales a la transición nutricional en la España de comienzos del siglo XX|Obstáculos comerciales a la transición nutricional en la España de comienzos del siglo XX.
N53|Estrategias de comercialización para la maximización del beneficio entre los grandes ganaderos trashumantes de la Castilla del siglo XVI|Contribución al estudio de la organización del comercio lanero en la Corona de Castilla durante la Edad Moderna, centrada en la región de Soria durante el siglo XVI , y en el grupo concreto de los grandes propietarios de ganados trashumantes. El autor identifica los principales rasgos singulares que caracterizaron su estrategia de venta de lanas: concesión de largos aplazamientos de pago a los mercaderes compradores, y almacenamiento de lanas de varios esquileos para reunir grandes cantidades. Y demuestra que, como consecuencia, obtuvieron elevados precios, denunciados en ocasiones por los mercaderes compradores como usurarios, y que generaron a veces escrúpulos de conciencia en los propios ganaderos, temerosos de haber incurrido en pecado de usura. KEY Classification-JEL: N530
N53|Greasing the wheels of rural transformation? Margarine and the competition for the British butter market|" type=""main""> This article considers an example of the impact of a new good on producers of close substitutes: the invention of margarine and its rapid introduction into the British market from the mid-1870s. This presented a challenge to the traditional suppliers of that market, butter producers from different European countries. We argue that the capacity to react quickly to the appearance of this cheap substitute by improving quality and establishing product differentiation was critical for the fortunes of butter producers. This is illustrated by a discussion of the different reactions to margarine and quality upgrading in Ireland, Denmark, and the Netherlands. A statistical analysis using monthly data for Britain from 1881–7 confirms that margarine had a greater impact on the price of poor quality butter than that of high quality butter, presumably because it was a stronger substitute."
N53|Urbanization and Growth: Why Did the Splendor of the Italian Cities in the Sixteenth Century not Lead to Transition?|In this paper we investigate the relation between population, wages and urban population in the Italian economy. During the period examined, 1320-1870, the prevailing conditions were those of a poor, mainly agricultural economy with limited human capital and rudimentary technology. However, these centuries witnessed the considerable growth of urban centers, a significant demographic phenomenon with major economic consequences. Against this background we set up a theoretical scheme to explain why urbanization did not drive the economy to sustained growth. Our main contribution, validated by an estimated VAR model, suggests that in an early stage of development, migration to cities may have negative consequences for rural marginal productivity. The analysis provides a picture of a trapped economy where urbanization was unable to trigger a persistent process of development without the support of a substantial increase in population.
N53|Coal and the European Industrial Revolution|We examine the importance of geographical proximity to coal as a factor underpinning comparative European economic development during the Industrial Revolution. Our analysis exploits geographical variation in city and coalfield locations, alongside temporal variation in the availability of coal-powered technologies, to quantify the effect of coal availability on historic city population sizes. Since we suspect that our coal measure could be endogenous, we use a geologically derived measure as an instrumental variable: proximity to rock strata from the Carboniferous era. Consistent with traditional historical accounts of the Industrial Revolution, we find that coal exhibits a strong influence on city population size from 1800 onward. Counterfactual estimates of city population sizes indicate that our estimated coal effect explains at least 60% of the growth in European city populations from 1750 to 1900. This result is robust to a number of alternative modelling assumptions regarding missing historical population data, spatially lagged effects, and the exclusion of the United Kingdom from the estimation sample.
N53|Property rights, land liquidity, and internal migration|In the early twentieth century, a large number of households resettled from the European to the Asian part of the Russian Empire. We propose that this dramatic migration was rooted in institutional changes initiated by the 1906 Stolypin land titling reform. One might expect better property rights to decrease the propensity to migrate by improving economic conditions in the reform area. However, this titling reform increased land liquidity and actually promoted migration by easing financial constraints and decreasing opportunity costs. Treating the reform as a quasi-natural experiment, we employ difference-in-differences analysis on a panel of province-level data that describe migration and economic conditions. We find that the reform had a sizeable effect on migration. To verify the land liquidity effect, we exploit variation in the number of households participating in the reform. This direct measure of the reform mechanism estimates that land liquidity explains approximately 18% of migration during this period.
N53|The effect of globalisation on water consumption: A case study of the Spanish virtual water trade, 1849–1935|This paper aims to analyse the impact on water consumption of trade expansion in the first era of globalisation. To that end, we have chosen the case of Spain, a semi-arid country with significant cyclical water shortages.
N53|The water footprint of the Spanish agricultural sector: 1860–2010|Since 1860, the Spanish agricultural sector has undergone an intensive process of development resulting in important structural changes, not only in the sector itself, but also in the relationship of the agrarian system to natural resources. This paper studies the evolution of domestic water consumption as a consequence of increasing agricultural production, as well as the impact that the growing need for water had on the construction of infrastructure for irrigation. To that end, we examine the water consumed in the production of vegetable and animal goods for five different years: 1860, 1900, 1930, 1962 and 2010. From these results, a detailed analysis of the trends in water consumption and changes in compositional patterns is carried out. We determine to what extent the development of the agricultural sector conditioned the construction of new irrigation infrastructure. Finally, a Decomposition Analysis (DA) is applied to analytically identify and quantify the main explanatory factors behind that evolution, and to understand the increase in agricultural water consumption over the long term. Our findings show the large pressures on water resources exerted as a result of the expansion of the Spanish agricultural sector during the last 150years.
N53|French Colonial Trade Patterns: European Settlement|We investigate how the colonial strategy through the settlement decision affected French trade patterns. In this regard, we construct a new database relying on various primary historical sources containing information on the value of French sectoral trade between 1880 and 1913. Our results show that French colonies with more European settlements traded more with France, whereas the opposite is true for other colonies. We also investigate two channels through which European settlements might have affected the French trade pattern with colonies: institutions and networking. We find that better institutions brought by European settlements had a negative impact on trade with French colonies, while it promoted trade with British colonies. These results are consistent with the extractive nature of French trade relations with its colonies. As for networking, it increases overall French trade within French colonies but reduces it in other colonies.
N53|Land Confiscations and land reform in Natural-Order States| Social scientists argue that post-World War II land reforms in East Asia were critical ingredients in the regionâ€™s strong economic growth, but pay little attention to how large-scale land confiscations might affect the security of property rights in each country. A review of the history of large-scale land confiscations in early modern Europe, the United States and Hawaiâ€˜i provides a foundation for understanding the nature of modern land reform policies. The key insight is to recognize that East Asian states after World War II were natural state social orders in which new governments confiscate and redistribute property to bolster their coalitionâ€™s position and weaken opponents. In East Asia, land confiscations after World War II followed the pattern observed elsewhere, with victors taking and redistributing land from the losers of the war and subsequent civil wars primarily to bolster their newly installed political coalition and to maintain social order.
N53|Grain Market Integration in the Baltic Sea Region in the 19th Century|This paper explores the development of market integration within the Baltic Sea region as well as between the region and England, from the early 1840s to around 1890. It exploits two new datasets on grain prices. The paper applies a new method for measuring market integration by combining a dynamic factor model with wavelet analysis. A gradual yardstick is suggested and the role of distance analyzed. Wheat and rye markets became highly integrated whereas the cheaper grains lagged. Integration progressed geographically and conclusions emphasize traded volumes and transport cost.
N53|Eindomsrettigheter og jordleie i Rissa gjennom 900 år|Denne artikkelen bygger på lokale bygdebøker fra Rissa kommune i Sør-Trøndelag. De gir en mer eller mindre detaljert bygdehistorie som går 900 år tilbake. Artikkelen fokuserer på eiendomsrettsstrukturen og jordleie innen landbruket og viser at jordleie langt fra er noe nytt i Rissa. Tvert om er selveierjordbruk snarere et unntak enn regelen i et historisk perspektiv over 900 år. Landbruksjord var en viktig inntektskilde for kirke og stat fra gammelt av og kontroll over eiendomsretten til jord sto derfor sentralt i kampen om makt og som basis for investeringer i samfunnsutvikling og inndekking av ulike kostnader som finansiering av kriger, kongehus, klostre og kirker. Den korte perioden med landbrukssubsidier i de seneste år kan derfor sees som et kort appendiks i forhold til den historiske dominerende tendensen til sterk skattlegging av bønder og landbruket som et viktig fundament for utvikling av landet. Det er århundrer med hardt arbeid på jorda som har bidratt til å bygge landet uten at dette historiske slitet gir nevneverdig respekt eller forståelse for dagens subsidier som også kunne sees som en liten velfortjent tilbakebetaling eller andel av nyere tids velstandsutvikling som fortidens hardtarbeidende bønder var med å legge grunnlaget for.
N53|A consistent two-factor model for pricing temperature derivatives|In the past decade, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange began to trade weather derivatives to hedge weather risk. The pricing of weather derivatives is challenging since the underlying is not tradable and thus classical arbitrage approaches have to be used with caution. In typical pricing approaches all information available to the market is assumed to be incorporated in the underlying and thus forward-looking information about non-tradable assets such as meteorological forecasts is often ignored. In this article, we analyze a new pricing methodology for temperature derivatives that accounts for forward-looking information. More precisely, we provide an empirical back-up for the theoretical framework of so-called consistent factor models for temperature forecast curves introduced previously in the literature and put this pricing approach into practice. First, we perform a thorough statistical analysis of meteorological forecast curve data. Second, based on this analysis we propose a specific consistent two-factor model, derive explicit temperature derivative prices, and calibrate the market price of risk (MPR). The power of the model is demonstrated against alternative pricing models. This confirms that at least parts of the irregularity of the MPR observed in earlier studies are not due to irregular risk perception but rather due to information misspecification.
N53|Coal and the European Industrial Revolution|We examine the importance of geographical proximity to coal as a factor underpinning comparative European economic development during the Industrial Revolution. Our analysis exploits geographical variation in city and coalfield locations, alongside temporal variation in the availability of coal-powered technologies, to quantify the effect of coal availability on historic city population sizes. Since we suspect that our coal measure could be endogenous, we use a geologically derived measure as an instrumental variable: proximity to rock strata from the Carboniferous era. Consistent with traditional historical accounts of the Industrial Revolution, we find that coal had a strong influence on city population size from 1800 onward. Counterfactual estimates of city population sizes indicate that our estimated coal effect explains at least 60% of the growth in European city populations from 1750 to 1900. This result is robust to a number of alternative modelling assumptions regarding missing historical population data, spatially lagged effects, and the exclusion of the United Kingdom from the estimation sample.
N53|Gender Discrimination in Property Rights|In the Middle Ages women in the Italian Alps had substantially more rights on collective properties than in the Modern Age. The documental evidence shows a progressive erosion of women’s rights and a convergence toward gender-biased inheritance systems. We tracked the evolution of inheritance regulations on collective land in the peasant communities of Trentino over a period of six centuries (13th-19th). Considering a panel of hundreds of communities, we provide a long-term perspective of institutional change. When population pressure increased, a patrilineal system emerged as a protective measure to preserve the per-capita endowment of collective properties within a community. This study raises general issues about the role of local level versus centralized decision-making in delivering gender equality and about the long-term trade-off between the protection of common resources and a healthy genetic pool at the community level.
N53|Food for Thought: Comparing Estimates of Food Availability in England and Wales, 1700-1914|In The Changing Body (Cambridge University Press and NBER, 2011), the authors presented a series of estimates showing the number of calories available for human consumption in England and Wales at various points in time between 1700 and 1909/13. The current paper corrects an error in those figures but also compares the estimates of The Changing Body with those published by a range of other authors. The differences reflect disagreements over a number of issues, including the amount of land under cultivation, the extraction and wastage rates for cereals and pulses and the number of animals supplying meat and dairy products. The paper considers recent attempts to achieve a compromise between these estimates and challenges claims that there was a dramatic reduction in either food availability or the average height of birth cohorts in the late-eighteenth century.
N53|Staying or Leaving? Gender, Job opportunities, and Poor Law Administration in Nineteenth-Century England|English agriculture in the first half of the nineteenth century was characterised by the ehigh-wage north and low-wage south f pattern. The serious problem of rural unemployment in southern England is also widely acknowledged for this period. The question then remains: Why did agricultural labourers stay in the south? Why did they not move to the industrial north where more job opportunities were available? In answer to this question, I propose that; the wage rate in the south was high enough, if income-in-kind is taken into consideration, and that in-kind income, especially in the form of drink allowance, was more prevalent in the south. This paper also attempts to estimate regional unemployment rates directly. While unemployment in the south has been well recognised, the perceptions are largely based on indirect evidence such as per capita poor law expenditure, or descriptive information derived from contemporary writings. However, poor law expenditure is likely to have been affected by the actual practice of poor relief in the local context, and it is almost impossible to use contemporary remarks for systematic regional comparison. Therefore, I attempt to estimate unemployment rates more directly, in percentage terms. The second aim of this paper is to estimate regional real wages inclusive of income-in-kind. The Rural Query of the 1834 Poor Law Report, the main source for this paper, asked the rate of male wages with or without beer or cider. I used this information to estimate real wages. Thirdly, I estimate female wages and consider job opportunities for women, to calculate annual family income in a regional perspective.
N53|Verso Una Lenta Metamorfosi.Dalle Sperimentazioni Agronomiche Setecentesche All’Avvio Delle Colture Industriali|No abstract is available for this item.
N53|Institutions, Natural Resources and Economic Growth in the Modern Age, the Case of Dogana delle Pecore in the Kingdom of Naples (XV-XVIII Centuries)|The trade of wheat and wool has been one of the economic pillars of the Kingdom of Naples during Modern Age. Since Romans times the production of these commodities – in the continental part of the Kingdom – has been regulated by the trashumance system that coordinated the flow of sheep on Puglia’s Tavoliere lands. We would highlight the role exercised by the institutions as development agents. In particular, the paper would demonstrate that the new institutions introduced by the king Alfonso I of Aragon were the main driver not only of trashumance but of the entire economic framework of the kingdom. A simple analytical model based on the complementary dynamics of pasturing and wheat production shows the results of the functioning of the new system. The results challenges the negative interpretation of the trashumance led on by the Neapolitan Reformers (illuministi) at the end of XVIII Century and widely absorbed by historians in the XX Century.
N53|Plenty of Land, Land of Plenty. The Agrarian Output of Portugal (1311-20)|This article presents a benchmark for Portuguese agrarian output for the 1311-20 decade. This benchmark is built from the supply side, using the value of ecclesiastical tithes, and tested with macro and micro level demand-side information. Compared with existing estimates for contemporary England, real Portuguese per capita agrarian output appears high. This result challenges the received wisdom that by 1320 Portugal was hard-pressed by demographic forces. Instead, it confirms that by 1320, Portugal was a ‘frontier economy’ with a high land/labour ratio and a high per capita output level.
N53|Der Steinkohlenbergbau In Der Aachener Region / 1780-1860<BR>[Coal Mining In The Region Of Aachen, 1780-1860]|In the early 19th century coal mining in the region of Aachen (Prussian Rhine Province) developed to an industrial scale within few decades production was mechanised and new types of industrial organization emerged that allowed for concentration on production and economies of scale. The region hosted two mining areas (the Wurm area and the Inde area) showing rather different patterns of development; while the industry on the Inde was al-ready concentrated at the turn of the century, and industrial modes of production emerged earlier, the industry on the Wurm developed slowly more slowly. Decentralized ownership prohibited scale economics before the mid-1830s. Then, new joint stock companies allowed for concentration of ownership, rationalisation of production and efficient governance. The analysis shows that these different patterns result from different pre-industrial institutional arrangements that were only harmonized during the French occupation of the Rhineland. The ms. [written in German] containes 189p., 24 figures and maps, 49 tables on regional industrial production; the data is available from the author.
N53|Un espacio de cultivo urbano en al-Andalus: Madîna Turtûsa (Tortosa) antes de 1148|The aim of this paper is to identify what types of farming and shepherding existed around the al-Andalus city of Tortosa, how they developed and what varieties of plants were cultivated there. The impact of the feudal conquest of the city by the Christians in 1148 is also examined. For these purposes a rich post-conquest body of documentation has been examined and archaeological work has been carried out. The archaeological survey followed the method of hydraulic archaeology, and carpological remains were identified in the study of sediments from several archaeological excavations in the urban area of Tortosa. A significant level of coincidence was found in a comparison of the three types of records (textual, spatial, and carpological). Furthermore, the areas in which the various vegetal species were cultivated have been identified precisely. Along the River Ebro, to the north of the Arab city, was an irrigated orchard. In this area, fruit trees and vegetables were cultivated thanks to water wheels that drew from wells. To the south of the city, a large meander in the river defined an area known in written documentation as Les Arenes. This was drained and transformed into land for cereals and vineyards. According to the documents, a large marshy meadow is known to have existed further south and was used for shepherding flocks.
N53|Derechos de propiedad y mercado de la tierra en la Cataluña Vieja (s. XV-XIX). El caso de Artés (Bages)|The establishment and evolution of property rights and the market for land in a village of Catalonia is here analysed over time by examining various sources such as cabreves, amillaramientos, notarial archives, etc. The mas in the long run was the predominant habitat in this area of the interior. Our thesis is that, after the establishment of an initial structure based on the feudal concession of land to a bishop and its settlement by peasants, in the 15th and 16th centuries land was hoarded by those who possessed the dominium utile of the masos. Many of these peasant families were descendent of those first established. At this point the land market was blocked, but would become dynamic again due to the rabassa morta contract and the possibility of buying and selling dominium utile.
N53|El protagonismo de la viña en la agricultura menorquina de los siglos XVII y XVIII|This study analyses the evolution of agriculture in Minorca during the 17th and 18th centuries, highlighting the ascendancy of viticulture. The research is based on the analysis of tithe collection, and also on records of crops and prices of wine, and the extension of vineyard plantations, which can be surmised from the manifestos de bienes. The results cast new light on the evolution of the agricultural economy of this insular region during the centuries studied and also provide extensive information on the evolution of agricultural prices. The 17th century economic crisis was more benign than expected, and recovery was robust after 1691. During the 18th century, Minorca experienced inflation and a major expansion of wine production. However, grain production grew at a lower rate than in the previous century. Viticulture was the more dynamic of the two throughout the period examined, but the expansion of vineyards ended around 1760, coinciding with a decrease in po­pulation growth and stagnation of wine prices, set by local authorities. This wasonly overcome after 1793, when prices recovered and administrative controls were relaxed, suggests the contractive effects of the economic intervention of Ancien Regime authorities.
N53|Propiedad de la tierra y desigualdad social en el mundo rural catalán de mediados del siglo XIX|The analysis of the distribution of land ownership –and its social consequences– entails heuristic and methodological difficulties that usually limit the ability to establish sufficiently robust and systematic comparisons. This type of analysis is difficult to carry out from tax and cadastral statistics that show aggregate data and therefore offer greater territorial coverage. A more accurate approach is only possible by combining local surveys in different geographical areas, identifying both the inhabitants and landowners by referring simul-taneously to population and cadastral registers. This article aims to develop a methodological approach based on local case analysis in order to examine comparatively the level of social inequality in Catalan rural society in the mid-19th century.
N53|¿Privatización o expolio? La desamortización del monte público en Almodóvar del Campo, Ciudad Real (1845-1897)|As late as 1895, the town of Almodóvar del Campo (Ciudad Real province) still controlled 63,269 hectares of public forest. Yet, just two years later, that huge area of land had been privatized, including land supposedly excluded from disentailment for environmental reasons. This paper focuses on two main issues: why were these forests not sold until 1895 -almost half a century after the Madoz disentailment law- and why were exempted lands privatized as well? The answer lies in the survival of the derecho maestral, an ancient feudal rent that complicated the definition of new property established by the liberal disentailment laws in towns that belonged to former military orders. We use a microanalytical methodology to examine systematic, fraudulent practices in the context of public auctions and land valuations. In addition, we explore the speculative behaviour of local oligarchies and focus on the use of a peculiar society, the Sociedad Compradora (Purchasing Company), which was created ad hoc and controlled by the local oligarchy to immediately resell privatized lands at a profit. Municipal sources confirm the intricacies of this capital accumulation process and how it resulted in the impoverishment of the peasantry in this region.
N53|El ejercicio de la autonomía local en las acequias de la huerta de Valencia: la olvidada imbricación municipal (siglos XIII-XIX)|The aim of this paper is to show that rather than the municipality and the crown playing no role in water management in the Huerta de Valencia (the fertile farming lands around the city of Valencia), they were in fact political authorities that were heavily involved in this decision-making. I argue that it was a formally somewhat different way of exercising local autonomy due to the particular features of municipal power in the big city, which was the capital of the kingdom, but not for that reason was it more comprehensive than in the rest of Valencian irrigation channels. In addition to not being a radically specific exception as is often suggested (“management by autonomous user enterprises” as opposed to the other model of “municipal control”), neither was it an immutable formula. It was subject to a process of early demunicipalisation which, based on more direct and intense involvement of the capital’s council in the 13th and 14th centuries, gradually took hold and culminated in the 18th century bylaws, codes that consecrated the previous practice of governance of the irrigation channels of the Vega by an elected oligarchic board.
N53|Methodology and conversion factors to estimate the net primary productivity of historical and contemporary agroecosystems|This methodological manual provides basic information to estimate the net primary productivity (NPP) of historical and contemporary cropland, in terms of fresh and dry matter, and gross energy. The methodology and the proposed conversion factors can be applied to any region of the planet, with some exception to be noted in the text. The biomass produced in agro-ecosystems by transforming energy flows (solar and, currently, fossil) and mobilizing nutrients and water are the operational basis of traditional and, to some extent, industrialised societies. The quantification of NPP of agroecosystems, and biomass flows that are configured from this, is essential to build metabolic profiles and to inquire in agrarian sustainability of traditional agrarian and industrial societies. The provided information herein may be useful for researchers working in Agrarian Social Metabolism, Greenhouse Gas Balances of agroecosystems and Climate Change, and Energy Return on Investment (EROI’s) in agro-ecosystems among other methodological approaches.
N53|Study On The Preparation And Implementation Of The Land Reform In Romania (1918 - 1921)|Great Union of 1918 strengthened and unified national market under the conditions in which the land offered an answer to the overall need to allot the peasant-soldiers. The land reform of 1921 in Romania was carried out within the democratic interwar context of some transformations which had as their result the national unitary state – geopolitically speaking –, the universal suffrage –socially speaking – the increase share of agriculture within the country’s economy – economically speaking –. Land reform achieved by the importance of the legislation, both economically and socially the liquidation of large landowning, size decrease of large estates, the strengthening of the economic role of small peasant homestead, the intensification of capitalist economic development, the distribution change of landed property and distribution of forces change within the economic, social and political life of the country. Given the size of the expropriated area and number of allotted peasants, Romania ranked first in Europe.
N53|"Study On ""The Revolution"" Of Land Property From 1921 To 1944"|"The study regarding the ""revolution"" of land property during 19121-1944 starts from the intrinsic reality of the structural changes made in the world of the Romanian village, where due to the size of expropriated area and number of peasants given land, Romania was ranked first in the context of capitalist Western world. These statistics lead us to accredit the idea that the Romanian state was situated part of the European bourgeois democracy elite based on the size and proportions of the expropriated areas which land issues took into account. Land reform sought to create middle-owned farms that could act as the main socioeconomic factor, within the rural world. The new report on arable land led to the restriction of the landlords’ great estates, it also lowered the socio-economic importance and furthermore it led to the political disappearance of the Conservative Party, the representative of this boyar elite. Statistical data reveal the expropriation and allotment process figures highlighting the changes that were made when talking about land distribution in interwar Romania."
N53|Regiões e Especialização na Economia Cafeeira: São Paulo no Início do Século XX|This article deals with agricultural specialization in regions and farms of the state of São Paulo in the early nineteenth century, after several decades of changes caused by the coffee boom. I use data from more than forty thousand farms to examine the agrarian structure and specialization in eleven regions which cover the whole state of São Paulo at the time. The article also shows how farmers chose between export (coffee) and internal market crops. The results lend support to a part of the literature but add new evidence which diverges from established notions among historians. In the early twentieth century, all regions of São Paulo cultivated coffee, but nearly all of them specialized in more than one agricultural product, except the Mogiana region. Alongside the plantations highlighted by the literature, small farms were drawn into export production and also specialized in coffee. In turn, large properties not only specialized in food crops (apart from coffee), but dominated the supply of the main products for internal markets.
N53|Irish Land Bonds: 1891-1938| This paper introduces a new database on Irish land bonds listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange from 1891 to 1938: it outlines the nature of these bonds and presents data on their size, liquidity and market returns. These government-guaranteed bonds arose during a period when the possibility of Irish secession from the United Kingdom appeared ever more likely, and were used to finance the transfer of land ownership from landlords to tenants in Ireland (North & South). Movements in the prices of these bonds can help to understand how financial markets responded to events in the early economic and political history of the Irish Free State, including Irish partition, Independence, Civil War and de facto default. Understanding these issues has contemporary relevance for regions in Spain (Catalonia, Euskadi), Great Britain (Scotland) and Belgium (Flanders).
N53|The French Revolution and German industrialization: The new institutional economics rewrites history|" Our purpose here is to challenge the ""big-bang"" approach to economic history in which some alleged institutional imposition - a deus machine - is claimed to launch a series of new economic behaviors. This so-called prime mover is then carried forward by the inexorable forces of path dependency to change the course of history. The specific creation story under investigation here is the French Revolution and the subsequent Napoleonic conquest of parts of Germany. We show that recent efforts to re-write German economic history using this theoretical model cannot be supported by the abundant and concerted empirical evidence."
N53|"How the West ""Invented"" Fertility Restriction"|We analyze the emergence of the first socioeconomic institution in history limiting fertility: west of a line from St. Petersburg to Trieste, the European Marriage Pattern (EMP) reduced childbirths by approximately one-third between the fourteenth and eighteenth century. To explain the rise of EMP we build a two-sector model of agricultural production?grain and livestock. Women have a comparative advantage in animal husbandry. After the Black Death in 1348?1350, land abundance triggered a shift toward the pastoral sector. This improved female employment prospects, leading to later marriages. Using detailed data from England, we provide strong evidence for our mechanism.
N53|Swedish GDP 1620-1800 : stagnation or growth ?|This paper reconstructs an annual volume series of GDP and GDP per capita for Sweden within present borders 1620–1800, extending the annual series that exist from 1800 onwards. Annual fluctuations of GDP are estimated from the annual fluctuations of harvests, which in the nineteenth century were strongly correlated with each other. Long-term trends are determined based on estimates of the values added of various activities for a few benchmark years. The paper shows that the long-term trend of GDP per capita increased modestly during the studied period, a different development from real wages that fell substantially. Henceforth, available data on real wages are at best a quite weak indicator of the development of GDP per capita. If Sweden is representative of Western Europe, the new data indicate a somewhat slower growth than assumed by Maddison. The increase in GDP per capita occurred in the seventeenth century and came entirely from non-agricultural activities, especially mining, public services, trade and transports. The lack of dynamism in the aggregate economy is explained by the dominance of agriculture. Per capita agricultural production displayed a stagnating tendency. Nevertheless, the expansion of the population in the eighteenth century was largely made possible by the increased use of iron tools in agriculture. Without technological progress, the strong population growth would probably have led to decreased per capita production.
N53|An agency-oriented model to explain vine-growing specialization in the province of Barcelona (Catalonia, Spain) in the mid-nineteenth century|We present a model of vine-growing specialization in the municipalities of the province of Barcelona in the mid-19th century that explains how a comparative advantage arose through a process deemed to be one of the starting points for Catalan industrialization. The results confirm the roles played by the Boserupian population-push on land-use intensification and the Smithian market-pull in a growing demand from the Atlantic economy. They also stress the conditioning function of agro-ecological endowments and socio-institutional settings related to income inequality. Vineyard planting gave rise to less unequal rural communities until 1820, but inequality grew again afterwards.
N53|The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth: the English Corn Returns as a data source in economic history, 1770-1914| From 1770 to 1914, the British Government collected weekly price and quantity data for all types of grain traded in many market towns; these 'Corn Returns' were published in the London Gazette. We computerized the data published between 1770 and 1864, totalling around 6 million data points. Here we describe the nature of these data; discuss why, when, and how they were collected; consider their accuracy and biases; describe how we computerized them; and offer caveats in using these—and similar—data. We highlight the problem of drawing valid inferences in the face of price impact from fluctuating grain quality and rising imports. Copyright , Oxford University Press.
N53|Irish Land Bonds: 1891-1938|This paper introduces a new database on Irish land bonds listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange from 1891 to 1938: it outlines the nature of these bonds and presents data on their size, liquidity and market returns. These government-guaranteed bonds arose during a period when the possibility of Irish secession from the United Kingdom appeared ever more likely, and were used to finance the transfer of land ownership from landlords to tenants in Ireland (North & South). Movements in the prices of these bonds can help to understand how financial markets responded to events in the early economic and political history of the Irish Free State, including Irish partition, Independence, Civil War and de facto default. Understanding these issues has contemporary relevance for regions in Spain (Catalonia, Euskadi), Great Britain (Scotland) and Belgium (Flanders).
N53|The pre-industrial energy crisis and resource scarcity as a source of transition|The historical British ‘timber famine’ of the 18th century is re-examined in the light of contemporary concerns about transitions in energy use. The alternatives of scarcity-induced and opportunity-led transition are considered in relation to the economics of sustainable fuel timber production for industrial uses. The paper finds that the production of timber was an economically sustainable use of land and that observations of timber shortages may have therefore either been claims made by interests favouring the use of coal or the consequence of abandonment of fuel timber cultivation in favour of coal use. The longer-term sustainability of domestic UK sources for industrial timber fuel timber is shown to be problematic. The consequences of the alternative views of the ‘timber famine’ for contemporary policies attempting to promote transition to low carbon or sustainable energy use are examined. In particular, if the present is an echo of the past, opportunity rather than crisis may be the more powerful lever of change.
N53|Where is the Backward Peasant? Regional Crop Yields on Common and Private Land in Russia 1883-1913|This paper deals with agricultural dynamics in late-Imperial Russia. Based upon a comprehensive micro-level data set on annual yields between 1883 and 1913, we provide insight into regional differences of agricultural growth and the development prospects of Russian agriculture before WWI. Making use of the fact that— unique in Europe— contemporary Russian statistics distinguished between “privately owned” and mostly communally governed “peasant” land, we are able to test the implications of different landtenure systems for agricultural growth. In a broader sense we will challenge the stereotype of the “backward” peasant and the common narrative of Russia as an exception to the pan-European picture of economic development during the era of industrialization.
N53|Reconstructing Swedish population 1630-1750|The world population growth accelerated in the eighteenth century, which caused real wages to decline in most countries. Recent data for Sweden implies that population growth was stronger in the seventeenth century than in the eighteenth century, while Swedish real waged increased during the seventeenth century and decreased in the eighteenth century. This study attempts to resolve the anomaly, and argues that recent estimates of Swedish population and mortality rates are too low for the seventeenth century. It presents revised annual demographic data for Sweden 1630-1750, pointing towards that there was small acceleration in early modern growth. However, the acceleration was not as pronounced as in the rest of the world.
N53|From the Persecuting to the Protective State? Jewish Expulsions and Weather Shocks from 1100 to 1800|What factors caused the persecution of minorities in medieval and early modern Europe? We build a model that predicts that minority communities were more likely to be expropriated in the wake of negative income shocks. We then use panel data consisting of 785 city-level expulsions of Jews from 933 European cities between 1100 and 1800 to test the implications of the model. We use the variation in city-level temperature to test whether expulsions were associated with colder growing seasons. We find that a one standard deviation decrease in average growing season temperature in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries was associated with a one to two percentage point increase in the likelihood that a Jewish community would be expelled. Drawing on our model and on additional historical evidence we argue that the rise of state capacity was one reason why this relationship between negative income shocks and expulsions weakened after 1600.
N53|Cambio agrario, uso del suelo y regadío: el impacto del Canal de Urgell, 1860-1935|This article analyses the impact of the expansion of irrigation that took place in Spanish agriculture between the mid-nineteenth and the first third of the twentieth centuries. It explores the impact on agricultural land use of the Urgell canal, located in western Catalonia and constituting the largest water infrastructure built in nineteenth century Spain for agricultural purposes. The available data show that irrigation failed to significantly alter the mix of crops planted in the territories of the Urgell plain. At the end of this period, traditional crops still covered a majority of the irrigated area. Without denying the importance of other factors, this article suggests that the lack of an adequate water flow was one of the main limitations in developing a greater production of intensive crops and other products with higher added value.
N53|La lucha por los montes. Conflicto y política en la Sierra de Cuenca durante la Restauración|The process of dismantling communal usage of lands during the 19th century sparked a legal, political and social conflict in Cuenca and many of its mountain villages. The new desire to capitalise on the immense wealth of the mountain forests pitted an incipient bourgeoisie based in the provincial capital against rural oligarchies and villagers who tried to rely on common law to safeguard their interests. Local and district caciques or bosses found in this conflict an opportunity to demonstrate the benefits of patronage and to define who the political adversary was. The aim of this article is to reveal the role of the dispute over use of the communal lands in articulating the political struggles and configuring patronage networks during the Restoration. For this purpose, the article analyses the socioeconomic reality of the mountain areas, the lengthy litigation processes that villages faced with the provincial capital and the various forms of conflict in the political arena. Our research covers a number of legal, civil, military and press sources in an uncharted area for contemporary agrarian historiography.
N53|Un siglo sin innovación en la saca del corcho|This article seeks to explain why a productive activity such as cork stripping experienced no technical change for two centuries, while Western economies were undergoing all sorts of deep transformations due to two industrial revolutions. For this purpose we have first reconstructed how cork stripping was carried out at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century. Next, leading microeconomic indicators such as production, productivity, wages and profitability are calculated and analysed for the exploitation of a specific cork oak forest. The conclusion offered is that the price of cork was always higher than per unit costs of production in such a specialised labour intensive operation, which can be explained by the unique structure of the world cork market.
N53|Antes de la política hidráulica. La gestión del agua bajo el Estado liberal en España (1833-1866)|The regulation of the use of water in Spain went through a profound transformation during the first decades of the liberal State. Liberalism introduced institutional changes which affected all those aspects related to the use and administration of water resources. Water property rights were established and water was declared, for its most part, a public property. Priorities on the water resource use were fixed. Common organizational ways were introduced in all communities dedicated to irrigation. In this respect, the State set a wide margin of autonomy in the water management, although it kept the supervision and the rights of the Administration to intercede in the life within those communities. All irrigation systems were forced to have written regulations and those internal rules were homogenized. And, finally, the State interceded in the conflicts raised in a great amount of canals, especially in the newly created ones or in those whose construction had been interrupted during the crisis of the old regime. The outcome was a new institutional framework, developed at the same time that the Administration of the new State became established. During thirty years partial regulations were promulgated and the state's capacity to apply them was put to test. This process culminated in 1866 with the unification of these rules in a Water Law which would regulate this natural resource during more than a century.
N53|El anidamiento institucional y su dinámica histórica en comunidades rurales complejas. Dos estudios de caso (Navarra, siglos XIV-XX)|The aim of this paper is to contribute to the analysis of nested governance of common-pool resources from a long-term perspective. Our main research questions are: How was nesting articulated in pre-industrial societies? Which were their advantages and risks? Which are the factors that explain their origin and dynamics? To answer them, we analyse two historical case studies of nested regimens. In particular, the Valley of Roncal and the Sierra de Lokiz, both of them situated in Navarre, arranged across several levels the management and use of grazing pastures and forests by the 14th century.
N53|Las instituciones horizontales de gestión colectiva del riego. El fracaso del Sindicato General de Riegos del Turia (1850-1883)|The Spanish collective institutions for irrigation management have become a reiterated reference in the study of common pool resources. However, the success of Spanish irrigators in the local management of water contrasts with an important failure in the management of this common pool resource at the basin scale. During the second half of the ninetieth century, the water users’ associations of the large huertas (market gardens) of eastern Spain seek for the constitution of higher institutions to coordinate water management at the basin or sub-basin level. The aim of this institutional ambition, unsuccessful in this period, was to reduce the number and intensity of conflicts and to achieve a major level of water rights enforcement. This paper describes the case of the Sindicato General de Riegos del Turia, whose short experience (1850-1883) was conditioned by the firm opposition of water users’ from the upper and middle Turia, reluctant to join the institutional project. The design of the institution, previous to the model defined by the Water Law of 1866, was based in the transposition, to the basin level, of the successful principles used at the local management of irrigation. The paper focuses on the analysis of the principles of institutional design followed in the creation of the Sindicato, and explores the importance of the up-scaling processes in the development of nested institutions.
N53|A Study Regarding The Structure Of The Agrarian Property In Romania Around The Rural Reform Of 1864|The agrarian problem between 1848 and 1864 refers to the structure of the landed property and the agrarian relationships. Although most of the land was owned by landlords and churches, peasants were - in spite of their lacking in land – in the first place in the Romanian agriculture. By analyzing the statistic and economic annals of that period, we understand that the peasants’ produce and meat had supremacy over landlords’ and leaseholders’. The agrarian problem will be solved by peasants’ allotment following the rural reform of 1864 imposed by the Ruler Cuza.
N53|Study Regarding The Evolution Of The Agrarian Estate In Romania Between 1864 – 1918|The characteristics of the structure of agrarian estate follow certain major coordinates in Romania between 1866-1947, such as the increase of the great agrarian estate, the process of division and multiplication of the small peasant households, the gradual development of the rural bourgeoisie and the decrease of the surface of state-owned estate through the sales of land. The coordinates of the peasantry issue range from the peasants' endemic craving for land (the peasant who cultivates the great estate with his own tools and cattle) towards „the great capitalist in agriculture”. The fundamental solutions for the peasantry issue alternated between the slow reformist method, emerging from „above”, and the radical method, of complete „economic and political renewal”.
N53|The Institutional Approach to Economic History: Connecting the Two Strands|"This essay examines the historiography of two episodes in history – the scattering of plots in the open fields in the Middle Ages and the transition to the factory system in the Industrial Revolution – to shed light on the uses of institutional economics in economic history. In both of these episodes, economic ""just-so"" stories advanced our understanding of history. What animated intellectual innovation in both cases was a bold conjecture about the raison d’être of a puzzling institutional structure. But what ultimately enriched our understanding was the process of conjecture and revision those conjectures set off. In both episodes, the revised conjectures that best withstood criticism and revision were those that saw the phenomena not as static snapshots of economic agents confronting an economic problem but rather those that embedded the phenomena within a larger economic problem and within a process of economic change. In the end it is an account of institutional change – what I call the good old New Institutional Economics – that connects the use of institutional economics to explain puzzling historical phenomenon with the role of institutional economics in addressing the big questions of economic growth."
N53|How substitutable are fixed factors in production? evidence from pre-industrial England|Whether fixed factors such as land constrain per-capita income growth depends crucially on two variables: the substitutability of fixed factors in production, and the extent to which innovation is biased towards land-saving technologies. This paper attempts to quantify both. Using the timing of plague epidemics as an instrument for labor supply, I estimate the elasticity of substitution between fixed and non-fixed factors in pre-industrial England to be significantly less than one. In addition, I find evidence that denser populations – and hence higher land scarcity – induced innovation towards land-saving technologies.
N53|Russian Peasants and Politicians: The Political Economy of Local Agricultural Support in Nizhnii Novgorod Province, 1864-1914|This paper explores the local political economy of early agronomic efforts in Tsarist Russia by undertaking a two-part analysis of the role of the zemstvo -- a 19th century institution of local self-government -- in improving local agricultural conditions. First, we investigate the agronomic activities of various levels of government in Russia over the last fifty years of the Tsarist era. After discussing the relatively limited role played by the central ministries and peasant institutions of self-government, we follow Nafziger (2011) in undertaking a qualitative and cross-district empirical analysis of how variation in economic conditions and the political structure of the zemstvo assemblies may have motivated zemstvo expenditures on agriculture. This exercise finds evidence suggesting that the peasantry -- the population most likely affected by agronomic efforts -- had an influence on the policies of the zemstvo, despite rarely holding majority positions in the assemblies. To explore the mechanisms underlying these results, we turn to a case study of agricultural development and zemstvo policies in Nizhnii Novgorod province. We draw on archival records, contemporary publications, and newspaper accounts to document these factors, both at the provincial level and for one relatively non-agricultural district (Semenov). Our findings suggest that the policy preferences of the local elites and of leaders of the executive committees of the institution likely mattered more than the composition of the zemstvo assembly for the resulting outcomes. By shedding light on the political mechanisms behind local public support for agronomic efforts, this chapter makes an initial step towards a fuller account of the early stages of Russia's agrarian transformation.
N53|Las raíces agrarias del crecimiento económico andaluz y el grupo Larios (1800-1936)|This article tries to shed light on a macroeconomic issue from a microeconomic or business perspective. The problem is the Andalusian backwardness in comparison to more advantaged regions of Spain and the subsequent negative effects it had on the population’s standard of living. The backwardness was due to the overemphasis on activities related to the production and transformation of agricultural products in the region during the 19th century and the first third of the 20th century, a period when the opposite just should have occurred. The business perspective is based on a case study of the Larios Group, which was an engine of economic changes in the region along this period. An important feature of this evolution was the increase of the agrarian share of their business, especially in their industrial activities. The epilogue suggests a hypothesis trying to explain why this agrarian orientation, given the socio-political context of the region, allowed for economic growth but blocked structural change.(Full text in Spanish)
N53|El Estado en los campos. La regulación del cultivo del arroz en la España del siglo XIX|El papel desempeñado por el Estado en la economía española del siglo xix ha sido muy controvertido y, en general, ha recibido juicios negativos. Este artículo trata de evaluar la intervención pública en el ámbito de la regulación del cultivo del arroz. Justificada frente al paludismo, esta reglamentación encontró grandes dificultades para ser aplicada hasta que se consolidó el nuevo aparato estatal salido de la revolución liberal, a causa de las resistencias locales y las limitaciones administrativas. En la segunda mitad del siglo xix , sin embargo, el Estado estableció una legislación que perviviría en el tiempo y fue ampliamente respetada. De ese modo, el Estado mostró una cierta autonomía respecto a intereses sociales muy arraigados y materializó medidas que tenían un impacto sobre la mejora sanitaria de la población KEY Classification-JEL: N33. N43. N53.
N53|Ampliación del regadío, regulación institucional y sostenibilidad en las huertas tradicionales de la España mediterránea|LA lo largo de siglos fue frecuente que en las huertas de la España mediterránea administradas por comunidades de regantes se produjera algo aparentemente irracional: pese a que el riego era básico para intensificar la producción agraria, a primera vista muchas huertas tenían un tamaño menor del que el agua disponible les habría permitido tener. El objetivo del artículo es desentrañar la lógica que explica esa situación. Se muestra que poner obstáculos al crecimiento del área regada era un mecanismo de defensa contra la gran irregularidad de los ríos, al tiempo que se analiza por qué esos obstáculos no siempre fueron capaces de impedir que las huertas se expandieran, en ocasiones de manera excesiva. KEY Classification-JEL: N53. N54. O43. Q25.
N53|Alimentació i nutrició al Vallès Occidental. Un segle i mig de canvis i permanències: 1787-1936|En aquest treball s’analitzen els canvis que es produeixen en la dieta de la població de la comarca catalana del Vallès Occidental entre finals del segle XVIII i 1936, un període marcat per les grans transformacions econòmiques i socials que experimenta aquesta comarca amb el procés d’industrialització, d’urbanització, l’intens creixement demogràfic i la transformació de la seva agricultura. El resultat serà una millora i canvis importants en la composició de la dieta, que es poden emmarcar en el context de l’anomenada transició nutricional, i que acaben repercutint a llarg termini en un augment dels nivells de vida i de benestar de la població.
N53|Land use changes, landscape ecology and their socioeconomic driving forces in the Spanish Mediterranean coast (the Maresme County, 1850-2005)|We use a set of landscape metrics to study the long-term environmental transformation of a typical coastal Mediterranean area from 1850 to 2005. Our figures show a dramatic environmental deterioration between 1950 and 2005. The main proximate drivers of this landscape degradation are the effects of urban sprawl on former agricultural areas located in the coastal plains, together with the abandonment and reforestation of hilly slopes intercepted by low-density residential areas, highways, and other linear infrastructures. We carry out a statistical redundancy analysis (RDA) to identify certain ultimate socioeconomic and political drivers of these environmental impacts. The results confirm our interpretive hypothesis that: 1) land cover changes determine changes in landscape properties, both structural and functional; 2) these changes are not at random, but related to geographical endowments and socioeconomic or political drivers.
N53|Choices and Constraints in the Pre-Industrial Countryside|This paper explores a key implication of Richard Smith's work on agrarian societies: the need to be attentive both to rural people's decisions as economic agents and to the constraints on their choices. It begins by examining evidence of goal-maximizing behaviour by rural people â€“ not just peasant farmers but women, servants, serfs, landless workers, youths, and many others â€“ in a diversity of pre-industrial societies. It then analyses some central constraints within which rural people made their choices: family and inheritance systems, village communities, manorial systems, legal rules and customs, and the actions of rulers. It concludes by discussing the implications of these findings for understanding the functioning of rural economies, now widely recognized as central to long-term improvements in economic growth and human well-being.
N53|Provincial grain yields in Spain, 1750-2009|This paper estimates the yields for five grains in 33 provinces of Spain in the mid-18th century. The results show that yields were higher in the north of the country, and that the most fertile provinces of Spain were not far behind the most advanced agricultural regions of the world. Average wheat yields in Spain remained stagnant between 1750 and the late 19th century when they doubled, only to remain stagnant again until the modernisation of the primary sector in the 1960s. Our results show that, in the very long run, yields between provinces tended to converge, and this was the case until the 1960s when the traditional differences in provincial yields began to disappear. The use of artificial fertilisers or new wheat strains were key improvements that helped low yield provinces to break with severe natural constraints such as lack of rainfall or low-quality soils.
N53|Explaining wheat yields in eighteenth-century Spain|From an extensive dataset of wheat yields at municipal level in mid eighteenth-century Spain, a detailed statistical analysis indicates that the differences in wheat yields were mainly a consequence of different natural conditions, and that demand did not have a significant influence. Counterfactual exercises show that improvements in rainfall, altitude or roughness of terrain would have a significant impact on average yields. The paper concludes that, although grain markets in the mid-eighteenth century were well integrated, producers addressed the growing demand not by investing in increasing yields, but by extending the area of cultivated land using the still abundant pastures. The low grain yields in Spain were in part a consequence of the rational behaviour of producers who faced an economic environment characterized by an elastic supply of land
N53|Law and Peace: Contracts and the Success of the Danish Dairy Cooperatives|We consider the successful early emergence of cooperative creameries in Denmark in the late nineteenth century within the framework of the “new institutional economics” presented by Oliver Williamson. Previous work focused on the social cohesion of the Danes, but we demonstrate that this was not sufficient for their success. The Danish legal system, which we compare to that of other countries, was also of crucial importance, along with the way in which rules were monitored and enforced. Of particular interest is the Danish cooperatives’ use of contracts, which we explore with evidence from a variety of primary and secondary sources.
N53|Agricultural Productivity Across Prussia During the Industrial Revolution: A Thünen Perspective|This article explores the pattern of land rents and agricultural productivity across nineteenth-century Prussia to gain new insights on the causes of the “Little Divergence” between European regions. We argue that agriculture reacted to urban and industrial development rather than shaping it. In the spirit of Johann von Thünen and Ernst Engel, we develop a theoretical model to test how access to urban demand affected agricultural development. We show that the effect of urban demand is causal and that it is in line with recent findings on a limited degree of interregional market integration in nineteenth-century Prussia.
N53|The Role Of Women In The Early Years Of The Canning Industry In Spain|Women have played an important role in fishing communities all over the developed world and they also play an important role in developing economies. Our analysis focuses on this role. The purpose of this article is to look at the role of women in the Spanish fish canning industry. To do so, our analysis focuses on Spain's primary fishing and canning region: the Ría de Vigo, a large estuary in Galicia (the north-western part of Spain). Our analysis is also limited to the historical period of its consolidation, in the late 19th century and the first decade of the 20th century. The development of a new female labour force in the first decade of the 20th century is one of our most significant conclusions.
N53|Not only subterranean forests: Wood consumption and economic development in Britain (1850–1938)|This paper analyzes wood consumption in Britain over the period 1850–1938. We calculate the apparent consumption of wood, taking into account both net imports of wood and the home harvest. We then develop some quantitative exercises that correlate wood consumption with GDP, with prices of wood and iron (as an alternative material to wood) and with other measures. The main conclusion is that, although wood had lost its economic centrality after the energy transition, wood consumption continued to grow in Britain both in absolute and relative terms, showing a positive elasticity to GDP superior to the unit. This result allows us to reach a more complete understanding of the socio-metabolic transition associated with the Industrial Revolution. Britain faced the increase in wood demand by relying almost entirely on imported wood, reinforcing the idea that the decoupling of economic growth from land use must to be handled with care, and should be observed not at the national level but on a global scale. Although British economic development was to a great extent focussed on what has been called the “subterranean forests” of coal, it simultaneously supported large tracts of surface foreign forest.
N53|Breaking with natural constraints: provincial grain yields in Spain 1750-2009|"""This paper estimates the yields for five grains in 33 provinces of Spain in the mid eighteenth century. The results show that yields were higher in the north of the country, and that the most fertile provinces of Spain were not far behind the most advanced agricultural regions of the world. Average wheat yields in Spain remained stagnant between 1750 and the late nineteenth century when they doubled just to remain stagnant again until the modernization of the primary sector in the 1960s. Our results show that in the very long run yields between provinces tended to convergence, and that it was from the 1960s when the traditional differences in provincial yields began to disappear. The use of artificial fertilizers or new wheat strains were key improvements that helped low yield provinces to break with severe natural constrains such as the lack of rainfall or low quality soils."""
N53|Peasant Agriculture and Economic Growth: The Case of Southeast Europe c. 1870-1940 reinterpreted|Still in recent research a low productive peasant economy and traditional peasant society are often made responsible for Southeast Europe's economic backwardness prior to 1945. However, the radical change of paradigm after 1960 in the view of peasants as agents of economic growth and of their ability to adjust to markets has surprisingly never been realized in economic history research on the Balkan-states (Romania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Greece). Interpreting agricultural development as a mainly demand-driven process this paper argues that the potential for agricultural growth was much more restricted in Southeast than in Northwest Europe but Balkan peasants seem to have exploited their growth potential as far as possible. There is a lot of evidence that the reasons for sluggish growth before 1940 were definitely not rooted in any 'peasant traditionalism' as often claimed by Balkan elites and many scholars.
N53|Forecast based Pricing of Weather Derivatives|Forecasting based pricing of Weather Derivatives (WDs) is a new approach in valuation of contingent claims on nontradable underlyings. Standard techniques are based on historical weather data. Forward-looking information such as meteorological forecasts or the implied market price of risk (MPR) are often not incorporated. We adopt a risk neutral approach (for each location) that allows the incorporation of meteorological forecasts in the framework of WD pricing. We study weather Risk Premiums (RPs) implied from either the information MPR gain or the meteorological forecasts. The size of RPs is interesting for investors and issuers of weather contracts to take advantages of geographic diversification, hedging effects and price determinations. By conducting an empirical analysis to London and Rome WD data traded at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), we find out that either incorporating the MPR or the forecast outperforms the standard pricing techniques.
N53|Statistical Modelling of Temperature Risk|Recently the topic of global warming has become very popular. The literature has concentrated its attention on the evidence of such eect, either by detecting regime shifts or change points in time series. The majority of these methods are designed to nd shifts in mean, but only few can do this for the variance. In this paper we attempt to investigate the statistical evidence of global warming by identi- fying shifts in seasonal mean of daily average temperatures over time and in seasonal variance of temperature residuals. We present a time series approach for modelling temperature dynamics. A seasonal mean Lasso-type technique based with a multi- plicative structure of Fourier and GARCH terms in volatility is proposed. The model describes well the stylised facts of temperature: seasonality, intertemporal correla- tions and the heteroscedastic behaviour of residuals. The application to European temperature data indicates that the multiplicative model for the seasonal variance performs better in terms of out of sample forecast than other models proposed in the literature for modelling temperature dynamics. We study the dynamics of the seasonal variance by implementing quantile and expectile functions with condence corridor to detrended and deseasonalized residuals. We show that shifts in seasonal mean and variance vary from location to location, indicating that all sources of trends other than mean and variance would rise trends over spatial scales. The local eects of temperature risk support the existence of global warming.
N53|Persecution Perpetuated: The Medieval Origins of Anti-Semitic Violence in Nazi Germany| How persistent are cultural traits? Using data on anti-Semitism in Germany, we find local continuity over 600 years. Jews were often blamed when the Black Death killed at least a third of Europe's population during 1348--50. We use plague-era pogroms as an indicator for medieval anti-Semitism. They reliably predict violence against Jews in the 1920s, votes for the Nazi Party, deportations after 1933, attacks on synagogues, and letters to Der Stürmer. We also identify areas where persistence was lower: cities with high levels of trade or immigration. Finally, we show that our results are not driven by political extremism or by different attitudes toward violence. JEL Codes: N33, N34, N93, N94, D74. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.
N53|The Expansion and Decline of a Transhumance System in Sweden, 1550-1920|The paper analyses a Swedish transhumance system organised around summer farms (fäbodar), in the context of the agrarian economy in northern Sweden between the sixteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth century. The aim is to understand the impact of this alpine transhumance system in the agricultural economy and its role in the development of agriculture. The paper deals with economic aspects of summer farms, with the emphasis on production and organisation. To understand this specific agricultural system, theories about agricultural systems, the organisation of human collaboration, material culture and division of labour are used. Theories about the management of common-pool resources (CPR’s) are central to the analysis. The establishment of summer pastures enabled the expansion of stockbreeding and was connected to secondary occupations, and was, therefore, a prerequisite for the division of property among household members. The leap in agricultural development in Northern Sweden would not have been possible without the female workforce on the summer pastureland. The advantage of the agricultural system in the north of Sweden was lost when livestock grazing and fodder collection moved to the fields during the second half of the twentieth century.
N53|Las consecuencias demográficas de la crisis filoxérica en la región vitícola del Penedès (Cataluña)|The dynamic expansion experienced by the Catalan viticulture in the nineteenth century was interrupted in the last years of the century by the arrival of phylloxera. This plague, coming from the American continent, ended the population growth had known these regions parallel with the expansion of the vineyard. The main objective of this article is to show some results on the most important consequences of phylloxera in the town of wine-growing areas in Catalonia: Penedes. On the one hand, using the data provided by the modern Civil Registration of a sample of 25 municipalities, our goal is to show the changes at this juncture of the wine crises occurred regarding the birth rate. On the other hand we analyze migratory processes that caused the crisis. For this, among other documents, we use census years 1897 and 1900, since in some cities and towns in the Penedes area, in these surveys the names of people who had left their population registration were recorded, and they reported the destination. This is a very good source of information for an approach to the management of migratory flows caused by the crisis in the Penedes.
N53|«Cuántos siglos de aceituna». El carácter de la expansión olivarera en el sur de España (1750-1900)|Andalusian olive plantations currently represent the greatest concentration of trees in Europe. Large-scale expansion began in the 19th century thanks to liberal agrarian reforms and is traditionally associated with agrarian modernisation in the Mediterranean basin, due to its increasing integration into domestic and foreign markets. In this paper, new methods derived from environmental and social history will be introduced to review the causes and origins of this expansion. The use of local case studies from 1750 (when olive plantations were scarce) to 1930 (the end of the ‘golden age’, or first great expansion period) will make it possible to examine the issues in greater depth and detail than an aggregate study. Main findings include the causes of weak specialisation prior to the 19th century; the multifunctionality of traditional olive production; how expansion was also determined by the ecological particularities of this crop and its use as a substitute for scarce products such as firewood or animal feed; and how expansion was driven by small-scale farming as a productive strategy for the peasantry.
N53|El carácter de la especialización olivarera en el sur de España (1750-1930). Ecología, campesinado e historia|Olive tree represents today the major tree concentration in Europe. Its great expansion started at 19th Century caused by liberal agrarian reforms and, traditionally, has been associated with agrarian modernization in Mediterranean basin due to the growing integration of its production in domestic and foreign markets. This paper seeks to review the causes and the origins its expansion introducing new methods derived form environmental history and social history. We study local case studies which historical sources allow us to profound in this subject with more detail than at aggregate scale, starting at 1750 (when olive land was scarce) and finishing at 1930 (once consummated the firs great expansion known as “golden age”). The main findings show the causes of the weak specialization before 19th Century; the multifunctional character of traditional olive production; how its expansion was also determined by ecological particularities of this crop and by its function on substitute deficit products like woodfire or animal feed; and, finally, how small farming was behind its expansion using olive orchards like a peasant productive strategy.
N53|Land Markets and Inequality: Evidence from Medieval England|The 13th century witnessed a substantial increase in inequality in the distribution of peasant landholdings relative to the distribution of the late 11th century. Innovations in property rights over land in 12th century England induced peasants to include the trading of small parcels of land as part of their risk coping strategy. We argue that these events are related. Recent theoretical work in development economics has explored the relationship between inequality and asset markets. When agents are able to trade productive assets to manage risk, the resulting dynamics may generate increasing inequality over time. We employ a simulation strategy to analyze the impact of land markets in generating inequality in 13th century landholdings. We find that the dominant factor contributing to the unequal distribution of land was the interaction between emerging land markets and population growth driven by high fertility rates in households with large landholdings.
N53|Structural Change Out of Agriculture: Labor Push versus Labor Pull|"A declining agricultural employment share is a key feature of economic development. Its main drivers are: improvements in agricultural technology combined with Engel's law release resources from agriculture (""labor push""), and improvements in industrial technology attract labor out of agriculture (""labor pull""). We present a model with both channels and evaluate the importance using data on 12 industrialized countries since the nineteenth century. Results suggest that the ""pull"" channel dominated until 1920 and the ""push"" channel dominated after 1960. The ""pull"" channel mattered more in countries in early stages of the structural transformation. This contrasts with modeling choices in recent literature. (JEL E23, N10, N53, O10, O47)."
N53|La población y el producto cerealista en Guadalajara en la edad moderna|The aim of this paper is twofold. First, it quantifies and analyzes the demographic evolution of the province of Guadalajara during the Early Modern Age and the first decades of the Modern Age. Second, it estimates the cereal production in two specific areas, La Campiña and La Sierra, between the end of the 16th century and the second half of the 18th century. The main primary sources used here are the baptisms registers of 47 towns and villages, several population censuses, and the tithes of the archpriesthood of Sigüenza and five archpriesthoods that belonged to the archbishopric of Toledo. It is concluded that: a) from the end of the 16th century onwards, population stagnation characterized the Guadalajara region; b) we find sharp contrasts between the different demographic path followed by the province areas under consideration; c) apart from the first half of the 17th century, when its fall was higher, the cereal production followed the same trend than population; and d) after 1650 the per capita cereal production began to recover, although in La Campiña the explanation lays on its slow growth in population. (Main text in Spanish)
N53|Geografía de la cera en España y Francia, 1750-1850|The aim of traditional beekeeping was to produce wax, an expensive raw material used at church ceremonies and for the lighting of upper-class houses. Between 1750 and 1850, the Atlantic Landes and the Mediterranean mountains of France and Spain were unable to satisfy a growing demand, and both countries had to import wax from Northern Europe and the Middle East. Thus a commercial axis of short, middle and long distance connected the producing areas to the centres of wax whitening, candle making and distribution, such as was the case of the French town of Limoges. KEY Classification-JEL: N53
N53|Modernización en el sector industrial arrocero en Michoacán, México. Legado empresarial italiano de inicios del siglo XX|The aim of this work is to revise the contribution made in the field of improvement on agro-industrial methods in rice-refining crops which was carried out by a group of Italian immigrants, the Cusi family, who arrived at the so called Tierra Caliente of Michoacán (central west of Mexico) at the end of 19th century. This contribution was most marked in the context of the modernization project of Porfirio Diaz's government (1877-1911). In order to underline this contribution, reference has been made to the striking growth observed in production levels of rice crops and the methods used to refine them before and after the arrival of these agricultural entrepreneurs. Henceforth, rice-refining was transformed from being an isolated working activity carried out by hand into another one which had the definite character of an agro-industry, due to its labour organization, the kind of energy sources it used, and above all, the systematic character of its processes. KEY Classification-JEL: N53
N53|Was land reform necessary? : access to land in Spain, 1860 to 1931|In Spain, land reform involving the break-up of large southern estates was a central issue during the first decades of the twentieth century. It was justified on the grounds of economic efficiency, social equity and the distribution of political power. This paper uses new provincial data on landless workers, land prices and agrarian wages to consider if government intervention was desirable because land redistribution did not take place. Our evidence shows that the relative amount of landless workers decreased largely from 1890 to 1930. This was due to two interrelated market forces: structural change that drained rural population and a decrease in the ratio between land prices and rural wages, which made land cheaper for landless workers. So, given that rural markets did not restrict access to land, the government-initiated land redistribution had no clear-cut justification.
N53|The political economy of agricultural protection: Sweden 1887|We analyse the Swedish general elections that took place in spring and autumn 1887. Our aim is to discover which groups of voters supported free trade and which protectionism. We find that while capital owners and wage earners consistently favoured free trade, in the spring election only the largest farmers supported protectionism. By autumn, political preferences among smallholders and middling farmers had shifted in favour of protectionism too. As these groups were not specialised in the production of import-competing goods, we assume that the political landslide in the autumn elections can be attributed to a loss of trust in the government.
N53|Income inequality in central Spain, 1690-1800|This paper studies the evolution of income inequality in central Spain during the late seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, taking as case study the province of Guadalajara. The first part of the paper presents the sources and the dataset that was created to estimate income inequality using grain tithes. The second section shows that through the period grain represented the lion share of total income and therefore that it can be used as a reliable proxy. The following part of the paper introduces an analysis of income inequality in the province during the period 1690-1800 and concludes that inequality decreased during the last third of the eighteenth century. Finally the paper addresses this unexpected result and concludes that it was consequence of the success of the land reform carried out by the central government in the late 1760s. The reform was a success in Guadalajara, thanks to the characteristics of its population and the lack of bargaining power of pressure groups.
N53|The Stolypin agrarian reform and peasant migration|"""Liquidity constraints influence the migration decision, but their importance is difficult to test. The Stolypin agrarian reform in Russia provides a unique natural experiment that exogenously varies liquidity constraints. The reform gives the peasant the right to withdraw from the commune and to sell one's share of land. Peasant households could then take this opportunity to migrate. Since the reform did not affect all communes, we can employ difference-in-differences analysis on a panel of regional migration data from 1901-1914. Our results show that the relaxing of liquidity constraints explains at least 15% of all migration during this period."""
N53|Market power inside the Belgian coal industry, 1901-45: a new empirical industrial organisation approach|"""We analyse the impact of economic cycle on firms ability to sustain a collusive behaviour inside the Belgian coal industry during the first half of the twentieth century. In order to define precisely the economic conjuncture, we consider the level of the demand (high/low) as well as its evolutions (downward/upward) so that we define four different states. Econometric results highlight the fact that prices are high during the first part of the economic cycle (i.e. demand is increasing). When demand approaches its peak, collusive firms must reduce their price in order to reduce the incentive to cheat on collusive agreements. In the downward part of the economic cycle, the collusive price must be reduced further in order to preserve collusive agreements."""
N53|Economic Growth and Clean Water in the Göta River - A Pilot Study of Collective Action and the Environmental Kuznets Curve 1895-2000|Because of a growing population and industrialization, total pollution levels in many water-courses around the world have increased considerably for hundreds, if not thousands, of years. In the last few decades, however, the trend of increasing water pollution has been turned in many industrialized countries, delinking economic growth from environmental pollution. This is in essence one aspect of what many environmental economists call an ‘environmental Kuznets curve’. The research question of this project is why there is such a pattern to water quality in many countries? Much previous literature on the topic studies only the positive impact of environmental legislation. This study, focusing upon the case of the river Göta in Sweden, undertakes a more thorough analysis, including other crucial factors as well such as industrial transformation and decline, as well as stakeholder associations. The project utilizes a very long series of data on the water quality in the river Göta, covering more than 100 years of data for crucial indicators, in order to establish what factors were contributing to reducing levels of pollution. Analyzing the driving factors of this ‘Environmental Kuznets Curve’ can give us crucial insights into how a sustainable development might be achieved in the future.
N53|Localizing Temperature Risk| On the temperature derivative market, modeling temperature volatility is an important issue for pricing and hedging. To apply the pricing tools of financial mathematics, one needs to isolate a Gaussian risk factor. A conventional model for temperature dynamics is a stochastic model with seasonality and intertemporal autocorrelation. Empirical work based on seasonality and autocorrelation correction reveals that the obtained residuals are heteroscedastic with a periodic pattern. The object of this research is to estimate this heteroscedastic function so that, after scale normalization, a pure standardized Gaussian variable appears. Earlier works investigated temperature risk in different locations and showed that neither parametric component functions nor a local linear smoother with constant smoothing parameter are flexible enough to generally describe the variance process well. Therefore, we consider a local adaptive modeling approach to find, at each time point, an optimal smoothing parameter to locally estimate the seasonality and volatility. Our approach provides a more flexible and accurate fitting procedure for localized temperature risk by achieving nearly normal risk factors. We also employ our model to forecast the temperaturein different cities and compare it to a model developed in 2005 by Campbell and Diebold. Supplementary materials for this article are available online.
N53|The evolution of environmental thinking in economics|This paper discusses the development of environmental economics from the Industrial Revolution in Europe to today. Specifically, it comments on the general similarities and differences between the representatives of the schools of economic thought concerning the environment. Among others, the issues of scarcity of natural resources, of population growth as well as the limits to growth are discussed and the various views are presented. The paper also comments on the trends of environmental, evolutionary and ecological economics.
N53|"Population Dynamics, Malthusian Crises and Boserupian Innovation in Pre-Industrial Societies: The Case Study of Northern Italy (ca. 1450-1800) in the Light of Lee’s ""Dynamic Synthesis"""|This article makes use of Lee’s ‘dynamic synthesis’, which aims to combine the views of Malthus and Boserup, to provide a new interpretation of population dynamics in Northern Italy from about 1450 to 1800. The article analyzes Lee’s theory and suggests that, even if it is difficult to test, it is useful both from the point of view of population theory and from that of interpretation of historical cases. Applying it to the Italian case, the article provides a new interpretation of the path that finally led the Italian population to escape long-term limits to demographic growth.
