N54|The fundamental causes of economic growth: a comparative analysis of the total factor productivity growth of European agriculture, 1950-2005|In recent decades, the debate on economic growth has largely focused the role-played by institutions, geography, trade, and culture. In line with this concern, this study analyses the underlying causes of agricultural productivity growth in Europe in the second half of the twentieth century. To achieve this objective, a calculation of the Total Factor Productivity growth in European agriculture is made and an econometric model is proposed to determine the importance of these fundamental causes. Our study highlights that inclusive institutions, policies to support agriculture that do not discourage innovation, qualified human capital and a full openness to international trade are key factors for favouring growth of productivity in agriculture.
N54|Reconsidering the Role of Farmer Politics in Swedish Democratization|In discussions of Scandinavian democratization, it is commonplace to argue that long-standing farmer representation in parliament and a lack of feudalism encouraged a democratic-participatory civic culture within the peasant farmer class – or perhaps in the population as a whole. The present essay questions this interpretation in the Swedish case. It centers on a re-interpretation of farmer politics at the national level from a two-chamber system of representation after the 1866-67 reform to the alliance between the farmers’ party and Social Democracy in 1933 and offers a new analytical account of the way that one class’s attitude to democratic inclusion can change over time, owing to changed political and economic relationships to other classes. I show that Swedish farmers did not organize themselves independently of nobles and land-owners until the 1920s, and that they did not play the role of an independent pro-democratic force. On the contrary, the broad-based organizations of farmers in the 1920s and 1930s, with their democratic, participatory culture, appear to have been heavily influenced by the political culture of liberals and the labor movement, which in democratic society opened the door to a re-shaping of Swedish farmer politics that abandoned the old (subservient) alliance with estate owners. It was not democratic farmers who gave rise to Social Democracy – rather, it was Social Democracy that caused farmers to become democratic. Understanding farmer politics correctly also opens up a new understanding of the determinants of Swedish democratization.
N54|Agriculture productivity gains and their distribution for the main EU members|This article seeks to highlight the performance of the farm sector in the main EU countries. Based on the productivity surplus account method (PSAM), our performance analysis includes all elements of the profit and loss account, which is one of the limits of the traditional index number approach. Moreover, this method also shows the way in which productivity gains observed in each country have been distributed among the main stakeholders. A specific focus is on the state’s as well as the farmers’ roles in this distribution game.
N54|Why the first cooperative wineries produced poor quality wine, why they were so scarce and why they were set up: evidence from Spain|Since the 1950s a substantial part of all European wine has come from cooperative wineries, which since their appearance around the year 1900 have mostly produced cheap, poor quality wine. This paper discusses whether this has been a consequence of their inability to solve a collective action problem. After showing that this is not so, it examines why cooperatives concentrated on the production of bad wine and studies why their market share was small before the 1950s. Lastly, it uses data from Spain to analyse the factors determining the creation of cooperative wineries in the early twentieth century.
N54|The slow road from serfdom : Labor coercion and long-run development in the former Russian Empire|This paper examines the long-run economic consequences of Russian serfdom. Employing data on the intensity of labor coercion at the district level in just prior to emancipation in 1861, we document that a greater legacy of serfdom is associated with lower economic well-being today. Our estimates imply that increasing historical serfdom by 25 percentage points reduces household expenditure today by up to 17%. The analysis of different types of labor coercion reveals substantial heterogeneity in the long-run effects of serfdom. Furthermore, we document persistence of economic development measured by city populations over the period 1800 - 2002 in cross-sectional regressions and panel estimations. Exploring mechanisms, our results suggest that the effect of serfdom on urbanization in Imperial Russia was perpetuated in the Soviet period, with negative implications for structural change, the spatial distribution and productivity of firms, and human capital investment.
N54|European goods market integration in the very long run: from the Black Death to the First World War|The paper examines price convergence and increases in the efficiency of wheat markets across Europe from the mid-fourteenth to the early twentieth century. The analysis is based on a new data set of prices from more than 500 markets. Unlike previous research, we find that convergence was a predominantly pre-modern phenomenon. It started in the late fifteenth and reached a first high point in the early seventeenth century - a level of integration that was surpassed only in the nineteenth century. In terms of market integration, the ‘little divergence’ between parts of North-Western Europe and the rest of the continent appears since about 1600. Long-term improvements in market efficiency began in the early sixteenth century, with advances being temporarily as uneven as in price convergence. We trace this to uneven institutional change and the non-synchronous spread of modern media and systems of information transmission that affected the ability of merchants to react to news.
N54|How to become a leader in an emerging new global market: The determinants of French wine exports, 1848-1938|When studying the emergence of new global markets it is essential to consider how countries and companies compete to obtain advantageous positions. Our objective is to study how France obtained an initial leadership position in the new global wine market which it subsequently consolidated. We will also analyse the main determinants of its exporting success. In order to do this we have quantified its exports and examined its evolution and its principal export markets. We have also used a gravity model for both ordinary wine and high quality wine in order to establish the key variables that explain this evolution. The article highlights the great efforts made by the exporters to improve the quality of their products and increase their sales using modern marketing techniques. Our econometric results also show some significant differences between the determinants of exports for the two types of wine. However, the exports of both products suffered the strong impact of a series of major events, such as The First World War, the Russian Revolution, the Prohibition in the United States and the Great Depression. The case of wine shows that the collapse of the first globalisation was not the same for all types of product.
N54|On the economics of forced labour. Did the employment of Prisoners-of-War depress German coal mining productivity in World War I?|The scholarly discourse about twentieth century forced labour has raised important questions. For example, how profitable and productive has the employment of forced labour been in different political and economic contexts? The dominant take-away from the literature is that forced labour comes with negative productivity, but positive production effects. Yet much evidence on productivity is anecdotal. To add a new quantitative take on this issue, this paper analyses the natural experiment conducted in World War I Ruhr coal mining, where, beginning with 1915, Prisoner-of-War (POW) labour was successively employed in many, but not all mines. The question to be answered is whether mines employing POW labour incurred significant labour productivity losses compared to non-POW employing mines that cannot be explained otherwise. To this end, we borrow from the treatment effects literature and implement two estimators – a baseline difference-in-difference fixed effects estimator and a doubly robust treatment effects estimator. Our study is the first to assess the productivity effects of POW employment using a full population of establishments of a particular industry. Our findings strongly support the view that the benefits from employing POW labour – i.e., the output-effect – came at the expense of a significant loss in productivity.
N54|Without coal in the age of steam and dams in the age of electricity: An explanation for the failure of Portugal to industrialize before the Second World War|We provide a natural resource explanation for the divergence of the Portuguese economy relative to other European countries before the Second World War, based on a considerable body of contemporary sources. First, we demonstrate that a lack of domestic resources meant that Portugal experienced limited and unbalanced growth during the age of steam. Imports of coal were prohibitively expensive for inland areas, which failed to industrialize. Coastal areas developed through steam, but were constrained by limited demand from the interior. Second, we show that after the First World War, when other coal-poor countries turned to hydro-power, Portugal relied on coal-based thermal-power, creating a vicious circle of high energy prices and labor-intensive industrialization. We argue that this was the result of (i) water resources which were relatively expensive to exploit; and (ii) path-dependency, whereby the failure to develop earlier meant that there was a lack of capital and demand from industry.
N54|Why cooperative wineries produced poor quality wine and why they were set up: Evidence from Spain (1895-1935)|Since the 1950s a substantial part of all European wine has come from cooperative wineries, which since their appearance around the year 1900 have mostly produced cheap, poor quality wine. This paper discusses whether this has been a consequence of their inability to solve a collective action problem. After showing that this is not so, it examines why cooperatives concentrated on the production of bad wine and studies why their market share was small before the 1950s. Lastly, it uses data from Spain to analyse the factors determining the creation of cooperative wineries in the early twentieth century.
N54|Agricultural Policy and Long-Run Development: Evidence from Mussolini’s Battle for Grain|This paper explores the effect of agricultural policies on industrialization and economic development over the long run. I analyze the differential effect of the Battle for Grain, implemented by the Italian Fascist regime to achieve self-sufficiency in wheat production, on the development path across areas of Italy. Employing time variation, along with cross-sectional variation in the suitability of land for implementing the advanced wheat production technologies, I find that the policy had unintended positive effects on industrialization and economic prosperity which have persisted until the present day. Furthermore, I find that the positive effect of the Battle for Grain on human capital accumulation was instrumental in this process, suggesting that the complementarity between human capital and agricultural technology may be a critical mechanism through which agricultural productivity may enhance the development of non-agricultural sectors.
N54|Актуальное Состояние И Проблемы Сельского Хозяйства Сербии<BR>[Actual Status and Problems of Serbian Agriculture]|Russian. В статье представлен дескриптивный анализ актуального общего состояния сельского хозяйства в Республике Сербия. Здесь собраны и представлены данные о региональном статистическом подразделении на территории Республики Сербия, данные о посевных площадях, земле и типах плодородных почв. В основной части статьи приводятся данные о сельскохозяйственном производстве, а особая часть о выращивании технических культур. Представлен также и критический обзор ситуации в сербском сельском хозяйстве с сопоставительными данными предыдущих периодов. В заключении представлены актуальные проблемы сельского хозяйства Сербии. English. The paper presents the descriptive statistics of the actual general status of Serbian agriculture. Here were collected the data about regional distribution on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then data on cultivated areas and the types of the soils for farm production. In the paper core the data about agriculture production are demonstrated, especially on technical crops. It is also shown the critique view on Serbian agriculture with comparative previous data. At the end it was introduced the actual problems of Serbian agriculture.
N54|Agricultural policy and long-run development: evidence from Mussolini's Battle for Grain|This paper explores the effect of agricultural policies on industrialization and economic development over the long-run. I analyze the differential effect of the \textit{Battle for Grain}, implemented by the Italian Fascist regime to achieve self-sufficiency in wheat production, on the development path across areas of Italy. Employing time variation, along with cross-sectional variation in the suitability of land for the implementation of the advanced wheat production technologies, I find that the policy had unintended positive effects on industrialization and economic prosperity which persisted until the contemporary period. Furthermore, I find that the positive effect of the \textit{Battle for Grain} on human capital accumulation was instrumental in this process, suggesting that the complementarity between human capital and agricultural technology may be a critical mechanism through which agricultural productivity may enhance the development of non-agricultural sectors.
N54|Labor Misallocation and Mass Mobilization: Russian Agriculture during the Great War|We exploit a quasi-natural experiment of military draftees in Russia during World War I to examine the effects of a massive, negative labor shock on agricultural production. Employing a novel district-level panel data set, we find that mass mobilization produces a dramatic decrease in cultivated area. Surprisingly, farms with communal land tenure exhibit greater resilience to the labor shock than private farms. The resilience stems from peasants reallocating labor in favor of the commune because of the increased attractiveness of its nonmarket access to land and social insurance. Our results support an institutional explanation of factor misallocation in agriculture.
N54|The fruit of inequality: wine, efficiency, agrarian contracts and property rights in Catalonia (1898-1935)|With the aim of drawing lessons that can act as a reference for reforms in today’s developing countries, economic historians are showing a renewed interest in the European experiences of agrarian reform. But in some developing countries property rights over the land show‘oddities’ with respect to the ‘Western canon’. Drawing on the case of Catalonia, this paper maintains that, if their work is to be useful, historians should be sensitive to the fact that in Europe – including the United Kingdom – oddities were not rare either. In Catalan vineyards, sharecropping contracts that granted the sharecropper ownership rights over the land were in widespread usage. Around 1900, sharecroppers’ rights became insecure, which led to several dysfunctions that the paper analyses.
N54|Economic Crises and the Eligibility for the Lender of Last Resort: Evidence from Nineteenth Century France|This paper shows that a central bank can more efficiently mitigate economic crises when it broadens eligibility for its discount facility to any safe asset or solvent agent. We use difference-in-differences panel regressions and emulate crises by studying how defaults of banks and non-agricultural firms were affected by the arrival of an agricultural disease. We exploit the specificities of the implementation of the discount window to deal with the endogeneity of the access to the central bank to the arrival of the crisis and local default rates. We find that broad eligibility reduced significantly the increase in the default rate when the shock hit the local economy. A counterfactual exercise shows that defaults would have been 10% to 15% higher if the central bank would have implemented the strictest eligibility rule. This effect is identified independently of changes in policy interest rates and the fiscal deficit.
N54|Capacidad del estado, democracia y política en la Segunda República (1931-1936) : el fracaso de la reforma agraria en España|El fracaso de los gobiernos republicanos para llevar a cabo una amplia reforma agraria redistributiva ha recibido diferentes explicaciones tales como la sistemática oposición de los terratenientes, la escasa voluntad política del gobierno de Azaña de 1931-33, o las restricciones presupuestarias. Sin embargo, la reforma agraria republicana se enfrentó a otros problemas de muy distinta naturaleza. Por una parte, el hecho de no haber participado en la Primera Guerra Mundial explica que, ni el estado se viera obligado a incrementar su capacidad de intervención en la economía, ni las élites terratenientes experimentaran una disminución de su poder económico como en el resto de los países participantes. Por otro, es el enorme desafío que supone para un estado modificar completamente la organización agrícola de una parte considerable del país, y la falta de tierras suficientes para redistribuir sin debilitar los derechos previos de otros cultivadores. Finalmente, el caso español pone de relieve la dificultad de acometer una reforma agraria en un sistema democrático.
N54|El microcrédito antes de las cooperativas. Pósitos y crédito público agrario en España en vísperas de la Gran Guerra|Los pósitos rurales eran instituciones de crédito gestionadas por los propios municipios que ofrecían préstamos a corto plazo (la duración de una cosecha) a sus miembros a un interés inferior al que ofrecían los prestamistas privados. Como en el caso de otros bienes públicos su éxito dependía crucialmente de la gestión realizada, dado que el volumen de capital prestable dependía esencialmente de la capacidad para recuperar los granos o el dinero distribuidos el año anterior. Aunque gestionados por la autoridad municipal, los 3.500 pósitos (en 1900) estaban regulados por una agencia gubernamental que no tuvo éxito en convertirlos en una red pública de crédito agrario. Cuatro son los objetivos de este trabajo: primero, destacar la insólita pervivencia y buen funcionamiento de miles de pósitos antes de la Gran Guerra en contraste con el diagnóstico pesimista del gobierno; segundo, mostrar que los pósitos eran instituciones de acción colectiva no muy diferentes a otros bienes comunales; tercero, que el diseño de los pósitos no era muy diferente al de otras instituciones de microcrédito como las cooperativas existentes en este momento; por último, si bien los factores locales desempeñaron un papel importante en su supervivencia a largo plazo, la agricultura moderna exigió ya en el siglo XX instituciones de crédito que permitieran obtener fondos procedentes de áreas geográficas más amplias que la aldea. Con el fin de estudiar las diferencias municipales usamos las memorias de la Delegación Regia de Pósitos entre 1911 y 1913.
N54|The nature and response to the 1930s agrarian crisis : Spain in a European perspective|The impact of the Great Depression was less in Spain than in most other Western European countries, but government response to the problems was also more limited because of weak state capacity. As economic depression coincided with major changes in political opportunities and constrains created by the Second Republic, there were demands for radical changes in farm policy. Inappropriate policies (land reform) and contradictory goals (higher farm wages and lower food prices) weakened the popular support for the Republic, and quickly divided the Spanish countryside.
N54|Explaining the presence and absence of Spanish farm cooperatives before 1936: a political economy approach|Spanish farm cooperatives were limited in number and performed poorly before the Civil War. Rather than a lack of trust and social capital, this paper advances two alternative arguments. First, cooperatives often failed to offer the optimal level of scale to farmers for their day-to-day activities. In some case cooperatives were too large, which encouraged more informal forms of organization. When they were too small, greater scale could only be obtained by integrating cooperatives into federations. These required top-down support, which was provided in many European countries by landowners and the Church, as a result of competitive politics, that required them to build mass parties and organize small farmers politically. By contrast in Spain this was not forthcoming, as the Restoration political settlement (1876-1923) removed the need for party competition, and consequently left the needs of small farmers unattended. Only in Cataluña, and to a lesser extent Valencia, did regional party politics create these necessary conditions.
N54|Portugal’s wine globalization waves, 1750-2015|From 1750 to 2015 we may detect three waves of globalization of wines produced in Portugal, namely, port wine exports for the British market in the 18th century, common wines exports to France in the second half of the 19th century, and finally the growth of exports to European markets from the last decade of the 20th century up to the present times. This chapter explores the fundamentals of such waves looking at trends in output, productivity, domestic and foreign consumption, commercial agreements and economic policies. The first two waves came to halt as conditions in the foreign markets changed, because they did not have a solid domestic base of production and commercialization. The chapter argues that the third wave is of a different kind as it developed from a more solid domestic base of the wine sector that had developed for decades based on domestic consumption. Thus we may conclude that wine globalization is also about changing domestic economic conditions. The process was however long and painful, as the sector had a very irregular performance throughout the 20th century which is however related to the overall backwardness of the Portuguese economy in the European context.
N54|Bringing Institutions into Economics when Teaching Economics as a Minor Subject|Developments in economic policy since the 1980s have shown a general trend towards a single type of institutional arrangement, following short-term, immediately applicable efficiency criteria. This was supported through the teaching by putting particular weight on the corresponding analytical instruments. The thesis presented here observes a systematic bias in this. It does so by evaluating institutional trends in the various sectors of the economy, and by discussing institutional arrangements of selected areas in detail. Furthermore, it reviews contributions by representatives of New Institutional Economics for a more comprehensive approach. Based on this, institutions themselves are conceptualised as public or club goods. As such they are applied to the policy areas selected. It can thereby be shown that microeconomic theory can find an appropriate place in this extended economic approach, along with concepts like common-pool resource management. In conclusion, this thesis proposes giving considerably more space to institutions in economics curricula, to their evolution and implications for economic outcomes. Particularly for economics as a minor subject, more emphasis should be placed on institutional arrangements.
N54|Agricultural crisis in Spain (19th and 20th centuries)|Spanish agriculture over the last two centuries has been mostly analysed from the perspective of its evolution, on many occasions over the long term, and with respect to its contribution to Spain's economic development (or, on the contrary, its possible “responsibility” for the relative backwardness of Spain). Here, however, the emphasis is placed on the opposite case, on the difficulties or crises which have affected it. Agricultural crises are not only important for explaining difficult periods during which the population and the agricultural sector have faced problematic circumstances. They have also generated a sufficiently large impact so as to provoke a reorganisation of the agricultural sector and significant changes within it. The crisis of the Ancien Régime brought about a complete transformation of the predominant agrarian institutions. On occasions, technological change was fostered by crisis situations. The depression at the end of the nineteenth century gave rise to the introduction of new technologies which profoundly modernised the sector to maintain its feasibility. In the same way, international integration affected agriculture and profound changes were required in order to maintain leading positions in international markets. Therefore, without a clear understanding of the agricultural crises, it is difficult to obtain a clear and precise perspective of the profound transformations experienced by Spanish agriculture throughout history.
N54|Height and infant mortality during the civil war and the autarchy: The Valencian Community (Spain)|This article analyzes the biological wellbeing among male conscripts in the region of Valencia (Eastern Spain) during the Civil War and the subsequent period of autarchy during Franco’s dictatorship. For this purpose we use 124,284 height records from 20yr conscripts born between 1900 and 1954 from ten municipalities along with region-level infant mortality rates. We analyze inter-cohort deviations from a secular trend which is established upon cohorts that were not exposed to war and postwar-related environmental stress. Results show that the mean height cohort trend slowed down meaningfully among cohorts that were raised in the context of the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939) and/or during the autarchic postwar decade (1940-1949). Interestingly, the effects of this environmental stress are to have been greater during the adolescent period. The height series at the local level evidence very dissimilar magnitudes of the nutritional crisis in this Spanish region. The worsening of the net nutritional status was greater in industrial towns as well as in rural areas with some agriculture specialization. By contrast, the impact of war and postwar, as measure by height, was negligible in other areas. Finally, although infant mortality declined during the decade of 1940s the combined analysis of height and mortality uncovers that such decline was likely associated with medical advances and interventions in the field of hygiene rather than with improved nutrition.
N54|Agriculture and Economic Development on the European Frontier : Portugal, 1000-2000|This chapter follows the steps of renovation of European economic history towards a more unified interpretation of sources of growth and stagnation. To better understand the diversity of patterns of growth, we need to look beyond the study of the industrialization of the core economies, and explore the centuries before it occurred. Portuguese agriculture was hardly ever at the European productivity and technological forefront and the distance from it varied substantially across the second Millennium. Yet if we look at the periods of the Christian Reconquista, the recovery from the Black Death, the response to the globalization of the Renaissance, to the eighteenth century economic enlightenment, or to nineteenth century industrialization, we may conclude that agriculture in this country of the European periphery was often adaptive and dynamic. The fact that economic backwardness was not overcome by the end of the period is no longer the most relevant aspect of that story. Long-term agricultural transformation in Portugal replicate to a large extent what occurred elsewhere in Western Europe, as far as our knowledge of both developments through such a long time span can tell, both in terms of timing and intensity, albeit at a distance. European agrarian transformation was not too different on the southwestern frontier.
N54|Capitalising on the Irish land question: land reform and state banking in Ireland, 1891–1938|Land reform and its financial arrangements are central elements of modern Irish history. Yet to date, the financial mechanisms underpinning Irish land reform have been overlooked. The paper outlines the mechanisms of land reform in Ireland and the importance of land bonds to the process. The paper introduces a new database on Irish land bonds listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange from 1891 to 1938. It illustrates the nature of these b onds and presents data on their size, liquidity and market returns. The paper finds a high level of state banking in Ireland: large issues of land bonds were held by state owned savings banks.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N54|No blessing, no curse? On the benefits of being a resource-rich southern region of Italy|The aim of this research is to examine the aggregate economic effects of large-scale oil extraction in Basilicata, a southern region of Italy. This paper is the first empirical attempt to test for a regional resource curse by constructing a comparison unit using synthetic control techniques. The comparison unit captures how Basilicata׳s economic activities would have evolved in the absence of the oil extraction industry. The negligible differences between economic parameters in Basilicata and in its comparison unit suggest that a large amount of oil extraction has had no detectable effect on Basilicata׳s economy. A set of tentative political economy explanations of the result of missing effects is also provided, based on control rights structure, the royalty tax rate and organized crime.
N54|The Genuine Saving Indicator: Estimates at the Subnational Level in Italy|In this paper we estimate the Genuine Saving (GS) of Italian regions in the period 1996-2005. The GS is a macroeconomic indicator of sustainability able to shed light on the future implications of current welfare levels, jointly considering the management of economic and natural assets. Despite the good performance of Italy as a whole during the considered period, our results show an uneven regional distribution of sustainability burdens, with the Basilicata region on an unsustainable development path, showing decreasing and negative value of GS. This results are mainly due to mismanagement of un-renewable natural resources (oil and gas). Failing this test of â€œweakâ€ sustainability, the Basilicata region is likely to incur a decline of welfare levels in the future.
N54|A look back on a unique experiment in interventionism in market economies: the European Common Agricultural Policy (1955 – 2015)|Now that agricultural surpluses, after the removal of quantitative restrictions put into effect thirty years ago, are beginning to reappear, it is an opportune moment to revisit the history of the Common Agricultural Policy. This policy in effect constituted a unique experiment which can only be understood, as in any policy of intervention in market economies, through the combination of three concepts: economic rationality, social acceptability and institutional capability. This can be verified throughout the sixty years of the CAP’s existence, from its formulation (1955-1962) to its establishment with successive readjustments (1962-1992) through to the gradual dismantling (1992-2015). We are thus faced with two models: firstly the policy of price regulation, secondly competition policy compensation.
N54|The History of European Infrastructure Finance: An Analytical Framework|How can socio-economic resources be mobilized to pay for works that offer beneﬁts only in the future, often in the distant future? We discuss what we understand by infrastructure, a term that can have different meanings/semantic contents, and whose deﬁnition issues reveal some recurrent conceptual problems. Finance is here understood in the very broad sense of a set of mechanisms bringing to investment, and future beneﬁts, the resources needed in advance to pay for it. We offer a brief discussion of technological and organizational change, as several of our examples and other literature that we cite show that investment and ﬁnance decisions are deeply interwoven with knowledge, management, and technical progress. The paper analyses government involvement on both sides of our theme: investment and ﬁnancing decisions, but also on the wider issue of service provision in the context of emerging widespread social needs. In fact, the social demand for infrastructures often manifests itself as only mediated by governments or a small group of players, while the services offered by the infrastructure have subsequently created general interest, sometimes unexpectedly. We mention the tension between the national and the international dimensions and suggest a taxonomy of the macrotypes of infrastructure ﬁnancing we have identiﬁed, and sums up their spread and evolution over the long term.
N54|Aspects of Bulgarian Åconomic Policy and Development During and After the First World War (1914-1929)|The wars for national unity of Bulgaria at the beginning of the 20th century had severe consequences for its economy. Just in the course of seven years, the country had participated in three devastating wars and the peace treaties had damaging impact on its economy. The present paper analyzes the changes that had occurred in the Bulgarian economy during and after the First World War and the imposition of economic policy of protectionism by the state for the economic recovery after the war.
N54|Ideology, Class and Factional Struggles in the Mid and Late 1920s in Soviet Russia – Nikolai Kondratiev’s Tragic Fate|The introduction of the “socialist revolution, socialism, public property” paradigm and its ideological role for the establishment of the capitalist way of production in ÕÕ c. is studied. A situational analysis is made of the class and inter-factional struggles in Soviet Russia in the middle and in the second part of the 20s. The study analyses the class struggle between the large centralized state monopolistic capital on the one hand, and the small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises on the other, as well as their factional representation in the political life of that period. It reveals the advantages of the factional struggle of Stalin’s centrist faction and the importance of his ideologeme for the “establishment of socialism in a particular country”. It also shows how class struggle influences the tragic life of the outstanding Russian economist Nikolai Kondratiev.
N54|Пољопривреда Србије: Сто Година Модернизацијских Напора<BR>[Agriculture of Serbia: One Hundred Years of Modernization Efforts]|Serbian Abstract. У раду се анализирају положај и значај пољопривреде у оквирима привреде Србије и Југославије током 20. и почетком 21. века. Разматрани су процеси развоја и модернизације пољопривреде у периоду од стварања заједничке државе јужнословенских народа после Великог рата до данашњих дана. Најпре се дају одређење и место овог сектора у оквиру целе привреде, а затим историјски преглед његовог развоја у Краљевини Срба, Хрвата и Словенаца, односно Краљевини Југославији, и у периоду социјалистичке југословенске државе. У наредном делу рада приказани су развој пољопривреде у периоду транзиције и њено актуелно стање, првенствено засновано на резултатима Пописа пољопривреде из 2012. године. English Abstract. The paper analyzes the position and importance of agriculture within the economy of Serbia and Yugoslavia during the 20th and 21st centuries. It ponders the processes of development and modernization of agriculture in the period since the creation of the common state of the South Slav peoples after the Great War until today. Firstly, a definition of this sector is exposed, thus giving it a specific position within the whole economy. Secondly, a historic overview is presented of its development in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, as well as in the socialist period of the Yugoslav state. Finally, it shows the development of agriculture in the transition period and its actual state, according to the results of the Agricultural Census from 2012.
N54|El bienestar biológico de los españoles durante la Restauración: un análisis provincial|Anthropometric indicators provide valuable information on nutritional status and living standards. This paper uses these indicators to explore the biological wellbeing of Spaniards during the Bourbon Restoration. From a sample of anthropometric data composed of 119,571 soldiers at age 20, measured between 1903 and 1906 -cohorts which were born between 1883 and 1886-, it presents the provincial results of height, weight, and BMI values and other aspects of biological living standards. Average heights are compared with previous periods to check the biological well-being during the second half of the nineteenth century. Anthropometric outcomes (height, weight and chest circumference) show the inequality of nutritional status in Spanish geography and suggest the influence of environmental and institutional factors in human development.
N54|The Spanish path of agrarian change, 1950-2005: From authoritarian to export-oriented productivism|The aim of this study is to determine whether the Spanish path of agrarian change, between 1950 and 2005, exhibits some features important enough to differentiate it from the common model of developed countries in Western Europe. On the one hand, the Spanish agrarian transformations share the main features which took place in Western Europe: technological innovation, increased production and productivity, loss of importance of the agricultural sector, tight integration with the industrial sector and, finally its high impact on the environment. On the other hand, a series of important peculiarities can be observed in the Spanish agrarian change: strong expansion of intensive livestock farming; importance of increased irrigation to explain the transformation of agriculture; policies that offered very little support to the agricultural sector under a dictatorship that denied a voice to farmers; maintaining a very prominent role in the economy despite its small contribution to GDP.
N54|"La lucha de los ""rabassaires"": análisis de largo plazo de un movimiento social y político"|In 1964, Emili Giralt described the ‘rabassaire’ struggle in the late 19th century as “the most intense unrest in the Catalan countryside since the rebellion of the 'remences' in the 15th century”. As Giralt explained, this conflict subsided momentarily only to reappear in the 1920s with the creation of a peasant union, ‘Unió de Rabassaires’, which in the 1930s became the major organization in the Catalan countryside and led the way to the social and political struggle of the Catalan peasantry until the Civil War. We want to address this peasant struggle in the long-term. Following Charles Tilly, we understand this social movement as a form of political action which had an early period in the late 18th century and reached its maturity in the late 19th century and the early 20th century. Its development was shortened by the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War. Beyond the organizational changes arising from the different social and political situations, a new long-term overview can shed light to the continuities in this movement, especially in terms of building a social identity and legitimating its claims and its struggle.
N54|Long-Run Consequences of Labor Coercion: Evidence from Russian Serfdom|This paper examines the long-run consequences of Russian serfdom. We use novel data measuring the intensity of labor coercion at the district level in 1861. Our results show that a greater legacy of serfdom is associated with lower economic well-being today. We apply an IV strategy that exploits the transfer of serfs from monastic lands in 1764 to establish causality. Exploring mechanisms, we find a positive correlation between the earlier experience of serfdom and pre-Soviet urbanization and land inequality, with negative implications for human capital investment and agglomeration over the long-run.
N54|Commons and the standard of living debate in Spain, 1860–1930|Biological living standards stagnated or even declined during the transition to modern economic growth. Although income per capita was increasing, other indicators, such as mortality rates or heights, portrayed a completely different image. This paper adds to the standard of living debate by analysing the potential effect of the privatisation of common lands. Although highly controversial regarding its impact on the modernisation process itself, its contribution to human welfare has somewhat received much less attention. Focusing on the Spanish experience, this paper exploits geographical variation over time by collecting a panel data set at the provincial level on three different periods: 1860, 1900 and 1930. The empirical analysis shows that the persistence of these collective resources is related with higher life expectancy and heights, particularly during the second half of the nineteenth century. Biological human welfare also seems to have been negatively influenced by the progressively decreasing role that local communities played on the management of these resources. The survival of common lands in some regions provided peasants with mechanisms different from the market, thus making the transition to a market economy more socially sustainable.
N54|On the causes of economic growth in Europe: why did agricultural labour productivity not converge between 1950 and 2005?|The objective of this study is to make a further contribution to the debate on the causes of economic growth in the European Continent. It explains why agricultural labour productivity differences did not converge between 1950 and 2005 in Europe. We propose an econometric model, one combining both proximate and fundamental causes of economic growth. The results show that the continuous exit of labour power from the sector, coupled with the increased use of productive factors originating in other sectors of the economy, caused the efficiency of agricultural workers to rise. However, we offer a complete explanation of the role played by institutions and geographical factors. Thus, we detect a direct and inverse relation between membership of the EU and the Communist bloc and the productivity of agricultural labour. In addition, strong support for agriculture affected productivity negatively.
N54|The Political Fallout of Chernobyl: Evidence from West-German Elections|I study the effect of a formative experience on political beliefs in a distant country. This paper looks at the Chernobyl nuclear disaster of April 1986 and voters’ response in West Germany. The analysis uses a di.-in-di. estimation which exploits variation in proximity to the nearest nuclear power plant (NPP) across 301 counties. Proximity is used as proxy for the shock from perceived risk of a nuclear accident. Using data over almost 40 years and 11 elections, my results indicate that living closer to an NPP benefited the explicitly anti- and pro-nuclear parties, the Greens and the Conservatives. The findings are persistent and robust to the inclusion of several socioeconomic controls as well as checks for the validity of the identifying assumptions. The gains of the Greens are similar across social groups and in line with home-voter effects. The effect of proximity on the conservatives increases with education and the number of adolescents in their impressionable years. I argue that this can be explained by political belief formation and di.erences in assessing the economic benefits from nuclear power over the actual risk of an accident. Using variation in the scheduling of subsequent state elections, I can also show that the pro-nuclear response was stronger in counties which did not vote in the immediate aftermath of Chernobyl and thus had more time for a rational electoral choice.
N54|State intervention in wine markets and collective action in France and Spain during the early twentieth century|In the early twentieth century winegrowersin Europe faced a crisis of overproduction, with steeply falling prices and sharp increases in wages and production costs. Since the markets showed no signs of correcting themselves, the winegrowers called for state intervention. In the major wine producing countries such as France and Spain, large winegrowers’ associations were created which lobbied their governments to regulate domestic wine markets through tariffs, quality controls, the creation of regional appellations and bodies investigating fraud in winemaking, and also promoted other measures to increase the consumption of unadulterated wine. However, while winegrowers in France were highly successful in obtaining government support to protect their market interests, in Spain the legislation introduced was much more eclectic; it aimed to satisfy on the one hand the winegrowers and on the other the alcohol producers, wine merchants and exporters, even though the interests of these groups often clashed head on. This paper aims to explain the differences in state intervention and wine market regulation in these two major producer countries in the early twentieth century, by analysing the particular features of their markets and productive systems in the aftermath of the phylloxera plague, as well as the winegrowers’ collective action and the political framework in each country.
N54|Learning that milk comes from a cow: supply management and the character of neoliberalism in Spain’s dairy chain|This article takes Spain’s dairy chain as a study case of the transformations in the political economy of the food system in the West since the Second World War. I find that there is much to support the prevailing narrative in food regime analysis: the organised capitalism of 1952-1986 was gradually weakened by a policy agenda of deregulation stemming from both internal and external pressures. I also find, however, a thread of continuity between the period 1952-1986and the post-1986 period – in both periods there were strategies of supply chain management by means of which the power of political or business elites joined the market as a mechanism for the coordination of decisions. I argue that there is a case for reassessing the degree up to which the term “neoliberalism” does a good job at describing the new historical era that started in the food system in the latter decades of the twentieth century.
N54|La industria de la pizarra española en perspectiva histórica|The article analyses the birth and growth of the slate industry in Spain from a long-term perspective. It takes into account the limitations of the public statistics, the time series of production and employment that have been gathered since the early 20th century to the present day, and the stages of the long-term evolution of the slate sector, and inserting it within the international framework. From modest beginnings in the 16th century under royal patronage, the industry started its development at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. During the first third of the 20th century, the upward supply shows figures lower than the world market leaders. The gap was reduced in the 1960s when the slate industry was modernized, thanks to the French demand. Spain then became the international leader in the production and export of slate. KEY Classification-JEL: L72. N54. N53. O14
N54|Más allá de los promedios: patrones de segmentación del consumo de productos lácteos en España, 1964-2006|This article reconstructs the evolution of disparities in the consumption of dairy products in Spain from the mid-1960s to the early twenty-first century. At the start of the period, there were strong regional disparities, as well as a clear pattern of social hierarchization in the consumption of both milk and milk derivatives. These gaps were (totally or substantially) narrowed during the phase of great expansion in consumption that took place until the 1980s. From then on, a new consumption pattern began to take shape, its segmentation pattern consisting mainly of social re-hierarchization in the consumption of the newest and most dynamic products (refrigerated derivatives), and a significant generational factor in the contraction of milk consumption. KEY Classification-JEL: N34. N54. I39. Q11. R22
N54|Producer cooperatives and regulation in Europe's wine industry, 1880-1980|Wine cooperatives were relatively scarce in Europe before the Second WorldWar, but accounted for more than half of all wines made in France, Italy, and Spain, thethree major producer countries, by the 1980s. This article argues that their initial slowdiffusion was caused by the difficulties in measuring and controlling grape quality, andthat this provided incentives for members to produce large volumes of poor fruit whichadversely affected the wines. Cooperatives only became popular when the state offeredmaterial incentives to growers that helped compensate these problems of collectiveaction. This initially involved cheap credit to help build wineries but, from the 1950s,growers enjoyed additional incentives to join cooperatives as governments attempted toregulate wine markets and provide income support. The problems associated with grapequality were never resolved and, with the major decline in consumption from the 1980sand move away from bulk towards premium wines, cooperatives became increasinglyuncompetitive in the market place.
N54|¿Campesinos unidos o divididos? La acción colectiva y la revolución social entre los yunteros durante la Segunda República en España (1931-1936)|La generalización de los conflictos rurales durante la Segunda República fue un factor importante para explicar la inestabilidad política que condujo al golpe de Estado y la Guerra Civil en 1936. En este trabajo se analiza Extremadura, escenario del 75 % de las invasiones de tierras en el país durante la República. A partir del aprovechamiento de diferentes fuentes poco explotadas, mostramos que los problemas de la región y la naturaleza de los conflictos vistos desde Madrid eran muy diferentes a lo que sucedía a nivel local. La escasez de tierras cultivables explica que las distintas medidas de redistribución de tierras puestas en marcha por los gobiernos entraban en conflicto, no solo con los intereses de los propietarios, sino con las formas de acceso a la tierra de otros cultivadores que se vieron perjudicados. Por tanto, los aparceros que cultivaban las dehesas, y que los contemporáneos de la II República empezaron a llamar yunteros, habrían estado divididos con respecto a su participación en las invasiones. Esta interpretación explica mejor la polarización política de la sociedad rural extremeña que evidencian los resultados electorales.
N54|Law and self-regulation – Substitutes or complements in gaining social acceptance?|Mining industry needs a social license to operate (SLO) on local, national and global levels. In this research we study six companies in three different countries in the Kolarctic Area. All except one company seem to focus on getting the social license at the local level with agreements with other land users and local communities. For new companies a local social license seems to be more difficult to earn, but the old ones have gained it with their earlier behavior. In Sweden and Finland companies also focus on global standards, mostly because of the pressure from financers. In the mining branch, endusers are not yet interested in social responsibility of the companies. Globally functioning multinationals have, however, been alerted to develop industrial standards under the pressure of NGOs. In some mining sectors such as gold mining, international standards already play a significant role. In gaining the social license, the involvement of NGOs, which now is rather modest, might be one way to develop global standards and improve reputation. Companies, which are successfully focusing on the local level, might also gain from NGO cooperation on the national level, where the reputation of the mining industry in Sweden and especially in Finland has suffered from sporadic bad performers. Russian companies have their own challenges because of the weak formal institutions of the country. There both good national relations with the power structures and a strong role in developing the surrounding areas are fundamental.
N54|Spanish Land Reform in the 1930s: Economic Necessity or Political Opportunism?|Spanish land reform, involving the break-up of the large southern estates, was a central issue during the first decades of the twentieth century. This paper uses new provincial data on landless workers, land prices and agrarian wages to consider if government intervention was needed because of the failure of the free action of markets to redistribute land. Our evidence shows that the relative number of landless workers decreased significantly from 1860 to 1930 before the approval of the 1932 Land Reform. This was due to two interrelated market forces: the falling ratio between land prices and rural wages, which made land cheaper for landless workers to rent and buy land plots, and structural change that drained rural population from the countryside. Given that rural markets did not restrict access to land, the government-initiated land redistribution had no clear-cut economic justification.
N54|Was Gerschenkron right? Bulgarian agricultural growth during the Interwar period in light of modern development economics|The classical view of BulgariaÕs failed industrialization prior to the Second World War was established by Alexander Gerschenkron. According to his interpretation, an inherently backward small peasant agriculture and well-organized peasantry not only retarded growth in agriculture but obstructed any possible industrialization strategy. Following Hayami and Ruttan, we utilize the decomposition of farm labor productivity into land productivity, and land-to-man ratio to analyze the sources of growth in BulgariaÕs agriculture 1887-1939. Our results show that BulgariaÕs peasants did cross the threshold to modern growth during the Interwar period. Rich qualitative evidence supports the findings of our quantitative analysis that contrary to GerschenkronÕs view and conventional wisdom, BulgariaÕs peasants substantially contributed to the modernization of BulgariaÕs economy and society. We interpret our results in light of modern development economics, and conclude that agriculture formed no impediment to BulgariaÕs industrialization. The reasons that a Ôlarge industrial spurtÕ did not occur in Bulgaria until 1945 are not to be found in the agricultural sector.
N54|Did closures do any good? Labour productivity, mine dynamics, and rationalization in interwar Ruhr coal-mining|Over the later 1920s and up to the mid-1930s, German coal-mining saw an exceptional surge in labour productivity led primarily by the Ruhr coalminesÕ performance. It is a commonly accepted view that the economy-wide Ôrationalization boomÕ between currency stabilization and the depression years explains that pattern. We test the related hypothesis that Ônegative rationalizationÕ in the form of a massive wave of mine closures over 1924-29 played a significant role in pushing aggregate labour productivity in the Ruhr coal district up to new levels. Based on an original dataset on the population of Ruhr coalmines, the sources of productivity change over the extended period 1913-38 are identified using the decomposition method of Foster, Haltiwanger and Krizan (2001). Results suggest that labour productivity in Ruhr coal-mining was driven to a large extent by improvements at individual mines attributable to the intensified mechanization of underground operations. Closures regularly raised aggregate productivity in the year after the closure had been conducted; closures also pushed productivity by way of ceding resources to high(er) productivity surviving mines over gradual shut-down. However, on the whole, turnover-effects were marginal compared to the effects stemming from the producer dynamics among surviving mines. Thus, the practical productivity implications of mine closures over the rationalization boom are negligible and still overrated in the relevant literature. These findings call for testing more rigorously the relative importance of Ônegative rationalizationÕ in the form of plant closures in other branches of the Weimar economy.
N54|Spanish land reform in the 1930s: economic necessity or political opportunism?|Spanish land reform, involving the break-up of the large southern estates, was a central issue during the first decades of the twentieth century. This paper uses new provincial data on landless workers, land prices and agrarian wages to consider if government intervention was needed because of the failure of the free action of markets to redistribute land. Our evidence shows that the relative number of landless workers decreased significantly from 1860 to 1930 before the approval of the 1932 Land Reform. This was due to two interrelated market forces: the falling ratio between land prices and rural wages, which made land cheaper for landless workers to rent and buy land plots, and structural change that drained rural population from the countryside. Given that rural markets did not restrict access to land, the government-initiated land redistribution had no clear-cut economic justification.
N54|Historical Aspects, Traditions and Statistical Gaps. The German Economy versus the Romanian Economy|This paper reveals some historical aspects and some common traditions of German and Romanian economies, justifying some of the trends of contemporary decades underlying the statistical gap. The specific method used in this article is a statistical confrontation based on historical variables and statistical data, graphs emphasizing the abnormalities in evolution, etc. After a brief introduction, inside the major part of the structure of this paper some selected economic and social evolutions are presented together for both German and Romanian economies, somehow becoming the limits of the European Union construction. Few general gaps of the two economic marginal models as performance and cohesion are detailed during the historical and statistical investigation and the conclusions anticipates some expectations in the medium term dynamics of these economies. At the same time the article discusses Berlin’s position within EU and argues that Germany remains a selective continental hegemon, bent on securing national primacy and profit more than generating win-win solutions for its neighbours.
N54|El comercio agroalimentario español en la segunda globalización, 1951-2011|This study analyses the evolution of the agri-food trade during the time of greatest transformation of the Spanish economy, namely the second half of the twentieth century and the first decade of the twenty-first. This involves an examination of the evolution of Spanish agri-food exports and imports from 1951 to 2011, along with the corres­ponding trade balance. Similarly, it details changes in the composition of foreign purchases and sales for this type of products, as a reflection of the underlying economic changes. For exports, an econometric exercise is performed to evaluate their main defining factors in the Spanish case. The results indicate a greater diversification and transformation of the products traded. These changes are explained at the microeconomic level by the improvement of income and variations in preferences, and at a macroeconomic level by the powerful effect of the integration of Spain into the EEC in 1986 and the development of the agri-food industry due to an expanding domestic market (home market effect).
N54|Apropiación y explotación del corcho en Valdelosa (Salamanca), 1835-1975|The rise and characteristics of the cork trade in North-western Spain are not well known. Yet small extensions of cork-oak forests brought about a prosperous cork business and the birth of diverse industrial activities which, given their limited capital base and size, did not grow beyond artisan’s workshops. The case of Valdelosa (Salamanca) is particularly relevant in this regard. From 1835 on cork production was developed in this municipality using local raw materials supplied by the cork-oak forests. Local industrialists, residents, large scale land-owners and the forestry administration resorted to various strategies to get control of the cork and the profits it entailed during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. These strategies somehow mirror the evolution of public forestry property in Spain as a whole. Among the strategies, one stands out because of its appearance of collectivism. It lasted throughout most of the twentieth century and disappeared, not without enormous conflict, between 1974 and 1975. This article makes use of archive materials from the Municipal Archive of Valdelosa, the Provincial Archive of Salamanca and the Spanish Ministry of Agriculture.
N54|La cobertura social de los trabajadores en el campo español durante la dictadura franquista|The social welfare system developed by the Franco regime responded to a series of socio-political objectives that in the long term led to a complex and confusing social security system at the end of the dictatorship. During the early years of Francoism, the rural population derived little benefit from the new social insurances introduced by the regime) and finally a special scheme for agricultural workers was established with the aim of combining the regime's ideological goals: the elimination of class struggles through vertical trade unionism, the protection of agricultural employers' interests, control of protest movements in the countryside and safeguarding the traditional figure of the farmer. To do so) institutions created or assimilated by the regime, such as the Hermandades Sindicales de Labradores y Ganaderos and the Chambers of Agriculture, were used to control and manage the lists of beneficiaries of the first social insurances to cover the rural population: family and old-age allowances. The compulsory sickness benefit was not extended to rural areas until1958, coinciding with the genesis of the institutions that were to manage the special scheme. That year the National Agricultural Security Service was created within the Directorate General for Insurance) and ayear later the National Mutual Society for Agricultural Insurance was launched. The aim of the paper is to examine the difficulties in introducing and managing the various social insurances) especially health insurance, and analyse coverage figures and financing.
N54|Los cambios en el mercado mundial de los aceites vegetales y las transformaciones en el olivar y en los aceites de oliva españoles, 1940-2009|A long-term analysis of the Spanish olive and olive oil industry after the Civil War is still lacking. The present work offers a broad and detailed study that seeks to fill this void. Starting with the knowledge available on the industry prior to the Civil War, this study spans through 2009, the most recent year for which complete data is available. This study aims firstly to complete the long-term analysis of the olive and olive oil industry; secondly, it seeks to describe and to a certain extent explain the evolution of the industry from 1940 to 2009 in the context of the global vegetable oil industry; while thirdly, attempting to add a historical perspective to the recent changes in Spain’s olive and olive oil industry. Rather than interpreting, this essentially descriptive work offers a concise summary that does not exclude the rich interpretative historiography of the industry, but concentrates principally on the evolution of some of the industry’s principal indicators.
N54|Agricultura y desarrollo económico en España, 1870-2000|The aim of this paper is to offer a general reflection on the role played by agriculture in the economic development of Spain during the period 1870-2000. It first begins placing emphasis on the unfavourable starting point suffered by the Spanish agricultural sector in the 19th century. The paper then analyses the models of agricultural development that were followed, as well as the productive and institutional conditioning factors of that development. The paper concludes that although Spanish agriculture followed a growth path that was coherent with the endowment and prices of its productive factors, and obtained reasonable results thereby, it was not, in itself, dynamic enough to give momentum to the process of industrialization, but not was it so static as to be the causal factor in the slow pace of industrial development in Spain.
N54|Del manejo multifuncional del territorio a la desarticulación productiva: cambios en los flujos de biomasa durante el proceso de industrialización de la agricultura gallega (1960-2012)|This paper offers an annual series of plant biomass in Galicia during the period 1960-2012. The timeframe chosen encompasses the final period of the organic agrarian system, the consequences of the industrialisation of Galician agriculture, and the impact of Spain’s integration into the European Union. The paper provides several indicators regularly used in the biophysical analysis of agriculture such as the Domestic Extraction of Biomass, and its division into Socialised Biomass and Reutilised Biomass. Furthermore, data regarding livestock production are also provided along with a series of livestock feed requirements. The findings show an accelerated transformation since the 1970s away from a model in which the majority of biomass flows were allocated to the reproduction of agroecosystems, moving towards a model in which Socialised Biomass is maximised. This shift towards closer ties with the market, however, has turned Galicia into a food dependent region that is also dependent on abiotic (fertilisers, energy) and biotic external inputs (livestock feed). This transformation has had consequences in terms of sustainability and the economic viability of the agrarian sector in this region.
N54|Embodied energy in agricultural inputs. Incorporating a historical perspective|This working paper analyzes the energy embodied in agricultural inputs from a historical perspective. The study is based on a wide literature review, which has been complemented with own estimations in order to create a coherent database including all direct and indirect energy associated to the main agricultural inputs with the maximum possible level of disaggregation. The inputs studied include human labour, energy carriers such as fuels and electricity, materials, machinery, synthetic fertilizers and pesticides, organic inputs, propagation material, irrigation inputs, buildings, greenhouses, transport and non-material services. For each input we describe its historical evolution from an energetic perspective, the most common methods used for the calculation of its embodied energy published in the literature and temporal data series on the historical evolution of this energy. The temporal data series are expressed in 10-year time-steps and, in the majority of cases, they cover the whole 20th century and the first decade of the 21st century. The values provided are global averages or covering the main producing regions. The results show the large changes that have occurred in the energy efficiency of the production of agricultural inputs, underlining the need for the use of dynamic coefficients in historical energy analyses of agricultural systems.
N54|Too many workers or not enough land? Why land reform fails in Spain during the 1930s|On the eve of the Second Republic there was a broad consensus among most contemporaries that some form of land reform was necessary for Spain’s southern provinces. Enormous estates were believed to be under-cultivated by their absentee owners, denying landless workers employment, and leading to widespread rural poverty. The slow implementation of land reform deeply divided Spanish society, and is often cited as a cause of the outbreak of the Civil War. This paper, using a large sample of farm level information collected by the Institute of Agrarian Reform for the estates expropriated in the region of Extremadura, questions the possibilities of land reform as a means to raise farm output to solve rural poverty.
N54|Limitations of the set of public health indicators monitored in the context of sustainable development (Ograniczenia wskaznikow zdrowia publicznego monitorowanych w kontekscie zrownowazonego rozwoju )|The concept of sustainable development refers to efforts to improve in a harmonious way economic, social and environmental dimensions. One of the main aspects of the social dimension of sustainable development is public health. In the introduction the role of indicator systems to monitor the effectiveness of any policy, including sustainable development is recalled. Usually such systems contain a subset of the public health indicators. This is the case Eurostat and GUS databases. In the paper a qualitative analysis of such subset of indicators available through the Eurostat database is carried out. The life expectancy is the leading indicator with a variant of the healthy life years. Quoted is the rationale for excluding this variant from analyzes that compare different populations due to subjectivity of this option. Later in the article a lack of indicators to which a visible impact on the leading indicator could be attributed is concluded. Consequently, the subset of indicators under consideration can not be treated as a decision support tool. Thus, its meaning is limited to the information and comparison purposes.
N54|Energy consumption and GDP in Italy: cointegration and causality analysis|The aim of this article was to assess the empirical evidence of the nexus between GDP and energy consumption for Italy during the period 1970–2009, using a time series approach. After a brief introduction, a survey of the economic literature on this issue is shown, before discussing the data and introducing some econometric techniques. Stationarity tests reveal that both series are nonstationary, or I(1). Moreover, a cointegration relationship is found between the two variables. The short-run dynamics of the variables show that the flow of causality runs from energy use to GDP, and there is a long-run bidirectional causal relationship (or feedback effect) between the two series. Consequently, we conclude that energy is a limiting factor to GDP growth in Italy and that energy conservation policy should be formulated and implemented wisely. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015
N54|Competition between organisational forms in Danish and Irish dairying around the turn of the twentieth century|By 1914, Danish butter had captured a sizeable share of the British market, largely at the expense of Irish suppliers. This is usually attributed to a more successful adoption of the cooperative organisational form, where cultural and legal issues put the Irish at a disadvantage. We argue that there were also significant differences in the private sector in the two countries, where large incumbent proprietary creameries in Ireland were in a stronger position to defend their interests. Even if the cooperativ es were able to operate like their Danish counterparts, they would still have faced much tougher competition from proprietary incumbents.
N54|The Political Fallout of Chernobyl: Evidence from West-German Elections| I study the effect of a formative experience on political beliefs in a distant country. This paper looks at the Chernobyl nuclear disaster of April 1986 and voters’ response in West Germany. The analysis uses a diff-in-diff estimation which exploits variation in proximity to the nearest nuclear power plant (NPP) across 301 counties. Proximity is used as proxy for the shock from perceived risk of a nuclear accident. Using data over almost 40 years and 11 elections, my results indicate that living closer to an NPP benefited the explicitly anti- and pro-nuclear parties, the Greens and the Conservatives. The findings are persistent and robust to the inclusion of several socioeconomic controls as well as checks for the validity of the identifying assumptions. The gains of the Greens are similar across social groups and in line with home-voter effects. The effect of proximity on the conservatives increases with education and the number of adolescents in their impressionable years. I argue that this can be explained by political belief formation and differences in assessing the economic benefits from nuclear power over the actual risk of an accident. Using variation in the scheduling of subsequent state elections, I can also show that the pro-nuclear response was stronger in counties which did not vote in the immediate aftermath of Chernobyl and thus had more time for a rational electoral choice.
N54|Agricultural Sector Transformation In Selected Countries Of South Eastern Europe| Governing the process of economic transformation is one of the most prominent issues arising since the fall of the Iron Curtain. After the successful transition model of the Central and Eastern European countries and their EU accession, the main anchors of the EU enlargement are directed into the South Eastern part of the continent. Most obviously, the EU enlargement is entering into the new phase of its expansion. In this paper we evaluate the state of transformation in the agricultural sector of the potential EU members comprising countries constituting the South Eastern Europe (the Western Balkans), and Turkey. We analyze whether the significant transitional changes occurred in the agricultural sector in observed countries. The main areas of our interest involve the comparative analysis of the state of economic transformation and the income convergence, the economic importance of agriculture in the potential EU Members, impact of economic transformation on the agricultural assets, agricultural policy implications, investigation of consumption patterns and poverty prevalence.
N54|Water scarcity and agricultural growth in Spain: from curse to blessing?|This working paper discusses how natural resource scarcity (aridity, in the case of Spanish agriculture) encouraged the process of frontier expansion defined by Barbier, meaning the exploitation of new, relatively abundant resources (water) for production purposes. Water for irrigated agriculture was obtained from both ground sources, identified as 'vertically downward' sources (i.e. wells, which were mainly funded by private initiative), and 'horizontally extensive' surface sources, such as dams and canals, primarily paid for by the public sector. Although the processes involved in obtaining water can be traced back over the centuries, it was really not until the 20thcentury when they became truly important. The growthof agricultural production was deeply influenced by this process. The main result is the mismatch between areas of high current agricultural productivity, and better initial endowment of natural resources.
N54|The Rise and Fall of the World's Largest Wine Exporter—And Its Institutional Legacy|It is hard to imagine in the 21st global wine economy, but until 50 years ago Algeria was the largest exporter of wine in the world – and by a wide margin. Between 1880 and 1930 Algerian wine production grew dramatically. Equally spectacular is the decline of Algerian wine production: today, Algeria produces and exports little wine. This paper analyzes the causes of the rise and the fall of the Algerian wine industry. There was an important bi-directional impact between developments of the Algerian wine sector and French regulations. French regulations had a major impact on the Algerian wine industry. Vice versa, the growth of the Algerian wine industry triggered the introduction of important wine regulations in France at the beginning of the 20th century and during the 1930s. Important elements of these regulations are still present in the European Wine Policy today.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N54|The water footprint of the Spanish agricultural sector: 1860–2010|Since 1860, the Spanish agricultural sector has undergone an intensive process of development resulting in important structural changes, not only in the sector itself, but also in the relationship of the agrarian system to natural resources. This paper studies the evolution of domestic water consumption as a consequence of increasing agricultural production, as well as the impact that the growing need for water had on the construction of infrastructure for irrigation. To that end, we examine the water consumed in the production of vegetable and animal goods for five different years: 1860, 1900, 1930, 1962 and 2010. From these results, a detailed analysis of the trends in water consumption and changes in compositional patterns is carried out. We determine to what extent the development of the agricultural sector conditioned the construction of new irrigation infrastructure. Finally, a Decomposition Analysis (DA) is applied to analytically identify and quantify the main explanatory factors behind that evolution, and to understand the increase in agricultural water consumption over the long term. Our findings show the large pressures on water resources exerted as a result of the expansion of the Spanish agricultural sector during the last 150years.
N54|Measuring integration in the English wheat market, 1770–1820: New methods, new answers|We show that vector error correction models encompass different approaches to analysing market integration; we illustrate our method using English weekly wheat prices, 1770–1820. Price variation decomposes into: (i) magnitude of price shocks; (ii) correlation of price shocks; (iii) between-period arbitrage. Data frequency affects these components, but has the largest effect on between-period arbitrage, commonly measured by half-life. Since this measure has been generally employed, previous analyses should be interpreted with caution. We further show that estimated effects of better transport and communication depend on the model used to measure market integration. Notably, we observe market integration improvements, not in between-period arbitrage, but in the within-week behaviour of prices (i.e. over much shorter time periods). So transport impacted English market integration, but in a way not captured by half-lives.
N54|Latifundia revisited: Market power, land inequality and agricultural efficiency. Evidence from interwar Italian agriculture|This paper proposes a new interpretation of the historically controversial role of Italian latifundia. Relying on standard economic theory, the paper explores a simple though neglected mechanism linking land inequality and inefficiency: market power. In underdeveloped economies with serious constraints on labor mobility, high ownership concentration will endow landowners with market power in local labor markets. The resulting equilibrium explains many of the often criticized features of latifundia, without the need to factor in irrational behavior (the preferred explanation of Italian traditional historians) or social institutions and capital market imperfections (explanations advanced by economists in different contexts). According to the model here explored the main effects of inequality are of a distributive rather than of a productive nature. The market power hypothesis is strongly supported by the available quantitative evidence provided by an unexploited dataset on all local labor markets of Italy at the end of the 1930s.
N54|On the Dynamic Linkages between CO2 Emissions, Energy Consumption and Growth in Greece|This paper attempts to analyze the short-and long-run causal dynamic interactions between energy consumption, CO2 emissions and economic growth in Greece, using time-series techniques. To this end, annual data covering the period 1980-2012 are employed and tests for unit roots, the ARDL-bounds approach of cointegration, and Granger-causality based on error-correction models are applied. The results reveal strong feedback in the long-run between all the examined variables. For the shortrun, there is evidence of two-way causality in all examined pairs with only exception the direction CO2 towards GDP.
N54|Challenges Of The Land Reform In The Former Communist States Of Central And Eastern Europe|As it is well known, after the collapse of the totalitarian regimes in Central and Eastern Europe, the economic development of the former communist states in the region was subject to a series of systemic transformation. One of the most important was the large-scale abandonment of state ownership in the agricultural sector, a transformation that was essential for boosting economic development. Our article aims to present the land property privatization process in the former communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe, pointing out the obstacles which hindered this action and represented barriers of the reform process. By using a comparative approach, the paper will also underline the main challenges in the land privatization process: state owned land reserves, farm restructuring, land transaction, mortgage, role of public and private sector.
N54|Integrating Agricultural Risks Management Strategies in selected EU Partner Countries: Syria, Tunisia, Turkey|Dynamics and transitions in the agricultural sector of emerging countries are not well understood yet. A decade of major political and economic changes is challenging the Mediterranean Economies, affecting the primary sectors of transition economies which are largely influenced by recent trends. The resulting exposure of agriculture to risks has called great attention on risk management strategies and public intervention. We explore their role in three different economies with a view to a unified policy framework. The analysis is conducted through a field activity in Syria, Tunisia and Turkey that has allowed to understand the key issues. The experts’ opinions draw a clear picture of retrospect and prospects and stimulate a comparative analysis that widens the current knowledge of risk management in the EU Partner Countries.
N54|«Reviviendo el sueño de varias generaciones»: comunales y reforma agraria en León en la II República (1931-1936)|In 1931, the provisional government of Spain’s Second Republic launched a true agrarian reform focused on improving the conditions of the peasantry. This ‘reformist’ agenda went beyond the expropriation and distribution of large estates (latifundios) to amend agricultural contracts and restructure the labour market, as well as proposing the abolition of seigniorial taxes and the recovery of commons that had been privatised. In León, within the framework of this reform programme, communal land rights that had been dispossessed in the 19th century were restored to the villages, and ploughing was allowed on common lands. While striving for the consolidation of small peasant farms and taking note of popular demands for access to and distribution of land, Republican reformism gave peasants a central role through a revision of liberal agrarian reforms. A moral and ethical explanation can be found behind peasant demands to recover common lands, relating to a defence of a peasant culture and way of life.
N54|Los contratos de cesión de tierra en Extremadura en el primer tercio del siglo XX|Using the exceptional archives of the jurados mixtos de la propiedad from the judicial district of Caceres, this article shows the importance of the changes to tenancy contracts in Spain during the 1930s. First, the decree led to a huge volume of documentation on demands between landowners and tenants for rent reduction. Second, the source shows the legal complexity of some contracts, and the occasional difficulties that this created for determining which tenant should benefit from the decree. Third, one of the most interesting dimensions of the source is the widespread use of subletting, often by groups of local workers signing collective contracts. Finally, we use the information provided by the jurados mixtos to shed more light on the censo de campesinos [peasant census], and in particular on the figure of the yuntero [landless peasants].
N54|Las exportaciones españolas de vino, 1986-2012: dinámicas gravitacionales|Spanish wine exports have experienced a great boom since Spain became a member of the EEC in 1986. The process was further stimulated by the 1994 Uruguay Round of GATT agreements, along with successive reforms of the CAP and the Common Market Organizations for wine in 1987, 1999 and 2008. In this symbiotic framework of integration and globalisation, Spanish wine destinations have changed dramatically in structure and characteristics. The logic of focussing exports on intra-EU markets has now combined with shifts toward other emerging destination countries. In this article we analyse the factors influencing changes in the gravity dynamics of Spanish wine exports and the importance of each variable. Destination markets have been grouped into five large categories that together represent 84% of total exports, and differences between wines with and without a protected designation of origin [denominación de origen protegida or DOP] have been analysed. The results indicate that Spain has experienced shifts in export gravity and developed as a price-competitive country, becoming an export leader in non-DOP wine. Simultaneously, Spanish wine has firmly established itself in traditional markets, has a higher average export price and has expanded its commercial dynamics to emerging markets outside the EU.
N54|Campesinos, Estado y mercado. La conflictividad forestal en el Noroeste de España, León (1870­ ‐1936)|"In the 19th Century the Spanish State privatised large areas of common lands and took over management of common wastelands and woodlands, thus stripping the peasants of all the control they had over them. Just as in many other parts of Spain, State intervention in wastelands and woodlands in León was a controversial issue because it was a symptom of conflicting visions or interests: between the State that promoted forestry uses and the peasants whose livelihood, based on agriculture and cattle, depended on common lands. The aim of this paper is to study the motivation behind peasant resistances to State intervention in Northwest Spain in the period 1870-1936. Although the conflicts have been explained from different perspectives (as resistance to market penetration, as ""weapons of the poor"", or as environmental conflicts), here we argue that the tensions and disputes over the common lands represent the peasants' defence of their livelihoods as well as the struggle for the ""opportunities"" the market offered."
N54|La gran transformación del sector agroalimentario español. Un análisis desde la perspectiva energética (1960-2010)|The main objective of this work is to reconstruct the consumption of the different types of energy by the Spanish agri-food system (AFS) between 1960 and 2010. The initial hypothesis, of a high increase in energy consumption during that period, was derived from the evidence of a growing consumption of capital and inputs in the activities related with production and management of food products in Spain. According to our results, energy consumption in the whole Spanish agro-food chain has increased by a factor of 10. It has grown at a much faster pace than total energy consumption, than total food production and even than GDP. Transport and agriculture are the sectors with the most relevant energy use in the studied period, representing 47-60% of total AFS consumption. In a first stage, agricultural production absorbed the majority of the growth in energy consumption, while since 1985 other sectors have pushed the continuation of the growth. Our results indicate that roughly one fifth of final energy consumed by Spanish economy is related.
N54|Disentangling Water Usage in the European Union: A Decomposition Analysis|The Water Framework Directive (WFD) defines common objectives for water resources throughout the European Union (EU). Given this general approach to water preservation and water policy, the objective of this paper is to analyse whether common patterns of water consumption exist within Europe. In particular, our study uses two methods to reveal the reasons behind sectoral water use in all EU countries. The first method is based on an accounting indicator that calculates the water intensity of an economy as the sum of sectoral water intensities. The second method is a subsystem input-output model that divides total water use into different income channels within the production system. The application uses data for the years 2005 and 2009 on water consumption in the production system of the 27 countries of the EU. From our analysis it emerges that EU countries are characterized by very different patterns of water consumption. In particular water consumption by the agriculture sector is extremely high in Central/Eastern Europe, relative to the rest of Europe. In most countries, the water used by the fuel, power and water sector is consumed to satisfy domestic final demand. However, our analysis shows that for some countries exports from this sector are an important driver of water consumption. Focusing on the agricultural sector, the decomposition analysis suggests that water usage in Mediterranean countries is mainly driven by final demand for, and exports of, agricultural products. In Central/Eastern Europe domestic final demand is the main driver of water consumption, but in this region the proportion of water use driven by demand for exports is increasing over time. Given these heterogeneous water consumption patterns, our analysis suggests that Mediterranean and Central/Eastern European countries should adopt specific water policies in order to achieve efficient levels of water consumption in the European Union. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
N54|Promised Lands :inner colonisation in 20th century Mediterranean history: Scientific report|The report summarizes the agenda, scientific contents, results, contribution to the future direction of the field, and outcomes of the Exploratory research workshop held in Rome and Sabaudia (Italy) on Octobre 7-10th 2013.Le rapport synthétise le déroulement, les contenus scientifiques, les résultats, les contributions aux directiosn futures dans le champ, et les résultats du séminaire de recherche exploratoire tenu à Rome et Sabaudia (Italie) les 7-10 Octobre 2013.
N54|Irish Land Bonds: 1891-1938| This paper introduces a new database on Irish land bonds listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange from 1891 to 1938: it outlines the nature of these bonds and presents data on their size, liquidity and market returns. These government-guaranteed bonds arose during a period when the possibility of Irish secession from the United Kingdom appeared ever more likely, and were used to finance the transfer of land ownership from landlords to tenants in Ireland (North & South). Movements in the prices of these bonds can help to understand how financial markets responded to events in the early economic and political history of the Irish Free State, including Irish partition, Independence, Civil War and de facto default. Understanding these issues has contemporary relevance for regions in Spain (Catalonia, Euskadi), Great Britain (Scotland) and Belgium (Flanders).
N54|Patterns and causes of growth of European agricultural production, 1950-2005|The aim of this work is to analyze the evolution of agricultural production in Europe after World War Two. To study the evolution of production, we want to find the causes of its growth. We will start with the role played by the factors of production. We will also want to estimate the contribution to output growth from improvements in efficiency, for which we will calculate the total factor productivity growth. Preliminary results show three possible patterns to explain the evolution of agricultural production. The first one which included Western countries and Germany based their growth in the raised efficiency and a higher use of capital. The opposing model is that of the countries with centrally planned economies. In this group of countries the use of capital was crucial. The efficiency of the system improved, but by considerably less than in the rest of Europe. The intermediate situation is that of the lesser developed countries in the southern European periphery and the Nordic countries, but in distinction to those of the Soviet bloc, they tended to converge much earlier with the model of the Western countries.
N54|Land tenure inequality, harvests, and rural conflict ; evidence from Southern Spain in the 1930s|This paper analyses rural conflict in one of the most volatile areas of interwar Europe, the latifundia regions of the South of Spain. The historical and economics literature argues that rural conflict was a bottom-up, spontaneous response of landless peasants to unemployment, bad harvests, land ownership inequality, changes in property rights, and the lack of enforcement of pro-worker legislation. A second generation of historical studies has focused on democratization and concomitant changes in collective bargaining and labor market institutions. Was conflict caused by structural factors like poverty, inequality or unemployment or was conflict an endogenous response to political change? This paper analyzes the pattern of conflict in in three Andalusian provinces (Córdoba, Jaén and Seville) in the early 1930s to argue that the timing and geographical distribution of conflict is consistent with a wave of mobilization linked to greater political opportunities favored by lower repression, pro-worker institutional change, and labor market intervention. Time-series and cross-sectional variation in levels of rural conflict suggest conflict was not a spontaneous response to dismal living standards and inequality. Rather, it emerged in large, fast growing towns of Andalusia and was mediated by the strategic interaction of authorities and experienced rural unions. The instances of rural conflict analyzed here suggest it is very difficult for new democratic governments in agrarian societies to stave rural conflict off with labor-friendly intervention. It is often argued that conflict precedes political and institutional change, but it is shown here that conflict can emerge abruptly as a response to those changes.
N54|The Political Economy of European Wine Regulations|The EU wine market is heavily regulated. Despite the many distortions in the wine market as a consequence, reforming the regulations has proven difficult. This paper analyses the political economy mechanism that created the existing set of wine regulations. We document the historical origins of the regulations and relate these to political pressures that resulted from international integration, technological innovations and economic developments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N54|Irish Land Bonds: 1891-1938|This paper introduces a new database on Irish land bonds listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange from 1891 to 1938: it outlines the nature of these bonds and presents data on their size, liquidity and market returns. These government-guaranteed bonds arose during a period when the possibility of Irish secession from the United Kingdom appeared ever more likely, and were used to finance the transfer of land ownership from landlords to tenants in Ireland (North & South). Movements in the prices of these bonds can help to understand how financial markets responded to events in the early economic and political history of the Irish Free State, including Irish partition, Independence, Civil War and de facto default. Understanding these issues has contemporary relevance for regions in Spain (Catalonia, Euskadi), Great Britain (Scotland) and Belgium (Flanders).
N54|Cooperation in the initial stages of infrastructure projects: a conceptual model and surv ey of Italian utility managers|This paper examines the role of collaborative initiatives in local infrastructure projects. It seeks to establish that cooperation between local governments, utilities, and other stakeholders has the potential of reducing the transaction costs that hinder the early stages of infrastructure investments. Having developed a conceptual model of cooperation between local actors in infrastructure projects (CLAIP), a survey was designed to obtain evidence of the main benefits and costs of collaboration in the construction of local water and transport infrastructure. The findings that emerge from managers’ opinions confirm that one of the main benefits of collaborative initiatives is the opportunity to acquire and transfer know-how in areas of the project containing problems or risks. CLAIP may also prove useful as a means of strengthening project governance, and increasing public acceptance of the facilities involved. Among the respondents, the managers who are most positive about CLAIP are likely to work in small and privately-owned or public-private utilities.
N54|A View Upon The History Of The Peasant Association|"The whole social and economic life is based on some form of association. People live in societies, so the idea association appeared in the most natural way, at first in an unconscious form, moving later towards the conscious and organized association. Seeing that through the association they were able to defend their professional interests, fulfil their economic goals and meet their common needs, peasants adopted its formula with confidence. The ways in which the association spread were diverse. Depending on the economic, social and moral circumstances and on the habits and goals of the various masses of peasants, there have been developed mainly one of the three forms: trade unions, cooperatives, and mutuality. The peasant associations helped the rural communities everywhere and were the object of interest of many theoreticians, who sought their roots, their forms, presented their principles and analyzed their results. One of them was Professor Nicolae Ghiulea, a Romanian economist and sociologist, fervent supporter of the association idea. Nicolae Ghiulea was among the most important representatives of the cooperative doctrine of the interwar period and was well-known for his prestigious academic career. He filled several administrative and social leading functions and had a rich publishing activity in the areas of statistical theory, social economy, cooperatives and sociology. This article sets out to present his view upon the history of the peasant association, as exposed in one of his books entitled ""The peasant associations"". The author focuses on the various forms of peasant associations, their history and their practical results in interwar Romania, explaining why they were beneficial. At a closer look, peasant associations are still a viable solution to many current social issues, especially those concerning agriculture."
N54|The international mercury cartel, 1928-1949|Mercury has been one of the most persistent cases in contemporary history of international market regulations and this in spite of its having been affected by important technological changes and the regular discovery of new deposits. This paper offers an approach to the least known period, although perhaps the one in which the greatest rises in process and production occurred as a consequence of market manipulation. The period coincides with a series of agreements between the Spanish and the Italian producers and the outcome was a worldwide cartel known as “Mercurio Europeo” which came into being in 1928. The aims of this work will, therefore, be first to describe the features of the various stages of development of the international mercury market during the first half of the twentieth century, with emphasis on the characteristics and conditioning factors in each period. Secondly, the objective is to analyze the various market agreements that came about, the effectiveness of the clauses therein, the construction of distribution networks and the influence that the increase in production had on other mines and on certain technological developments.
N54|Los terratenientes frente al cambio agrario, 1940-1954|Historical research has frequently examined the impact of postwar agrarian changes on the economy and society of Spain. However, there is still much debate regarding the role of large-scale landowners in relation to these changes. This paper offers a contribution to this debate by examining the owners of large estates living in Madrid during this period. An examination of the individual income tax returns of the highest income tax bracket is a historical source that has hardly been tapped and offers a picture of their private economy. This study focuses on identifying large-scale landowners, the characteristics of their estates, their strategies of property conservation and their relationship with other economic sectors. We also present a diachronic study that exposes the difficult adaptation landed aristocracy faced at a time when it was impossible to maintain their traditional agrarian rentier economy. Finally, this article examines the rise of a new class of landowners that were clearly differentiated from the Madrid elites.
N54|Cambio agrario, uso del suelo y regadío: el impacto del Canal de Urgell, 1860-1935|This article analyses the impact of the expansion of irrigation that took place in Spanish agriculture between the mid-nineteenth and the first third of the twentieth centuries. It explores the impact on agricultural land use of the Urgell canal, located in western Catalonia and constituting the largest water infrastructure built in nineteenth century Spain for agricultural purposes. The available data show that irrigation failed to significantly alter the mix of crops planted in the territories of the Urgell plain. At the end of this period, traditional crops still covered a majority of the irrigated area. Without denying the importance of other factors, this article suggests that the lack of an adequate water flow was one of the main limitations in developing a greater production of intensive crops and other products with higher added value.
N54|La tierra en manos de menestrales. Las posesiones agrarias de los artesanos valencianos (1370-1450)|During the Late Middle Ages, in many European regions, artisans owned large amounts of land, though these were not central to their work activity. In the Valencian case, there are constant references to this in notarial and judicial sources. Nevertheless, there have been few in-depth studies of this subject. This article deals with the role of plots of land in the domestic economies of small enterprises and their importance in the social strategies of the families involved. We offer several examples from around the Valencian region at the end of the 14th and beginning of the 15th century. This includes professionals in small rural towns, as well as artisans from Valencia or other urban centres.
N54|La ingeniería agronómica española en la encrucijada. El congreso nacional de 1950|This article deals with the First National Congress of Agronomic Engineering held in Madrid in 1950, at a time of critical food shortage. This took place within an international framework in which the Franco regime was increasingly accepted thanks to the strategic interests of the United States. We examine the professional attitudes towards the interventionist and autarkic agricultural policy that had been developed by the Spanish Government since the end of the Civil War. The Congress became a platform for demanding an end to interventionism and a new, more technical-productivist approach, while maintaining strong protectionist policies. The relevance and interest of this study is evident, considering the significance of Rafael Cavestany’s policy critique in Congress, and the fact that he would take over as Minister of Agriculture in July of 1951.
N54|La lucha por los montes. Conflicto y política en la Sierra de Cuenca durante la Restauración|The process of dismantling communal usage of lands during the 19th century sparked a legal, political and social conflict in Cuenca and many of its mountain villages. The new desire to capitalise on the immense wealth of the mountain forests pitted an incipient bourgeoisie based in the provincial capital against rural oligarchies and villagers who tried to rely on common law to safeguard their interests. Local and district caciques or bosses found in this conflict an opportunity to demonstrate the benefits of patronage and to define who the political adversary was. The aim of this article is to reveal the role of the dispute over use of the communal lands in articulating the political struggles and configuring patronage networks during the Restoration. For this purpose, the article analyses the socioeconomic reality of the mountain areas, the lengthy litigation processes that villages faced with the provincial capital and the various forms of conflict in the political arena. Our research covers a number of legal, civil, military and press sources in an uncharted area for contemporary agrarian historiography.
N54|Un siglo sin innovación en la saca del corcho|This article seeks to explain why a productive activity such as cork stripping experienced no technical change for two centuries, while Western economies were undergoing all sorts of deep transformations due to two industrial revolutions. For this purpose we have first reconstructed how cork stripping was carried out at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century. Next, leading microeconomic indicators such as production, productivity, wages and profitability are calculated and analysed for the exploitation of a specific cork oak forest. The conclusion offered is that the price of cork was always higher than per unit costs of production in such a specialised labour intensive operation, which can be explained by the unique structure of the world cork market.
N54|Patrones de segmentación del consumo de productos lácteos en España, 1958-2006|This article reconstructs the evolution of disparities in the consumption of dairy products in Spain from the late 1950s to the early twentyfirst century. At the start of the period, there were strong regional disparities, as well as a clear pattern of social hierarchization in the consumption of milk and milk derivatives. These gaps were (totally or substantially) narrowed during the phase of great expansion in consumption that took place until the 1980s. From then on, a new regime of consumption began to take shape and its segmentation pattern consisted mainly of a social re-hierarchization in the consumption of the newest and most dynamic products (refrigerated derivatives) and a significant generational factor in the contraction of milk consumption.
N54|Rich Mines, Poor Institutions: Resource Curse and the Origins of the Sicilian Mafia|Under weak law-enforcement institutions, a positive shock to the value of natural resources can increase demand for private protection and opportunities for rent appropriation through extortion, ultimately favoring the emergence of mafia-type organizations specialized in such activities. Using a newly collected municipal level dataset, we test this hypothesis by investigating mafia’s emergence in XIX century Sicily, where a severe lack of state property-right enforcement coincided with a steep rise in international demand for sulfur, Sicily’s most valuable export commodity. Consistently with this hypothesis, we find robust evidence of significantly higher early mafia activity in municipalities with greater sulfur availability.
N54|The organisation of agricultural production in East Germany since World War II: Historical roots and present situation<BR>[Organisation der Agrarproduktion in Ostdeutschland seit dem 2. Weltkrieg: Historische Wurzeln und aktuelle Situation]|Up to the end of World War II, the political-economic framework had been relatively similar all over Germany. However, the farm structure was different. While in both parts, the West and the East, about 90 per cent of all farms cultivated less than 20 ha and about one per cent more than 100 ha, the large fams cultivated about 7 per cent of the agricultural area in the West, but about 30 per cent in the East. Following the unconditional surrender of Germany in 1945 and its division by the four Allies, the differences in the organisation of agricultural production between East and West became more pronounced. In the Soviet Occupation Zone and then with the creation of the German Democratic Republic in October 1949, the socialist model of agricultural production was introduced in three phases: (1) an enforced land reform between 1945-49; (2) the repression of farmers cultivating more than 20 ha, starting in 1949, and finally (3) the collectivization of agricultural production starting in 1952 and finalised in the Socialist Spring in April 1960. While socialist agriculture had been built up on blood and tears, it came to be fully accepted by the East German population over time and heavily defended also by those political forces which pushed for a regime change in 1989. With the collapse of the socialist regime in 1989 and German reunification in 1990, socialist agriculture had to be transformed into a system compatible with pluralistic democracy and market economy. Similarly, those whose assets had been confiscated were supposed to be restituted. However, the legal system at reunification differentiated between those who were expropriated either before 1945 or after 1949 and those between 1945 and 1949 under Soviet occupation. While the first group was entitled to restitution, the latter group received little compensation. At the time of transition, most politicians and agricultural economists assumed that family farming would re-emerge in the East and the modes of agricultural production would adjust between the two parts. However, even more than two decades after reunification, German agriculture is characterized by two distinguished different agricultural production systems. While West German agriculture continued the tradition of small-scale family farms relying on family labour, East German agriculture is characterised by large-scale corporate farms relying on permanently employed labour. In this way, German agriculture can be characterised as One country - Two systems.
N54|Ampliación del regadío, regulación institucional y sostenibilidad en las huertas tradicionales de la España mediterránea|LA lo largo de siglos fue frecuente que en las huertas de la España mediterránea administradas por comunidades de regantes se produjera algo aparentemente irracional: pese a que el riego era básico para intensificar la producción agraria, a primera vista muchas huertas tenían un tamaño menor del que el agua disponible les habría permitido tener. El objetivo del artículo es desentrañar la lógica que explica esa situación. Se muestra que poner obstáculos al crecimiento del área regada era un mecanismo de defensa contra la gran irregularidad de los ríos, al tiempo que se analiza por qué esos obstáculos no siempre fueron capaces de impedir que las huertas se expandieran, en ocasiones de manera excesiva. KEY Classification-JEL: N53. N54. O43. Q25.
N54|Land use changes, landscape ecology and their socioeconomic driving forces in the Spanish Mediterranean coast (the Maresme County, 1850-2005)|We use a set of landscape metrics to study the long-term environmental transformation of a typical coastal Mediterranean area from 1850 to 2005. Our figures show a dramatic environmental deterioration between 1950 and 2005. The main proximate drivers of this landscape degradation are the effects of urban sprawl on former agricultural areas located in the coastal plains, together with the abandonment and reforestation of hilly slopes intercepted by low-density residential areas, highways, and other linear infrastructures. We carry out a statistical redundancy analysis (RDA) to identify certain ultimate socioeconomic and political drivers of these environmental impacts. The results confirm our interpretive hypothesis that: 1) land cover changes determine changes in landscape properties, both structural and functional; 2) these changes are not at random, but related to geographical endowments and socioeconomic or political drivers.
N54|Poor Institutions, Rich Mines: Resource Curse in the Origins of the Sicilian Mafia|With weak lawâ€ enforcement institutions, a positive shock to the value of natural resources may increase demand for private protection and opportunities for rent appropriation through extortion, favouring the emergence of mafiaâ€ type organisations. We test this hypothesis by investigating the emergence of the mafia in twentieth century Sicily, where a severe lack of state propertyâ€ rights enforcement coincided with a steep rise in international demand for sulphur, Sicily's most valuable export commodity. Using historical data on the early incidence of mafia activity and on the distribution of sulphur reserves, we document that the mafia was more present in municipalities with greater sulphur availability.
N54|Provincial grain yields in Spain, 1750-2009|This paper estimates the yields for five grains in 33 provinces of Spain in the mid-18th century. The results show that yields were higher in the north of the country, and that the most fertile provinces of Spain were not far behind the most advanced agricultural regions of the world. Average wheat yields in Spain remained stagnant between 1750 and the late 19th century when they doubled, only to remain stagnant again until the modernisation of the primary sector in the 1960s. Our results show that, in the very long run, yields between provinces tended to converge, and this was the case until the 1960s when the traditional differences in provincial yields began to disappear. The use of artificial fertilisers or new wheat strains were key improvements that helped low yield provinces to break with severe natural constraints such as lack of rainfall or low-quality soils.
N54|Explaining wheat yields in eighteenth-century Spain|From an extensive dataset of wheat yields at municipal level in mid eighteenth-century Spain, a detailed statistical analysis indicates that the differences in wheat yields were mainly a consequence of different natural conditions, and that demand did not have a significant influence. Counterfactual exercises show that improvements in rainfall, altitude or roughness of terrain would have a significant impact on average yields. The paper concludes that, although grain markets in the mid-eighteenth century were well integrated, producers addressed the growing demand not by investing in increasing yields, but by extending the area of cultivated land using the still abundant pastures. The low grain yields in Spain were in part a consequence of the rational behaviour of producers who faced an economic environment characterized by an elastic supply of land
N54|Von Thünen South of the Alps : Access to Markets and Interwar Italian Agriculture|This paper sheds new light on the agricultural side of the Italian regional divide from an economic geography perspective, following a Von Thünen approach. The central hypothesis is that the development of the non-agricultural economy in Northern cities drove the location of agricultural output and inputs during the interwar years. A new database on Italian agriculture around 1930 fully confirms the key role of access to domestic markets in shaping agricultural activity. Thus, the causes of the falling behind of Southern agriculture are uncovered: it is not very surprising that an agricultural divergence joined an already ongoing industrial divergence during a period in which international markets collapsed.
N54|Not only subterranean forests: Wood consumption and economic development in Britain (1850–1938)|This paper analyzes wood consumption in Britain over the period 1850–1938. We calculate the apparent consumption of wood, taking into account both net imports of wood and the home harvest. We then develop some quantitative exercises that correlate wood consumption with GDP, with prices of wood and iron (as an alternative material to wood) and with other measures. The main conclusion is that, although wood had lost its economic centrality after the energy transition, wood consumption continued to grow in Britain both in absolute and relative terms, showing a positive elasticity to GDP superior to the unit. This result allows us to reach a more complete understanding of the socio-metabolic transition associated with the Industrial Revolution. Britain faced the increase in wood demand by relying almost entirely on imported wood, reinforcing the idea that the decoupling of economic growth from land use must to be handled with care, and should be observed not at the national level but on a global scale. Although British economic development was to a great extent focussed on what has been called the “subterranean forests” of coal, it simultaneously supported large tracts of surface foreign forest.
N54|Breaking with natural constraints: provincial grain yields in Spain 1750-2009|"""This paper estimates the yields for five grains in 33 provinces of Spain in the mid eighteenth century. The results show that yields were higher in the north of the country, and that the most fertile provinces of Spain were not far behind the most advanced agricultural regions of the world. Average wheat yields in Spain remained stagnant between 1750 and the late nineteenth century when they doubled just to remain stagnant again until the modernization of the primary sector in the 1960s. Our results show that in the very long run yields between provinces tended to convergence, and that it was from the 1960s when the traditional differences in provincial yields began to disappear. The use of artificial fertilizers or new wheat strains were key improvements that helped low yield provinces to break with severe natural constrains such as the lack of rainfall or low quality soils."""
N54|Latifundia Revisited. Market Power, Land Inequality and Efficiency in Interwar Italian Agriculture|This paper explores a simple though neglected mechanism linking land inequality and inefficiency: market power. In underdeveloped economies with serious constraints on labour mobility, high ownership concentration will endow landowners with market power in local labour markets. The resulting equilibrium explains many of the often criticised features of pre-war Italian latifundia, without the need to factor in irrational behaviour (the preferred explanation of Italian traditional historians) or social institutions and capital market imperfections (explanations advanced by economists in different contexts). According to the model here explored the main effects of inequality are of a distributive rather than of a productive nature. The market power hypothesis is strongly supported by the available quantitative evidence provided by an unexploited dataset on all local labour markets of Italy at the end of the 1930s.
N54|Why did agricultural labour productivity not converge in Europe from 1950 to 2005?|This paper offers a long-term analysis of agricultural labour productivity differences in Europe using econometric techniques. The results show the crucial importance of the land/labour ratio. The continuous exit of manpower from the sector, coupled with increased use of productive factors originating in other sectors of the economy, caused the efficiency of agricultural workers to rise. The different relative importance of these processes across countries largely explains why labour productivity did not converge. In turn, institutions have apparently conditioned differences in productivity, as a direct and inverse relation is detected between membership of the EU and the Communist block and the productivity of agricultural labour.
N54|Peasant Agriculture and Economic Growth: The Case of Southeast Europe c. 1870-1940 reinterpreted|Still in recent research a low productive peasant economy and traditional peasant society are often made responsible for Southeast Europe's economic backwardness prior to 1945. However, the radical change of paradigm after 1960 in the view of peasants as agents of economic growth and of their ability to adjust to markets has surprisingly never been realized in economic history research on the Balkan-states (Romania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Greece). Interpreting agricultural development as a mainly demand-driven process this paper argues that the potential for agricultural growth was much more restricted in Southeast than in Northwest Europe but Balkan peasants seem to have exploited their growth potential as far as possible. There is a lot of evidence that the reasons for sluggish growth before 1940 were definitely not rooted in any 'peasant traditionalism' as often claimed by Balkan elites and many scholars.
N54|Command-and-Control Revisited: Environmental Compliance and Innovation in Swedish Industry 1970-1990|This paper addresses the issue of environmental policy instrument choice for achieving deep emissions reductions in the industrial sector. Specifically, it provides: (a) a theoretical review of the conditions under which performance standards can provide efficient incentives for environmental compliance and innovation; and (b) an analysis of the design and the outcomes of the standards-based regulation of industrial pollutants in Sweden during the period 1970- 1990. The empirical findings suggest that the Swedish regulatory approach comprised many key elements of an efficient policy-induced transition towards radically lower emissions in the metal smelting and pulp and paper industries. The regulation relied heavily on performance standards, thus granting flexibility to firms in terms of selecting the appropriate compliance measures, and the standards were implemented in combination with extended probation periods. R&D projects and the new knowledge that was advanced incrementally in interaction between the company, the environmental authorities and the research institutions provided a direct catalyst to the regulatory process. As such the Swedish regulatory approach provided scope for creative solutions, environmental innovation, and permitted the affected firms to coordinate pollution prevention measures with productive investments.
N54|Persecution Perpetuated: The Medieval Origins of Anti-Semitic Violence in Nazi Germany| How persistent are cultural traits? Using data on anti-Semitism in Germany, we find local continuity over 600 years. Jews were often blamed when the Black Death killed at least a third of Europe's population during 1348--50. We use plague-era pogroms as an indicator for medieval anti-Semitism. They reliably predict violence against Jews in the 1920s, votes for the Nazi Party, deportations after 1933, attacks on synagogues, and letters to Der Stürmer. We also identify areas where persistence was lower: cities with high levels of trade or immigration. Finally, we show that our results are not driven by political extremism or by different attitudes toward violence. JEL Codes: N33, N34, N93, N94, D74. Copyright 2012, Oxford University Press.
N54|Copper and Foreign Investment: The development of the mining industry in Cyprus during the great depression|This paper evaluates the impact of the rapid growth of mining on the Cypriot economy during the period 1921-1938, with special focus on the expansion of copper sulphate mining. During this period the industry was transformed by companies such as the Cyprus Mining Corporation (CMC) and this affected the whole economy and society. The island was for the first time inundated with substantial foreign direct investment, which encouraged technological adaptation and altered labour relations; as such there has been a debate on how beneficial was mining for the economy at that time. Using substantial primary data we estimated output (GDP share), employment and productivity estimates for the mining industry, as well as profit estimates for the foreign mining firms through the use of a counterfactual. The data allows us to argue that mining was very beneficial in increasing labour productivity and earning foreign exchange, but also highlights that the economic and social benefits for the economy were less than those suggested by the colonial authorities due to mass exports of profits.
N54|Especialización en baja calidad: España y el mercado internacional del vino, 1950-1990|This article analyses the causes of the slow modernisation of wine production and the low investment in quality in Spain during the second half of the twentieth century by focusing on the domestic and international market for Spain’s wines. Until the 1980s, demand in the domestic market concentrated on ordinary wines that were mostly sold in bulk. In the international market, exporters also specialised in inferior wines. The international market for cheap Spanish wines expanded until 1970, but this demand sharply declined from the 1980s. Spain’s exporters found it difficult to take advantage of the «globalisation» of wine, and lost market share because of their tardiness in converting to the sale of fine wines. Duality in the international wine market, as well as the characteristics of the globalisation of wine markets, are also studied in this article.
N54|El comunal imaginado. De la transición en los usos de la propiedad comunal en el siglo XX, Güejar Sierra, Granada|This article examines the Güejar Sierra, in the province of Granada, as a case study of continuity/change in the management of common lands and as a laboratory for observing how their functionality has evolved in recent decades. The origin-myth of these commons dates to the expulsion of the Moors at the end of 16th century. These woodlands were managed for agro-forestry production from that time up until the early 20th century. Since then, the Güejar Sierra common lands have been managed for other uses, generating new socio-environmental income linked to activities including mining and ski tourism as part of the Sierra Nevada National Park. This land has remained a commons in spite of intense disputes among institutions seeking to control it. Profound changes in the management of these commons have transformed them into a direct source of income for the community. The commons are controlled by the Junta de Propiedad Particular Colectiva, a local institution that represents the entire community. We will analyse both the institutional dimension of its management and changes in functionality during the 20th century, when the commons ceased to be a source of inputs for the rural economy.
N54|El consumo de productos lácteos en España, 1950-2010|This paper, a case study of the great transformations undergone by food consumption patterns in Spain since c. 1950, reconstructs the evolution of the consumption of milk and milk derivatives. The paper homogenizes and triangulates the information given by several statistical sources, which use different methodologies and cover different periods. This information is combined with qualitative material. Milk consumption grew rapidly during the first half of the period and, after a phase of stagnation, started to decrease in the last years of the twentieth century. On the contrary, the consumption of (an increasing variety of) milk derivatives grew steadily throughout the whole of the period. The contrast between the respective trajectories of milk and its derivatives underlines the relevant role played by the elaboration and diversification of foodstuffs in the shaping of consumption patterns.
N54|Consequences of Climate Change for agriculture and nature in the Netherlands|After the publication of the IPCC reports on climate change, the Dutch Meteorological Institute of the Netherlands (KNMI) conducted a study on the consequences of climate change for the Netherlands. Four different scenarios regarding the rise in temperature and their consequences have been developed. Other institutes have elaborated more on these scenarios, making predictions on the effects of climate change on nature and agriculture for the Netherlands. Overall conclusions are that climate change will have dramatic consequences for nature, agriculture and Dutch society in general, being so exposed to rising sea levels. Depending on the scenario, consequences have various gradients of impacts and effects. In general, it is estimated that winters will be softer and wetter, and that summers will be hotter and drier with intermittent torrential rains that can have dire consequences for agriculture and nature. Growing seasons will start earlier and will last longer which could lead to mismatches in species interaction. Species of various kind will suffer the effects of climate change and will disappear from the Netherlands altogether, either through extinction or by moving away north. Other warmth loving species from the south of the Netherlands will move upwards towards the country leading to possible threats to indigenous species.
N54|Towards a resource policy—unleashing productivity dynamics and balancing international distortions|The paper outlines guidelines and pillars of a resource policy. Two reasons favour the formulation of such policy: a demand to increase sluggish resource productivity growth as well as environmental damages occurring along material flows at an international scale. Thus, it is both the innovation and environmental perspective that legitimate policies. The paper surveys recent empirical trends. Referring to research on innovation and transition management, it develops guidelines for a resource policy, namely, market order, provision function, learning processes, market development, and orientation. It furthermore describes four instruments as potential pillars of a future policy mix: a tax on construction minerals, an ecologically differentiated VAT tax, and an international covenant for metals and an international convention for sustainable resource management. The paper finally reflects these guidelines and pillars against weaknesses and ongoing discussions of climate policy. It concludes that despite all uncertainties and complexities, a well-designed resource policy is on the verge of becoming essential for unleashing eco-innovation dynamics. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2012
N54|Agricultural and Food Trade in European Union Countries, 1963-2000: A Gravity Equation Approach|The proliferation of regional trade agreements in the last decades of the 20th century has intensified the debate about the different processes of regional integration. This study contributes to this debate by analysing the principal determinants of the growth in trade flows of the countries making up the European Union. The work analyses EU agri?food trade from a disaggregated perspective, by products, imports and exports, from 1963 to 2000. An extended gravity equation model is estimated employing Prais? Weistein estimation and fixed effects in order to improve on the results reported in previous studies. The results of the present study show that in EU countries the growth of per capita income stimulated exports and reduced imports. Specifically, its exports were positively influenced by the presence of the home market effect, while its imports were strongly influenced by the effects of the liberalisation of intra?EU trade, as also occurred in the case of intra?EU trade flows.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N54|The Implicit Theory of Historical Change in the work of Alan S. Milward|Alan S. Milward was an economic historian who developed an implicit theory of historical change. His interpretation which was neither liberal nor Marxist posited that social, political, and economic change, for it to be sustainable, had to be a gradual process rather than one resulting from a sudden, cataclysmic revolutionary event occurring in one sector of the economy or society. Benign change depended much less on natural resource endowment or technological developments than on the ability of state institutions to respond to changing political demands from within each society. State bureaucracies were fundamental to formulating those political demands and advising politicians of ways to meet them. Since each society was different there was no single model of development to be adopted or which could be imposed successfully by one nation-state on others, either through force or through foreign aid programs. Nor could development be promoted simply by copying the model of a more successful economy. Each nation-state had to find its own response to the political demands arising from within its society. Integration occurred when a number of nation- states shared similar political objectives which they could not meet individually but could meet collectively. It was not simply the result of their increasing interdependence. It was how and whether nation-states responded to these domestic demands which determined the nature of historical change.
N54|Was land reform necessary? : access to land in Spain, 1860 to 1931|In Spain, land reform involving the break-up of large southern estates was a central issue during the first decades of the twentieth century. It was justified on the grounds of economic efficiency, social equity and the distribution of political power. This paper uses new provincial data on landless workers, land prices and agrarian wages to consider if government intervention was desirable because land redistribution did not take place. Our evidence shows that the relative amount of landless workers decreased largely from 1890 to 1930. This was due to two interrelated market forces: structural change that drained rural population and a decrease in the ratio between land prices and rural wages, which made land cheaper for landless workers. So, given that rural markets did not restrict access to land, the government-initiated land redistribution had no clear-cut justification.
N54|Market power inside the Belgian coal industry, 1901-45: a new empirical industrial organisation approach|"""We analyse the impact of economic cycle on firms ability to sustain a collusive behaviour inside the Belgian coal industry during the first half of the twentieth century. In order to define precisely the economic conjuncture, we consider the level of the demand (high/low) as well as its evolutions (downward/upward) so that we define four different states. Econometric results highlight the fact that prices are high during the first part of the economic cycle (i.e. demand is increasing). When demand approaches its peak, collusive firms must reduce their price in order to reduce the incentive to cheat on collusive agreements. In the downward part of the economic cycle, the collusive price must be reduced further in order to preserve collusive agreements."""
N54|Economic Growth and Clean Water in the Göta River - A Pilot Study of Collective Action and the Environmental Kuznets Curve 1895-2000|Because of a growing population and industrialization, total pollution levels in many water-courses around the world have increased considerably for hundreds, if not thousands, of years. In the last few decades, however, the trend of increasing water pollution has been turned in many industrialized countries, delinking economic growth from environmental pollution. This is in essence one aspect of what many environmental economists call an ‘environmental Kuznets curve’. The research question of this project is why there is such a pattern to water quality in many countries? Much previous literature on the topic studies only the positive impact of environmental legislation. This study, focusing upon the case of the river Göta in Sweden, undertakes a more thorough analysis, including other crucial factors as well such as industrial transformation and decline, as well as stakeholder associations. The project utilizes a very long series of data on the water quality in the river Göta, covering more than 100 years of data for crucial indicators, in order to establish what factors were contributing to reducing levels of pollution. Analyzing the driving factors of this ‘Environmental Kuznets Curve’ can give us crucial insights into how a sustainable development might be achieved in the future.
N54|Vino, turismo e innovación: Las Rutas del Vino de España, una estrategia integrada de desarrollo rural/Wine, Tourism and Innovation: The Wine Routes of Spain, an Integrated Strategy of Rural Development|La importancia del viñedo en la economía agraria a lo largo de la historia es incuestionable. La búsqueda de la calidad de los vinos en un mercado cada vez más competitivo y globalizado es un objetivo de todas las comarcas vitícolas del mundo. En este contexto, el afán por innovar y ofrecer al consumidor productos más diversificados y complementarios al propio vino ha llevado a la creación de una amplia oferta enoturística, articulada en muchas ocasiones en torno a las denominadas rutas del vino. Con el ánimo de garantizar al turista un producto turístico de alta calidad, se ha creado el producto Rutas del Vino de España, basado en la idea de que el vino puede ser considerado un “producto intensivo en territorio” (PIT) al contener un elevado componente territorial referido al lugar en el que se produce. The importance of the vineyard in the agricultural economy throughout history is unquestionable. The quest for quality wines in a market increasingly competitive and globalized world is a goal of all wine regions in the world. In this context, the effort to innovate and to provide consumers more diversified and complementary products to the wine itself has led to the creation of a wide range of wine tourism, articulated on many occasions about the so-called wine routes. With the aim to guarantee the visitor a high quality tourism product, it has created the product Wine Routes of Spain, based on the idea that wine can be defined as a “territorial intensive product” (TIP) since it contains a strong reference in the territory in which it is produced.
N54|Energy consumption and aggregate income in Italy: cointegration and causality analysis|The aim of this article is to assess the empirical evidence of the nexus between aggregate income and energy consumption for Italy during the period 1970-2009, using a time-series approach. After a brief introduction, a survey of the economic literature on this issue is shown, before discussing the data and intro-ducing some econometric techniques. Stationarity tests reveal that both series are non-stationary, or I(1). Moreover, we found a cointegration relationship between the two variables. The short-run dynamics of the variables show that the flow of causality runs from energy use to GDP, and there is a long-run bi-directional causal relationship (or feedback effect) between the two series. Consequently, we conclude that energy is a limiting factor to GDP growth in Italy.
N54|Economic valuation of coastal zone quality improvements|Individuals’ decision to use a particular coastal beach is influenced by their preferences and perceptions as well as beach’s characteristics. This study examines visitors’ attributes and desired site specific characteristics in order to determine the factors affecting willingness to pay for an improvement quality (environment, water as well as recreation activities) program. A contingent valuation survey is carried out in order to evaluate the economic benefits of improving coastal quality of beaches in a coastal line of an area in Central Greece (Volos) where persistent failures to meet the standards of the Blue Flag program are observed. Our empirical findings suggest that the major variables affecting respondents’ willingness to pay were related to income, age, gender, coastal recreational activities and environmental quality of the site as well as to previous environmental behavior and mainly if they had paid for environmental protection in the past.
N54|The evolution of environmental thinking in economics|This paper discusses the development of environmental economics from the Industrial Revolution in Europe to today. Specifically, it comments on the general similarities and differences between the representatives of the schools of economic thought concerning the environment. Among others, the issues of scarcity of natural resources, of population growth as well as the limits to growth are discussed and the various views are presented. The paper also comments on the trends of environmental, evolutionary and ecological economics.
N54|Las instituciones de riego en la España del este. Una reflexión a la luz de la obra de Elinor Ostrom|In Governing the Commons, Elinor Ostrom studied a large sample of institutions developed to regulate the use of common pool resources, in order to obtain empirical data that could provide the basis for her theory of self-organized collective action. Olstrom observed that all the analyzed institutions, which had survived for a long time, fulfilled the same eight «design principles». The communities of irrigators in the orchards of Valencia, Murcia, Orihuela, and Alicante were amongst the sample institutions. However, the information taken from them came from works that defended their democratic character or sustained that irrigators themselves had the capability to modify irrigation rules, views with which most Spanish experts disagree. In this article we study whether Olstrom´s eight «design principles» were present in the orchards or not and reach the conclusion that sometimes they were not, a fact that does diminish the helpfulness of the powerful theoretical instruments developed by Ostrom, to understand the logic behind the workings of the Spanish irrigators’ institutions.
N54|Colonización interior y democracia: la reforma agraria italiana de 1950|Which was the role of the Italian land reform in the 20th century? Did the land reform carry out a democratic and anti-communist policy or was it an important step toward an anti-capitalist social revolution? None of those hypotheses are very convincing. This paper debates the thinking of the reformer and «meridionalist» intellectual Manlio Rossi-Doria, and the political evolution of the interior colonization policy and the «integral land reclamation» in Southern Italy. The study starts off in the fascist «ventenio» and finishes after the 2WW, in a time of democracy. Land reform was the first step of the European regional policy of cohesion as well as the continuation of the Risorgimento programme, aiming at the construction of contemporary Italy. The agrarian reform did not only force the redistribution of the extensive «latifondo» (large estate), but also the concentration of land plots. Generally speaking the «meridionalist» policy had diverse objectives: agronomic modernization, hydraulic and real estate appreciation, the transformation of human labour, environmental sustainability and the fostering of civic spirit and public morality. This paper deals too with the relationship between civilization and democratization. The aim is to shed some light on the role that interior colonization-land reform policy might have plaid in the Mediterranean area.
N54|Estados Unidos y la reforma agraria italiana (1947-1953)|This article reconstructs the American policy regarding the Italian Agrarian Reform, launched by the De Gasperi government from 1950 onwards. The USA government carefully followed the political and technical discussions related to the agrarian reform and financed through the Marshall Plan, after 1947, many land reclamation projects related to the transformation of the Italian agriculture. In the article’s first part, some protagonists of the Truman administration involved in Marshall Plan are introduced. In the second place, the American foreign policy towards Italy in the primary sector and the position of USA regarding the agrarian reform and the peasant struggles, especially in Calabria, are analyzed. Finally, the article describes the results of some studies, written by American officers, on the political effects of the reform in the elections of 1952 and the 1953.
N54|Wheat varieties and technological change in Europe, 19th and 20th centuries: New issues in economic history|This article: a) analyzes the evolution of biological innovations in wheat varieties from the mid 19th to the end of 20th century in Britain, France, Spain and Italy, and b) shows that the analysis of technological changes in agriculture provides a better understanding of the evolution of grain yields in these countries. The article also shows the effect of four key variables in these innovations: scientific advances in the field of biology, alongside environmental, institutional and technological factors. In addition, it provides a new indicator for the evolution of these innovations, which can be particularly useful to better determine the distribution of short-stemmed and semidwarf wheats over time: wheat production per weight unit of hay harvested.
N54|Nuevas perspectivas en historia económica: innovaciones biológicas y cambio técnico en el sector triguero europeo, siglos XIX-XX|IThis article: a) analyzes the evolution of biological innovations in wheat varieties from the middle of nineteenth century to the end of twentieth century, in Britain, France, Spain and Italy, and b) shows that when we consider that aspect of the technological changes in agriculture, it explains better the evolution of grain yields in that cereal. The article also shows the impact of the following four variables on these innovations: scientific advances in biology; and other environmental, institutional and technological factors. The article also provides a new indicator on the evolution of these innovations, which can be particularly useful to better determine the distribution in time of short-stemmed and semi dwarf wheat: wheat production per weight unit of the hay harvested.
N54|Lenin und die Volkszählung in Russland 1920|No abstract is available for this item.
N54|Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union since the Fall of the Berlin Wall: Review of the Changes in the Environment and Natural Resources|This paper reviews the environmental record of the transition countries of Eastern Europe and Central Asia since the fall of the Berlin Wall, with a focus on areas of key concern to public policy at the present time. With the impacts of environment on public health being given the highest priority, we examined several associated health indicators at the national level, as well as looking at important environmental issues at the local level. In this respect, we focus on environmental problems related to air and water quality, land contamination, and solid waste management. Despite showing a highly differentiated performance across the region, the results suggest that inadequate environmental management seen in several of the transition countries in the past 20 years has put peopleâ€™s health and livelihood under huge threats. Moreover, this paper looks at the development of policy responses and resources, i.e. environmental expenditures, in these countries, during the process of transiting from centrally planned economies to market-based one. Similarly, we identify various degrees of progress across the region. The findings reinforce the need for better coherence between national environmental expenditure and international environmental assistance, as well as the actual enforcement of national regulations and international agreements in those non-EU transition countries.
N54|Change and development in the Spanish wine industry, 1950-2009|In recent years the European winegrowing regions have been carrying out deep changes in response to increasing international competition, outstanding the case of Spain. This study analyses the main sequences of changes the Spanish wine industry has undergone: the evolution of consumption; the role of exports; the spread of marketing and business organization; the factors that have been involved in the modernization of the wineries. An initial valuation leads us to conclude that it has been an authentic wine revolution in reference to the transformations that have occurred in a period of farming changes and technological modernization for the businesses
N54|Las cooperativas españolas y los ciclos económicos: una primera aproximación, 1942-2002|Este trabajo tiene como objeto realizar un primer diagnóstico del comportamiento de las cooperativas españolas desde mediados del siglo XX hasta los primeros años de la actual centuria. Muestra cómo reaccionaron las cooperativas ante las trasformaciones estructurales de la economía española donde el impacto de los cambios políticos internos, así como una mayor apertura del país que culminó con la entrada en la Comunidad Económica Europea, modificó un marco normativo que afectó a las empresas cooperativas. Se utiliza el método transversal dejando a un lado el análisis por etapas tan característico en el discurso histórico. La idea es explicar al lector como las empresas cooperativas han ido respondiendo a los vaivenes de los ciclos de la economía española, qué sectores de la actividad productiva se vieron más afectados, y cómo se inició la modernización cuyo resultado fue la aparición de empresas de mayor tamaño. Se quiere indagar si los ciclos de creación de las cooperativas guardan relación con los períodos de expansión o contracción de la economía española. Se trata de conocer si en períodos de dificultades económicas son las empresas con perfil solidario las que mejor reaccionaron
N54|Was land reform necessary? Access to land in Spain, 1904-34|"""A land reform involving the breaking-up of large Southern estates was a central issue in Spain during the first decades of the 20th century. It was justified on grounds of economic efficiency, social equity and the distribution of political power. Empirical analysis of the economic reasons for such major policy reform is, however, scant and often contradictory. This paper uses new provincial data on land prices, together with provincial-level variation in wages to address some of the unresolved issues of earlier studies. The results suggest that land reform was not necessary given that access to land market was improving significantly during the period. The paper draws important implications for the historiography on Spain, particularly from the fact that the observed impact of the operation of rural factor markets seems to have been positive for development. """
N54|Technical change, carbon dioxide reduction and energy consumption in the Swedish pulp and paper industry 1973-2006|This study examines the historical relation between carbon dioxide emission and output growth in the Swedish pulp and paperindustry 1973-2006. We find that the industry achieved an 80 per cent reduction in CO2 emission. Foremost energy substitution but also efficiently improvement contributed to the reduction. Growing prices of fossil fuel due to market price change and taxes and subvention, explains most of the efficiency improvements and substitution. Taxes on energy explain 40 per cent of the total reduction in CO2 intensity. Most of the reduction took place before the implementation of active climate policy in 1991.
N54|Unintentional Climate Policy: Swedish experiences of carbon dioxide emissions and economic growth 1950-2005|This paper examines the development of carbon dioxide emissions in Sweden, especiallyn with a focus on the absolute reductions during the post-war period, during the 1970s and 1980s. The paper shows that the largest reductions were achieved before the introduction of an active climate policy in 1991. This was in turn the result of significant improvements in energy efficiency and energy conversion, while structural changes were considerably less important. One reason behind this decoupling process may be that the active energy policy put pressure on households and industries to conserve energy and to substitute from oil to electricity and biofuels. The process was substantially reinforced by the development of world oil prices in combination with the development of domestic electricity prices, where nuclear power seems to have played an important role.
N54|Oil and Democracy in Russia|"Russia is often considered a perfect example of the so-called ""resource curse""--the argument that natural resource wealth tends to undermine democracy. Given high oil prices, some observers see the country as virtually condemned to authoritarian government for the foreseeable future. Reexamining various data, I show that such fears are exaggerated. Evidence from around the world suggests that for countries like Russia with an established oil industry, even large increases in the scale of mineral incomes have only a minor effect on the political regime. In addition, Russia--a country with an industrialized economy, a highly educated, urbanized population, and an oil sector that remains majority private-owned--is unlikely to be susceptible to most of the hypothesized pernicious effects of resource dependence."
N54|"""Fortress Europe"" in long-term perspective: agricultural protection in the European Community, 1957-2003"|Since its inception, the European Union’s Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) has been discussed controversely. Data from the OECD and the World Bank show that the protectionist effects of the CAP between the 1960s and the 1980s were larger than those of its national predecessors. Moreover, there is evidence that already the piecemeal reforms of the 1980s re-duced the level of protection and support in the EU, that is prior to the MacSharry reform of 1992.
N54|The Making of the Italian Constitution and Agricultural Policies of the 50’s and 60’s|The economic and social problems of the rural areas had considerable impact on the making of the 1948 Constitution and subsequent legislation. The paper reviews the important supporting role of the Economic Commission highlighting two outstanding features of the Republican Constitution: (i) the power of the law to ensure that private and public economic activities be consistent with the pursuit of social ends; (ii) the explicit reference to size limits and other obligations for private landed property. Finally, it describes the scope and degree of success of the agricultural policies approved after the Constitution enactment.
N54|Land Reform in Sicily in the Early Post-War Period|In the first post-war period in Europe the governments proceeded to redistributive reforms of the earth, in Italy tried the way of the reclamations through the Opera nazionale combattenti. In this context the Sicily was the main testing ground in order to overlap to latifondistici orderings lacking in investments a modeled system of economic conduction on the tradition of the cooperativismo, plus correspondent to the requirements of a modern capitalist society. The plan of requalification of the territory was set the objective to assault latifondo with a modern legislation on the expropriations and the contracts to improvement. However the sicialian example allows us to shortly conclude that the based project on the diffusion of the management cooperativism and sustained by the public intervention it was shipwrecked because of a local political rank little equipped to receive the challenges of the capitalistic development.
N54|«El Pacto Andaluz por la Naturaleza» (1985). La confluencia del movimiento campesino y el movimiento ecologista|In recent years there has been an intensive debate on the relationship between peasantry and environmentalism in Environmental History. The starting point was the controversial definition of Popular Environmentalism by Ramachandra Guha and Martínez Alier (1997). In the present article we focus on these ideas through the analysis of a specific social movement, the «Andalusian Agreement for Nature» (Pacto Andaluz por la Naturaleza, 1985/1986), one of the first expressions of the Spanish green movement. The interesting feature lies in its origin. This green movement, claiming for a new sustainable use of forests, arose from the confluence of several environmentalist organizations and the traditional Peasant Union (Sindicato de Obreros del Campo). The struggles achieved a new Forest Policy (1989) adopted by the regional government, introducing new ecological values in the population beyond the traditional conservationist conception of environmentalism. This is the history of the confluence of an Old Social Movement, the peasant movement, and a New Social Movement, the green one. We consider this to be a good example for understanding the complexity and the auto-transformation capacity of the social conflict.
N54|Juan Díaz del Moral (1870-1948): historia social y reforma agraria|This article aims at suggesting a fresh reading of a book considered as a model for social history since its publication in 1929. Its author, Juan Díaz del Moral, was not a professional historian, but a notary of a village in Córdoba, Bujalance, and an olive grower. In Historia de las agitaciones campesinas andaluzas he analyzed the reasons of the social struggle in the countryside of Córdoba -inspired by anarchism- at the beginning of the 20th century, especially in the triennium 1918-1920. As a member of the parliament that passed the constitution of the II Republic in 1931, he played a major role in the design of the project of agrarian reform, rejecting the demands of land redistribution that according to him were popular among small peasants. Inspired by the reforms carried out after the Great War —a subject he dealt with in a book published posthumously by one of his sons— he underlined the will to foster a modern agriculture based upon large estates and the gradual access of leaseholders to land property. He belonged to the pro-European bourgeoisie that, relying on a differential analysis of productive structures, found in the collaboration between capital and labour the possible way to appease social tensions.
N54|Repoblaciones, paisaje forestal y desarrollo industrial en el País Vasco atlántico (1940-1975)|The aim of this article is to analyze the transformation of forest landscape in the Atlantic Basque Country and the complex factors and actors who participated in that process during Francoism (1939-1975).With a high predominance of private property, reforestation was largely a private initiative. Although the sources consulted come mainly from different public administrations involved in woodlands management, the preponderance of the particular owner has allowed us to analyse circumstances and mechanisms often ignored when dealing exclusively with public forest and its man-agreement. The intensive reforestation, the introduction of new species, a new institutional framework, and changes in the productive orientation of woodlands, within a context of strong industrial growth and rural decline, have changed dramatically both, the landscape and the environment, as well as the character of the industry and forest uses.
N54|Guerra Civil, autarquía franquista y bienestar biológico en el mundo rural valenciano (1936-1949)|This article goes into the study of Spanish Civil post-war effects in the nutritional conditions and health of the populations. It analyses the impact the Civil War (1936-1939) and francoist autarchy (1940-1959) had in the biological standards of living of the Valencian rural populations. We have built series of medium heights from the height data of conscripts who were measured in diverse Valencian rural municipalities. The results show that drafts height of Civil War continued increasing and was truncated when the francoist autarchy started. Conscripts who lived in irrigated areas were taller than those who lived in dry farming areas. Finally, social inequalities in height according to the occupation and literacy teaching of conscripts in the diverse Valencian rural world are shown for the period 1940-1950.
N54|Presión inmobiliaria y destrucción de sistemas agrarios y suelos de calidad. El ejemplo de la Comunidad de Madrid|This paper analyses the joint evolution of the urban and agricultural systems in the community of Madrid. The study is based on the information obtained directly with the interpretation of aerial photograph in 1956, 1980 and 2005. This has made possible to crate a geographic system of information very appropriate to obtain cartographic and statistical information about the evolution and quality of the agricultural land. The scale of the work is 1:25.000. The text analyzes this evolution, pointing out the key factors of the tendencies and processes observed in the period of time. It analyzes in depth the events occurred from 1930 to 2005, giving more detailed information about the quality and use of the involved agricultural land. In conclusion, it can be said that the introduction of the model of urban sprawl speeded up the destruction of good quality agricultural land, and the disorganization of the agricultural systems in the last period of time analyzed (1980-2005). This has been influenced by the last two building booms that have taken place in Madrid. This work is much more significant than a mere regional study, since it has established the rules of behaviour that have defined the interaction of the urban systems with the surrounding urban areas in Spain.
N54|Mejorar y quedarse. La cesión de tierra a rentas por debajo del equilibrio en la Valencia del siglo XIX|By custom, in several different regions of Europe tenants were the owners of the improvements they carried out on the farm. As a result of such customs, rents usually remained below the Ricardian equilibrium over long periods of time and therefore cannot be used to calculate the total factor productivity in agriculture. This paper examines the logic underlying the functioning of the custom that came into being in nineteenth-century Valencia. This is followed by a brief comparison between the Valencia custom, the Irish tenant right and the French mauvais gré.
N54|Governing scarcity. Water markets, equity and efficiency in pre-1950s eastern Spain|It is usually taken for granted that the existence of water markets allows economic efficiency gains to be achieved at the expense of equity losses. This paper addresses the issue by analysing the functioning of the irrigation communities in pre-1950s eastern Spain. While in some of them the water inhered in the land and could not be sold, in others there were tradable water rights. In the paper it is shown that, in the former, not only was equity greater but in fact the resource was also used more efficiently.
N54|Evolución histórica de la Superficie Agrícola Utilizada en Galicia (1962-2006). Integración de fuentes estadísticas y cartográficas| En el año 2007 fue aprobada por el Parlamento de Galicia la ley de creación del Banco de Tierras de Galicia. Entre los objetivos planteados por esta ley figura el mantenimiento de la Superficie Agrícola Utilizada (SAU) de la Comunidad Autónoma y la recuperación de la que se habría perdido en años anteriores. Trabajos previamente publicados por otros autores, apoyados fundamentalmente sobre los datos de los Censos Agrarios, concluyeron que, efectivamente, la SAU habría descendido en Galicia de modo muy considerable durante el último medio siglo. Dado que el estudio de la evolución de los usos del suelo requiere el análisis de diferentes fuentes de información de tipo estadístico y cartográfico, este trabajo tiene como objetivo revisar las conclusiones sobre la evolución de SAU tratando de integrar la información ofrecida por otras fuentes (anuarios estadísticos, mapas de usos, SIGPAC, entre otros). Las conclusiones del trabajo no ponen en duda la existencia de un descenso de SAU, pero sitúan el período de mayor descenso en las décadas posteriores a 1990 y ofrecen una estimación de la superficie afectada en torno a las 75.000 ha.
N54|Contra la virtud de pedir… Barreras administrativas a la difusión de tractores en España: 1950-1960|The mechanization of the Spanish countryside after 1950 has been traditionally understood as a process of induced innovation, a result of rural exodus which put up the price of labour. For this same reason, this process it has been thought to take off only during the 1960s. This article highlights the importance in the incorporation of tractors already in the fifties, despite the existence of strong administrative barriers for their acquisition. In contrast to the significance usually given to the change in agricultural wages, this work emphasizes the negative trend in relative prices (partly due to the Franco’s regime price policy) as the principal stimulus for the Spanish mechanization during the decade of 1950.Nevertheless, the serious foreign difficulties of the Spanish economy hindered the purchase of tractors, subjecting it to an administrative complex network for the distribution of the equipment. This article explains such network, as well as the different capacity showed by the Spanish provinces, depending on the ability of actors and institutions to maneuver in that scenario. KEY Classification-JEL: N54, Q16, Q18
N54|The Necessity for the Modernization of the Technical-Material Base of Agricultural Exploitations within the Process of Forming Competition-Economy|The necessity for the modernization of the production processes in agriculture resides in the fact that this is the most important means to raise agricultural productivity, especially in the long term, to reduce production costs and to raise economic profitability, with a direct positive impact on the raising of income for the ones who undergo their activity in the agricultural sector. The case study conducted in Galati county covers the 2006-2007 period regarding the situation of the tractor and agricultural engine fleet as well as the evolution of chemically applied fertilizer consumption.
N54|The emergence of the 'coastal steelworks' in the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), 1952-1967|The coal and steel production was key in the post-war rebuilding of the European economy. However, after WWII, Germany still had the technological knowledge and experience to quickly regain its pre-war position as the dominant economic force in Europe. In response to this ‘problem’, the political leaders of six Western European countries founded the European Coal and Steel Community or ECSC, which they hoped would provide a common legal framework for the coal and steel industry. When the ECSC was founded, all six founding countries of the ECSC produced steel and all but two also produced substantial quantities of coal. However, there were considerable differences in the ‘regional concentration’ of the coal and steel companies and before 1952 (the first year of the ECSC), a (relatively) small geographical area was responsible for more than 90 % of both the European coal and steel production. We have then looked at how the relative importance of this ‘industrial triangle’ in the total coal and steel production of the ECSC has decreased between 1952 and 1967 and we discuss the different causes of this decrease. More specifically, we show how the importance of the so-called ‘coastal steelworks’ has increased between 1952 and 1967.
N54|The ‘Transaction Cost Approach’ and the Performance of the Belgian Dairy Co-operatives Before 1940|We see that Belgian industrial dairy production before World War II lagged the developments of other countries in the same region and of the same size such as Denmark and The Netherlands. The share of home production remained remarkably high, while within the industrial segment the number of private to co-operative creameries was high compared to the more successful countries. We argue that this is no coincidence. Co-operative creameries were better suited to deal with the problems posed by the organisation and technology of dairy production at the time. The lacklustre performance of the Belgian dairy industry was therefore connected to the underdevelopment of the co-operative sector. The co-operative spirit of Belgian farmers suffered due to some historical events such as the large scale introduction of farm cream separators and especially the outbreak of World War I. This erosion of co-operative spirit diminished the attractiveness and binding power of the co-operative creameries.
N54|Explaining differences in EMAS participation rates across Europe: the importance of institutions, incomplete information and path dependence|No abstract is available for this item.
N54|French Agriculture 1250-1550: Crisis And Continuity|Between 1300 and 1500 the French agricultural economy was subjected to massive demographic, political, fiscal and monetary shocks. Despite these shocks, the seigniorial system of property rights governing the ownership and use of land remained largely unchanged. This paper describes the shocks and analyes the responses to them.
N54|Bienestar biológico y crecimiento agrario en la Cataluña rural, 1840-1936|This article explores the relationship between biological welfare and agrarian growth in western Catalonia between mid-nineteenth century and the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War. Using average height data for the male cohorts born between 1840 and 1936, it shows that heights remained stagnant during the second half of the 19th century. This stagnation took place in a context of important agrarian changes but modest land productivity improvements. On the contrary, male heights substantially grew in Western Catalonia over the first third of the 20th century, coinciding with the rise of agrarian productivity. These findings may help to a better understanding on the links between human welfare, standard of living, and economic growth in rural societies.
N54|El nivel de vida en el medio rural de Castilla y León. Una constatación antropométrica, 1840-1970|The aim of this job is to estimate the effects of the agrarian capitalism on Castile and León’s rural population using anthropometric indicators. Our results show that the economic growth of these areas based in extensive agriculture and food industry generated less welfare than the industrialization and a more unequal income distribution. The fall of the standards of living during the central decades of the 19th century was higher in these rural lands than in towns. Since the taller men left their villages, emigration increased these differences between rural and urban areas.
N54|La obra de Octavio Elorrieta (1881-1962). El monte al servicio de la economía|This paper analyzes the professional life and the work of Octavio Elorrieta y Artaza, who became, with his works about forest economy and his positions in the Spanish Forest Administration, the most influential forest engineer in Spain in the early 20th Century. The article tackles the proposals of Elorrieta on forest exploitation, forest policy, and the possibilities that the forestland offered towards solving the agrarian social problem in the South of the country in the thirties. It also suggests why it is worthwhile reading this author nowadays. The main conclusion is that Elorrieta played a central role in the definition of a new way of perceiving forest lands; a new perception that, on the one hand, tried to set those areas in an outstanding place of national policy in order to increase their production and to guarantee their conservation, and, on the other hand, it involved the potential danger to reduce the conception of forests just to its bare economic aspects.
N54|Los retos de la viticultura en Baleares, 1836-1936|The article reviews the evolution of the vineyards in the Balearic Islands (with a special focus on the island of Menorca –the least studied of the archipelago) by means of fiscal and production registers unknown until now. Special emphasis is put on the development of the vine economy from the beginning of the 19th century and the different impacts of diseases on production, consumption and commercialization in Menorca and Mallorca. Two models are identified: one from Menorca focused on its own market, in which the commercial capital inflow is limited; and another from Mallorca, based on international demands, generating a potent mercantile network that takes advantage of the Phylloxera attacks to the French vineyards. There are remarks on the consequences of Powdery mildew and Downy mildew mainly, which contribute to explain the vine decline on the Balearic Islands since the end of the 19th century.
N54|Strengthening agricultural innovation capacity: are innovation brokers the answer?| Taking the case of Dutch agriculture as an example, this paper examines the emergence and role of innovation brokers in stimulating agricultural innovation system interaction and innovation capacity building, and reflects upon their potential role in developing and emerging countries' agriculture and how their emergence and functioning can be fostered. It concludes that innovation brokerage is likely to be relevant in developing countries, that public or donor investment may be needed to overcome inherent tensions regarding the legitimacy and funding of such players in the innovation system and that stimulating the emergence of innovation brokers requires a policy that supports institutional learning and experimentation to ensure that the brokers become locally embedded.
N54|On the road to industrialization: nutritional status in Saxony, 1690–1850|Saxony was one of the pioneer regions in the German modern economic growth. We analyze the Saxon nutritional status to infer the effects of early industrialization on the population standard of living. We find that the nutritional status in the eighteenth century was relatively high and heights fluctuated mainly because of wars. From the 1770s the average nutritional status declined steadily, with the exception of the Napoleonic period, until the mid of the nineteenth century. The decline, particularly accentuated after 1815, is related to the high share of urbanization, the increase in the relative price of food, and the strong dependence on food imports.
N54|The Agricultural and Food Trade in the First Globalization: Spanish Table Wine Exports 1871 to 1935 – A Case Study|The objective of the present study is to analyze the overall trajectory of Spanish table wine exports during the period 1871–1935 and provide convincing explanations of the pattern. Thus, we employ an approach that takes all of the possible explanatory factors into account, instead of adopting a narrower approach which focuses on a single principal factor. The methodology employed consists of using a gravity model to explain trade flows in Spanish table wine. Our results highlight the key role of trade policies in the determination of export possibilities and the difficulties derived from the export of products which are characterized by the low or non-existent change in demand when income changes. These results may shed a little more light on the determinants of trade in the first phase of globalization. (JEL Classification: F14, N73, N74, Q17)
N54|“How Similar to South-Eastern Europe were the Islands of Cyprus and Malta in terms of Agricultural Output and Credit? Evidence during the Interwar Period”|The paper is part of an ongoing process of estimating the GDP of Cyprus and Malta for the interwar period. The islands of Cyprus and Malta have always been considered as similar economically to other South-Eastern European states, despite the lack of historical evidence to prove it. The paper uses recently complied primary sector output estimates for the interwar period (1921 – 1938) to evaluate that the economic structure of the islands was different from each other, as well as from other South-Eastern European states. The output of the agricultural sector per capita indicated that the islands were not keeping up to other Southern-European States. Recovery of the primary sector in Cyprus came from the rapid expansion of copper mining and not from the growth of agriculture. The different growth trajectory of the islands lies partly to their differing economic structure. Malta’s economy was exceptional due to the high urbanisation of the island, leading to the economy’s dependency on the presence of the British navy. Cyprus shared the South-Eastern European problems of high population growth rates, fragmented land holdings, and poor rural credit institutions which combined in such a way to prevent a shift towards other agricultural products. The inefficiency of the credit system in Cyprus was particularly important in checking the agricultural sector’s growth.
N54|Climate Variability and Health: Sweden 1751-2004|Several studies have examined the link between climate and health, mainly focusing on the short term impacts of extreme temperatures. This paper analyzes instead the long term relation between climate variability and health using Swedish temperature and mortality data for the period 1751-2004 using different time scales. We find that periods with higher temperature are associated with lower mortality. The results indicate that long term climate variations in annual mean temperatures and not short term variations explain the connection between temperature and mortality. Considering annual extreme temperatures, we find that extreme low winter temperatures are correlated with higher short term mortality. We identify the impact of the 11-year solar cycle on crop yields as a possible explanation for our findings. The results have besides their economic-historical merits implications for modern day policy for developing countries, especially since the correlation with solar activity implies predictability.
N54|Did Economics Cause World War II?|Historians have long recognized the role of economic resources and organization in determining the outcome of World War II: the Nazi economy lacked the economic resources and organization to oppose the combined might of the U.S., U.K., and U.S.S.R. A minority view is that the Germans were defeated not by economics, but by Hitler's many strategic and tactical mistakes, of which the most important was the invasion of the Soviet Union. Compared to this debate about the outcome of the war, there has been less attention to economics as the cause of World War II. This is a review article of a new economic history of the Nazi economy by Adam Tooze which cuts through the debate between economics and Hitler's mistakes as fundamental causes of the outcome. Instead, Tooze argues that the invasion of the Soviet Union was the inevitable result of Hitler's paranoia about the land-starved backwardness of German agriculture as contrasted with the raw material and land resources of America's continent and Britain's empire. The American frontier expansion that obliterated the native Indians provided Hitler with a explicit precedent, which he often cited, for pushing aside the native populations in the east to provide land for German Aryan farmers. Germany's agricultural weakness is summarized by its low land-labor ratio, but Poland and the Ukraine had even less land per person. Thus simply acquiring the land to the east could not solve Germany's problem of low agricultural productivity without removing the native farming populations. Far better than other histories of the Third Reich, Tooze reveals the shocking details of General Plan Ost, the uber-holocaust which would have removed, largely through murder, as many as 45 million people from eastern agricultural land. Tooze, like the Nazis before him, fails to emphasize that the solution to Germany's agricultural problem was not acquiring more land for the existing German farm population, but rather by raising the land-labor ratio by making the existing German land more efficient, mechanizing agriculture and encouraging rural-to-urban migration within Germany.
N54|Production and productivity of Bulgarian agriculture in post war years|This study is a first attempt to clarify major trends and factors of changes in production and productivity in Post-Second World War Bulgarian agriculture. It incorporates an interdisciplinary approach and specifies crucial institutional, economic, organizational, technological etc. factors affecting development of agricultural production and productivity. Firstly, evolution of agricultural production and productivity is analyzed, and effect of labor, land and livestock productivity on different productions assessed. Secondly, evolution and impact of main technological factors (application of chemicals, mechanization, irrigation, introduction of new varieties etc.) are examined. Third, stages in property rights development and restructuring of farms are presented, and their effects on production and productivity evaluated. Forth, paces in modernization of public policy, its key elements (central planning, price and trade regulations, support programs etc.) and implications for agriculture are identified. Fifth, evolution and role of the demands for farm products is assessed. Next, changes in labor quantity and composition, and their impact on agricultural production and productivity are scrutinized. Finally, effects of climate changes and weather extremes on agriculture are underlined.
N54|Agricultural policies in Bulgaria in post Second World War years|This paper analyzes evolution, implementation and impacts of state agricultural policies in Bulgaria during post Second World War years now. Firstly, it presents agricultural policies development during 1950s and 1960s (post war nationalization, cooperation of peasants, central planning and price control, support to agriculture) and its impacts on farming modernization and improvement of peasants welfare. Second, it analyzes reforms in 1970s and 1980s (concentration of farming in large agro-industrial complexes, experimentations with “economic” mechanisms of governance) and their effects on agriculture. Third, it evaluates policies during post-communist transition and EU integration, and their consequences for agricultural development.
N54|The Good the Bad and the Ugly: Lessons learnt in estimating the value added of the island’s primary sector and Results|A greater emphasis in mathematical and statistical rigour is now expected in economics and economic history. Ad-Hoc procedures and guestimates are unpopular and considered unreliable. Yet a substantial amount of research relies on historical national accounts (HNAs) that would not satisfy criteria of robustness that the overall research itself entails. One could argue in order to have in order to have reliable results in one’s research, the underlying dataset needs to be reliable. This paper will present the gross output and value added of Cyprus and Malta in the Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing sector and the Mining sector. Such an exercise is fraught with difficulty. The dataset was fragmented and unreliable. As a result methodologies were employed that would not be acceptable in current national accounting. Here such methods are made explicit as the good, the bad and the ugly.
N54|Régimes institutionnels de ressources et théorie de la régulation|Cet article postule que la combinaison d’une approche en termes de science politique (analyse des politiques publiques) et d’économie institutionnelle des ressources (théorie des droits de propriété) permet l’identification des dimensions régulatrices les plus importantes permettant d’expliquer l’usage (non) durable des ressources naturelles et culturelles. Sur cette base, il développe un cadre d’analyse novateur, celui des régimes institutionnels de ressources (RIR), qui est ensuite confronté au corpus de la théorie française de la régulation (TR, telle que formalisée notamment par M. Aglietta, R. Boyer et A. Lipietz) de manière à identifier, aussi bien les convergences, que les complémentarités entre les RIR et la TR. Nous développons ainsi l’idée que l’une des contributions majeures des RIR à la TR sous l’angle de la durabilité consiste dans sa capacité à décrire les différentes configurations de régimes de ressource et à expliquer, voire prévoir, leurs effets sur la durabilité de la ressource.
N54|Las Hermandades Sindicales de Labradores y Ganaderos (1942-1977). Del análisis franquista a la historiografía actual|This article analyses the literature on Hermandades Sindicales de Labradores y Ganaderos. This topic has been ignored in most studies on the Spanish agrarian sector during the Franco's dictatorship, but nowadays it is arousing widespread interest. The paper is organised in three sections. The first analyses the contributions reported prior to 1975. Critical works written in the 1960s and 1980s are commented in the second section. The third section considers recent studies of local nature. The survey focuses on the explanations scholars have given about the origins of these inter-classist institutions and their effects on the rural world. Hermandades have been considered an instrument of great landowners and of support to Franco's regime. Some studies, without disagreeing with these considerations, conclude that Hermandades also favoured small farmers and rural workers' interests.
N54|La política ilustrada y el libre comercio de granos: las ‘Reflexiones económico-políticas’ (1768) de Tomás Anzano|This article analyses Reflexiones económico-políticas (1768) by the economist Tomás Anzano, whose contribution has almost been ignored historiographycalIy. An important work in the Spanish literature of the 18th century, Reflexiones must be contextualized within the debate on the agrarian markets liberalization and, in particular, subsistence goods developed by the European Enlightenment. Reflexiones constitutes an original and pragmatic but at the same time a moderate adaptation to the real interior market of the liberal legislation of 1765. Anzano's proposals on agriculture, based in the scholastic theory of prices, should take into account the contemporary political background: the Enlightened economic reform, the growing weight of the royal prerogatives in the political institutions, and the beginning of the economic demands of the territories that made up the Borbonic monarchy. AH together links Anzano to the structure of political power, because he was a part of it and also due to the fact that he stablished closed relationships with two of the main Aragonese politicians at that time: Manuel de Roda and the Count of Aranda.
N54|Innovación en el reino de la monastrell. Cambio técnico e instituciones vitiviní­colas en el sureste español|Recently, Spanish viniculture has played an absolute “revolution”: modern oenological techniques have spread in the majority of agrarian regions and denomination of origin has multiplied, reaching both quality wine production and international market conquest. Over a century ago, the Mediterranean regions achieved an intense wine industry specialization directed to the French market and, particularly, the Region of Murcia took a relevant part. The present research analyses its progress and shows changes happened in vineyards and wines from the latest 19th·til the beginning of the 21st century. Also, its trajectory is compared to that of Alicante and Albacete provinces (in which monastrell variety predominated too), whose ecological conditions have contributed to manufacture wines with an intense character, texture, colour and elevated gradation. In spite of overproduction problems and the need of technological modernization that have characterized the trajectory of the sector up to the latest 20th century, authors show dynamism in their wines -in particular those from Jumilla- and stand out technical and institutional changes in the last third of the past century. They conclude that both factors, together with the changeable flow of consumption, have been crucial in the improvement of quality, wine bottling increasing, and exports increment; unlikely an internal market characterized by the consumption fall.
N54|La Contribución Territorial Rústica y el reparto de la carga tributaria en el siglo XX. La provincia de Lérida (1900-1963)|In Spain the agricultural cadastre was accomplished very late, and the works to cover all the territory lasted over sixty years, until the 1970s; the North zone of the country being the latest in which the implantation took place. Throughout that long period, deficiencies of the previous methods of amillaramientos, continued in those provinces not yet accomplished. One serious consequence was the lack of contributing justice generated by the defective final allocation of rustic wealth of every contributor. This article analyses these inequalities of proportionality in the loads of the Rustic and Cattle Territorial Contribution to the agrarian contributors in the southern regions of the province of Lérida, whose transition to the cadastral taxation took place between 1956 and 1963, after more than a century of amillaramientos regime. The study reveals that in the distributions of the quota of amillaramientos, great differences existed among the municipalities located in irrigated land zones or dry land zones and lower taxable wealth, finally loading the latter contributors with a fiscal pressure that did not correspond to them. Contrary to many authors, the study shows that small proprietors were mainly favoured, followed by the great ones, and the medium ones being, the less favoured during the amillaramientos in this region.
N54|El fracaso del lobby viticultor en España frente al objetivo industrializador del Estado, 1920-1936|Contradicting Olson's theory of collective action, a winegrowers' pressure group emerged in Spain in the early 1920s, despite the geographic dispersion of wine production and the large number of families cultivating vineyards. In a period of falling prices caused by the practice of producing artificial wines with cheap industrial alcohols and the restrictions progressively imposed by France on Spanish exports, this organization actively lobbied for protection trough the regulation of the alcohol market. However, in contrast to the French winegrowers, prior to the Civil War Spanish winegrowers failed to obtain public support, because governments in Spain tried to redistribute profits for both wine exporters and the national sugar industry.
N54|Del diezmo islámico al diezmo real. La renta agraria en Toledo (ss. XI-XV)|This paper is based on the hypothesis that lands conquered by Christians in the southern area of the central mountain system were incorporated into the Castilian Crown as legally and fiscally independent spaces. Christian kings, the new monarchs of these states, began to take advantage of the old Islamic taxes, but now as feudal lords. Therefore, these taxes turned into royal income, as it was the case of the Islamic tithe, considered an agrarian income by Christians. This new income received different names like aloxor, decima, or royal tithe.
N54|Protección e importaciones de madera en España (1880-1935)|This work analyses Spanish imports of rough and manufactured timber between 1880 and 1935. We start by measuring the percentage of both over Spanish wood consumption, showing the continuity of the former and the fall of the latter. Then an annual series of tariffs applicable to these products is built in order to estimate, through two different econometric models, protection effects on import evolution. According to our results, these effects were moderate. The different behaviour of rough and manufactured timber, therefore, may be explained by differences in their competitiveness, which is related to Spanish timber resources and to the integration of the domestic timber market. KEY Classification-JEL: C22, N53, N54, N73, N74
N54|Being rich in energy resources – a blessing or a curse|“Being rich in energy resources – a blessing or a curse” finds that an energy resource curse plagues many EU supplier states. This in turn directly affects Europe’s energy supply security and threatens to engulf Europe in unwanted hostilities at home and abroad. The study addresses seven issues including the evidence suggesting that a curse exists among Europe’s external energy suppliers, active programs to limit that risk, the significance of economic diversification, the applicability of dividend programs, the link between corruption and security of energy supplies, additional possible actions of the Union, and further threats posed by resource cursed countries. It establishes a definitive links between corruption and supply security, poor transparency, and inequality, and proves that a low level of economic diversification is a reliable indicator for the existence of the curse. It also finds that there are examples of excellence in recovering from and even converting the curse to a blessing. In looking at the policy instruments available to the Union, the study determines that the Union does have the technical expertise and financial means to restructure political and economic systems and strengthen public administrations and institutions and found that Europe’s successful implementation of similar past programs could be taken, at least in part, as models for future efforts. Finally, the study recommends the controversial approach of conditionality in the use of aid and finds that the Union should legislate standards for the reporting and auditing of energy exports and imports at home and abroad.
N54|Evaluating the Financial Position and Performance of a typical Dairy Farm in Bulgaria|The aim of this paper is to explore the potentials of typical middle sized dairy farms (with 22 cows) to absorb the quotas and market shares released by the small scale farms after the EU accession in 2007. The hypothesis is that quota introduction combined with high quality standards for raw milk will significantly reduce the share of small scale farms in milk production for processing. If different opportunities for alternative income-generating activities become available for small farms (as a consequence of the EU accession), their willingness to give up dairy farming will increase. Middle sized farms will benefit from an improved access to resources and also from more favourable conditions for economic growth. In this paper the analysis was made on the International Farm Comparison Network (IFCN) concept of typical farm. The Trade Implication and Policy Implication CALculator (TIPICAL) modelling program provides financial statements and most of the calculations for business’ profitability, solvency, liquidity, cost analysis and comparisons. The results of the financial analysis show the poor credit power of farms, when calculated only on farm assets market price. In the same time, it reveals the potential of growing and carries out an economy of scale when both financial and farm management are improved.
N54|Транзиција И Судбина Руских Природних Богатстава<BR>[Transition and the Fate of the Russian Natural Resources]|Transition in Russia, greatest and richest country of the world, is of the great interest for the most observers of the this process. Contrary to the promises of the reformators, the country fall into deep and longterm crisis, followed by the enormous decrease of production and riching of the little group of „new russian“. The objective analysis shows the prevalent role in this process of the „family“ – group near the ex-president, i. e. their cousins and friends. The paper deals with one of the mechanisms by wich these results are realised. This mechanism is the giving to the exploitation of the natural resources (oil, gaz etc.) to the private (foreign) companies under for the Russia very bad circumstances, in the frame of the regime of the division of production, very similar to the concession scheme. These schemes were not used in Russia until the period of NEP in the 1920-s, and they were renewed in the middle of 1990-s. Транзиција у Русији, највећој и по многим мишљењима најбогатијој земљи света, не престаје да изазива интересовање и чуђење. Насупрот обећањима реформатора, земља је запала у дубоку и дуготрајну кризу, уз огроман пад производње и енормно богаћење малог броја „нових Руса”. Објективна анализа показује да је преовлађујућу улогу у процесу имала „породица” – екипа из окружења бившег председника, његова најближа родбина и шири круг пријатеља. У раду се детаљније разматра један од механизама којим су остварени наведени резултати, наиме уступање руских природних налазишта на експлоатацију приватним (пре свега страним) компанијама под за Русију веома неповољним условима, а у оквиру режима поделе производње, врло сличног концесионој шеми. Овакве шеме у Русији нису коришћене још од периода НЕП-а током двадесетих година XX века, а обновљене су средином деведесетих.
N54|La obra agrarista de Jesús García Fernández (1928-2006)|Member of the School of Spanish Regional Geography created by Manuel de Terán at the CSIC Juan Sebastián Elcano Institute, Jesús García Fernández has left us a remarkable amount of work. His main investigations deal with culture systems, agrarian landscapes and agrarian land organization in Castile and the Atlantic Spain, particularly Galicia and Asturias. He explained the distribution of county exploitations, territory efficiency based in ecological potential, agrarian property and landowning. He showed the agriculture-cattle complementarity and the submission to communal shepherding practices. That is to say, he advocated the necessity to survey throughout the history to understand the landscape organization and its transformation possibilities, considering it as a historical totalizer. He was able to unite history and ecology, proposing the histority of natural conditions and resources management: The lack of permanent geographical environment. Master of relevant agrarian geographers, Jesús García Fernández studied the formation of rural Castilian and Galician landscapes, in the same way as Roger Dion, representing the geography in permanent dialogue with the history.
N54|¿En los orígenes de una burguesía agraria o la consolidación de una economía de renta? La formación de un patrimonio rural en la Galicia sudoriental, 1740-1850|The aim of this paper is to contribute to the analysis of rural society transformations at the tum of the 18th century from the point of view of socio-economic strategies. We will firstly analyse the long-term evolution of the rural patrimony of a well-to-do family, formerly small rentiers from Trives (Ourense), whose strategy to consolidate their economic and social power in the area (anti-aristocratic confrontation included) is driven by both the adaptation to an unstable conjuncture and the imitation of fidalguia's reproductive strategies.
N54|La desagrarización de la sociedad rural española, 1950-1991|The article deals with the transformation of the occupational structure of rural Spain between 1950 and 1991. Based on a critical use of population census data, the article shows that the decline of agriculture in the economy of rural Spain was a general and gradual transformation. Occupational change took place not only in those rural areas that belonged to highly dynamic urban-centred networks and were thus restructured by the rise of new economic and residential functions. Also, occupational change occurred in other rural communities in which both endogenous forces towards diversification and spread effects from urban networks were weaker. In such cases, the central role of agriculture in the local economy led to depopulation, while comparatively high rates of out-migration for agrarian populations led to increases in the share of non-agricultural sectors that went beyond the real growth of the latter in absolute terms. This was in fact the most common path of rural change in Spain during this period.
N54|La utopía rural de un régimen autoritario. La política cooperativista durante la dictadura de Metaxas (Grecia, 1936-1940)|"General Metaxa's regime, pursuing fascist archetypes in the construction of its image and causing a repercussion of nationalistic principles on the organization of the state, attempted to centralize the agricultural economy in order to achieve a large-scale protectionism. The main axes of its agricultural policy were the protection of some agricultural products (in particular that of grains), regulation of rural debts and expansion of the Agricultural Bank's net. In spite of the fact that such axes had also been objectives of the previous liberal governments, in the conjuncture of the international economic crisis, Metaxa's dictatorship enveloped ideological principles and «theoretical"" interpretations within its paternalistic politics. In fact, this regime attempted to approach the rural population by means of strategies like ceremonies, parades and a strongly populist discourse."
N54|Pascual Carrión: política agraria e ingeniería social|This article approaches the personal profile and the writings of Pascual Carrión. In the first place it studies the course of Iife of this agricultural engineer between his years as a student of engineering and his death in 1984, revealing the strong relationship between his professional career, his political undertakings and his publications. The classification of the latter according to chronological and thematic criteria is the second step of the article. Thirdly it deals with Carrión's texts on the Spanish agrarian structures, their reform, and with those devoted to the wine sector. The article finishes with a global evaluation of Carrión's works as a source and as a model to approach agrarian and, more generally, political economic problems for contemporary readers.
N54|Tawney's Century (1540-1640): the Roots of Modern Capitalist Entrepreneurship in England|Richard Tawney (1880-1962), who taught at the London School of Economics from 1917 to 1949, was unquestionably one of the very most important economic historians that England has ever produced: so much so, indeed, that the era of his major research and publications, 1540 - 1640, has justly come to be known as ï¿½Tawneyï¿½s Centuryï¿½. Those publications, and the debates that they provoked, concern the origins or roots of modern capitalism and (implicitly) capitalist entrepreneurship that were supposed to have been established in this century. Though the roots of those economic developments, in particular those leading to more modern forms of industrial capitalism, may indeed lie in that century, nevertheless the main thesis of this study is that most of their positive fruits are instead to be found in the ensuing century of 1640 - 1740, the century preceding the advent of the modern Industrial Revolution. Tawneyï¿½s seminal scholarship, towards these ends, was concerned with two major issues. The first considered in this study is his 1926 monograph: Religion and the Rise of Capitalism, which in part was designed to promote, in the English-speaking world, Max Weberï¿½s famous thesis (1905) on ï¿½The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalismï¿½. Both works focused on how three elements of one Protestant sect in particular, the Calvinists (from 1536), came to influence so deeply that Protestant Ethic and new ethos of modern capitalism: Predestination, the Calling, and ï¿½Worldly Asceticismï¿½. The significance of this form of Protestantism in England is that Calvinists and other Non-Conformists or Dissenters, those who refused to conform to the Church of England after the 1660 royalist Restoration, constituted about one half of the known scientists, innovators, and entrepreneurs from the later 17th century and through the Industrial Revolution era (1760-1820), though constituting only 5 percent of the population. The debate concerns the roles of their restricted (legislated) minority status and of schools and superior educational systems that they had to establish, but also the applicability of the Weber-Tawney thesis, in explaining their superior economic performance. Tawneyï¿½s second major issue was that of ï¿½agrarian capitalismï¿½, along with the supposed ï¿½rise of the gentryï¿½: involving the transfer of vast amounts of land from the old aristocracy, the crown and church together, and finally the free-holding yeomanry into the hands of a non-aristocratic upper class who were far more predisposed and able to engage in profit-maximizing agriculture, especially through enclosures and the technology of the New Husbandry. But if Tawney dates this shift from Henry VIIIï¿½s Dissolution of the Monasteries, in 1536, this study contends that the real shift, but certainly a major shift, to ï¿½agrarian capitalismï¿½, involving enclosures and the New Husbandry, again came only after the 1660s. To provide a contrast to Tawneyï¿½s work, this study examines two alternative theses on the origins of modern industrial capitalism within Tawneyï¿½s century (1540-1640): (1) Earl Hamiltonï¿½s thesis of ï¿½Profit Inflationï¿½, one fully endorsed by Keynes; and (2) John Nefï¿½s ï¿½Early Industrial Revolution in Tudor-Stuart Englandï¿½. The Hamilton thesis is rejected in this study, with the contention that its true importance was to inspire Nefï¿½s counter-thesis: on the decisive shift from wood and charcoal fuels to coal fuels, which in turn required very major technological changes (in furnace designs), which in turn led to major increases in industrial scale, and (for Nef) to true ï¿½industrial capitalismï¿½. This study, noting the importance of Wrigleyï¿½s similar thesis on a shift from an organic (wood-based) to an inorganic (coal-based) industrial economy, supports the essence of the Nef thesis ï¿½ but only for the period after 1640 (with new data). Finally, this study considers two other related changes so necessary for the development of early-modern capitalism, in this era: the development of the Full Rigged or Atlantic Ship (but from the 1450s) and the overseas joint-stock trading companies. Again, their major impact came after 1660, with the ï¿½New Colonialismï¿½ (Hobsbawm) or ï¿½Commercial Revolutionï¿½ (Davis). The study also considers the history of the English joint stock companies, from the first joint-stock company, in overseas trade (the Muscovy Company of 1553) to the Bubble Act of 1720, which restricted their formation until 1825. Also included is their role in the so-called ï¿½Financial Revolutionï¿½ from 1694 to 1757 (ï¿½Pelhamsï¿½s Conversionï¿½ of the national debt).
N54|Institutions of Sustainability and Multifunctional Landscapes: Lessons from the Case of the Algarve| The paper uses function analysis to complement the analytical framework Institutions of Sustainability and to apply it for the analysis of the role of institutions for the multifunctionality of landscapes. This combination of conceptual tools is evaluated through their application to the case of landscape development in a sub-region of the Algarve, Portugal. In view of this case study it is suggested to complement the Institutions of Sustainability framework: case and transaction specific contextual factors should be included. The paper suggests to look at cross-jurisdictional agency features, cross-function, -transaction and -institutional commonalities, and interconnections as well as to include a dynamic dimension of institutional and physical time lags governing human-ecosystem relations.
N54|Una Estimación Del Consumo De Madera En España Entre 1860 Y 1935|The main objective of this paper is to contribute a continuous annual series of timber consumption in Spain for the period 1860-1935, an unexplored topic in Spanish economic history. Then the paper estimates a standard consumption function trying to explain the behavior of the serie. The main conclusion is that Spanish timber consumption had a positive GDP elasticity (0,47) with a growth in both traditional and new utilities of timber, regardles of the evolution of the prices of the product. This suggests that the economic growth of the period was not only based on new technologies and new raw materials, but also on a growing use of an organic and traditional product like timber.
N54|Series De Deflactores Corcheros Desde 1900|The aim of this work is to elaborate series of deflators, for whole twentieth century, of three representative products in the cork business: raw cork, corkwood in planks and stoppers of natural cork. Given that prices of these products are not available, the data bases for reconstruction are, on one hand, unitary values of production and exports from Portugal and Spain and, on the other hand, unitary ones of United Kingdom’s imports. By using these values, selected after different tests of coherence and credibility, Laspeyres, Paasche and Fisher’s indexes and a “synthetic cork deflator” are calculated. Then, a preliminary analysis about the unitary values as a proxy to the prices during the second half of twentieth century is realized. At last, the main figures which have been employed to the building of the deflators are shown in a statistical appendix.
N54|La evolución de la industria harinera en España durante el siglo XX|This work analyses the evolution of the flour industry in Spain during the twentieth century. Unlike other food industries, the flour industry has decreased, especially in the last decades of the twentieth century, due to its low income elasticity. This work identifies four main characteristics of the growth of the flour industry from the years following the WWI until the last decades of the century: 1) the productive grew more rapidly than the production and the consumption; 2) the industry was composed of small establishments and firms which were maintained while the industry underwent a process of modernization towards the creation of bigger entities; 3) increasing state regulation; and 4) a process of convergence between the location of the flour industry and the wheat production areas due to the weight of the raw material in the total productive costs. KEY Classification-JEL: L66, N54, N64, Q13
N54|Balances energéticos y uso del sueloen la agricultura catalana: una comparación entre mediados del siglo XIX y finales del siglo XX|El presente trabajo analiza y compara, desde la perspectiva analítica del metabolismo social, los usos del suelo y los balances energéticos derivados de estos usos de los sistemas agrarios de cinco municipios de la comarca catalana del Vallès, en dos momentos históricos que ilustran las características y magnitud de las transformaciones que se han producido en los sistemas agrarios catalanes durante los últimos 150 años. El primer corte corresponde a mediados del siglo XIX, representativo del funcionamiento de una agricultura orgánica avanzada; el segundo, a finales del siglo XX, representativo de un sistema agrario industrializado donde la energía fósil y otros inputs externos al sistema tienen una presencia determinante. A partir de la información contenida en los amillaramientos, los censos ganaderos y las cartillas evaluatorias disponibles para los municipios estudiados, y los datos actuales de los censos agrarios, forestales y de rendimientos y aprovechamientos de los distintos productos, se han construido los balances energéticos de los dos periodos analizados. A partir de estos balances hemos constatado como en los 150 años transcurridos se ha producido una espectacular pérdida de eficiencia energética y de sostenibilidad de los sistemas agrarios, a pesar de los grandes incrementos de la productividad por ha. de los diversos cultivos y de la producción ganadería, que se atribuye totalmente al paso de una agricultura orgánica avanzada a unos sistemas agrarios con un elevado consumo de combustibles fósiles en forma de carburantes, abonos de síntesis y fitosanitarios y, especialmente, al peso descomunal de la actividad ganadera, desarrollada completamente al margen del territorio.
N54|0 Comércio Externo Corticeiro na Peninsula Ibérica no Período de 1930 a 1974 - Uma Perspectiva Comparada|The aim of this paper is to undertake a comparative analysis of the particular features of the foreign trade in cork products from Portugal and Spain between 1930 and 1974. In the first part, we analyse the main structural alterations that occurred in the foreign trade in cork products from the two countries. This analysis highlights the Spanish loss of leadership in the area of cork exports, which passed to Portuguese producers after the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939). Next we explain the reasons for this change, beginning with a series of factors that we consider to be the most relevant for the period under study. Because of the State's heavy involvement in the economy, a feature that was inherent in the political regimes of Salazar and Franco, questions relating to the institutional framework of the cork sector appear to be particularly pertinent, especially matters relating to the industrial, commercial and foreign exchange policies that were implemented in the two countries. Furthermore, in relation to the institutional question, we highlight the processes leading to the opening up of the two economies to the outside world during the period under study- namely their links with EFTA and the EEC. Such changes were all the more important because the foreign markets represented the preferential destination for the two countries' cork production. In the last part of this work, consideration of the production costs also shows itself to have been a decisive factor in determining the capacity to compete in foreign markets, where the two Iberian countries were faced with competition both from other cork-producing countries and from substitute products.
N54|Labradores y granjeros ante las urnas. El comportamiento político del pequeño campesinado en la Europa Occidental de entreguerras. Una visión comparada|The remarkable advances experienced by the recent historiography focussed in the study of the politicization of the rural Western European population, have finished affecting to the interpretations elaborated around the outstanding role played by the political and electoral behaviours of the peasantry in the inter-war period. So and as they show the examples located In Germany, France or Spain In so decisive period –examined with the new analytical instruments used by Electoral Sociology, the New Political History, the comparative method in History or Historical Sociology-, the diverse routes by which ran the politicization farmer lead to the formalization of the different forged social alliances during the mentioned historical stage. Turning, thus, to the intermediate peasantry of small proprietors and renters, in a protagonist of first magnitude in the conformation of a heterogeneous conglomerate of social groups decided to endorse the proposals of fascist transformation of the liberal State.
N54|Cultivadores de democracia. Politización campesina y sindicalismo agrario progresista en España, 1970-1980|"This article looks at the reasons why the agriculture became political in the 1970s; i.e. the demand for better agrarian prices, the decrease of unnecessary importations of agrarian products and the carrying out of structural measures or «complementariness"" (epigraphs 1 & 2). Apart from these demands, progressive agricultural workers brought to light the urgent need of finding new formulas of trade-union and political representation (epigraph 3). Then the focus is more on the range of agrarian trade unions in the second half of the 70s, both with regards to the left-wing unionism and to the agrarian professional organisations, by emphasizing the close surveillance -and even the attempts of absorption- from some new parties, which were eager to obtain an important political status and to increase the membership. Lastly, it's dealt with the important role that the rural conflicts played in the formation of some regional parties and with their demands."
N54|Balances energéticos y usos del suelo en la agricultura catalana: una comparación entre mediados del siglo XIX y finales del siglo XX|From the analytical perspective of the social metabolism, this article analyses and compares the ground uses and the energetic assessment derived from the uses of the agrarian systems in five towns of the Catalan area of the Valles in two historical moments. Both illustrate the characteristics and magnitude of the transformations occurred in the Catalan agricultural systems during the last 150 years. The former corresponds to mid-19th century, as a representation of how an advanced organic agriculture worked; the latter, in the late 20th century, represents an industrialized agricultural system where the fossil energy and other inputs external to the system are essential. From the information contained, on the one hand, in the amillaramientos, in the cattle censuses and in the assessing forms available for the towns studied here, and, on the other hand, in the current data of censuses in agriculture, forests, yield and uses of the different products, we have built up the energetic results of the two analysed periods. From these results, all through the 150 years, we have seen how an incredible lost of energetic efficiency and of sustainability of the agricultural systems have occurred in spite of the great increase of productivity per hectare of the different crops and in cattle raising, totally attributed to a change from an advanced organic agriculture to some agricultural systems with a high consumption of fossil fuel in the shape of fuel, synthesis fertiliser and pesticides, and especially to the huge weight of the cattle activity, completely developed outside the territory.
N54|Una perspectiva biofísica del cambio agrícola en Austria: dos sistemas agrarios en las décadas de 1830 y 1990|The paper argues for an ecologically-informed agricultural history. It introduces a model-based approach for the analysis of biophysical relations in local agricultural production systems. Data from the Franciscean Cadastre and statistical sources are used to quantify material and energy exchange processes between society and nature, and their development over time for two Austrian case studies. It will be demonstrated that livestock played an integrating and multifunctional role in optimizing land use at the local level in 19th century agriculture. The fossil fuel based industrialization of agriculture in the 20th Century resulted in the disintegration of local land use systems, turning them into throughput systems with high inputs and outputs. On the one hand, this allowed for tremendous increases in area and labour productivity but, on the other hand, significantly decreased the energy efficiency of agriculture.
N54|Natives, the foreign-born and high school equivalents: new evidence on the returns to the GED|In this paper we explore the labor market returns to the General Education Development exam, or GED. Using new data from the Current Population Survey, we examine how the return to the GED varies between U.S. natives and the foreign-born. We find that foreign-born men who hold a GED but received all of their formal schooling outside of the U.S. earn significantly more than either foreignschooled dropouts or individuals with a foreign high school diploma. For foreign-born men with some U.S. schooling, earning a GED brings higher wages than a traditional U.S. high school diploma, although this difference is not statistically significantly different from zero. These patterns stand in contrast to those for U.S. natives, among whom GED recipients earn less than high school graduates but significantly more than dropouts. The effects for natives appear to become larger over the life cycle and do not seem to be due to cohort effects. While it is difficult to attach a purely causal interpretation to our findings, they do indicate that the GED may be more valuable in the labor market than some previous research suggests.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N54|Agriculture of Central and Eastern European countries in the European Union|Agriculture posed considerable tensions for the processes of enlargement of the European Union, because of its continuing importance both in the economies of the applicant countries of Central and Eastern European countries which have joined EU on the 1st may 2004., and in the EU budget and acquis communautaire. The preparation of agriculture in the candidate countries to join the EU was rendered more complex by the fact that the Communitys Common Agricultural Policy was a moving target. The aim of this paper is to show the bases elements of the Common Agricultural Policy, but also to provide a survey of recent developments relating to agriculture in the EU and new member states of the EU before their accession to EU and their preparation to access on the enlarged market, in order to indicate the main challenges and difficulties posed by enlargement. It seems likely that agricultural policy in the enlarged EU will attach increased priority to objectives such as rural development and the environment. However, these new priorities may be expensive to realise, and may impose a growing burden on the national budgets of EU member states.
N54|La polpa e l’osso: Manlio Rossi-Doria Writings on Agriculture Environment and Natural Resources|The article is the introduction to the volume edited by the author with the same title on the occasion of the centennial anniversary of Manlio Rossi-Doria. The volume is a collection of selected writings published between 1929 and 1986 divided in four thematic sections: agronomic modernization, land amelioration, natural disasters and human action, ecology and energy. Prevailing contents by section are as follows: first, land management, pasture improvement, soil protection, upland and lowland integration; second, land reclamation and land tenure; third, natural and man made disasters and related policies; fourth, ecology, energy sources, including nuclear, and related policy issues. After presenting the structure of the selection, an overview of selected writings emphasizes the continuity of Manlio Rossi-Doria committment with agriculture environment natural resources and related policies.
