N55|From state resource allocation to a 'low-level equilibrium trap': re-evaluation of economic performance of Mao's China, 1949-78|This paper provides a full picture of how Maoist economy actually performed. We argue that Mao’s China neither undertook a structural change towards industrialisation nor generated a sustainable growth from 1949 to 1978.2 With fatal shortcomings of a planned economic system imported from the Soviet Union – the ‘principle-agent’ problem and information asymmetry for the bureaucracy, and disincentives for producers – China’s economy remained not only deliberately unbalanced but also predominantly rural until the 1980s. More importantly, the Maoist economy was not designed to enrich and empower the masses in society. Instead, all key consumer goods including food, clothing and housing were strictly rationed. The material life of ordinary citizens in China saw no improvement. This paper aims to reveal the harsh reality of the Maoist economy with solid evidence and theoretical explanation.
N55|Energy Use in Japanese Copper Industry from the Meiji Period to WWI|In recent years, energy constraints are discussed from a historical point of view. This study aims at examining the copper industry's energy use in Japan from the Meiji period to the time of WWI and clarifying the process of, and reasons for, the energy source selection. This study considered not only energy use in the large-scale mines but also energy use in the small-scale mines and miners' homes. As a result, it was clarified that the mines changed into a space that is based on a diverse combination of energy depending on differences in location (access to energy), natural conditions, financial power, the required amount and price of energy, energy use technologies, ore quality, and end-product (usage).
N55|Fishing Rights and Colonial Government: Institutional Development in the Bengal Presidency|We examine the evolution of fishing rights in colonial Bengal through a series of cases heard at the Calcutta High Court in the 1880s and culminating in the passage of legislation in 1889. We posit an implicit relational contract between the colonizing British and the landowning class in colonial Bengal as a way to understand the concurrent evolution of fishing rights and institutions of governance in the region. The system of incentives created by this contract determined the development of fishing rights at a crucial moment in the history of colonial Bengal and, more broadly, became a primary mechanism of institutional change in the region. The analysis also shows the Calcutta High Court to have acted, albeit in vain, as a truly independent judiciary.
N55|Harnessing the Ring of Fire: Political economy of clean energy development finance on geothermal development in Indonesia and the Philippines|Located along the Ring of Fire in the Asia Pacific, both Indonesia and the Philippines have tremendous natural resource endowments in geothermal energy. Yet, the two countries have dramatic differences in the share of installed capacity they have developed with international development assistance for geothermal development over the last decades. This paper investigates the major interests, institutions and barriers to geothermal development in Indonesia and the Philippines and then examines how closely clean energy development finance has addressed these barriers. Using qualitative analysis and data from field research in both countries, this paper investigates the effectiveness of the clean energy development finance for renewable energy development. The main findings of this research show that clean energy development finance targeted major barriers to geothermal energy development, but the finance was limited in its impacts on removing the barriers or addressing major domestic political interests, particularly in the case of Indonesia. This research also illuminated limitations of the project-based development approach to solving macro-level problems in clean energy development.
N55|Pre-colonial Religious Institutions and Development: Evidence through a Military Coup|This paper offers a novel illustration of the political economy of religion and development by empirically examining the impact of religious shrines on development. Compiling a unique database covering the universe of holy Muslim shrines across Pakistani Punjab, we show that historically embedded religious power shapes persistent differences in literacy. Using the 1977 military take-over as a universal shock, our difference-in-differences analysis suggests that areas with a greater concentration of shrines recognized by the British colonial administration experienced a substantially retarded growth in literacy. We argue that this literacy disadvantage in shrine-dominated regions is largely attributable to a growingly prominent role of shrine elites in electoral politics and their direct control over allocation of public goods since the 1977 military coup. Our analysis suggests that shrines in these regions represent the confluence of three forces—religion, land and politics —that together constitute a powerful structural inequality with potentially adverse consequences for development.
N55|Harnessing the Ring of Fire: Political economy of clean energy development finance on geothermal development in Indonesia and the Philippines|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|Feeding the people: grain yields and agricultural expansion in Qing China|We use modern econometric methods to analyze a recently-released sample of 3 000 Chinese grain yields. We find significant variation across provinces and persistent increases in yields over time – albeit slow compared to Europe and the New World. Growth rates for rice (the primary southern crop) and dry land crops (the primary northern crops) were similar. We show that provinces were more extensively farmed when yields and population pressure were high, and that extending production put downward pressure on yields. Overall, Chinese farmers avoided the problem of agricultural involution by efficiently boosting output at the extensive margin, not the intensive margin.
N55|Mapping the OECD Government Procurement Taxonomy with International Best Practices: An Implementation to ASEAN Countries|The OECD developed a taxonomy of measures affecting government procurement which provides a classification system for different GP measures, policies and procedures, which can impact cross-border government procurement. This project aims to further assist countries in assessing their procurement regimes by mapping the taxonomy against international good practices. The project maps the taxonomy against both the WTO Government Procurement Agreement and the UNCITRAL Model Law on Public Procurement (2011). It further tests this methodology with data collection in four ASEAN countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and Viet Nam).
N55|Exploiting a natural resource in a poor country: The good, the bad and the ugly sides of the Kyrgyz Republic’s gold mine|What is required for a poor country to turn a valuable resource endowment into a driver of development? The resource curse literature highlighted the importance of institutions and the nature of the resource, neither of which is a useful policy guide. A more recent literature views resource exploitation as a series of hurdles that must be negotiated: ensuring production, dividing revenues, and using the added public finance. The Kyrgyz Republic’s Kumtor gold mine is a useful case study in that the country cleared the first hurdle but over almost a quarter century was embroiled in negotiating the second hurdle. The paper assesses the extent to which such problems are inevitable for a small poor country, and the consequences of an extended conflictual process.
N55|Rainfall Patterns and Human Settlement in Tropical Africa and Asia Compared. Did African Farmers Face Greater Insecurity?|We explore a new dataset of annual and monthly district-level rainfall patterns to assess the longstanding idea that climatological conditions were more conducive to the development of dense rural populations in Asia than in Africa. We test whether there existed significant cross-regional differences in both the frequency and intensity of rainfall shocks (i.e. annual mean deviations exceeding one standard deviation). Our results confirm that rainfall shocks in tropical Africa were both more frequent and more severe. Second, we test the separate effects of precipitation levels and variability on district-level population densities from colonial population censuses. We hypothesize that higher mean levels of precipitation facilitate agricultural intensification and human settlement, while unpredictability of rainfall has the opposite effect. Controlling for average rainfall levels, we find a strong negative effect of rainfall variation on population densities. This study thus lends further support to a wide literature arguing that the ecological conditions of agricultural intensification were more challenging in the African than in the Asian tropics.
N55|Energy Policy Formulation in Israel Following its Recent Gas Discoveries|The development of gas in the Tamar and Leviathan fields is a turning point for Israeli energy policy, as its government decided not only to enhance its energy security but also to become an energy exporter. This paper examines the factors that affect the formulation of energy policy in Israel. Initially, it examines the internal and external environment of Israel, assessing the evolution of policy, regulatory and competition issues related to the recent discoveries in its territory. Then it presents a qualitative research, undertaken in 2015, based on the responses of regional energy experts. The discoveries are not considered “a black swan” that change regional energy markets, but they are likely to be affect local energy systems. The paper demonstrates that Israel’s energy policy will be evaluated mainly based on its techno-economic feasibility, considering that its energy policy does not strengthen political tensions while any progress in resolving the region’s political disputes should be viewed as an unexpected gain.
N55|Peat Policy and Its Implications on Value Chains of Indonesian Palm Oil|Palm oil and its derivative products are strategic commodities that play an important role in the economic development of Indonesia which, along with Malaysia, is a major exporter to the global markets. Global as well as national demands on crude palm oil are increasing, not only as food but also as raw material for biodiesel. To increase production, the extensification of oil palm plantations in Indonesia is still the preferred option. Since there are limited fertile mineral soils, marginal land such as peatlands have become targeted areas to open new plantations. Due to recurring fire and haze problems, while attempting to restore degraded peatlands, the government issued By Law No. 57 in 2016 to protect and manage the peat ecosystem (Peat Policy). This peat policy, which mainly aims to prevent environmental degradation, would to some extent reduce planting areas and impact on production, stretching to the supply and value chain of palm oil and its derivative products. This study assessed how the peat policy affected the planting areas; production; economic value; growers, especially the farmers; and export quantity and value. We applied numerical approaches followed by simulations of certain scenarios. Compared to 2015 figures, the peat policy would reduce the palm oil plantation area by 10%-18% and production by 12%-15%, with the potential to reduce: 1) economic values by 12%-15%; 2) the number of farmers by 12%-15%; 3) exported palm oil by 21%-24% and export value by 22%-24%; and 4) the cost of fresh fruit bunch by 6%-8%. These reductions will severely affect the economic development of the country and threaten the welfare of the farmers. The government and practitioners should therefore make policy choices that are conducive to the sustainable development of oil palm plantation in the peatlands, i.e. how to promote intensification programs to increase productivity and to manage sustainable production.
N55|Stabilize the peasant economy: Governance of foreclosure by the shogunate|Regulation of foreclosure in a financial crisis has been a centuries-long conundrum to authorities. Japan in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries had free financial, land and coercive labor markets. It raised the growth but resulted in recurrent financial crises. Therefore, the Edo shogunate, 1600–1868, banned coercive labor, protected peasants’ property right and regulated the farmland-collateral loans. Seeking an appropriate degree of regulation, the shogunate first banned foreclosure and invited a credit shrink. Then the shogunate introduced legislation to legalize foreclosure of pledged farmland as clarifying the rights of borrowers. The regulation asymmetrically lowered interest rates for timely repayment.
N55|Structural Change in Mass-Procurement Systems: China’s Iron and Steel Industry and the Global Iron Ore Market|This paper was originally presented at the 1stWorld Congress on Business History/ This study aims to describe historical trends in the “mass-procurement system” for iron ore, which for many years has been the largest non-fuel natural resource in terms of trade value. Wefocus on China because it reflects globaltrendsmost comprehensively. Throughmodern history, all large steel producers have established their own iron ore mass-procurement systems. We can classify thesesystemsinto three major modes:“captive mine”,“long-term contract (LTC)”,and “spot trading.” We found that in China, traditional state-owned steel companies such as Anshan Iron and Steel (Ansteel)adopted the captive-mine mode from the prewar period, like the Americans. On the other hand, the newly established leadingcompany Baoshan Iron and Steel (Baosteel) introduced the LTC mode, following the innovationof this mode by Japanese companies in the 1980s. Then, in the early twenty-first century, China’smass-procurement system for iron ore further diversifiedwhich establishedthe spot-trading mode as the third mass-procurement system. As a result, many steel companies tended to create a portfolio of sourcing modes.
N55|Evaluation Index System (Eis) For The Ecological- Economic- Social Performances Of Ousteri Wetland Across Puducherry And Tamil Nadu|Wetlands play a key role in the ecological conservation, in environmental quality improvement, and in human habitat environment improvement. Primer field investigations, primary survey and series of stakeholder meetings were utilised to evaluate the performance of the wetland. It was done using the complex index system covering wider aspect to correlate the comparative status of both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry zone of the Ousteri wetland. Compared with the researches applying the ecosystem service evaluation method, the proposed scoring method in this study can evaluate on some important performance indices (aquatic vegetation coverage, plant community integrity, integrity of management operating system, stakeholders feedback on the wetland protection, public satisfaction) that cannot be ignored and unable to be transformed to a monetary form. The Delphi method was used to screen preset 35 subindicators prior to evaluation. By using Delphi and Analytic Hierarchy Process method, as well as the weighted linear combination model, the ecological-economic-social performances were obtained. This indices system was applied to the case of Ousteri wetland with respect to Puducherry and Tamil Nadu scenario separately. With the help of the Evaluation Index system (EIS) established in this study, decision makers can obtain more omni-visual information so that an ecological subsidy policy by incorporating rewards and punishments mechanisms according to the performance evaluations can be formulated to enable the greatest returns on investment in the wetland conservative measure.
N55|Examining the Land Use Change of the Ousteri Wetland using the Land Use Dynamic Degree Model|Land use/cover change is a major factor for global change because of its interactions with climate, cosystem processes, biodiversity, and, even more important, human activities, research on land use/cover change has become an important aspect of global change. The present research paper aims to investigate the land use changes over the time period, 2005 to 2014, in the Ousteri wetland. The information collected through the ecological, hydrological and geological analysis was used to carry out the quantitative research on Ousteri wetland land use/cover change. The temporal changes of land use characteristics were quantitatively analyzed and then the driving forces of land use changes were examined based on natural and artificial factors. As the result of natural factors and human disturbances, the area of wetland shrunk, bringing the conversion from wetland to terrestrial land use type. The annual conversion rates indicated the land use changes in Ousteri wetland.
N55|The Development Effects of the Extractive Colonial Economy: The Dutch Cultivation System in Java|Colonial powers typically organized economic activity in the colonies to maximize their economic returns. While the literature has emphasized long-run negative economic impacts via institutional quality, the changes in economic organization implemented to spur production historically could also directly influence economic organization in the long-run, exerting countervailing effects. We examine these in the context of the Dutch Cultivation System, the integrated industrial and agricultural system for producing sugar that formed the core of the Dutch colonial enterprise in 19th century Java. We show that areas close to where the Dutch established sugar factories in the mid-19th century are today more industrialized, have better infrastructure, are more educated, and are richer than nearby counterfactual locations that would have been similarly suitable for colonial sugar factories. We also show, using a spatial regression discontinuity design on the catchment areas around each factory, that villages forced to grow sugar cane have more village owned land and also have more schools and substantially higher education levels, both historically and today. The results suggest that the economic structures implemented by colonizers to facilitate production can continue to promote economic activity in the long run, and we discuss the contexts where such effects are most likely to be important.
N55|Energy Consumption and Regional Economic Growth: The Case of Iranian Manufacturing Sector|The relationship between energy consumption and economic growth has undergone extensive investigation and the empirical evidences are mixed ranging from bi- and uni-directional causality to no causality. These conflicts may be due to the fact that countries have different energy consumption patterns and various sources of energy. This paper is the first study on causal relationships between industrial energy consumption and real regional economic growth based on the panel data for 31 provinces in Iran over the period 2004–2014. We employ the GMM-SYS approach for the estimation of the panel vector autoregression (PVAR) model. Afterwards, by doing an in-depth analysis of energy consumption data, the purpose of this paper is to contribute to the debate by examining the causality in various forms of energy consumption (Diesel fuel, Natural Gas, Gasoline, Kerosene, LPG&LNG, Petroleum and Electricity). We discover: (a) totally, there is bidirectional causality between industrial energy consumption and regional growth; (b) regional growth leads to Gasoline consumption; (c) Natural gas consumption leads to regional growth; (d) there exists no causal relationship between regional growth and Diesel fuel, Kerosene, LPG&LNG and Petroleum consumption; (e) there is also bidirectional causality between industrial electricity consumption and regional economic growth. Taken together, the results of this study involve valuable information for policy makers at regional level.
N55|Testing the General Validity of the Heckscher-Ohlin Theorem|We exploit Japan's mid-nineteenth century transition from autarky to open trade to test Alan Deardorff's (1982) seminal and parsimonious autarky price formulation of the Heckscher-Ohlin theorem. Factor price data from Japan's late autarky period impose a refutable restriction on Japan's factor content of trade. Our data are constructed from many historical sources, including a major Japanese survey of agricultural techniques and a rich set of nineteenth century comparative cost studies. Evaluating Japan's factor content of trade during 1865-1876 under alternative theoretical assumptions about technology, we provide robust evidence in favor of the Heckscher-Ohlin hypothesis.
N55|Colonial adventures in tropical agriculture: new estimates of returns to investment in the Netherlands Indies, 1919–1938|How profitable were foreign investments in plantation agriculture in the Netherlands Indies during the late colonial era? We use a new dataset of monthly quoted stock prices and dividends of international companies at the Brussels stock exchange to estimate the returns to investment in tropical agriculture (1919–1938). We adopt the Dimson–March–Staunton method to compute real geometric annual average rates of return and assess our estimates in an international comparative perspective. We find that returns to colonial FDI in the Netherlands Indies during 1919–1928 were impressive (14.3 %), being almost 3 percentage points higher than the world average. In the following decade 1929–1938 fortunes reversed, with a rate of return of −2.8 % compared to a world average of 2.2 %. Over the entire period the returns to colonial FDI (5.4 % in 1919–1938) were about a factor 2.5 higher than returns to investment in the Dutch domestic economy (2.1 % in 1920–1939). We argue that these returns should be interpreted in a colonial context of systematic labour repression, but that they may also partly reflect a higher risk-premium of investments in colonial commodities.
N55|Property rights, labor mobility and collectivization: The impact of institutional changes on China’s agriculture in 1950–1978|This paper evaluates the impact of property rights, labor mobility barriers and degrees of collectivization on China’s agricultural growth in 1950–1978. Using a semi-Bayesian stochastic frontier analysis, we find that collective production with free labor mobility and private property rights was the most efficient institutional setting. Although deviations from the two institutions resulted in a decline in agricultural production, the loss in agricultural production from labor mobility barriers was up to five times greater than loss from depriving farmers of private property rights.
N55|After 200 years, why is Indonesia’s cadastral system still incomplete?|This paper discusses Indonesia’s experience with establishing a uniform cadastral system in rural areas since the idea was first mooted in the early 19th century. Until 1961, a formal cadastre that identified, measured, registered and certified land titles existed only in urban areas. A cadastre for rural land did not start until after the 1960 Agrarian Law. Until then, the village-based land tax registers acted as a substitute cadastral register in areas subject to land tax. In the 19th century, this system was imperfect and calls to resolve issues of inequity in tax assessment led to improvements, especially since 1907. A proper rural cadastre was not introduced during the colonial era, because of the high cost involved, and because its certification of individual land rights would have clashed with customary regulations, including notions of communal land tenure. The introduction of a rural cadastre after 1960 was piecemeal, and the use of property tax registration as a substitute cadastre has continued. By 1992 cadastre registrations covered just 20% of land plots, mostly in urban areas. A World Bank-sponsored project helped to increased coverage since 1994 to 32% in 2013. Greater coverage was delayed by the rapid increase in newly opened up agricultural areas, the cost of land title certificates, the difficulties of reconciling individual land ownership with customary regulations, and also the continued use of property tax registers as a substitute cadastre.
N55|Innovations as Drivers of Stable Growth of the Kazakh Economy through State Policy in Area of Eco-innovations Implementation|One of the main tasks of the state when achieving the stable economy growth is to stimulate a growth of the energy efficiency (EE) in energy intensive sectors of economy and to form the efficient regulatory basis to decrease the energy ratio. Therefore, the main task of the state power is to provide efficient, reliable, and ecologically responsible supply of energy resources. Thus, in 2013 the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan developed and adopted the Concept on Transferring to “Green Economy.” Its basic goal is to provide reliable, adequate and accessible energy resources for substantial social, economic, and ecologically stable growth of the country. The research conducted within this article allows to make the conclusion that at the present time the Republic of Kazakhstan has a very low level of EE. In spite of considerable positive changes in the development of innovations, in accordance with the classification of the 2015 Global Innovation Index, Kazakhstan is ranged as an inefficient innovator with a low level of investments in research and development works and low demand for eco-innovations.
N55|The Relationship among Real Gross Domestic Product, CO2 Emissions, and Energy use in South Caucasus and Turkey|The paper analyses the relationship among real gross domestic product (GDP), CO2 emissions and energy use in South Caucasus countries and Turkey over the 1992-2013 years. Results of unit root tests show that all variables are integrated of order one. In general, cointegration tests with breaks suggest the presence of a long-run relationship between these variables. Causality results suggest that “conservation hypothesis” holds for Armenia; while, for Azerbaijan and Georgia, we reached mixed results, since both “feedback hypothesis” and “growth hypothesis” received support by empirical findings. Finally, no evidence of causality emerges for Turkey, in favour of “neutrality hypothesis.” Therefore, the relevant policy implication of the study is that a common energy policy strategy would not be pursued by these countries, given the different causality links emerged in the area.
N55|Electricity demand and basic needs: Empirical evidence from China's households|An increasing block tariff (IBT) has been implemented nationwide in the residential sector in China since 2012. However, knowledge about IBT design is still limited, particularly how to determine the electricity volume for the first block of an IBT scheme. Assuming the first block should be set based on some measure of electricity poverty; we attempt to model household electricity demand such that the range of basic needs can be established. We show that in Chinese households there exists a threshold for electricity consumption with respect to income, which could be considered a measure of electricity poverty, and the threshold differs between rural and urban areas. For rural (urban) families, electricity consumption at the level of 7th (5th) income decile households can be considered the threshold for basic needs or a measure of electricity poverty since household electricity demand in rural (urban) areas does not respond to income changes until after 7th (5th) income decile. Accordingly, the first IBT block for some provinces (e.g., Beijing) appears to have been set at a level that is too high. Over time however, given continued rapid growth, the IBT will begin to better reflect actual basic needs.
N55|Does environmental degradation shackle economic growth? A panel data investigation on 11 Asian countries|Sustainable economic growth needs to be the primary objective of every government, including developing Asian countries, to improve the social welfare of the people. Therefore, to achieve the desirable level of sustainable economic growth, environmental degradation must be controlled without lowering real growth and the well-being of the society. This study empirically investigates the impact of environmental degradation by CO2 emissions on the economic growth of 11 Asian countries between 1990 and 2011. Based on the nature of the data, traditional panel estimation techniques encompassing fixed effects and random effects are employed, in which the results of Hausman's test and other tests show that the use of fixed effects is preferable over the random-effect estimator. Empirical results exhibit that environmental degradation has a significantly negative impact on economic growth. Empirical findings also suggest that environmental degradation should be regulated. Therefore, environmentally enlightened management policies for the decrease of CO2 emissions and fuel consumption by transportation and industries need to be pursued by Asian countries. The adoption of safe carbon emission cut-back policies is a promising path to sustainable economic growth.
N55|China’s GDP per capita from the Han Dynasty to communist times|Our article is a critical survey of the concepts and data utilized by economists and economic historians that purport to measure relative levels and long term trends in GDP per capita from the Han Dynasty to Communist times. We favour attempts to extend macro-economic analysis and its associated quantification to China’s long imperial history, but have concluded that estimates calibrated in international dollars for 1900, or 2005 or 2011 are not fit for that purpose. Furthermore, and after surveying recent endeavours to reconstruct the published secondary and official statistical sources available for the measurement of primary production for Ming and Qing China (1368-1911), we reluctantly suggest that Kuznetian paradigms for empirical economics are probably not viable, either for the measurement of the empire’s growth over time or for reciprocal comparisons with European economies. This is because on both conceptual and statistical grounds the concept and associated metric for GDP per capita does not travel easily and securely between the fiscal systems of China and the West (Yun-Casallila and O’Brien 2012).
N55|To get the prices right for food: a “Gerschenkron state” versus the market in reforming China, 1979–2006|This article provides an empirical assessment of China’s state price policies and strategies in relation to (1) market-rebuilding for the agricultural sector and (2) food security for China.1 It traces main changes in government grain pricing, urban food subsidies, grain procurement and the administrative control over food circulation from 1979 to 2006 in a bid to transfer a non-market economy to a market one, commonly known as the post-Mao reforms.
N55|Filipino 2040 Environmental Resources, Shocks, and National Well-Being|The contribution of the environmental-resource sector to national well-being is the sum of natural resource depletion and environmental degradation. Inasmuch as existing resource stocks are below efficient levels, better enforcement of existing laws as well as policies that incentivize sustainable use are needed. Similarly, progressive royalty assessment of mineral resources can incentivize exploration without transferring the bulk of resource rents to private interests. In the case of pollution, the key is to face firms with the full costs of their production, e.g. through emission taxes and/or cap and trade systems. Calculating total depletion and degradation (TDD) will facilitate the calculation of green national income (GNI), a more inclusive metric of national well-being. In the same way, simultaneous optimization of disaster management policies in the face of climate change can facilitate a further improvement in national well-being, this time measured as comprehensive national income (CNI).
N55|"Competitive Exhibitions and the Branding of Regional Agricultural Products : the Case of ""Aomori"" and ""Tsugaru"" Apples in Modern Japan"|The Japanese government, after making inspection tours of western countries, designed policies for industrial promotion. One of them was staging nationwide competitive exhibitions, and this project started in 1877. The purpose of this study is to clarify how these exhibitions became a springboard for the branding of regional agricultural products, especially apples, during the 1870s to the 1900s. We obtained the following results. Naikoku-kangyo-hakurankai, the largest national exhibition and a model for other exhibitions in modern Japan, served as a contested arena, not only for individual exhibitors, but also for group exhibitors representing a prefecture. Therefore, if one group representing a prefecture was recognized as the leading and trustworthy grower of an agricultural product in the exhibition, that prefecture fs sales of the product were superior to those of other prefectures in the market. This could lead to a situation wherein all farmers engaged in the cultivation of the agricultural product in the prefecture gain economic benefits. Therefore, in some prefectures, both public and private sectors worked together to organize a delegation under the leadership of local magnates, aiming to win many awards in the exhibition. The case of Aomori prefecture, especially which of Tsugaru area, is a representative one. In the 1870s, when the government started to organize exhibitions, many new varieties of fruit, including over a hundred kinds of apples, were introduced from western countries under the government fs initiative. Among these, the Japanese of the time preferred the sweet, red, and shiny ones. In fact, such consumer tastes were reflected as the criteria for grading apples in exhibitions. In response to this trend, the leading growers of apples in Aomori prefecture promptly undertook of the investigation not only of a cultivation method reflecting consumer tastes and the evaluation criterion, but also of an effective and extensive distribution system for their apples. They shared their knowledge with other farmers in the same region. In addition, they organized their own local exhibitions as a practice run for Naikoku-kangyo-hakurankai. These proactive steps evolved into the formation of a system that enabled apple farmers in the Aomori prefecture to increase the quality of their apples supportively and competitively. Through this process, they surpassed the leading producers at the time, such as Hokkaido and Iwate, grew into major production area of apples, and succeeded in the branding of gAomori h and gTsugaru h apples. This could not have been achieved without the existence of competitive exhibitions.
N55|Irrigation as a Determinant of Social Capital in India: A Large-Scale Survey Analysis|Practicing agriculture requires organisation and coordination. To analyse the extent to which differences in agricultural practices can account for variation in social capital, a large survey containing indicators of social capital is combined with detailed agricultural statistics. The main factor under analysis is irrigation, together with prevalent grain sorts, thereby building on prior research. The richness of the datasets allows to explore various dimensions of social capital in geographic detail and their distribution among societal groups. Results reveal a significant negative influence of irrigation on the prevalence of conflict and an increased likelihood for communal conflict solution strategies within communities. These results are strongest for landholders working their own land, yet lose significance when accounting for intra-district correlation. For other indicators of social capital such as confidence and membership in organisations, the results are less conclusive, yet some interesting relations emerge.
N55|Export Crops and Civil Conflict|Many governments and international experts consider a move towards high-value export crops, such as fruits and vegetables, as an important opportunity for economic growth and poverty reduction. Little is known, however, about the effects of export crops in fragile and conflict- affected countries. We exploit movements in world market prices combined with geographic variation in crop intensity to provide evidence that increases in the value of a major export crop exacerbate conflict violence in the Philippines. We further show that this effect is concentrated in areas with low baseline insurgent control. In areas with high insurgent control, a rise in crop value leads to a decrease in violence but a further expansion of rebel-controlled territory. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that insurgents gain strength from extorting agricultural exporters and that insurgent strength has a non-monotonic effect on conflict violence because strong insurgent groups can establish local monopolies of violence.
N55|Agricultural Credit in India in the 2000s: Growth, Distribution and Linkages with Productivity|The period of the 2000s witnessed a sharp revival in agricultural credit in India that was largely policy induced. There were emerging shifts in institutional, functional and regional distributions of agricultural credit during the decade. This study attempts to explore the relationship between agricultural credit and agricultural production/productivity. The state-level panel model attempted in this article suggests a positive impact of the intensity of agricultural credit on total factor productivity in agriculture. The impact was relatively stronger with respect to direct agricultural credit. A case study of the (combined) state of Andhra Pradesh also suggests a positive association between agricultural credit and agricultural production. The study lends credence to the policy approach of including agriculture, the largest employer in the Indian economy, as a sector for priority credit in India. It also highlights the point that the sector deserves continued policy support in order to move onto a sustainable and higher growth path. JEL Classification: Q10, Q14, Q18, N55
N55|A conquest of rice: agricultural expansion, impoverishment, and malaria in Turkey|Serving as a parliamentarian in late-1940s Turkey, Dr. Mehmet Serif Korkut wrote of his perceptions of the gravest danger to Turkish workers and the nation: malaria. In his view as physician and politician, the greatest factor exacerbating this disease involved the rapid -though legally regulated- expansion of rice cultivation within the country. Addressing this problem through his writings, Korkut connected this commodity with conditions of unchecked agrarian capitalism and impoverishment. In such a context, he argued, rice farming caused the state to be plagued with corruption and the peasantry with malaria. Relying upon his primary texts and supported by archival research, this article presents and analyses a unique critique of agrarian capitalism from Turkey's early Cold War era. In doing so, it contributes to a broader appreciation for the diversity of sources, ideas, and linkages between histories of agriculture and public health.
N55|Property, Possession, Incorporation: Another Look at Agribusiness Venture Agreements in the Philippines|Of late, incorporating smallholder land, through partnerships with agribusiness firms that cultivate export crops has received some attention among scholars, policymakers and non-government organizations (NGOs). Some see such partnerships as a means of raising smallholder incomes, and achieving rural development. However, several case studies have shown that such partnerships can result in low incomes, and effective dispossession of smallholders. This essay examines how this dynamic occurs by comparing the experiences of smallholders in the Davao Region of the Philippines. I argue that despite the smallholders observable and enforceable property rights, the costs and risks of cultivation, coupled with an unfavorable political environment generate conditions under which smallholders cede control over their holdings in a partnership. This results in both lower incomes, and exclusion from the use of their land.
N55|Identity-Based Policies and Identity Manipulation: Evidence from Colonial Punjab|I study identity-marker based policies and demonstrate the existence of identity manipulation. I analyze the impact of the Punjab Alienation of Land Act (1901), a caste-based legislation, on identity manipulation. Using data from the colonial census, I show that a movement of identity manipulation took place in response to the law. I estimate that in 20 years, 7.5 percent of the population that had an incentive to do so manipulated its identity. I then use an accounting exercise to estimate that the amount of mistargeting caused by this manipulation is between 3.9 percent and 8.2 percent of the land distributed. (JEL J15, N35, N45, N55, Q15, Q24, Z13)
N55|A Dynamic Economic Analysis of Nitrogen-Induced Soil Acidification in China| This paper studies the environmental value of nitrogen fertilizer in a rapeseed-rice double-crop system in China to address the issue of nitrogen-induced soil acidification in China’s farmland. Previous literature always regarded the acid rain as the most important contributor to soil acidification. Thus, previous literature seldom linked soil quality with nitrogen leaching but studied acidification as a side product of air pollution. However, the latest scientific evidences show that China’s soil acidification is mainly caused by over-applied nitrogen fertilize because nitrogen leaching creates extra soil acidity in the entire production process. Hence, the first contribution of this study is that it analyzes soil acidification itself as an environmental externality induced by human behavior rather than an indirect consequence of air pollution. The second contribution is that this study solves for the optimal nitrogen management as an alternative way to solve for the problem of acidification while previous literature only focused on lime application. Theoretically, this study uses a dynamic optimization model to solve for the optimal nitrogen application and the steady state soil pH by maximizing the long-term profit of a two-season agriculture production subject to an acidity growth function. In China, the market price of nitrogen fertilizer only reflects its value in agricultural yields but ignores its environmental value. The steady state analysis compares the optimal nitrogen management that considers the environmental value of nitrogen and the myopic management that ignores its environmental value. There are two theoretical results. First, at the steady state, nitrogen application under the optimal management is greater than the myopic management if the total value of the marginal product of the soil pH at the steady state for an entire rotation is negative. If there is no externality generated by the nitrogen at the steady state, there is no difference between the optimal and myopic management. Second, for an increment of the optimal soil pH value, the marginal decrease of the optimal nitrogen application in season 2 is no greater than the marginal increase of the nitrogen application in season 1 adjusted by the absorption rate. Thus, for any increment in the optimal soil pH value, the total nitrogen application of a rotation increases. Hence, the myopic nitrogen management leads to an inefficient soil pH at the steady state for a long-term agricultural production. Empirically, it firstly uses a Seemly Unrelated Regression robusted by Bootstrap and Monte Carlo to estimate the production functions and acidity growth function using soil monitoring and agricultural production data from the World Bank Soil Monitoring Project in Anhui China (2001-2010). Then, following the first order conditions, it finds the numerical solutions for the optimal nitrogen management. The theoretical model shows that ignoring the environmental externality (myopic behavior) increases nitrogen applications and results in a lower steady state soil pH. The empirical results are consistent with theoretical finds. First, the myopic total nitrogen application of a rapeseed-rice system is only 15.74 kg/ha more than that of the optimal management. However, the myopic steady state soil pH is 0.77 units lower than that of the optimal management, which leads to a huge difference in agricultural production. Hence, nitrogen allocation between seasons is as vital as the total nitrogen application in preventing acidification. Second, the social value of nitrogen fertilizer that contains both production and environmental value is 4.92 RMB/kg, which is about two times of its average market price in 2013. Hence, the market price that ignores the environmental value gives the wrong incentives in fertilizer investment. Third, this study measures the market value of soil pH, which is 40.80 RMB/ha. Hence, agricultural inefficiency is created when myopic fertilizer investment decreases future soil pH productivity. This inter-disciplinary study highlights the importance of considering the environmental value of nitrogen fertilizer in a long-term agricultural production. It provides two policy implications to prevent soil acidification in China. First, the government could set the price of nitrogen based on both its production and environmental value. Second, the government could set up a soil monitoring and punishment system based on the value of soil pH to motivate farmers to apply the optimal nitrogen management. These two approaches are more feasible in China than lime application because Chinese farmers do not have the habits of using lime due to institutional reasons. The future direction of this study is to investigate the impacts of these institutional reasons on shaping nitrogen fertilizer and lime application habits in China.
N55|Accelerating Agricultural Growth and Poverty Alleviation through Public Expenditure: The Experience of India| A slowdown in agricultural growth, persisted during the 1990s and early 2000s has somewhat got reversed from 2004-05. But apprehensions continue on achieving the targeted 4 percent growth amidst decelerating productivity levels and persisting poverty. To what extent has public investment and subsidy impacted agricultural growth, productivity and rural poverty? This study focuses on this issue by quantifying the effectiveness of different types of public investments and subsidies and their relative impact on agricultural growth, and employment and reduction in rural poverty in India. Results obtained from 1981 to 2011 based on a structural econometric model are differentiated with their estimated coefficients to find relative total and marginal effects of investments and subsidies on farm income and rural poverty.
N55|Sustainability Certification and Palm Oil Smallholders’ Livelihood: A Comparison between Scheme Smallholders and Independent Smallholders in Indonesia| Most sustainability certifications in Indonesia are developed by Northern-based businesses and NGOs to regulate the production of agricultural commodities in the South. However, research still shows a lot of uncertainty about what sustainability certifications imply for the livelihood of smallholder farmers. Given these uncertainties, this paper explores the potential of certifications to improve the livelihood of smallholder farmers. To achieve this objective we developed an amended livelihood framework applied to an exploratory study of Indonesian smallholders who participate in the Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Although access to markets and vulnerability are not improved through certification, indirect effects through organizational changes increase productivity. If certification schemes are weakly institutionalized, farmers will easily shift to a more profitable way of production. Further analysis is needed to discover the balance between the ethical aspects of certification while improving economic profitability for participating smallholders.
N55|Rural Livelihood Strategies in Cambodia: Evidence from a household survey in Stung Treng| The overall objective of this discussion paper is to advance the knowledge on rural livelihoods in Stung Treng, Cambodia. In a cluster analysis, five clusters with very different livelihood strategies are identified based on a sample of 600 rural households. Despite the fact that nearly all households are engaged in some form of subsistence farming, especially by growing rice, the richer clusters build on self-employment and higher-skilled wage employment. In contrast the middle income cluster mainly depends on natural resources (fish and firewood). The poorer two clusters are engaged in lowerskilled wage employment. The incidence of poverty is widespread but differences between the clusters are clearly visible. Even the better-off households have consumption poverty headcount ratios of between 37 to 50% at PPP $1.25. For households from the poorest clusters the poverty headcount ratio amounts to even 70% for income and 80% for consumption. Especially the households largely depending on natural resource extraction are characterized by a high incidence of poverty and high vulnerability. In addition, there are a number of pressures which are expected to increase poverty problems in the future. Policies aimed at reducing poverty and improving rural livelihoods need to carefully consider the close linkages between rural livelihoods and natural resources. But also a diversification away from natural resource extraction into higher-skilled jobs is found to be a strategy opening up new opportunities to improve livelihood security and raise the living standards of the poor.
N55|The Marginal Abatement Cost of Carbon Emissions in China|There is an emerging literature estimating the marginal cost of carbon mitigation in China using distance function approaches; however, empirical estimates vary widely in magnitude and variation, which undermines support for policies to curb carbon emission. Applying three commonly used distance functions to China's provincial data from 2001 to 2010, we show that the variability can be partially explained by the difference in the input/output coverage and whether the estimated marginal abatement cost (MAC) is conditional on the abatement of other correlated pollutants. We also argue that the substantial heterogeneity in abatement cost estimates could be related to an economic interpretation that radial measures reflect the short-run MACs while non-radial measures reflect the long-run MACs. Our mean short-run MAC for carbon is 20 US$ per tonne, an amount that is very close to the carbon prices observed in China's recently launched pilot markets.
N55|The Economy of People’s Republic of China from 1953|This paper studies growth and structural transformation of the Chinese economy from 1953 to 2012 through a lens of a two-sector growth model. The main goal of the paper is to provide a systematic analysis of both the pre-1978 reform and post-1978 reform periods in a unified framework. First, we construct a dataset that allows the application of the neoclassical model and computation of wedges, their components, and rates of TFP growth. Second, we determine the key quantitative factors behind growth and structural transformation. The changes in the intersectoral labor wedge play the dominant role in accounting for the change in the share of labor force in agriculture. TFP growth and changes in the intersectoral wedges are the two most significant factors contributing to GDP growth. Further decomposing the effects of reduction in wedges, we find that two components: the production component (the gap between the ratio of the marginal products of labor and relative wages) and the consumption component (the gap between the marginal rate of substitution and the relative prices) play a particularly large role. Third, we use the pre-reform period as a key benchmark to measure the success of the post-1978 reforms. We show that reforms yielded a significant growth and structural transformation differential. GDP growth is 4.2 percentage points higher and the share of the labor force in agriculture is 23.9 percentage points lower compared with the continuation of the pre-1978 policies. We provide extensive historical evidence for the reforms that are consistent with the evolution of the components of the wedges. The decrease in the production component of the intersectoral wedge is consistent with increased competition and demonopolization of the economy. The decrease in the consumption component of the wedge is consistent with the price and housing reforms. Finally, we project the path of the Chinese economy until 2050 and also calculate a lower bound on future growth by projecting pre-reform trends.
N55|Did Civilian Granaries Affect Social Stability? Empirical Evidence from the Qing Dynasty (1817¨C1856)|Based on historical panel data of social instability, civilian granary and climate shocks in the 17 Provinces of the Qing from 1817 to 1856, this paper examines the correlation between social instability and civilian granary holdings. It shows that the civilian granary system reduced social instability in the Qing Dynasty, while climate shocks raised social instability. Moreover, this paper shows that civilian granaries mitigated the effects of climate shocks on social instability.
N55|Land and labor reallocation in pre-modern Japan : a case of a northeastern village in 1720-1870|"In agricultural societies, adjusting land and labor according to changes of labor endowment that result from family life cycle events is premised on making full use of resources for each farming household and for the economy as a whole. This paper examines how and how well households in pre-modern Japan reallocated land and labor, using a population register covering 150 years from 1720–1870 for a village in the Tohoku region. We find that households reacted to equalize their production factors; land-scarce households tended to acquire or rent-in land and out-migrate their kin members, while land-abundant households tended to release or rent-out land, in-migrate kin members, or employ non-kin members. Estimates suggest that more than 80% of the surplus or deficit area of land was resolved if the household rented or ""sold"" land. We discuss a potential underlying mechanism; namely, that the village's collective responsibility for tax payment (murauke) motivated both individual households and the village as a whole to reallocate land and labor for the efficient use of resources."
N55|The Indonesian Economy from the Colonial Extraction Period until the Post-New Order Period: A Review of Thee Kian Wieâ€™s Major Works|"This paper reviews some major works of Thee Kian Wie, one of Indonesiaâ€™s most distinguished economic historians, that spans from the Colonial period until the post-New Order period. His works emphasize that economic history can guide future economic policy. Current problems in Indonesia were resulted from past policy failures. Indonesia needs to consistently embark on open economic policies, free itself from ""colonial period mentality"". Investment should be made in rebuilding crumbling infrastructure, improving the quality of health and education services, and addressing poor law enforcement. If current corruption persists, Indonesia could not hope to become a dynamic and prosperous country."
N55|Do Natural Resources of Rentier States Promote Military Expenditures? Evidence from GCC Countries|This study aims to explore the effect of natural resources of rentier states on military expenditure using the panel data from GCC countries. The principle findings suggest that types of natural resources matter and that the rent from oil only appeared to fuel the military expenditure of GCC, other natural resources such as gas and minerals are not. Further, the study found that Gulf War I and II as well as Arab Spring is statistically insignificant in explaining the military expenditure of GCC.
N55|The Economy of People’s Republic of China from 1953|This paper studies growth and structural transformation of the Chinese economy from 1953 to 2012 through a lens of a two-sector growth model. The main goal of the paper is to provide a systematic analysis of both the pre-1978 reform and post-1978 reform periods in a unified framework. First, we construct a dataset that allows the application of the neoclassical model and computation of wedges, their components, and rates of TFP growth. Second, we determine the key quantitative factors behind growth and structural transformation. The changes in the intersectoral labor wedge play the dominant role in accounting for the change in the share of labor force in agriculture. TFP growth and changes in the intersectoral wedges are the two most significant factors contributing to GDP growth. Further decomposing the effects of reduction in wedges, we find that two components: the production component (the gap between the ratio of the marginal products of labor and relative wages) and the consumption component (the gap between the marginal rate of substitution and the relative prices) play a particularly large role. Third, we use the pre-reform period as a key benchmark to measure the success of the post-1978 reforms. We show that reforms yielded a significant growth and structural transformation differential. GDP growth is 4.2 percentage points higher and the share of the labor force in agriculture is 23.9 percentage points lower compared with the continuation of the pre-1978 policies. We provide extensive historical evidence for the reforms that are consistent with the evolution of the components of the wedges. The decrease in the production component of the intersectoral wedge is consistent with increased competition and demonopolization of the economy. The decrease in the consumption component of the wedge is consistent with the price and housing reforms. Finally, we project the path of the Chinese economy until 2050 and also calculate a lower bound on future growth by projecting pre-reform trends.
N55|Chinese National Income, ca. 1661–1933|This paper pulls together many primary and secondary sources to arrive at consistent estimates of national income for china between the 17th and 20th centuries. We find, in line with much of the literature, that GDP per capita declined between the mid-17th and 19th centuries. This trend reversed during the 19th century, mainly due to a shift into services and, for the late 19th century onwards, also in industry. Since these sectors exhibited higher labour productivity, this fostered economic growth. This pattern of decreasing share of services and industry from the 17th century and increasing shares in the 19th century is common in many Asian countries except Japan. The reasons for this development, however, are unclear. The standard ultimate factors of growth such as institutions (low marriage age for women, exclusive society) and geography apply to almost all Asian countries. Hence, more research is necessary.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N55|An Analysis on the Factors Affecting Rice Production Efficiency in Myanmar|The objective of this study is to obtain a better understanding of the current rice production condition in Myanmar through efficiency analysis, especially, to examine the impact of farm mechanization on Myanmar rice production efficiency. For representation of efficiency and the determinants, this paper uses both the data envelopment analysis (DEA) and the stochastic frontier approach (SFA) with variable returns to scale on Myanmar rice production. The efficiency of the rice production was estimated and subsequently the determinants factors were investigated based on the estimated efficiency level of these sample farmers. The empirical evidence finds that farm mechanical tools significantly improve the Myanmar rice production efficiency.
N55|The Effects of Tax Policy on Alcoholic Beverage Trends and Alcohol Demand in Japan| This paper examines the evolution of alcoholic beverage sectors and the effects of tax policies on these sectors as well as the alcohol beverage demand systems in Japan utilising data from 1948 to 2011. In tax policy analyses, liquor tax policies are found to have differential effects on the production and consumption of different types of alcohol. Although sectoral growth and general economic performance in terms of final consumption expenditure per capita are found to be significant, with major positive effects, tax rates are found to have mixed effects, depending on the type of alcohol considered. The analyses suggest that preferential tax rates may be beneficial for boosting the sectoral performance of certain types of alcoholic beverages. The results, based on double-log and demand system equation estimations for five types of alcoholic beverages, suggest that all alcoholic beverages, except for shōchu, are normal goods with positive expenditure elasticities. Although the results suggest that shōchu may be the safest taxable subject in a Ramsey sense, the own-price elasticity estimates provide less coherent results depending on the model applied.
N55|On Equity in India's Water Supply Public-Private Partnerships|This article studies the implementation of a public-private partnership (PPP) in the water supply sector in Nagpur (Maharashtra, India). Drawing upon the capability approach and the concept of disadvantage, we define equity as the need to focus on the worse-off. Based on extensive field-research, we explain how the access to water is currently characterized by patronage relations and institutional discriminatory practices that perpetuate categorical inequalities. Addressing equity concerns in a PPP therefore requires questioning the existing power relations to clearly prioritize the worse-off. Our research argues that international law might be used to promote equitable processes in urban infrastructure, beyond today's focus on technical accounts and efficiency debates.
N55|A Panel VAR Approach of the Relationship among Economic Growth, CO2 Emissions, and Energy Use in the ASEAN-6 Countries|The paper analyses the relationship among economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, and energy use for six ASEAN countries over the 1971-2007 years. Using a panel VAR technique, a 3- variable VAR is estimated. Empirical findings show that the response of economic growth to energy use is positive and statistically significant. The forecast errors in real per capita GDP are mainly due to uncertainty in GDP itself and energy use emissions. The error variances in the carbon dioxide emissions are sensible to disturbances both in the GDP and in CO2 equations. While the errors in predicting the energy use are sensitive to disturbances in its own equation: after ten steps. Thus, for the estimated sample, these results reinforced the VAR and IRFs analyses, suggesting that for this panel the “growth hypothesis” holds
N55|The impact of intensive farming on land tenure: Evidence from Confucius' manors (1759–1901)|During the Ming and Qing Dynasties, fixed-rent tenancy gradually replaced sharecropping as the dominant form of land tenancy in China. This paper hypothesizes that the secular shift in land tenure was an adaptation to the change in land utilization system towards more intensive cropping. To test the hypothesis we exploit a dataset gathered from the rent collection archives of Confucius' Lineage in the Qing Dynasty. We estimate the effect of the adoption of wheat–soybean double cropping on the choice of tenancy contract, share contract versus fixed-rent contract. We find that double cropped plots were 23.7% more likely to be managed under fixed-rent contracts than annually cropped plots. Our findings are consistent with the implications of the factor endowment theory. The adoption of double cropping made farming more complex and placed greater demands on managerial inputs of tenants. In the absence of a factor market for managerial ability, optimal tenancy contract had adapted to provide tenants with a greater incentive to supply managerial inputs than had been the case in sharecropping arrangements.
N55|Dutch disease effect of oil rents on agriculture value added in Middle East and North African (MENA) countries|This paper investigates the effect of oil rents on agriculture value added in oil producing Middle East and North African (MENA) countries. Annual data from 1970 to 2011, panel cointegration tests by Pedroni (1999), long ran panel causality tests by Canning and Pedroni (2008), and two-step System GMM by Blundell and Bond (1998) are used in this study. We find a negative relationship between oil rents and agriculture value added in the long run, with a rather slow rate of short run adjustment of agriculture value added back to equilibrium after a boom in oil rents. These results indicate that an oil sector boom is associated with a contraction in the agriculture sectors of the countries in the panel in the long run. This is probably attributable to a resource movement effect from other economic sectors to the booming oil sector in these countries. This serves as evidence of a Dutch disease effect of an oil sector boom on agriculture in the MENA countries in this study.
N55|Electricity Demand and Basic Needs: Empirical Evidence from China's Households|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|Mining and Indonesia’s Economy: Institutions and Value Adding, 1870-2010|Indonesia has long been a major producer of minerals for international markets. Starting in 2014, it implemented legislation banning exports of unprocessed minerals and requiring producers to invest in processing facilities to add more value before export. This paper establishes what light past experiences in Indonesia with mining sheds on this recent development. It quantifies and discusses the growth of mining production in Indonesia since 1870. It analyses the institutional arrangements that past governments used to maximise resource rents and domestic value adding. The paper finds that production and exports of mining commodities were long dominated by oil, but increased and diversified over time, particularly since the 1960s. The development of the mining sector depended on changes in market prices, mining technologies and the cost of production, but particularly on the institutional arrangements that guided the decisions of foreign investors to commit to mining production and processing in Indonesia.
N55|Mining and Indonesia’s Economy: Institutions and Value Adding, 1870-2010|Indonesia has long been a major producer of minerals for international markets. Starting in 2014, it implemented legislation banning exports of unprocessed minerals and requiring producers to invest in processing facilities to add more value before export. This paper establishes what light past experiences in Indonesia with mining sheds on this recent development. It quantifies and discusses the growth of mining production in Indonesia since 1870. It analyses the institutional arrangements that past governments used to maximise resource rents and domestic value adding. The paper finds that production and exports of mining commodities were long dominated by oil, but increased and diversified over time, particularly since the 1960s. The development of the mining sector depended on changes in market prices, mining technologies and the cost of production, but particularly on the institutional arrangements that guided the decisions of foreign investors to commit to mining production and processing in Indonesia.
N55|International food aid to Indonesia, 1950s-1970s|Indonesia experienced growing shortfalls of food supplies during the 1950s and during the 1960s and 1970s it imported increasing amounts of rice, wheat and wheat flour. This paper investigates the role of food aid in this development. In the 1950s,Indonesia received some US PL480 food aid under concessional loans. Despite occasional famines, and the willingness of countries to supply food aid as grants,Indonesia did not request such food aid until 1966. Donations of wheat flour, rice and other food products started to arrive in Indonesia in 1967 and increased quickly since. During the 1970s one-third of Indonesia's imports of both rice and wheat arrived as aid. Initially donor countries focused on rice aid in efforts to secure shares in Indonesia's growing rice imports. But their focus shifted to wheat aid, in response to opportunities for them to grow Indonesia's market for wheat-based products and secure market share. Food aid helped to alleviate food shortages, but it also strengthened the role of the official food logistics agency in Indonesia's food markets.
N55|The Rentier State/Resource Curse narrative and the state of the Arabian Gulf|This paper proposes that the Rentier State and Resource Curse theories be considered as two elements of the same paradigm which, despite a growing body of contrary empirical evidence, retains a hegemonic influence in political economy discourse. It will be suggested that a number of reasons account for this, not least, the nature and subject of the “rent” itself. Contemporary notions of rent as essentially constituting unearned and thus unwarranted income, are divorced from a more contextually accurate ‘ground rent’ charge levied for extracting depletable sovereign resources is one. Another is the extent to which the political demonisation of OPEC, combined with the West’s concerted policy response of seeking to liberalise the world oil market in the 1980s and 1990s, is abstracted from the discourse. Moreover, by demonstrating that there is little evidence of the deterministic poverty inducing and deleterious socioeconomic outcomes in the ‘archetypal candidate’ countries of the Arabian Gulf, the utility per se of the RS/RC narrative as a conceptual and/or analytical framework is questioned.
N55|Efficient Indian Commodity Markets – Need for Comprehensive Warehousing System|Warehouses are closely linked to commodity futures exchanges and form an important component in the process of price formation of commodities. Warehouses issue warehouse receipts to farmers, the warehouse guarantees the farmer the delivery of the goods stored in the premises of the warehouse while the warehouse receipts can be pledged in transactions which are financial in nature in order to generate loans for the financing of cost of storage. The current study tries to assess the nature of storage facilities of commodities in a few major countries as well as prominent global commodity exchanges to explore the status of warehousing and the future requirement of storage facilities in India with special reference to grain warehousing, since warehousing is necessary for agricultural commodities which are perishable in nature. As futures markets for commodities grow in their importance, there is a need for augmenting and strengthening the warehousing and delivery system in order to make the Indian commodity market more efficient. The paper also reviews the experience of warehouse receipt financing in developed and developing countries.
N55|Dutch Disease Effect of Oil Rents on Agriculture Value Added in MENA Countries|This paper investigates the effect of oil rents on agriculture value added in oil producing Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) countries. Annual data from 1970 to 2011, panel cointegration tests by Pedroni (1999), long ran panel causality tests by Canning and Pedroni (2008), and two-step System GMM by Blundell and Bond (1998) are used in this study. We find a negative relationship between oil rents and agriculture value added in the long run, with a rather slow rate of short run adjustment of agriculture value added back to equilibrium after a boom in oil rents. These results indicate that an oil sector boom is associated with a contraction in the agriculture sectors of the countries in the panel in the long run. This is probably attributable to a resource movement effect from other economic sectors to the booming oil sector in these countries. This serves as evidence of a Dutch disease effect of an oil sector boom on agriculture in the MENA countries in this study.
N55|Technological Changes in Marine Fishing and Livelihood Threats of Fisher Folk|The growing demand for fish in the developed and developing countries and the recognition of its place as a balanced diet to the rapidly growing population ensuring food security and as a foreign exchange earner are creating immense pressure on the world of fisheries. In the context of stagnating/depleting catches, sustainable development of fisheries sector and the livelihood of fishers become problems. The concern over the sustainability of fisheries resources and the resulting threat on the livelihood of the traditional fishers in Kerala form the subject matter of the present study. The study includes descriptive, exploratory and confirmatory research. It reveals that technological developments resulted in the stagnation/declining of marine landings in Kerala. It also identifies the sustainability issues which are directly or indirectly related to technology. Institutional and human conditions like open access, greed and competition make the situation more insecure. Pollution, discards and other institutional factors cause ecosystem damages and the fishers face livelihood threat and insecurity. Apart from these the fishers are deprived of livelihood assets. The threats faced by the fishers are related to work, environment, financial requirement, marketing difficulties and administration. It concludes that the policies adopted to ameliorate the livelihood conditions of the fishers must be based on the specificity of the need in each particular region. Further studies should be undertaken at the local level emphasizing the concept of sustainable development technology and Place Suited Community Centered Co-management where the principle of subsidiarity should be followed.
N55|Eco-tourism: An Assessment of Perceptions and Autonomous Adaptation among the Farmers of North East Tamil Nadu, under the Purview of Climate Change|This study tries to explore the perceptions of local farming community on the changes in climate and to evaluate their existing coping strategies in the Chengalpet areas of Tamil Nadu, a semi arid coastal region of South India. For this purpose, Rapid Rural Appraisals, Focal Group Discussions and in depth surveys have been carried out during the month of June 2013. This research observed that majority of the farmers have perceived climate variability and especially increasing temperature, prolonged dry spells ,erratic rainfall pattern etc based on their personnel and farming experiences. This study observed that climate change has already started to affect the marginal and subsistence farmers to a great extent. The farmers are practicing autonomous adaptation strategies like changing the timing of farm operations like varying planting dates, shifting traditional crops to heat tolerant crops and varieties and shifting from traditional rice paddy cultivation to other cash crops which are less water intensive etc. This study recommends that in order to cope with the future challenges and to attain sustainable crop production and livelihood security, site specific planned adaptations strategies also should be implemented.
N55|Measuring the Effects of Decollectivization on China's Agricultural Growth: A Panel GMM Approach, 1970-1987|The mainstream view that decollectivization significantly contributed to China's agricultural growth has recently been challenged by revisionists, who emphasize the positive effects of the socialist legacy, such as irrigation and mechanization. This study contributes to this debate by explicitly recognizing the endogeneity of institutional changes and uses lagged weather shocks as valid instruments. With improved data on irrigation and mechanization in a provincial-level dataset covering the1970-1987 period, the results of panel GMM estimations reveal that the Household Responsibility System had a significantly positive effect on China's agricultural growth, which is larger than that indicated by OLS estimates..
N55|The Korean Energy and GHG Target Management System: An Alternative to Kyoto-Protocol Emissions Trading Systems?|The Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Target Management System (TMS) is one of South Korea’s major instruments to achieve national energy policy as well as GHG reduction targets. The TMS was introduced in the late 1990s, focusing on energy only and aiming to reduce the level of South Korea’s energy consumption and fossil fuel imports. During the presidency of Lee Myung-bak, the system was reformed and a GHG abatement function was integrated. This paper applies an analytical governance perspective to investigate the main procedural logic of the TMS. Even though South Korea’s GHG policy is closely linked to the Kyoto Protocol, the Energy and GHG TMS does not rely on market-based instruments. In fact, it combines command-and-control components with strong voluntary network-like mechanisms. The analysis indicates that the Korean TMS thus represents a policy alternative to an emissions trading system. In conclusion and in reference to an eventual Kyoto follow-up agreement, the paper recommends a better integration of such not market based, energy consumption and GHG abatement addressing instruments with global climate change politics.
N55|A Macro –Econometric Study Of Oil Energy:Opaep Panel’S Data Analysis|The interest of this paper is to show the relationship GDP - Oil Production, that is to say that the trajectory of GDP is subject to oil production because a shortage in the oil sector will influence all other sectors therefore automatically GDP will decline. We will try to prove this relationship by applying the method of analysis of panel data on the member’s countries of OAPEC. Previously, it was very difficult to make a logical explanation of changes in GDP because economists could not make a correct calculation because they are only interested in oil prices. The reason for using the analysis of panel data is that this method will allow us to proceed with the estimation of an equation valid for all countries by obtaining values of GDP and oil production in order to confirm that it is a relationship between GDP and oil production responding to the hypothesis posed at the beginning.
N55|Technical Trade Barriers Facing U.S. Meat Exports|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|China's Impact on U.S. Poultry and Livestock Sectors|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|Dynamics of Household Assets and Income Shocks in the Long-run Process of Economic Development: The Case of Rural Pakistan|In this paper, we analyze the dynamics of assets held by low-income households facing various types of income shocks in pre- and post-independence Pakistan. Focusing on the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (formerly known as the North-West Frontier Province, NWFP), we first investigate the long-run data at the district level beginning from 1902. The results show that the population of livestock, the major asset of rural households, experienced a persistent decline after crop shocks due to droughts, but did not respond much to the Great Depression. In the post-independence period, crop agriculture continued to be vulnerable to natural disasters, although less substantially, while the response of livestock to such shocks was indiscernible from district-level data. To examine microeconomic mechanisms underlying such asset dynamics, we analyze a panel dataset collected from approximately 300 households in three villages in the NWFP during the late 1990s. The results show that the dynamics of household landholding and livestock is associated with a single long-run equilibrium. When human capital is included, the dynamics curve changes its shape but is not sufficiently nonlinear to produce statistically significant multiple equilibriums. The size of livestock holding was reduced in all villages hit by macroeconomic stagnation, while land depletion was reported only in a village with inferior access to markets. The patterns of asset dynamics ascertained from historical and contemporary analyses are consistent with limited but improving access to consumption smoothing measures in the study region over the century.
N55|Political economy of low sulfurization and air pollution control policy in Japan : SOx emission reduction by fuel conversion|In the early stages of the development of Japan’s environmental policy, sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions, which seriously damage health, was the most important air pollution problem. In the second half of the 1960s and the first half of the 1970s, the measures against SOx emissions progressed quickly, and these emissions were reduced drastically. The most important factor of the reduction was the conversion to a low-sulfur fuel for large-scale fuel users, such as the electric power industry. However, industries started conversion to low-sulfur fuel not due to environmental concerns, but simply to reduce costs. Furthermore, the interaction among the various interests of the electric power industry, oil refineries, the central government, local governments, and citizens over the energy and environmental policies led to the measures against SOx emissions by fuel conversion.
N55|International Transmission of Food Prices and Volatilities: A Panel Analysis|High and volatile food prices pose a significant policy challenge around the world, and an understanding of the dynamics of food price inflation and volatility is essential in designing appropriate policy responses. Using the panel data for 72 countries from 2000 to 2011, the paper assesses the international transmission of food price inflation and volatilities as well as the effects of various internal and external factors on domestic food price inflation and volatility. The paper offers evidence in support of the international transmission of food price inflation and volatility. Specifically, the paper finds that the domestic food price inflation in Asia is strongly associated with the lagged value of global food price inflation (using the FAO food price index), while volatility spillovers from global to domestic food prices are rather contemporaneous. The paper also finds that both national food price inflation rates and volatilities are strongly associated with both intra- and extra- regional food price inflation rates and volatilities, respectively. The findings also suggest that higher economic growth rates, greater shares of food in merchandise imports, and smaller increases in the share of food in merchandise imports lead to lower domestic food price inflation. An appreciation of local currency, greater political stability, and higher income level are also found to lower domestic food price inflation. On the other hand, higher economic growth rates lead to lower volatilities of food prices.
N55|Losing wealth or restricting the poison? Changing opium policies in early republican Turkey, 1923-1945|This article examines the shifting opium policies of early republican Turkey and their political consequences. By the turn of the 20th century, the mind-set behind the opium policies had turned towards restriction and selective prohibition, resulting in binding international conventions. The new opium regime framed by these conventions directly affected the young Turkish Republic, one of the foremost opium producing and exporting countries in the world. Due to international political pressure and the economic downturn in the opium market, Turkey radically changed its opium policies in 1933 by enacting a series of laws compatible with international conventions. Although designed as the final solution to the on-going opium problem, execution of this legislation created new tensions. Contrary to the dominant perception among early republican historiographers that the Kemalist state elites functioned as a homogenous entity with few inner conflicts, this article argues that implementation of the opium laws revealed a significant degree of disagreement and controversy among Turkish ruling elites. They were split along policy lines privileging export revenue derived from opium versus adherence to the conventional obligations. While the interwar era witnessed continuous struggles between these two groups and their policy formulations, the outbreak of World War II favoured the economic priorities due to an increased demand for opium to obtain morphine, along with the erosion of the international regulatory basis.
N55|Dynamics of Household Assets and Income Shocks in the Long-run Process of Economic Development: The Case of Rural Pakistan| This paper analyzes the dynamics of assets held by low-income households facing various types of income shocks in pre-independence and post-independence Pakistan. Focusing on the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (formerly known as the North–West Frontier Province or NWFP), the paper first investigates long-run data at the district level beginning 1902. Results show that the population of livestock, the major asset of rural households, experienced a persistent decline after crop shocks due to droughts, but did not respond much to the Great Depression. In the post-independence period, crop agriculture continued to be vulnerable to natural disasters, although less substantially so, while the response of livestock to such shocks was indiscernible from district-level data. To examine microeconomic mechanisms underlying such asset dynamics, I analyze a panel dataset collected from approximately 300 households in three villages in the NWFP during the late 1990s. Results show that the dynamics of household landholding and livestock are associated with a single long-run equilibrium. When human capital is included, the dynamics curve changes its shape but this is not sufficiently nonlinear to produce statistically significant multiple equilibriums. The size of livestock holding was reduced in all villages hit by macroeconomic stagnation, while land depletion was reported only in a village with inferior access to markets. The patterns of asset dynamics established from historical and contemporary analyses are consistent with limited but improving access to consumption smoothing measures in the study region over the century. © 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
N55|Food availability, food entitlements, and radicalism during the Chinese great leap forward famine: an econometric panel data analysis|The purpose of this article is to investigate the socio-economic as well as the political, institutional, and ideological causes of the Chinese famine of 1959–1961. The main hypothesis of this paper is that the radical policies implemented as part of the Great Leap Forward resulted in agricultural output decline (i.e., availability issues), and in the implementation of an ineffective food distribution policy affecting rural populations (i.e., accessibility issues). An econometric analysis, based on provincial panel data from the 1954–1966 period, stresses the effect of ill-advised economic policies in handling the famine. This analysis also confirms that the increase in mortality rates during the famine was caused by the simultaneous collapse in food availability and food accessibility in rural areas.
N55|Food Security In South Asia and Its Sustainability: Focus on India| Agriculture is the predominant sector of economies of all South Asian countries and poverty and hunger are the most serious problems faced by this region. Agriculture in this region is caught in a low equilibrium trap with low productivity of staples, supply shortfalls, high prices, low returns to farmers and area diversification which threaten food security. Despite rapid growth of some of the economies, dependence on agriculture as an economic activity has seen a negligible decline. Future growth of this sector holds the key to livelihood security, eradication of poverty, sustainable progress of the economy of each of the nations
N55|Technical Efficiency Under Producer’S Individual Technology: A Metafrontier Analysis| Differences in resource endowment between regions influence the technologies applied in agriculture and cause location-specific effects on production and technical change. Access to technologies may also differ within regions because producers may apply different technologies in production due to different characteristics. Within this setting, we extend the existing literature by considering that producers face region- and farm-specific production frontiers. The treatment of essentially heterogeneous technical efficiency (TE) is performed following a two-step procedure. First, a random coefficient specification of the production technology is used to measure the interactions of technology adoption with time, input factors and output. Second, linear programming techniques are employed to envelop the optimal level of technology. This procedure is applied to household-level data from eastern, central and western provinces in China. Our results provide evidence that technical efficiency is significantly affected by farm heterogeneity. This factor influences TE directly as a producer-specific input, and indirectly through interaction with observable inputs such as land, labor, capital and intermediate inputs. Our results also prove the assumption that farming technology exhibits region-specific characteristics. Furthermore, there is a disparity of TE across provinces that narrows over the study period and is driven by the shifts of production to the metafrontier.
N55|PARTICIPATORY RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN 1930s JAPAN: THE ECONOMIC REHABILITATION MOVEMENT|This paper studies an early participatory rural development program implemented during the 1930s in Japan. This program selected several villages each year to draft and implement their own original development plans. I discuss the implications of the features of the program on its effectiveness. A detailed baseline survey conducted by the villagers themselves helped them to objectively diagnose their economic situations and understand their issues. The plans defined clear numerical targets, allowing them to share goals and monitor progress. The implementation of the plan was reinforced by frequent communication and monitoring among neighbors and by an incentive scheme that involved competition within a village. I use a village-level panel dataset from the Hyogo prefecture to examine the effects, under the difference-in-differences strategy. I find suggestive evidence that the program helped foster the adoption of cattle raising and diversify agricultural production.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N55|Firm organizational heterogeneity and market structure: Evidence from the Japanese pesticide market|This paper empirically investigates the effects of the organizational forms of firms on their entry behaviors and market structure. To exploit the exogenous variation in firm organizational forms, we use Japanese pesticide market data. First, our empirical analysis shows that a model of imperfect competition fits the Japanese pesticide market well despite the existence of regulations. We, then, estimate the effect of organizational heterogeneity on entry behavior. Firms having capital ties with special distribution networks tend to enter this market more readily than do firms without such ties. Furthermore, diversified and vertically nonintegrated firms are more likely to enter this market than are stand-alone and vertically integrated firms. These findings suggest that markets with distribution-related, diversified, and vertically nonintegrated potential entrants are more competitive than those with the same number of potential entrants that have no such characteristics.
N55|A Very Real and Practical Contribution? - Lessons from the Kalimantan Forests and Climate Partnership|On 9 September 2007, Australian Ministers and the Indonesian President announced a $100 million Kalimantan Forests and Climate Partnership (KFCP). This would involve protecting 70,000 hectares of peat forests, re-flooding 200,000 hectares of dried peatland, and planting 100 million trees in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. Since then, the ambitions of KFCP have been quietly but drastically scaled back. The area expected to be re-flooded by the project is now just over 10 per cent of the original target. And little progress has been made on the ground. Four years on, blocking of the large canals required for re-flooding has yet to commence, and only 50,000 trees have been planted against the initial target of 100 million. What has happened to what was labelled at its launch as 'a very real and very practical contribution', one which would yield 'immediate and tangible results'? We analyze KFCP both as an aid 'announceable' and as a REDD (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation) demonstration project, and reach two main conclusions. First, KFCP illustrates the damage that an emphasis on announcing new projects and a lack of attention to reporting on project progress can cause aid. Not enough has been done to publicly reposition KFCP as a much smaller, demonstration project. Second, slow progress made in implementing KFCP (and other REDD projects), when juxtaposed against the continued rapid rate of land conversion in Indonesia, suggests that the current approach is not working. There is no easy solution. Reducing deforestation in Indonesia is a difficult task because the drivers of deforestation – which range from weak governance to a strong industry lobby and the attractive economics of palm oil – are strong and difficult to tackle. If it is worth continuing, then the focus on pilots and processes which has characterized Australia’s engagement in Indonesia’s forestry sector in recent years should be re-oriented towards a more ambitious engagement. This should be supported by a vigorous high-level policy dialogue and at least the realistic prospect of a large amount of public funds.
N55|Agriculture, Markets and Poverty – A Comparative Analysis of Laos and Cambodia|Laos and Cambodia have been transitioning to a market-oriented policy regime. Both are agrarian economies with agriculture contributing about one-third of the GDP. We assess prospects of achieving MDG1 and centrality of agricultural growth in achieving this goal. As these are macro relationships, richer insights into determinants of poverty are obtained by detailed analyses of recent household surveys in Laos and Cambodia. Some of these insights relate to access to markets, returns to crops, education, land size, non-farm activities, ethnic affiliation, and rural infrastructure, with unavoidable variation due to differences in the coverage of the household surveys used. Another major theme studied for Cambodia is integration of farmers - especially smallholders - into markets. The focus is on barriers between large and smallholders-for example, transaction costs. An accelerated transition to a more market-oriented policy regime may promote not just a more efficient agriculture but also a more equitable outcome.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N55|Agriculture, Markets and Poverty - A Comparative Analysis of Laos and Cambodia|Laos and Cambodia have been transitioning to a market-oriented policy regime. Both are agrarian economies with agriculture contributing about one-third of the GDP. We assess prospects of achieving MDG1 and centrality of agricultural growth in achieving this goal. As these are macro relationships, richer insights into determinants of poverty are obtained by detailed analyses of recent household surveys in Laos and Cambodia. Some of these insights relate to access to markets, returns to crops, education, land size, non-farm activities, ethnic affiliation, and rural infrastructure, with unavoidable variation due to differences in the coverage of the household surveys used. Another major theme studied for Cambodia is integration of farmers - especially smallholders - into markets. The focus is on barriers between large and smallholders-for example, transaction costs. An accelerated transition to a more market-oriented policy regime may promote not just a more efficient agriculture but also a more equitable outcome.
N55|Credit Business of an Agricultural Cooperative in Modern Japan: The Case of the Takedate Cooperative|This study examines the well-known Takedate Cooperative fs credit activities from 1907 until the 1930s. This cooperative established its credit division in 1914 because its members had difficulty raising money from the financial market after poor rice harvests. Additionally, the another purpose was to controlled member behavior by providing preferential financing terms to frequent users of its production and marketing activities and to those who obeyed its rules. This lending practice allowed cooperative members to grow apples as well as rice until the early 1920s. However, in the wake of poor business conditions after World War I, the cooperative reduced loan amounts, lent money only to cover living expenses, and pressed members to save money. The cooperative fs loan rate rose above that of the Aomori prefecture fs financial market, leading many competent members to withdraw their memberships. However, this action did not result in the stagnation of the cooperative. In Takedate village, the central area of the cooperative, peasants could still borrow money without security, and thus, 80% of farm households continued to grow apples, leading to greater affluence in the 1930s.
N55|Mercati informali del credito agrario nella Palestina di fine Impero Ottomano: un'analisi dell'evoluzione dei contratti bay-wafa, salam e muzaraah nel distretto di Haifa (1890-1915)<BR>[Informal rural credit markets in late Ottoman Palestine: an analysis of bay-wafa, salam and muzaraah contracts in the District of Haifa (1890-1912)]|The paper examines the role of the informal rural credit markets in the palestinian agricultural development at the end of the Ottoman Empire. The analysis starts from the long term effects of the legal reforms, particularly the Ottoman Land Code, on the performance of these markets. Such effects are evident in the evolution of bay-wafa, salam and muzaraah contracts, typical of the rural credit markets, that are recorded in the acts of the Public Notary of Haifa during the years 1890-1915. These contracts show an emerging network of interlinked credit markets, managed by the local notables, at the core of the agricultural growth of late Ottoman Palestine.
N55|More efficient production subsidies for emerging agriculture in micro Arab states: a conceptual model|Import-dependent arid Arab micro states such as those in the Persian Gulf are particularly vulnerable to food-security risk. Among the many remedial policy suggestions is some initiation or increase in domestic production to insulate these countries from supply disruption, import price volatility and high import prices. This paper does not address the efficacy of domestic production but notes that such production will require government intervention in the form of production subsidies to mitigate market risk. The narrow focus of this paper is to provide a conceptual model of subsidies that avoids many previous problems in established subsidy systems. The paper describes a subsidy model that makes the most use of market signals, avoids perverse incentives, and provides a structure to encourage efficiency, quality enhancement and product differentiation in agricultural products. The system is designed to be WTO compliant. The model has two components: a calculation of the true economic cost of a unit of an agricultural product and a deficit payment that is calculated to bridge the gap between true economic cost and market remuneration. The structure of the deficit payment is crucial to the establishment of a beneficial incentive system. The paper provides a mathematical rendering of the model, analysis of the associated incentive structure and a numerical example for a hypothetical Arab micro state.
N55|The Five-Phases of Economic Development and Institutional Evolution in China and Japan|ï»¿Based on the variable rate of gross domestic product per capita growth and its sources, this paper first identifies five phases of economic development that are common to China, Japan, and Korea : M (Malthusian), G (government-led), K (Ã la Kuznets), H (human capital based) and PD (post demographic-transition). But there are also marked differences in the onset, duration, and institutional forms of these phases across these economies. In order to understand these differences, this paper explores the agrarian origins of institutions in Qing China and Tokugawa Japan (and briefly ChosÅ n Korea) and their path-dependent transformations over those phases. In doing so, the paper employs game-theoretic reasoning and interpretations of divergent institutional evolution between China and Japan, which also clarifies the simplicity of prevailing arguments that identify East Asian developmental and institutional features with authoritarianism, collectivism, kinship-dominance, Confucianism and the like. Finally, the paper examines the relevance of the foregoing developmental discussions to the institutional agendas faced by China and Japan in their respective emergent phase-transitions. In what way can China avoid the â€œmiddle income trapâ€ ? What institutional shortcomings become evident from the Fukushima catastrophe and how can they be overcome in an aging Japan?
N55|Regional Disparity In Agricultural Development: A District-Level Analysis For Uttar Pradesh|The growth of agriculture is prerequisite for overall development of Indian economy. It contributes significantly to the export earnings and affects the performance of other sectors of the economy through forward and backward linkages. The present paper analyses district and regional level disparity in agriculture development in Uttar Pradesh on a number of agricultural parameters. It uses UNDP methodology (subsequently used by a number of others) to standardize various indicators for agricultural attainment in the state of Uttar Pradesh using 13 agricultural development indicators. A composite index has been constructed at the district level and also regional level for two cross-section years 1990-91 and 2008-09. The relative variations and changes in ranks of different districts have been computed during the period under consideration. Evidence shows existence of high and persistent inter-state disparity in agriculture in the state over the years. The transformation of some districts from the level of relatively underperformer to the rank of better performer and vice versa has been witnessed and explained. The findings encourage the authors to conclude that a more determined effort on the part of the policy makers is needed if the development policy has to be made truly inclusive.
N55|A Growing Dilemma Of Tourism Diffusion And Sustainability: Wows And Woes For Bangladesh Eco-Tourism!|Tourism is one of the emerging and fastest growing industries in the world today. It is well said that every twelve tourists creates a new job. Current study discusses the diffusive nature of tourism that demands an inclusion of the concept “sustainability” which in turn creates the impression for “ecotourism”. Afterward the study tries to find out ecotourism possibility to explore and potential challenges with special context of Bangladesh tourism industry. The concept of ecotourism adds the concern for environment as well as socio-economic status. Ecotourism must be promoted for sustainable development by establishing a durable productive base that allows the local inhabitants and ecotourism service providers to enjoy rising standards of living and environmental conservation. This paper provides an idea of how different tourism destinations, especially ecotourism become an effective tool for the sustainable development in Bangladesh. Secondary data were used to address the objectives in this study. However, some marketing strategies are pointed out as recommendations based on which several action programs could be taken for establishing as well as standardizing Bangladesh as an eye-catching ecotourism destination.
N55|Agriculture, Markets, and Poverty: A Comparative Analysis of Lao PDR and Cambodia|Lao PDR and Cambodia have been transitioning to a market-oriented policy regime. Both are agrarian economies with agriculture contributing about one-third of the gross domestic product (GDP). This study assessed their prospects of achieving the first Millennium Development Goal (MDG 1, extreme poverty eradication) and the centrality of agricultural growth in achieving this goal. As these are macro relationships, richer insights on determinants of poverty were obtained by detailed analyses of recent household surveys in these countries. Some of these insights relate to access to markets, returns to crops, education, land size, non-farm activities, ethnic affiliation, and rural infrastructure, with unavoidable variation due to differences in the coverage of the household surveys used. Another major theme studied for Cambodia is integration of farmers (especially smallholders) into markets, focusing on barriers between large and smallholders (e.g., transaction costs). An accelerated transition to a more market-oriented policy regime may promote not just a more efficient agriculture but also a more equitable outcome.
N55|Water Wars by Other Means: Virtual Water and Global Economic Restructuring| In the mid-1990s, Tony Allan coined the term “virtual water” to describe international grain shipments, arguing that for purposes of economic efficiency and political legitimacy, governments in water-scarce nations would be better served by importing grain and diverting limited domestic water supplies to higher-value purposes than by producing grain. This concept has gained considerable traction in explaining the absence of “water wars,” particularly in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). As a prescriptive policy measure, I argue first that the exemplarity of the MENA serves an ideological function, premised on a market environmentalist approach, and framing “water crisis” as a problem of physical scarcity rather than underdevelopment. Historical trends in virtual water imports, as well as the problem of American primacy in virtual water exports, are then used to develop an account of virtual water trade that situates it within the political and economic restructuring associated with US-led globalization. © 2012 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
N55|Australia-China: Not just 40 years|This article looks back at the relationship between Australia and China, particularly following the normalisation of relations in 1972.
N55|The Impact of Price Regulations on Regional Welfare and Agricultural Productivity in China|The nineties' agricultural reform in China that was aimed at deregulating the agricultural market eventually resulted in a huge drop in agricultural production and a high rate of inflation in agricultural prices,this apparently motivated the government to take over the control of agricultural prices in 1998. We examine how and to what extent this reform affected the productivity and welfare of grain farmers in China at the regional level. We find that the price regulation that destroyed the incentive to exert more effort adversely affected the growth in agricultural productivity but contributed to the growth in farmers. welfare. Although the price regulations resulted in short term improvement in welfare across all the regions, for the long run such regulations can result in larger drop in agricultural production because of its negative impact on incentives to produce more.
N55|Mainstreaming the Adaptations and Reducing the Vulnerability of the Poor due to Climate Change|Many rural poor people in developing countries depend on agriculture and are highly influenced by climatic change. Hence, sustainable livelihood approaches are used at both policy and project level to initiate new poverty reduction activities and modify existing activities to improve livelihood incomes. Practices relevant to climate change adaptation around the world are wideranging and include development of technology, management, infrastructure, livestock, groundwater, and knowledge. Both structural interventions (such as building flood embankments, dikes, or seawalls or enhancing the natural setting or landscape) and nonstructural interventions (policies, knowledge development, awareness, methods and operating practices, including participatory mechanisms) have helped to reduce the impact of climate change. Further, market-based instruments such as credits and crop insurance were also developed to help poor households in many developing countries to cope with the uncertainties. The uptake of such adaptation practices is lagging, however, but informal institutions are playing a key role as they rely on enforcement methods and are not supported by the government. Mainstreaming adaptation and enhancing adaptive capacity could be increased by encouraging partnerships between informal processes and formal interventions to facilitate adaptation by the poor. The cost of adaptation is also significantly higher in developing countries. Nonetheless, more attention is needed in addressing future climate scenarios through agricultural research and development, irrigation development, infrastructure, and improved irrigation efficiency.
N55|Mainstreaming the Adaptations and Reducing the Vulnerability of the Poor due to Climate Change|Many rural poor people in developing countries depend on agriculture and are highly influenced by climatic change. Hence, sustainable livelihood approaches are used at both policy and project level to initiate new poverty reduction activities and modify existing activities to improve livelihood incomes. Practices relevant to climate change adaptation around the world are wideranging and include development of technology, management, infrastructure, livestock, groundwater, and knowledge. Both structural interventions (such as building flood embankments, dikes, or seawalls or enhancing the natural setting or landscape) and nonstructural interventions (policies, knowledge development, awareness, methods and operating practices, including participatory mechanisms) have helped to reduce the impact of climate change. Further, market-based instruments such as credits and crop insurance were also developed to help poor households in many developing countries to cope with the uncertainties. The uptake of such adaptation practices is lagging, however, but informal institutions are playing a key role as they rely on enforcement methods and are not supported by the government. Mainstreaming adaptation and enhancing adaptive capacity could be increased by encouraging partnerships between informal processes and formal interventions to facilitate adaptation by the poor. The cost of adaptation is also significantly higher in developing countries. Nonetheless, more attention is needed in addressing future climate scenarios through agricultural research and development, irrigation development, infrastructure, and improved irrigation efficiency.
N55|Commercialization as exogenous shocks: The effect of the soybean trade and migration in Manchurian villages, 1895–1934|The effects of commercialization and migration in traditional agrarian economies such as China's during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries have been a subject of ferocious debate. Using data from Manchuria on soybean cultivation and exports, we employ difference-in-differences and instrumental variable approaches to demonstrate a significantly positive relationship between growing soybeans for export and the returns to migration. Those who migrated to Manchuria in response to high market prices, and to villages more suitable for cultivating soy prospered most; they owned approximately two-thirds more of the arable land and one-third more of houses than those who failed to do so. Evidence suggests that the positive welfare effect of commercialization-cum-migration was confined not only to the rich, who seek to relieve the “land constraint” at home, but possibly also to the poor.
N55|Non-farm diversification and rural poverty decline: a perspective from Indian sample survey and village study data|This paper studies the evolution of the rural non-farm sector in India and its contribution to the decline of poverty. It scrutinizes evidence from a series of nationally representative sample surveys and confronts findings from these sources against the experience of poverty decline in a western Uttar Pradesh village, Palanpur, which has been the subject of close study over a period of six decades. Sample survey data indicate that the non-farm sector in rural India has grown steadily during the past 30 years, with some acceleration during the late 1990s to the mid-2000s followed by a leveling off after 2004-05. The suggestion is of a process that has contributed modestly to declining rural poverty both directly, through employment generation, and indirectly through an impact on agricultural wages. The paper illustrates that in Palanpur, it is only relatively recently that rural poverty decline has become strongly linked to diversification of the village economy. There is little evidence that, prior to the 1990s, the poor in the village were able to participate actively in this process of intersectoral transfer out of agriculture. Data collected in 2008/9 indicate that continued expansion of the non-farm sector has now started to engage the poor directly and in a very significant manner. As the non-farm sector has expanded, the previously disadvantaged and most vulnerable segments of village society have gained access to non-farm employment opportunities and have recorded significant upward mobility. The paper goes on to highlight the close association between urban poverty reduction and rural non-farm growth (and accompanying rural poverty reduction). In particular the paper singles out small towns in India as both particularly closely linked to rural non-farm development and recording particularly high rates of urban poverty. It is suggested that galvanizing small towns may thus serve both urban and rural poverty reduction objectives.
N55|Tenancy in Palanpur|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|Change and continuity: agriculture in Palanpur|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|19. Yüzyıl'da Osmanlı İmparatorluğu'nda Süngercilik Ve İzmir Limanı'ndan Sünger İhracatı (1850-1900)|Çalışmada 19. yüzyılda bir “zoophyte” olarak tasnifi yapılmiş deniz canlısı süngerin denizaltından çıkartılmasına dayalı süngercilik bir iktisadi faaliyet olarak Osmanlı İmparatorluğu sınırları dahilinde ele alınmaktadır. Burada sunulan bilgiler, bu konuda yapılmış sayılı çalışmanın yanısıra ulaşılan tarihi veri kaynaklarından edinilmiş verilere dayanmaktadır. Bu veriler dahilinde, bir iktisadi faaliyet olarak tanımlanması yanısıra, süngerciliği etkileyen gelişmeler de açıklanmaya çalışılmıştır. Ayrıca süngerin 19. yüzyılda İzmir'den gerçekleştirilen toplam ihracat içerisinde azımsanmayacak paya sahip bir ihraç ürünü olarak, uluslararası piyasalarda rekabet gücünü de belirleyen kendisine has özelliklerine de değinilmektedir. Dahası, 19. yüzyılın ikinci yarısında, bu ekonomik faaliyet üzerinde önemli etkileri ortaya çıkan belli teknik gelişmeler de sözkonusudur. Süngercilik tekniklerindeki bu gelişmelerden de bahsedilmekte ve etkileri açıklanmaya çalışılmaktadır. Nihai olarak, Osmanlı İmparatorluğu'nun en önemli ihraç limanlarından birisi olan İzmir’den gerçekleştirilen sünger ihracatının, 19. yüzyıl ikinci yarısı boyunca gösterdiği gelişmelerin belirleyenleri de tanımlanmaya çalışılmıştır.
N55|Property Rights, Land Prices, and Investment: A Study of the Taiwanese Land Registration System|To evade land taxes, most land in Taiwan during the Ching Dynasty (1662-1895) was not registered. When the Japanese started to colonize Taiwan at the turn of the 20th century, a thorough land survey was made, and all surveyed land became registered. This paper studies how this institutional change affected land values and farmers'; investment behavior. We find that land prices increased significantly after property rights became formally defined. Moreover, farmers became more willing to apply green fertilizers and to grow crops that took a long time to produce, such as tangerines.
N55|Improving Livelihoods and Prosperity through Value-Added Agriculture: East-West Economic Corridor of Greater Mekong Subregion|The study describes the creation four clusters for organic vegetables along the East West Economic Corridor (EWEC) of the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS). These clusters have three goals: (a) to foster the conversion of conventional agricultural farming to organic production, and thereby enable the generation of high value-added activities; (b) to promote linkages among micro and small scale producers, and thereby improve their competitive position within the value chain; and (c) to spur the development of agricultural activities affecting the majority of the EWEC population either directly or indirectly, and thereby enable the transformation of the EWEC transport and logistics corridor into a full-fledged economic corridor.
N55|Mainstreaming the Adaptations and Reducing the Vulnerability of the Poor due to Climate Change|Many rural poor people in developing countries depend on agriculture and are highly influenced by climatic change. Adaptation to climate change impacts is increasingly being observed in both physical and ecological systems as well as in human adjustments to resource availability and risk at different spatial and societal scales. This paper reviews some of the options for reducing the vulnerability of the poor through integrated climate change adaptation strategies. The paper explains the climate change effects on agricultural production, adoption experiences in the context of sustainable livelihoods, integration of structural and nonstructural measures, amelioration effects and their costs, and the role of informal institutions in implementation.
N55|Institution Building for African Regionalism|Since the 1960s, African states have embraced regional integration as a vital mechanism for political cooperation and for pooling resources to overcome problems of small and fragmented economies. In building meaningful institutions for regionalism, however, Africans have faced the challenges of reconciling the diversities of culture, geography, and politics. As a result, African regional institutions are characterized by multiple and competing mandates and weak institutionalization. This study illustrates these themes by comparing two continental institutions—the African Union and its predecessor, the Organization of African Unity, and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa and subregional institutions—the Economic Commission of Central African States, the Economic Community of West African States, the Common Market for East and Southern African States, the Community of the Sahel-Saharan States, and the Arab Maghreb Union. By focusing on the institutional structures, mandates, and contributions of these organizations in their geographical domains, the study probes the links between policy articulation and outcomes. The conclusion focuses on lessons that African regionalism can inform Asian integration experiences.
N55|The Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) Agreement and Agriculture in South Asia|One of the main objectives of the World Trade Organization (WTO) is to facilitate worldâ€™s trade and production. It enforces legally binding multilateral agreements on trade in goods, services and trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights. The Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) Agreement was implemented to regulate standards of Intellectual Property (IP) regulations in WTO member countries. Being a member of the WTO and a signatory to the TRIPs Agreement, it was compulsory for Sri Lanka and five other South Asian countries (Bangladesh, Nepal, the Maldives, India and Pakistan) to formulate its IP regulations to comply with the TRIPs Agreement. According to the agreement, by 2006 India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, and by 2013 Bangladesh and Nepal have to provide legal protection to plant varieties and farmersâ€™ traditional knowledge via patents or by an effective sui generis system or by both. All of the above six countries have during the past 15 years implemented or drafted several acts to comply with the TRIPs Agreement. Sri Lanka has passed the Intellectual Property Rights Act No. 36 of 2003 to comply with the TRIPs Agreement. However, this Act does not provide protection for plant varieties and farmersâ€™ traditional knowledge as it does not allow patenting of plants. Due to several reasons such as lack of demand from civil society, a poor legal system, lack of properly established institutional system, etc,. Sri Lanka was unable to build an effective intellectual property rights regime complying with the agreement, especially for the agricultural sector. Further, due to a delay in establishing rules and regulations to comply with the agreement, the Sri Lankan agricultural sector faces several difficulties in international trade and it has also lost a number of opportunities to use its own plant varieties for the benefit of future generations. The article suggests several techniques and methods that could be followed in implementing intellectual property rights in agriculture in order to promote investments and accelerate trade especially in Sri Lanka. And also it suggests the importance of having a regional centre to manage intellectual property rights effectively among South Asian countries.
N55|Understanding Japanese Rural History in a Comparative Context: from Surplus Labour to the Labour-Intensive Path of Development|The history of rural development in Japan ought to provide a key example within any comparative analysis of agriculture’s role in economic growth and industrialisation. In the 1960s and 1970s it was indeed treated in this way, by means of the dual-economy, ‘surplus labour’ model. Since then, research on Japan however has largely taken place outside any comparative framework. This paper seeks to remedy this by showing how the Japanese case relates to the concepts and models that have emerged, in economic history and development studies, in recent decades. In particular, it outlines the ways in which, by means of technical change in agriculture together with participation in proto-industrialisation and rural manufacturing, farm households devised strategies of income diversification and ‘pluriactivity’ that were to prove not incompatible with modern economic growth. The implications of this form of rural development for the pattern of economic growth in the long term are considerable and the present paper suggests that it provides the rural basis for the so-called ‘labour-intensive path of industrialisation’ of which Japan is now seen as a pioneer in Asia.
N55|Partition, Migration, and Jute Cultivation in India| We show that refugees can play positive roles in receiving economies by looking at the partition of India. We use an instrumental variables strategy to show that migrants played a major part in India's take-up of jute cultivation. Our estimates suggest that migrants fully explain post-partition jute cultivation. Consistent with migrants bringing jute-specific skills with them, we find that migrants did not depress jute yields, did not increase the cultivation of other crops, and did not lower native wages. Our results are robust to migrant selection into districts with the best markets for jute.
N55|The when and where of research in agricultural innovation trajectories: Evidence and implications from RIU's South Asia projects|The question of how agricultural research can best be used for developmental purposes is a topic of some debate in developmental circles. The idea that this is simply a question of better transfer of ideas from research to farmers has been largely discredited. Agricultural innovation is a process that takes a multitude of different forms, and, within this process, agricultural research and expertise are mobilised at different points in time for different purposes. This paper uses two key analytical principles in order to find how research is actually put into use. The first, which concerns the configurations of organisations and their relationships associated with innovation, reveals the additional set of resources and expertise that research needs to be married up to and sheds light on the sorts of arrangements that allow this marriage to take place. The second - which concerns understanding innovation as a path-dependent, contextually shaped trajectory unfolding over time - reveals the changing role of research during the course of events associated with the development and diffusion of products, services and institutional innovations. Using these analytical principles, this paper examines the efforts of the DFID-funded Research Into Use (RIU) programme that sought to explore the agricultural research-into-use question empirically. The paper then uses this analysis to derive implications for public policy and its ongoing efforts to add value to research investments.
N55|Missing the target: Lessons from enabling innovation in South Asia|"This paper reflects on the experience of the Research Into Use (RIU) projects in Asia. It reconfirms much of what has been known for many years about the way innovation takes place and finds that many of the shortcomings of RIU in Asia were precisely because lessons from previous research on agricultural innovation were ""not put into use"" in the programme's implementation. However, the experience provides three important lessons for donors and governments to make use of agricultural research: (i) Promoting research into use requires enabling innovation. This goes beyond fostering collaboration, and includes a range of other innovation management tasks (ii) The starting point for making use of research need not necessarily be the promising research products and quite often identifying the promising innovation trajectories is more rewarding (iii) Strengthening the innovation enabling environment of policies and institutions is critical if research use is to lead to long-term and large-scale impacts. It is in respect of this third point that RIU Asia missed its target, as it failed to make explicit efforts to address policy and institutional change, despite its innovation systems rhetoric. This severely restricted its ability to achieve wide-scale social and economic impact that was the original rationale for the programme."
N55|Putting agricultural research into use: Lessons from contested visions of innovation|This paper is a synthesis of research undertaken as part of the Research Into Use programme (RIU) to explore the question of how agricultural research can be used more effectively to improve agricultural production and farmers' livelihoods in developing countries. Many of the challenges the programme encountered were a result of contested visions of the way agricultural research should be used for innovation. The paper suggests a number of novel entry points for projects promoting research into use. However, it also argues that the effectiveness of RIU was undermined by its failure to productively manage contested visions of research and innovation within the programme and between the programme and its donors and other international champions of the dominant view on agricultural research and development.
N55|Can Openness Mitigate the Effects of Weather Shocks? Evidence from India's Famine Era|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|Market Responses To Climate Stress: Rice In Java In The 1930s| Do markets in less-developed countries abate consequences of climate stress? Using changes in regional rice prices across the 19 regions in Java, Indonesia, during 1935-40, this paper will assess how rice markets responded to variations in rainfall, which is an important factor in rice production. It finds that rice markets were highly integrated across Java. The El Niño-induced episodes of lower than usual rainfall in 1935 and 1940 did not have a negative effect on levels and variations in regional rice prices, nor did they have adverse consequences for the supply of rice. Adaptive responses of firms specialising in the trade of rice are argued to have mitigated regional deficiencies in food production caused by climate stress. Copyright 2010 The Author. Journal compilation Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd and the Economic History Society of Australia and New Zealand 2010.
N55|Reforms, Incentives, Welfare and Productivity Growth in Chinese Wheat Production|Following the rural reform in 1978 a series of agricultural reforms were introduced in China with an aim to create incentives for the farmers to produce more. The nineties. price reform that was aimed at deregulating the agricultural market eventually resulted in a huge drop in agricultural production,this apparently motivated the government to take over the control of agricultural prices in 1998. For a dataset that covers all the major rural reforms undertaken in China, we examine how and to what extent these reforms affected the productivity and welfare of wheat farmers in China. We find that the nineties. price reforms resulted in a high magnitude of effort-response from wheat farmers which led to a faster growth of the incentive component of productivity. Due to random weather shocks this response did not result in the expected level of profit and as a result the farmers suffered a decline in welfare. The regulations introduced in 1998 destroyed the incentive-induced growth in TFP. In general wheat farmers in China responded highly when markets were made more competitive, and their effort-response for flat subsidies (e.g. the ones introduced in the eighties) was very marginal.
N55|Interaction and Non-neutral Effects of Factors in Chinese Wheat Production|In this paper we examine the role of the interaction between labour productivity and the use of factors in explaining the recent (1998-2007) 11% decline in wheat production in China. We employ a non-neutral stochastic production frontier approach that enables us to identify the interaction and non-neutral effects of factors that are used in wheat production. For regional level wheat production in China we find that identifying the technical inefficiency effects and the non-neutral effects of factors assist big time in explaining the recent decline in wheat production. A higher level of labour productivity can stimulate efficiency gains in production, but adding more labour to the workforce or adding to the stock of machinery power can depress this potential marginal efficiency gain. We also find significant marginal efficiency gain of land reforms that add to the stock of cultivable land. Our results indicate that future agricultural reforms in China should address the incentive scheme for labour.
N55|Food Availability and Food Entitlements during the Chinese Great Leap Forward Famine: A dynamic panel data analysis (In French)|The article aims at identifying socioeconomic factors which explain the Chinese famine of 1959-1961. The main hypothesis of this paper is that the radicalism of Great Leap Forward policies generated both a decline of agricultural output (availability problems) and the implementation of an inadequate food distribution policy which penalised rural populations (accessibility problems). An econometrical analysis with provincial panel data for the period 1954-1966 points out the role of bad political choices on the occurrence of the famine and confirms the simultaneous influence of food availability decline and food distribution issues on mortality rates.
N55|New Co-operatives in China: An Indigenous Model of Social Enterprises|This paper aims to fill the academic gaps in the study of the new co-operative movement in China and its innovative mechanisms, and to get a more comprehensive idea of new co-operatives operating as home-grown Chinese social enterprises, by exploring the dynamic process of co-operative practice and social innovation in rural China. As an alternative to the popularly ideal-co-operative perspective, the paper develops a conceptual model from the perspective of a real-type co-operative concept, by employing a historical neo-institutional perspective combined with power-and-resource-related theory. Using this model it shows how institutional legacies from the past as well as resources and environments in the present can influence and shape co-operative development in rural China. By providing a consistent, systematic analysis with an emphasis on the bottom-up institutional innovation process, the paper helps to explain some of the conceptual and practical difficulties that hamper the understanding of new co-operative development in China.
N55|An Empirical Study of the Relationships between CO2 Emissions, Economic Growth and Openness|This paper investigates the existence of the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) for carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and its causal relationships with economic growth and openness by using time series data (1971-2006) from China (an emerging market), Korea (a newly industrialized country), and Japan (a developed country). The sample countries span a whole range of development stages from industrialized to newly industrialized and emerging market economies. The environmental consequences according to openness and economic growth do not show uniform results across the countries. Depending on the national characteristics, the estimated EKC show different temporal patterns. China shows an N-shaped curve while Japan has a U-shaped curve. Such dissimilarities are also found in the relationship between CO2 emissions and openness. In the case of Korea and Japan it represents an inverted U-shaped curve, while China shows a U-shaped curve. We also analyze the dynamic relationships between the variables by adopting a vector auto regression or a vector error correction model. These models through the impulse response functions allow for analysis of the causal variable's influence on the dynamic response of emission variables and it adopts a variance decomposition to explain the magnitude of the forecast error variance determined by the shocks to each of the causal variables over time. Results show evidence of large heterogeneity among the countries and variables impacts.
N55|Restoration of micro data of John Lossing Buck's survey and analysis of the inverse relationship between yield and farm size in rural China in the 1930's|A large scale Chinese agricultural survey was conducted at the direction of John Lossing Buck from 1929 through 1933. At the end of the 1990’s, some parts of the original micro data of Buck’s survey were discovered at Nanjing Agricultural University. An international joint study was begun to restore micro data of Buck’s survey and construct parts of the micro database on both the crop yield survey and special expenditure survey. This paper includes a summary of the characteristics of farmlands and cropping patterns in crop yield micro data that covered 2,102 farmers in 20 counties of 9 provinces.\nIn order to test the classical hypothesis of whether or not an inverse relationship between land productivity and cultivated area may be observed in developing countries, a Box-Cox transformation test was conducted for functional forms on five main crops of Buck’s crop yield survey. The result of the test shows that the relationship between land productivity and cultivated areas of wheat and barley is linear and somewhat negative; those of rice, rapeseed, and seed cotton appear to be slightly positive. It can be tentatively concluded that the relationship between cultivated area and land productivity are not the same among crops, and the difference of labor intensity and the level of commercialization of each crop may be strongly related to the existence or non-existence of inverse relationships.
N55|Production and Marketing Activities of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association in Aomori Prefecture between the l870s and l920s|This article analyzed the production and marketing activities of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association established in Takedate Village in the Tsugaru district of Aomori Prefecture in 1907. In the early stages of the Meiji period, this area was considered as backward in terms of commodity production and circulation. However, the Agricultural Co-operatives Association, Takedate-kumiai had been highly evaluated for its business marketing across the nation, and had built a brand name for itself. Takedate-kumiai was the cutting-edge case of the industrial associations which is supposed to have spread out in earnest in the 1930s. We obtained the followings results. (1) By means of production inspection before packaging, the association made an effort toward not only the production of high-quality apples but also their trusted shipment in accordance with the brand name and standards established for itself. All these were extremely advanced efforts in agricultural commodity transactions. (2) However, until the early 1910s, the business sales of the association encountered certain problems. One problem was that the association partners had illegally sold apples to merchants and therefore, could not gather enough apples to sell. Another problem was that the specification wholesalers in the great city did not make all their payments smoothly. While being such status, the association thought much of the trust and the autonomy at the partners and the wholesales. It supported without laying down compulsion and a penalty regulation. (3) The problems mentioned in the above point were solved in the latter half of 1910s. The association received special awarding in 1916 and became flagrant nationwide and succeeded in establishing a brand name image. The partners recognized that apples sold on behalf of the association should be done so at favorable prices. As the association fs apples became famous in the markets of consuming regions, wholesalers came to recognize special wholesale contracts with this association as an honor. Consequently, the association grew to be an economic organization that took the initiative in product sales to wholesalers even in important cities such as Tokyo.
N55|Transverse Solidarity: Water, Power, and Resistance|Conceived as Transverse Solidarity, the Cola Quit Plachimada struggle in a rural hamlet in the Indian state of Kerala reveals how the socio-economic sustainability of communities is of as much importance as environmental, cultural, and political justification for a social movement and its success. The implicit theoretical notion is further enriched and elucidated by the ethnographic narration of a plurality of contested issues and struggles at multiple sites of power. The study addresses how a water-based subaltern movement gradually grew into transverse solidarity within the space between civil society and the state/governing institutions, politicizing them and consequently making allies of them, and how the discursive and material practices of structure-authorities and macro-power relations were contested. JEL codes: Q25, Q28, N55, O1, O25, O28, Q53, Z1
N55|China: growth, urbanisation and mineral resource demand|Over recent decades, China has experienced rapid economic growth and a related sharp increase in its rate of urbanisation. The speed of this transition, along with the sheer size of China’s population, has resulted in China being an increasingly significant driver of global growth and mineral resource demand over the past decade.This paper analyses trends in China’s growth, urbanisation and mineral resource demand. It compares China’s experience in recent decades with that of other Asian emerging economies over the past half-century. It also seeks to put the recent surge in Chinese growth and urbanisation in a longer-term perspective.It concludes that, since the convergence of China’s level of economic activity and urbanisation with those of more developed countries is far from complete, China will continue to be a major source of demand for mineral resources for some time to come.
N55|Economic Efficiency of Smallholder Intensive Dairy Farms in Iran: Adjusted for Market Distortion| The dairy farmers in Iran are faced with milk price distortion due to the market imperfection. To measure an unbiased farm-specific efficiency, prices should be adjusted in an imperfect market. To examine this issue, a shadow-price profit frontier was applied to a sample of 860 Iranian small intensive dairy farms surveyed in 2005-06 in order to calculate profit efficiency of individual dairy farmers. This adjusted measure was then compared with that of unadjusted measure that assumes undistorted market. A multiple general linear model (GLM) technique was applied to the data to examine the multiple effects of pure-bred animals, and the used farm capacity on profit efficiency indices. The mean value of adjusted profit efficiency was 0.40, significantly different from the latter measure, i.e. 0.72, revealing overstating efficiency by ignoring imperfect structure of market. The difference between the figures is attributed to an index of market efficiency that was estimated of 46% in average. The number of pure-bred animals in the herd was found to affect the profit efficiency indices. Regardless of their characteristics, all the farms can gain from correcting the distortion in milk market, where small and average- sized farms are domain farms in the country.
N55|Wine Markets in China: Assessing the Potential with Supermarket Survey Data|The emergence of grape wine as a mainstream alcoholic beverage in China is relatively new. However, rapidly increasing wine consumption in China provides a significant trade potential for the United States and other wine exporting countries. This paper investigates the Chinese wine market using retailer data with a focus on imported wines. Supermarkets are identified as major retail outlets for foreign wines, and this paper uses data from a recent supermarket wine survey in China. Our data indicate that about half of our sample stock foreign wines. On average, 21 percent of total wine shelf space is allocated to foreign wines and larger stores are associated with larger shares of shelf space for foreign wines. Among foreign wines, French wine dominates. Of 31 supermarkets that sell foreign wines, 26 stores carry French wine, and in all but two of these stores more than half of the foreign wine shelf space is devoted to French wine. Australia, Chile, Italy and the United States follow in terms of number of stores carrying wines. Supermarkets in our sample allocate most of their shelf space to red wine for both domestic (93%) and foreign (82%) wines. The average median price for foreign wines (94 yuans per bottle) was more than double the equivalent price for domestic wines (42 yuans). (JEL Classification: N55, Q13, Q19)
N55|The Dualistic Model of European Agriculture - a Theoretical Framework for the Endogenous Development|The European model of agriculture refers to a multifunctional and virtuous model of agriculture that is progressively substituting the productivist model of agriculture, that, in the recent past, has been supported by agricultural community policies. However, the European model of agriculture comprises heterogeneous realities and economic actors characterised by different local conducts. Schematizing this model, we can distinguish two agriculture typologies: modernised agriculture and traditional agriculture. In this article, we will develop a theoretical framework which encompasses the different patterns of endogenous development in both agriculture typologies. Through this article, we aim to create the theoretical basis necessary to undertake the study of the dualistic model of European agriculture.
N55|Farm technology and technical efficiency: Evidence from four regions in China|In this paper we fit stochastic frontier production functions to data of Chinese farms grouped into each of four regions--North, Northeast, East, and Southwest--over 1995-1999. These frontier production functions are shown to have statistically different structures, and the elasticities provide some evidence of diminished marginal products of chemical inputs in the East and capital services in the North and Southwest. Labor has a low elasticity except in the North. Standardized technical efficiency scores are estimated for the farms and are shown to have the same structure across regions and to be related to the age of the household head, land fragmentation, and the village migration ratio, controlling for year effects and village or regional fixed effects.
N55|An Emerging Powerhouse in Eurasian Geopolitics : The Shanghai Sýx+|The paper is a study of a rather recent regional interstate formation in Asia, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Its background and progress is highlighted. With all indications, the organisation has caught the attention of researchers and will continue to occupy the agenda of the 21st century international politics. Bearing in mind the size and weight of its membership within the area it spans, the organisation is set to be a powerhouse to reckon with beyond its regional borders. After its structure is described, what the organisation implies for Russian and Chinese interests is taken up. The Organisation has significant implications for the Central Asian States and the neighboring countries. As an institutional actor in the global game, its regional and global implications are highlighted.
N55|A Start for Mild Liberalization? Building Civil Society through Co-operative Dynamics in China|This paper aims to understand the society-state relationship in China, by exploring this dynamics with other types of organizations, i.e. civil society organizations with economic objectives. The dynamics of co-operatives can influence and interact with civil society dynamics. In this sense, this paper presents the evolution of civil society in China by identifying the causal mechanisms of co-operatives’ development and the conditions needed for them to develop. This causal mechanisms are set within the context of one historical process evolving with path dependency. Using this theoretical framework, it further presents the empirical observation. The findings of the paper are that economic development shaped the new co-operative movement in China; this process was different from the former revolutionary communalist co-operative movement; like their counterparts from the liberal democratic tradition, new co-operatives participated in the market economy, developed in an evolutionary and peaceful way, had great respect for private property and especially, were self-motivated and voluntary in nature. The co-operative movement in China can thus be considered as a mild liberalization within civil society’s sphere. Furthermore, its spillover effect would be seen as the effect of enhancing the role of civil society as a critical dialogue partner with the state. The originality lies in its systematic analysis examining the conditions that underpin this dynamics, thus filling the academic gaps in the study of society-state relationship in another way different from the popularly-used perspective which examines the voluntary and non-profit nature of civil society organizations and excludes the economic spheres within civil society.
N55|Agricultural Development and Stabilization of Peasant Households f Economy in Modern Rural Japan between the 1870s and 1930s: The Case of Aomori Prefecture|This article clarifies the management of peasant households in the Tsugaru district of the Aomori Prefecture between the 1870s and 1930s, especially focusing on the relationship between the advances in agricultural technology and the labor allocation strategy of the peasant households. We obtained the followings results. (1) The 1870s saw a new rice-cultivating technology being introduced and spread in the Tsugaru district. This technological improvement realized labor savings in rice production in peasant households and also led to improvements in land productivity. However, the harvest was not sufficient enough to stabilize the peasant households f economy because of the poor condition of the land and repeated crop failures. As such, by the 1900s, peasant households also began producing commercial goods as a side-business to offset the risks of agriculture and to acquire extra cash. (2) In Tsugaru, one of the side-businesses peasant households engaged in was straw craft manufacturing. However, by the 1920s, the Aomori Prefecture had lost its competitive advantage to the Hokkaido market in the Kinki district. On the other hand, apple production increased in Tsugaru. Further, apple was designated as a competitive commercial product by the Meiji Government, who then was importing apples in significant quantities from the western countries. (3) In this paper, effective insect/pest-control was found to be one of the important reasons why Tsugaru became the largest apple producer. In particular, the Aomori Prefectural Agriculture Research Center played an important role in the development and diffusion of scientific technologies. Additionally, since the 1870s, Tsugaru was blessed with effective institutions that halted the spread of disease and reduced insect damage. This might have enabled the quick penetration of technologies. (4) In the expansionary phase of apple production, peasant households reduced the amount of labor they invested in rice production and weed eradication, and concentrated heavily on apple production. This labor-intensive apple production realized not only savings in employment costs but also mass production with high quality. As a result, apple production contributed heavily to the stabilization of the households f economy.
N55|Business Marketing of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association in Aomori Prefecture in the l900s and l910s: Building Cooperative Relationships among the Association, Associate partners, and Wholesalers|This article analyzed the business marketing of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association established in Takedate Village in the Tsugaru district of Aomori Prefecture in 1907. In the early stages of the Meiji period, this area was considered as backward in terms of commodity production and circulation. However, the Agricultural Co-operatives Association has been highly evaluated for its business marketing across the nation ever since the mid-1910s, and has built a brand name for itself, We obtained the followings results. (1) By means of production inspection before packaging, the association made an effort toward not only the production of high-quality apples but also their trusted shipment in accordance with the brand name and standards established for itself. All these were extremely advanced efforts in agricultural commodity transactions. (2) However, until the early 1910s, the business sales of the association encountered certain problems. One problem was that the association partners had illegally sold apples to merchants and therefore, could not gather enough apples to sell. Another problem was that the specification wholesalers in the great city did not make all their payments smoothly. While being such status, the association thought much of the trust and the autonomy at the partners and the wholesales. It supported without laying down compulsion and a penalty regulation. (3) The problems mentioned in the above point were solved after the association received special awarding in 1916. The association became flagrant nationwide and succeeded in establishing a brand name image. The partners recognized that apples sold on behalf of the association should be done so at favorable prices. As the association fs apples became famous in the markets of consuming regions, wholesalers came to recognize special wholesale contracts with this association as an honor. Consequently, the association grew to be an economic organization that took the initiative in product sales to wholesalers even in important cities such as Tokyo.
N55|Business Marketing of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association in Aomori Prefecture in the l900s and l920s: Building Cooperative Relationships among the Association, Associate partners, and Wholesalers|This article analyzed the business marketing of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association established in Takedate Village in the Tsugaru district of Aomori Prefecture in 1907. In the early stages of the Meiji period, this area was considered as backward in terms of commodity production and circulation. However, the Agricultural Co-operatives Association has been highly evaluated for its business marketing across the nation ever since the mid-1910s, and has built a brand name for itself, We obtained the followings results. (1) By means of production inspection before packaging, the association made an effort toward not only the production of high-quality apples but also their trusted shipment in accordance with the brand name and standards established for itself. All these were extremely advanced efforts in agricultural commodity transactions. (2) However, until the early 1910s, the business sales of the association encountered certain problems. One problem was that the association partners had illegally sold apples to merchants and therefore, could not gather enough apples to sell. Another problem was that the specification wholesalers in the great city did not make all their payments smoothly. While being such status, the association thought much of the trust and the autonomy at the partners and the wholesales. It supported without laying down compulsion and a penalty regulation. (3) The problems mentioned in the above point were solved after the association received special awarding in 1916. The association became flagrant nationwide and succeeded in establishing a brand name image. The partners recognized that apples sold on behalf of the association should be done so at favorable prices. As the association fs apples became famous in the markets of consuming regions, wholesalers came to recognize special wholesale contracts with this association as an honor. Consequently, the association grew to be an economic organization that took the initiative in product sales to wholesalers even in important cities such as Tokyo.
N55|Socio-Economic Reforms Of The 1920s As A Preparation For The Forthcoming «Agrarian Radicalism»|The article considers socio-economic reforms of the 1920s in Kazakhstan as a preparation for the forthcoming «agrarian radicalism». Historiography still does not give any distinct conclusions on the question, whether the socio-economical reforms of the 1920s years allayed the problem of inequality in the aul. The author calls for a wider perception spectrum of the so-called Soviet experience of modernization the agrarian sphere of Kazakhstan.
N55|Constructing Epistemic Landscapes: Methods of GIS-Based Mapping|The construction of knowledge maps, demonstrated in this paper, is designed to show the epistemic landscape of cities, countries or regions. Knowledge assets, knowledge producing and disseminating organisations are referenced to spatial objects and integrated into GIS. They are further represented in thematic maps and in 3-D perspective graphs. Special attention is given to mapping and measuring knowledge clusters. Statistical procedures to measure the degree of knowledge clustering are discussed and ways are indicated to compare and determine the emergence of knowledge clusters. We conclude that the construction of knowledge maps showing the complexity of epistemic landscapes will enhance the chances of government agencies, companies and civic organisations to understand and use knowledge for development. This paper is in the first place meant as guideline for the related analysis.
N55|The Political Economy of Disaster Vulnerability: A Case Study of Pakistan Earthquake 2005|Literature on natural hazards typically perceives disasters to be acts of God (or nature) while restricting the examination of their causes to biophysical and geographical explanations. This paper takes a different approach; first, it argues that disasters are socially constructed and, second, it situates the interactions of large-scale natural forces with local political-economic conditions within the context of vulnerability to contend that disasters are consequences of unresolved development challenges. Using the Pressure and Release (PAR) Model the paper suggests the usefulness of the concept of vulnerability that shapes local geographies of risk and weak institutions which transform and enhance the negative impacts of ‘natural’ hazards into ‘man-made’ disasters.
N55|Switching over to Organic Cultivation and Its Impact on Living Wage and Employment in the Agricultural Labour Market|The export performance of Indian agricultural commodities in the post WTO agreement on agriculture is not encouraging. Substantial increase of cost of farming due to steep increase of prices of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and seeds gradually make farming as non-profitable. This also reduces employment generation in agricultural sector. High improper use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides during the time of cultivation also creates different health hazards among the agricultural labourers. In this situation, this paper suggests that switching over to organic cultivation will be beneficial for both the farmer and agricultural labourers. As India is now enjoying few comparative advantages in exporting organic agricultural commodities, cultivation through organic method with bio-pesticides can help the Indian farmers to penetrate in vast global market mainly in developed countries and can sell the product at premium price. The organic cultivation will also give sufficient health security to the employed agricultural labourers, which is an important part of social security of these unorganized workers. Switching over to organic cultivation, will help the farmers cum employers to offer lower living wage to each employed labourers without violating social security norm of these unorganized workers and can generate sufficient employment in the agricultural labour market which ultimately will increase further if the developed countries following WTO agreement reduces tariff rates at the time of importing organic food products
N55|Tacit Knowledge and Innovation Capacity: Evidence from the Indian Livestock Sector|To cope and compete in this rapidly-changing world, organisations need to access and apply new knowledge. While explicit knowledge is important, what is often critical is an organisation's ability to create, access, share and apply the tacit or un-codified knowledge that exists among its members, its network and the wider innovation system of which it is a part. This discussion paper explores the role of tacit knowledge in livestock sector innovation capacity though the case of Visakha Dairy, one of the most progressive producer-owned milk marketing companies in India. Analysis of two episodes in Visakha's evolution clearly illustrates how it used tacit knowledge to innovate around challenges. The paper concludes that while tacit knowledge is clearly a major resource that organisations rely on to cope with change, it does not follow that knowledge management approaches that rely on codifying this knowledge are the way forward. Instead, what it does suggest is that better management of the learning processes, through which tacit knowledge is generated, would be a more useful contribution to innovation and innovation capacity - in other words, a shift from knowledge management to learning management.
N55|Property and Risk: Revisit to Peasant Economy in Modern Japan| In Japan, under the Tokugawa shogunate, 1603–1868, registered peasants were guaranteed their property right of their farmland, but regulations on farmland trades restricted their access to financial markets and they were allowed to pay land tax in kind, which meant peasants were shielded against risk from volatility of financial market, land market and commodity market. Under the regulatory shield, millions of peasant family continued to be owner farmers and wealth inequality was kept small. However, during the Meiji Restoration from 1868, the government redefined peasants’ claim as the full-fledged modern property right, fully deregulated the land and financial market, and obliged landowners to pay land tax by money. With owner-peasants directly exposed to market risks, the ratio of tenanted land increased from 30 percent in the 1870s to the 50 percent in the 1900s. Behind the drastic redistribution of landownership, there was a new role of landlords replacing regulations: shielding tenant farmers against market risk. This institutional feature of tenancy contract was originally discussed by a Marxian economist Moritaro Yamada in the 1930s, when the mechanism had begun to collapse in the Great Depression. We attempt to formulate risk sharing mechanism managed by landlords, motivated by Yamada’s work.
N55|Explorations in the Economics of Intertemporal Asset Transfer in Roman Palestine|Following the Jewish Revolt and the destruction of the Jewish Temple in 70 CE, there were large-scale destabilizations of the Jewish population in Palestine. Information regarding economic decisions has always been available indirectly from Jewish and Roman legalistic material, though it has been insufficiently mined for economic insights. Furthermore, over the last forty years, new documentary material has become available from the second century. This note discusses some interesting aspects of how people managed to transfer resources over time in these turbulent times. Specifically, I look at two cases of asset transfer where the primary purpose was to transfer wealth over time. I explore the role of market frictions in both cases and make comparisons to present-day circumstances.
N55|Efficiency and technology gap in China's agriculture: A regional meta-frontier analysis|This paper utilizes a unique county-level dataset to examine technical efficiency and technology gap in China's agriculture. We classify the counties into four regions with distinctive levels of economic development, and hence production technologies. A meta-frontier analysis is used. We find that although the eastern counties have the highest efficiency scores with respect to the regional frontier but the northeastern region leads in terms of agricultural production technology nationwide. Meanwhile, the mean efficiency of the northeastern counties is particularly low, suggesting technology and knowledge diffusion within region might help to improve production efficiency and thus agricultural output.
N55|The institutional change under lobbying and the distribution of power ¨DThe case analysis on the changes in land ownership system in China in 1978|In this paper, we develop a model of institutional change of land property right in China, which include the influences of lobbying and the political power division in 1978. The model illustrates how extra gains are produced under different institutions and how lobbying and political power division can affect the change. It is clear that the institutional innovation has something to do with the leaders¡¯ legal income, the cost of institutional change and the conversion rate. Given the pattern of leader¡¯s power division, it is the best way for the people in rural areas to change their institutional framework, and it is efficient to mix local and central governmental policies. And lobbying and leading power division can affect the direction and the course of institutional changes that would lead different result among different areas.
N55|The Cost of Property Rights: Establishing Institutions on the Philippine Frontier Under American Rule, 1898-1918|We examine three reforms to property rights introduced by the United States in the Philippines in the early 20th century: the redistribution of large estates to their tenants, the creation of a system of secure land titles, and a homestead program to encourage cultivation of public lands. During the first phase of American occupation (1898-1918), we find that the progress of implementing these reforms was very slow. As a consequence, tenure insecurity increased over this period, and the distribution of farm sizes remained extremely unequal. We identify two primary causes for the slow progress of reform: first, the high cost of implementing these programs was a major factor in reducing take-up. On the other hand, the government was reluctant to evict delinquent or informal cultivators, especially on public lands. This reduced the costs of tenure insecurity. Political constraints prevented the government from subsidizing land reforms to a greater degree.
N55|Explorations in the economics of intertemporal asset transfer in Roman Palestine|Following the Jewish Revolt and the destruction of the Jewish Temple in 70 CE, there were large-scale destabilizations of the Jewish population in Palestine. Information regarding economic decisions has always been available indirectly from Jewish and Roman legalistic material, though it has been insufficiently mined for economic insights. Furthermore, over the last forty years, new documentary material has become available from the second century. This note discusses some interesting aspects of how people managed to transfer resources over time in these turbulent times. Specifically, I look at two cases of asset transfer where the primary purpose was to transfer wealth over time. I explore the role of market frictions in both cases and make comparisons to present-day circumstances.
N55|Tenant, Landlord, and Risk: Revisiting the Debate on Japanese Capitalism|Moritaro Yamadaâ€™s Analysis of Japanese Capitalism (1934) characterized the Japanese economy in that time. First, it highlighted the duality of the modern sector, whose productivity was relatively high, and the traditional sector, whose productivity was relatively low. Second, it argued that the paternalistic risk-bearing mechanism worked in the traditional sector. Third, it discussed that while the stability of society and the continued stagnancy of productivity had been symbiotic conditions, this structure was disintegrating. The work provoked intense debate among Japanese Marxian economists to understand the Japanese economy. However, classical economics then did not have the analytical tools for a twosector economy, duality, risk sharing, and dynamic transition in the growth path, which led to the ambiguity of Yamadaâ€™s description and confusion in the debate. We place his argument on duality and risk sharing in an analytical framework, and rephrase its implications.
N55|The Cost of Property Rights: Establishing Institutions on the Philippine Frontier Under American Rule, 1898-1918|We examine three reforms to property rights introduced by the United States in the Philippines in the early 20th century: the redistribution of large estates to their tenants, the creation of a system of secure land titles, and a homestead program to encourage cultivation of public lands. During the first phase of American occupation (1898-1918), we find that the implementation of these reforms was very slow. As a consequence, tenure insecurity increased over this period, and the distribution of farm sizes remained extremely unequal. We identify two primary causes for the slow progress of reform. The first was the high cost of implementing these programs, together with political constraints which prevented the government from subsidizing land reforms to a greater degree. The second was the reluctance of the government to evict delinquent or informal cultivators, especially on public lands, which reduced the costs of tenure insecurity.
N55|Peasant economy in the edebate on Japanese capitalism f: Tenancy contract facing the eTurning point f|Japanese economy was losing its stability in the interwar period. Faced with the challenge, Moritaro Yamada gave an understanding that the stability of Japanese political economy before the First World War had been maintained by paternalistic institutions both of agricultural and industrial sectors, not based on thoroughly modern market mechanism. This then influential observation can still be supported by the classical dual economy model. However, as a scholar in the period of institutional change, Yamada failed to rightly predict the direction of change. While Yamada expected the change should lead to impersonal market mechanism, the real history showed people rather built a planned economy during the war and recovered stability. Yamada fs mistake was mainly in that he underestimated the significance of risk sharing in the paternalist organizations. At the gturning point h where labor changed into scarce resource from surplus resource, two vectors with opposite directions could exist. Riskier opportunities for higher wages would encourage people to accept market mechanism based on impersonal exchange. Dissolution of risk sharing in paternalistic organizations would make people call for the sate taking on the role as a large welfare state. In Japan, especially in the middle of the Great Depression, the latter factor became dominant.
N55|Livestock industrialization, trade and social-health-environment impacts in developing countries: a case of Indian poultry sector|This paper presents the results of an empirical study of the Indian Poultry Industry which is specially focused on the social and environmental outcomes generated by the rapidly increasing scale of egg and broiler production in India. Among the effects of these rapid changes that occurred in the poultry industry include increased risk for animal health, changes in demand patters in terms of amount, quality, and food safety, higher prices for high value items; but there is also a threat to smallholders that they will be excluded from more demanding markets. There are important questions, which have arisen with the industrialization of poultry activity in India. Is the scaling up of production driving small producers to disadvantage on account of high transaction costs, policy distortions and environment externalities? Why do some poultry farms have higher incomes than others? Do large farms earn more profit per unit of output than small farms? What explains the differentials in efficiency? An attempt is made here to take stock of these changes and to assess their social and environmental outcomes particularly those that affect the welfare of poor. The paper starts by examining the state of the Indian Poultry Industry, and then it goes in dealing with selected socio-economic, health, and environment changes that affect the competitiveness of livestock production including domestic institutional arrangement of food safety standards.
N55|Anthropogenic Carbon Dioxide Emmision in Asia: Effect of Population, Affluence and Energy Effeciency|This study was conducted to determine the effects of population, affluence and energy efficiency (the ratio of real GDP to commercial energy use) on the level of Anthropogenic Carbon Dioxide Emissions in Asia from 1980 to 2004. It also sought to provide empirical evidence for the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) hypothesis in Asia. Results of the study showed that the level of anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions increased by 265.20 percent from 1980 to 2004. CO2 emissions rose with increases in population and GDP per capita, and decreased with increasing energy efficiency. Results showed that 97 percent of the variation in the level of anthropogenic carbon dioxide emission could be explained by changes in population, GDP per capita and energy efficiency. Results also confirmed the existence of EKC in Asia, A monotonically upward trend in emissions with increasing income level was observed.
N55|Investigating the effect of granted facilities by specialist banks to agriculture part on value added agriculture part of Iran|Iran’s agriculture part is one of the areas that can have an important effect on the growth of country’s economy. Concerning this, variables that can increase value added agriculture have been concentrated on and the government is supporting them. One of these policies is granting loanable facilities from specialist banks to agriculture part, which was in the specialist banks agendum during last years. In this study, the relation between granted facilities to agriculture part and value added investigated. According to results, the correlation between these two variables verified during the research period (1991-2003).
N55|Food Supply in Java during War and Decolonisation, 1940-1950|It is readily assumed that the average level of living in Indonesia deteriorated during the hectic period 1940-1950. Much of the evidence on economic change during this period is anecdotal. It is difficult to distil a general impression from it. Per capita food consumption is an important indicator of the average standard of living. For that reason this paper monitors the changes in food production, distribution and supply in the densely populated core island of Java in Indonesia. Food supply was adequate in Indonesia when the Japanese attack on the country started in 1941. During 1944-1948 per capita food supply was at a very low level in Java. In the years 1943-1945 the low level was caused by the restrictions imposed by the Japanese authorities on the domestic trade of food products, and by the coercive system of purchasing rice for distribution. Both created disincentives for farmers to produce a food surplus. Similar reasons explain the situation during the years 1946-1948. Moreover, the controversy between the returning colonial government and the government of the nationalist Republic of Indonesia impeded free shipments of food between the food deficient urban areas and the food producing rural areas. Food supply recovered during 1948-1950, with the economic re-integration of most of Indonesia.
N55|The institutional change under lobbying and the distribution of power|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|Learning Networks Matter: Challenges to Developing Learning-Based Competence in Mango Production and Post-Harvest in Andhra Pradesh, India|This discussion paper explores aspects of innovation systems ideas in the analysis of mango production and export by smallscale farmers in the South Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. The paper shows how despite favourable agro-ecological conditions and being the largest international mango producer, India still struggles to build momentum in rapidly emerging export markets. An analysis of the sector's recent history combined with an empirical account of inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral linkage patterns among stakeholder groups appears to provide the basis for remedial policy suggestions. Most of these relate to aspects of integrated technology development and innovation management.
N55|Paradoxes of Traffic Flow and Economics of Congestion Pricing|This paper utilizes a unique county-level dataset to examine technical efficiency and technology gap in China’s agriculture. We classify the counties into four regions with distinctive levels of economic development, and hence production technologies. A meta-frontier analysis is applied to the counties. We find that although the eastern counties have the highest efficiency scores with respect to the regional frontier but the northeastern region leads in terms of agricultural production technology nationwide. Meanwhile, the mean efficiency of the northeastern counties is particularly low, suggesting technology and knowledge diffusion within region might help to improve production efficiency and thus output.
N55|Services Trade Negotiations in the Doha Round : Opportunities and Risks for Pakistan|This paper seeks to examine how locking-in of Pakistans unilateral liberalization at the WTO/GATS and further liberalization of services trade would affect Pakistans competitiveness. Focusing on the opportunities and risks of such liberalization the paper discusses possible options regarding the corollary regulatory reforms and other flanking measures that may be needed to achieve these goals. The sectors studied in this paper are (a) construction and related engineering services; (b) architecture, engineering and integrated engineering services; (c) energy services; and (d) environmental services.
N55|Allocation of Decision Rights in Fruit and Vegetable Contracts in China|We empirically examine the determinants of the allocation of decision rights in the context of fruit and vegetable contracting. The main conclusion is that under contract farming, many decision rights are shifted from farmers to firms. Quality, reputation and specific investments by firms positively influence the number of decision rights allocated to agri-business firms under contract farming, while monopsony-oligopsony power and specific investments by farmers have no effect on the allocation of decision rights.
N55|Involution or pursuit of profit? —A reassessment of Chinese sericulture during the 1840s–1940s|With new data and a new methodology, this paper reassesses the forces that led to the rise of Chinese sericulture in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The study challenges the prevailing view that Chinese peasants switched to sericulture in order to gain a higher aggregate family income at the cost of a lower net income per workday. Based on a case study of Wuxi, the research indicates that until the late 1920s, sericulture had provided peasants not only higher aggregate income, but also higher returns on labor. Peasants were more pulled by higher profit than by high population pressure to switch to sericulture.
N55|Household Strategies of Labor Allocation and Living Standards of Pregnant Women in Modern Rural Japan: A Case Studies of Aomori Prefecture and North-eastern Part of Japan in the 1910s and 1930s|In this paper, it examines the relationship between the infant mortality rate (IMR) and introduction of new agricultural laborsaving technology which contributed to reduce labor absorption in rice production and labor intensity and increase the agricultural productivity by using the data of modern rural North-eastern Japan c.a. 1910s to 1930s. Assuming that IMR is the index of the living standards and the agricultural productivity and labor intensity is the one of the level of introduction of new technology, we focus on the structure of infant death in order to clarify the general labor environment of pregnant women. As results of the analysis, the followings are becoming clarified; 1) the innovation and diffusion of agricultural technology, by which human agricultural labor was dramatically saved and the agricultural productivity was increased, caused the decline of IMR through the rise of agricultural productivity; 2) the expansion of cottage industry among the peasant household contributed to decline of IMR by reallocating family labor mainly to non-agricultural works. From these results, this paper presents the change of the labor allocation strategy of the peasant household makes the effect on the improvement of their living standards in modern rural Japan.
N55|Being rich in energy resources – a blessing or a curse|“Being rich in energy resources – a blessing or a curse” finds that an energy resource curse plagues many EU supplier states. This in turn directly affects Europe’s energy supply security and threatens to engulf Europe in unwanted hostilities at home and abroad. The study addresses seven issues including the evidence suggesting that a curse exists among Europe’s external energy suppliers, active programs to limit that risk, the significance of economic diversification, the applicability of dividend programs, the link between corruption and security of energy supplies, additional possible actions of the Union, and further threats posed by resource cursed countries. It establishes a definitive links between corruption and supply security, poor transparency, and inequality, and proves that a low level of economic diversification is a reliable indicator for the existence of the curse. It also finds that there are examples of excellence in recovering from and even converting the curse to a blessing. In looking at the policy instruments available to the Union, the study determines that the Union does have the technical expertise and financial means to restructure political and economic systems and strengthen public administrations and institutions and found that Europe’s successful implementation of similar past programs could be taken, at least in part, as models for future efforts. Finally, the study recommends the controversial approach of conditionality in the use of aid and finds that the Union should legislate standards for the reporting and auditing of energy exports and imports at home and abroad.
N55|Транзиција И Судбина Руских Природних Богатстава<BR>[Transition and the Fate of the Russian Natural Resources]|Transition in Russia, greatest and richest country of the world, is of the great interest for the most observers of the this process. Contrary to the promises of the reformators, the country fall into deep and longterm crisis, followed by the enormous decrease of production and riching of the little group of „new russian“. The objective analysis shows the prevalent role in this process of the „family“ – group near the ex-president, i. e. their cousins and friends. The paper deals with one of the mechanisms by wich these results are realised. This mechanism is the giving to the exploitation of the natural resources (oil, gaz etc.) to the private (foreign) companies under for the Russia very bad circumstances, in the frame of the regime of the division of production, very similar to the concession scheme. These schemes were not used in Russia until the period of NEP in the 1920-s, and they were renewed in the middle of 1990-s. Транзиција у Русији, највећој и по многим мишљењима најбогатијој земљи света, не престаје да изазива интересовање и чуђење. Насупрот обећањима реформатора, земља је запала у дубоку и дуготрајну кризу, уз огроман пад производње и енормно богаћење малог броја „нових Руса”. Објективна анализа показује да је преовлађујућу улогу у процесу имала „породица” – екипа из окружења бившег председника, његова најближа родбина и шири круг пријатеља. У раду се детаљније разматра један од механизама којим су остварени наведени резултати, наиме уступање руских природних налазишта на експлоатацију приватним (пре свега страним) компанијама под за Русију веома неповољним условима, а у оквиру режима поделе производње, врло сличног концесионој шеми. Овакве шеме у Русији нису коришћене још од периода НЕП-а током двадесетих година XX века, а обновљене су средином деведесетих.
N55|Spatial market integration and the dynamics of transaction costs in the Chinese soy bean market|The development over time of market integration between Chinese provinces is analyzed by estimating threshold vector error correction models for rolling windows during 1998-2003. Transaction costs clearly decrease during this period characterized by liberalization of external trade and domestic markets.
N55|Institutional Analysis of Swidden: The Case of Swiddners in Orissa| Swidden being a widespread form of land use in the tropics comprehensively defining it become a difficult task. Its characteristics embrace different types of topography, demographic feature, ethnic and ecological diversities. It also varies in terms of cropping pattern, frequency of land use, tools and methods of practice. It is argued that the institutions governing swidden are static in nature and do not adapt to the requirements of the changing ecological and social needs. This necessitates understanding what characterise institutions in a traditional swiddening society, and hence, changes in these characteristics to appreciate whether swidden is a static form of agriculture or changing over the time and space. There are a few aspects, which underscore the institutional face of swidden. Though, population growth plays a crucial role in swiddening system, it is not a necessary condition that the changes in agricultural institutions are guided by the population factor alone. There are also other forms of institutions to understand whether the swidden system of production is static or not. These include, land -use choices vis-a-vis property right structures and labour sharing arrangements, forms of integration with market, changing technology. They depict the economic interface with institutions. Development and changes in the customs and norms are a few of the analytically complex and notable in stitutional changes in swidden. Considering these factors, we attempt to understand the institutional changes observed in the swidden system. Based on the field survey in five swiddening villages of Orissa, we find varying characteristics of changes in the above discussed institutions that call for a comprehensive understanding of the development processes.
N55|Non-Parametric Analysis of Technical Efficiency: Factors Affecting Efficiency of West Java Rice Farms|The objectives of this analysis are to evaluate the technical and scale efficiency of rice farms in West Java and to identify determinants affecting farms’ efficiency. Further, the farm size–productivity relation is investigated. Data Envelopment Analysis is used to estimate technical efficiency scores. Additionally, Tobit regression is used to explain the variation in the efficiency scores related to farm-specific factors. I conclude that farm size is one of the most important factors of farm’s technical efficiency and that high land fragmentation was the main source of the technical inefficiency during the final period of the intensification era, known as the Green Revolution.
N55|The History of Licit Cocaine in the Netherlands|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|Metafrontier Analysis of Technology Gap and Productivity Difference in African Agriculture|Agricultural productivity in Africa from 1971 to 2000 is examined using the recently developed metafrontier function technique, for the purpose of studying differences in efficiency and technology gap across different regions of the continent. The results support the view that technology gap plays an important part in explaining the ability of agricultural sectors in one region to compete with agricultural sectors in different regions in Africa. The study has also evidenced that average technical efficiency score of the agricultural sector has been almost stable over time, while a marginal decrease of the productivity potential over the 30 years period was observed.
N55|Agriculture Diversification in the Mekong Delta: Farmers' Motives and Contributions to Livelihoods|"Although specialization is the global trend in agriculture, integrated farming systems have emerged in Vietnam. An important motive was the desire to improve the livelihoods and the diet of the nuclear families; this was evident in the analysis using the household life cycle of five phases. Off-farm diversification was especially important for a new household. At the onset of expansion, the new mothers replaced off-farm with homebound activities. During expansion the farmers increased virtual farm size by keeping more livestock; during accumulation they invested in land or education, and during consolidation old couples adjusted farm activities to their labor capacity. Livestock, including fish, was essential for livelihood. The distribution of goats instead of cattle by credit or by ""passing-on-the-gift"" was far more effective for poverty alleviation. Technological innovations on the cultivation of rice and fruits, and the breeding of fish were essential for change. The improved food security and reduced cash income from rice after the 1986 reforms pushed farmers to take risks. The farm area and number of component farm activities providing cash determined the level of cash income from agriculture. Farms with at least four flows of biomass between components earned more, demonstrating that real integration improved profits. A minimum area of land in, or close to, the homestead, and know-how are required for an effective integration of components."
N55|'Getting Rich Is Glorious':Environmental Values in the People's Republic of China|Pollution and overuse of resources in China have profound implications for the Chinese people and the world. Globalisation may be partly to blame for this situation, but it is hardly the only explanation. China has been overusing its resources for centuries. Traditional values appear to offer environmentally benign guidance for China's economic development, but they are largely impotent in the face of now-pervasive values manifested in Western-style consumption. Government policies go some way toward addressing this problem, but what may be required is a new set of values that brings self-interest and environmental protection into common cause.
N55|Using Mandated Speed Limits to Measure the Value of a Statistical Life|In 1987 the federal government permitted states to raise the speed limit on their rural interstate roads, but not on their urban interstate roads, from 55 mph to 65 mph. Since the states that adopted the higher speed limit must have valued the travel hours they saved more than the fatalities incurred, this institutional change provides an opportunity to estimate an upper bound on the public's willingness to trade off wealth for a change in the probability of death. Our estimates indicate that the adoption of the 65-mph limit increased speeds by approximately 4 percent, or 2.5 mph, and fatality rates by roughly 35 percent. Together, the estimates suggest that about 125,000 hours were saved per lost life. When the time saved is valued at the average hourly wage, the estimates imply that adopting states were willing to accept risks that resulted in a savings of $1.54 million (1997 dollars) per fatality, with a sampling error roughly one-third this value. We set out a simple model of states' decisions to adopt the 65-mph limit that turns on whether their savings exceed their value of a statistical life. The empirical implementation of this model supports the claim that $1.54 million is an upper bound, but it provides imprecise estimates of the value of a statistical life.
N55|Compliance to Environmental Regulations: The Indian Context|Theoretical exposition of the trade-environment linkage (in the form of Environment Kuznets Curve) has been extensive. While one set of studies show that with the increase in per capita income environmental degradation would decline, the other set of studies has shown that no such trend exists for developing countries. Though environmental laws are in place, firms display a very low level of compliance in developing countries. This article brings out the low level of compliance to environmental regulations in India while trying to identify the main causes.
N55|The Politics of Development Policy and Development Policy Reform in New Order Indonesia|How can we account for Indonesia???s astonishing development performance between 1965 and 1997???rapid growth, massive reduction in the incidence of poverty, low income-inequality and substantial diversification of the economy???in the face of extremely dirigiste microeconomic policies, even by developing country standards, and massive, systemic and endemic rent-seeking and corruption? This question is answered by demonstrating that Suharto, the leader of Indonesia???s New Order government, was extremely successful in building and sustaining a procapitalist, pro-integration with the world economy, and pro-growth with equity political coalition in which corruption played a central role.
N55|Sequencing and the Success of Gradualism: Empirical Evidence from China's Agricultural Reform|This paper provides evidence regarding gains to agricultural market liberalization in China. We empirically identify the different effects that incentive reforms and gradual market liberalization have on China's agricultural economy during its transition period. We find that average gains within the agricultural sector to incentive reform exceed gains to market liberalization by a factor of ten. Our method of analyzing the effects of transition policies on economic performance can be generalized to other reform paths in other transition economies.
N55|Bondage in freedom, colonial plantations in Southern India c 1797-1947|Opposing views persist with regard to the emergence of plantations in southern India and the transfer of slave labour to these plantations: the abolition of slavery as an end in itself and, second, as a means to an end. In spite of the fact that slavery had been abolished by the mid-nineteenth century, workers on plantations found themselves no better off than slaves and bondsmen - so intensive and painful was the ill treatment meted out to them. The workers with their newly realised freedom from the feudal relations spared no means to revolt against the new Masters. Yet, a truly systemic transformation failed to materialise. The present paper attempts to unravel the constituents of changing forms of bondage and the coercive/disciplinary strategies adopted by the planters which in effect gave rise to a new labour regime. It also attempts to unravel the way in which the reborn `slaves' unleashed their resistance at the capitalist work sites.
N55|The Rise of Neolithic Agriculture|The article analyzes the economic reasons behind the rise of Neolithic agriculture some 10,000 years ago in consideration of evidence that agriculture was not associated with increasing standards of living. On the basis of archeological and anthropological literature, the article presents a modelling framework that allows for four broad explanations to the agricultural transition; (i) environmental conditions, (ii) population pressure,(iii) cultural influence, and (iv) external factors. It is shown that the introduction of agriculture first increases welfare but then leads to a steady decline. The reason for this deterioration is the switch from a pure Malthusian population growth regime to a partly exogenous regime where population grows without constraints and drive hunter-gatherers into agriculture in a Boserupian manner. When the model is confronted with archeological evidence from the Jordan Valley, it appears that envi-ronmental change, population growth, and a uniquely favourable biogeography for domestication led to the introduction of agriculture.
N55|Bread and Empire: The Workings of Grain Provisioning in Istanbul During the Eighteenth Century|"Provisioning of the Imperial capital Istanbul had been one of the major concerns of the Ottoman rulers from the classical age to the dawn of the modern era. Grain occupied a particularly important place in the provisioning policies of the Ottoman state due to the fact that the Ottoman sultans considered the steady supply of ""people's bread"" in the capital city as one of the ways to promote and reproduce their image of sovereignty in the general public opinion. This consideration remained unchanged throughout the eighteenth century during which time the Ottoman economy faltered vis-à-vis the European centered world-economy and the Ottoman polity began to gradually withdraw from the economic realm. In the face of mounting fiscal burdens, the Ottoman state limited its provisioning policies to the raw materials needed by the military industries and to the basic foods consumed by the populace. In this context, the traditional protectionist attitude of the state towards the craft guilds of the imperial capital was abandoned, leaving these organizations at the mercy of circumstances not to say the market principle. The only institutions that were insulated from the changing policy of the state were the grain-related crafts, i.e. bakers' guild. This paper argues with reference to a series of published documents that the Ottoman state continued, if not hardened, its provisioning policies of grain to the imperial capital during the eighteenth century and thereafter."
N55|Aspetti macroeconomici del passaggio alla capitalizzazione: considerazioni non ortodosse sulla riforma pensionistica|The paper examines the transition between the two pension systems: pay-as-you- go (PAYG) and capitalization system (CS). It examines the distinction between a privatization of PAYG and the creation of a true CS. A genuine CS is introduced only if «national saving» increases with the reform. Some transition plans are then examined. The use of the «severance payment» (TFR) to create a CS is considered. It is argued that TFR, in spite of its peculiarities, is already a CS. In the final part of the paper the alleged advantages of the adoption of CS are criticised in the light of less conventional approaches.
N55|State-Directed Diffusion of Technology: The Mechanization of Cotton-Farming in Soviet Central Asia|When Soviet central planners began to mechanize the cotton harvest in earnest in 1958, they expected more rapid diffusion than the market-driven process that had begun in the United States a decade earlier. But despite high output of cotton-picking machines, the share of the crop harvested mechanically grew more slowly than in the United States. The factor proportions in Central Asia did not justify mechanization: although planners could enforce introduction of the new technology, investment in cotton-harvesting machines was largely a waste of resources. The costs of premature introduction are estimated at over one billion US dollars in 1960s prices.
N55|Rural Development Strategy: Eastern Europe and Central Asia|This paper summarizes the World Bank assistance strategy for rural development in the ECA region. The rural sector includes the people; economic; development activities; institutional, economic, and social infrastructure; and natural resources in rural areas and is thus not confined to agriculture. This paper focuses on Bank activities that support rural development and policy reforms designed to improve rural well-being and increase the competitiveness of farms and rural businesses.
N55|FSC Certification in Japan: An Uncertain Future|This article presents an assessment of the adoption of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification in Japan based on insights from concepts and theories provided from the disciplines of sociology, social psychology, economics, and organizational behavior. It provides a brief history of relevant developments in the forest sector in Japan, as well as a brief discussion of certain characteristics of the collective nature of Japanese society as they concern the current paradigm shift in Japan. Certification is discussed with specific information about FSC Certification as a possible substitute for assurance being lost due to the changes in business relationships resulting from Japan's shift to a more open market. The article suggests that the adoption of a western social instrument such as certification will have possible outcomes which differ from those expected in countries where certification originated.
N55|Japanese imports of Brazilian raw cotton in the second half of the 1930s: the beginning of significant Japanese-Brazilian trade and investment relations|No abstract is available for this item.
N55|Coffee, tea or pepper?: Factprs affecting choice of crops by agro-entrepreneurs in nineteenth century South-West India|Ever since plantation agriculture initiated by European capital and enterprise became an important form of exploitation of resources in the colonies, small holdings and small holders in the plantation sector were considered a separate category. There were a number of European proprietary planters among the pioneers. They got phased out with the vertical integration of production, distribution and marketing. Another group of small-holders were the indigenous farmers who took up cultivation of plantation crops. Almost all over Southern India and Ceylon such farmers were active in coffee; the earliest plantation crop. But one plantation area in South-west India, completely, and another, partially, was conspicuous by their absence. Significantly there were farmers involved in cash crop cultivation, particularly in pepper, in these areas. Meanwhile, upwardly mobile sections of the lower echelons of the caste hierarchy were very active in coffee, in another area of the same broad region. This paper investigates why small holders were absent in the former areas. Only in a few specific areas within the early plantation regions of Southern India and Ceylon did coffee survive a widespread blight in late nineteenth century. Though small holders and their coffee cultivation also had set backs in this crisis, they seem to have played important role in the survival of the crop in some areas. This paper also investigates what were the advantages held by small-holders in these areas and which were found lacking in other areas.
N55|The Role of Agriculture in the Early Phase of Industrialization: Policy implications of Japan's experience|The paper presents a brief theoretical and historical explanation of the transformative process of the Japanese economy from a stagnant agrarian society to a modern industrial one. Specifically, it analyzes the role of agriculture in the early stage of Japan's development in the last three decades of the 19th century, when the Meiji Government carried a determined political campaign to strengthen the country and to catch up with the West. By the time of World War I, the country had managed to be recognized as a significant industrial power, the then only non-Western case. Initially, the Government allocated fairly large amounts of financial resources to the agricultural sector, which resulted in a rapid growth in it. Much of the increased output or income was then transferred - through the application of a land tax by the Government and as a result of the savings and investment patterns of landlords - to the manufacturing sector in order to finance its rapid expansion. The paper also highlights various elements of particularity that the Japanese Government had to face at the initial stage of industrialization, and to contrast them with the present situation of typical commodity-producing countries.
N55|INVESTING in Agriculturally-Led Growth: The Philippine Case|Much of the debate on the role of agriculture in economic development centers on whether agriculture should be taxed or subsidized. The classical prescription for economic development is investment in industrial modernization financed by an agricultural surplus. Proponents of agricultural development have cautioned, however, that squeezing the agricultural sector will stifle the engine of growth and lead to economic stagnation (e.g., Johnston and Mellor, 1961; Krishna, 1967). Instead, they have advocated the opposite policy of stimulating agricultural development through investment and subsidies to the agricultural sector. The 1980s witnessed a widespread recognition that either taxing or subsidizing agriculture wastes resources and reduces the incentives for investment (see e.g. World Developme~R~et port, 1983 and 1987). This leads to the conundrum that motivates the present paper: how can agricultural development be stimulated without distorting the incentives for efficient resource allocation and investment?
N55|HOW to Facilitate or Stifle Economic Development: The Role of Agriculture in Indonesia and the Philippines|Strikingly different patterns of agricultural growth and widely divergent results in terlnsof rural income. poverty. and employment have cmcrged in Southeast Asia. In the Philippiies, with someregional variations, a patterns of declining red farm wages,increasing landlessness in worsening poverty and diminishing employmctlt relative to demand for jobs has emerged despite some brief periods of improvcment since 1960. Sincc 1980, the employment and poverty situation has deteriorated sharply,particularly in areas concentrating on single traditional export crops (lkc sugar or coconuts) but also in amore general context. Indonesia (particularly in Java, which contains over 60 pcrcent of the population) succeeded in reversing a seemingly inevitable worsening of poverty and inequality in the rural economy with strong evidence indicating that rural real wages and income of small farmers rose substantially between the mid-1970sand late 1980s. Why such divergent patterns of rural development exist and the lessons that can be extracted from thc varied cxperiences of 1ndoncsia and the Philippines are subjects of this papcr.
N55|The farmland property rights deformity: the history, reality and reform|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to summarize the institutional evolution of China's farmland property rights deformity with its internal logic, analyze its property rights deformity and the invasions of these rights under the family operation background, and puts forward fundamental suggestions for reforming farmland property rights in China. Design/methodology/approach - The concept of “public domain” raised by Barzel in 1989 is used and extended to analyze China's farmland system. Findings - There exist five sorts of public domain and two apparent characteristics of property rights deformity: the unclear final controlling rights for some valuable attributes of goods of the “public domain”; and the “public domain” deliberately created by the government. The public domain caused by technical factors and owner's real capability are herein excluded. Originality/value - China's past and present farmland system is a result of the government's compulsory system arrangements instead of market evolution. The expansion of public domains III and V has directly shrunk peasants' residual property rights. The concept of “public domain” is developed to reveal the essence of China's farmland property rights deformity.
