N66|The automotive sector in Mexico|"This paper contextualises the background of a broader research on the digital technological transfor-mation in the automotive industry in Mexico. It explores the impact of the NAFTA in the development of automotive industry in Mexico and how this country has become an important player in the global value chains of the automotive industry. This will provide the ongoing research project on ""Digital transformation in the automotive supply chain in Mexico"" with insights of what could be the impact of the new trade agreement with US and Canada, as well as its effects inside the country and its cross-country impact on the automotive global value chain. The paper describes briefly the situation of the automotive industry before the NAFTA was signed, in 1992, and the development in Mexico during the validity of Agreement. The automotive industry has become the second most important industry in Mexico, after food industries. In 2015 it represented 18.5% of manufacturing GDP, and it exports most of its production to the United States. In 2018, Mexico ranked as the 8th world producers of cars."
N66|Digital upgrade in the automotive supply chain in Mexico: issues and challenges|The ongoing digital transformation poses diverse challenges to the automotive sector. While the process of digitalisation will lead to technical and organisational changes across and within the global value chains, the ongoing changes in the trade agreements spurred by the Trump administration may change the location advantages of previous plants and their specialisations. In addition, investment in the electric car may offer first-mover advantages in markets, while requiring the re-organisation of the value chains. Mexico, ranked in 2018 as the seventh producer at world level, is an important case study for several reasons: among these, its cost advantages, its former privileged access to the US market, that attracted many OEMs from Europe, Asia, the US, and its role in the prospective regionalization of world trade. By using interviews to automotive suppliers, experts and business associations of the automotive industry, the paper aims at providing a first outline on issues to be addressed in an analysis looking at how these changes are affecting opportunities for the OEMs in their value chains based in the Mexican automotive system.
N66|The Industrialization of South America Revisited: Evidence from Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Colombia, 1890-2010|We use new manufacturing GDP time series to examine the industrialization in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Colombia since the early twentieth century. We uncover variation across countries and over time that the literature on industrialization had overlooked. Rather than providing a single explanation of how specific shocks or policies shaped the industrialization of the region, our argument is that the timing of the industrial take off was linked to initial conditions, while external shocks and macroeconomic and trade policy explain the variation in the rates of industrialization after the 1930s and favorable terms of trade and liberalization explain de-industrialization after 1990.
N66|The formation and take-off of the Sao Paulo automobile-industry cluster|"""The bulk of the automotive-industry in Brazil, country which is ranked in the top-ten of world cars producer since the mid-1960s, has been concentrated around the city of São Paulo. We aim to explain the formation and growth of the São Paulo auto-industry cluster. In doing so, four explanations are used: the presence of external economies (Marshall, 1890; Porter, 1990); the capabilities of large companies, which act as regional hubs (Chandler, 1990; Markusen, 1996; Lazonick, 2010); the adoption of active industrial policies (Amsden, 1989, 2001; Chang, 2002); and the institutional environment (Bagnasco, 1977; Brusco, 1982; Becattini, 1990; Porter, 1998)."""
N66|Redes sociales en la financiación de la industrialización Antioqueña (1880-1930)|Este análisis se enfoca en cómo se organizaron los capitales que financiaron la industrialización antioqueña entre 1880 y 1930 y pretende estudiar algunos grupos con diversas relaciones sociales que predeterminaban las relaciones económicas ?y que en otro tipo de análisis podrían resultar difusas?. Para tal efecto, se buscaron grupos de personas organizados por su actividad económica (comercio, banca y agricultura), esta categoría ayuda a identificar aquellos sectores de donde provenían los recursos que pudieron trasladarse de otras actividades económicas a la industrialización. Los comerciantes, dado su número, fueron quienes más se involucraron en el proceso de industrialización. Otras actividades económicas aportaron recursos, descartando la hipótesis de que los bancos fueron los financiadores únicos de la industria. Se detectaron relaciones de parentesco trascendentes, pero no fueron las predominantes
N66|Faldas por pantalones: las obreras, la brecha salarial, y el sindicalismo femenino en la industria en Colombia en 1945|La industria en Colombia se desarrolló con una importante participación de las mujeres obreras. En 1945, las obreras en la industria colombiana ganaban, en promedio, el 60% del salario de sus compañeros hombres. Este artículo utiliza los datos del Censo Industrial de 1945 para analizar la distribución de la brecha salarial en la industria en Colombia, sus posibles determinantes, y el efecto del sindicalismo femenino sobre la misma. Desarrolla un modelo que cuantifica la proporción de la brecha salarial que no se debe a diferencias en productividad entre mujeres y hombres para cada uno de los sectores de la industria colombiana de la época. Encuentra que ni las diferencias en nivel de instrucción, ni las diferencias en productividad entre hombres y mujeres explican las amplias diferencias en salarios entre obreras y obreros. Además, encuentra que la sindicalización femenina no fue un medio a través del cual las mujeres obtuvieron condiciones laborales equitativas.
N66|La Gran Depresión en Colombia: Un estímulo a la industrialización, 1930-1953|Este trabajo analiza el papel de los factores que determinaron la rápida industrialización del período 1934-1953. Se concluye que después de 1934 el mercado impulsó la industrialización a través de la reducción de costos, la generación de economías de escala, el desarrollo del aprendizaje por medio de la práctica, las economías de aglomeración y la transformación tecnológica. Se examina la estructura de la industria manufacturera colombiana en 1945, que fue el resultado de la profunda transformación económica que tuvo lugar en la década anterior. Las estimaciones de una función de producción para la industria en 1945 evidencian diferencias importantes en las elasticidades factoriales y la productividad entre sectores y regiones. Los resultados indican que la productividad de la mano de obra está positivamente relacionada con el nivel de capital humano y físico, mientras la antigüedad de las firmas se asocia con bajos niveles de la misma. ******ABSTRACT: This paper analyzes the role of the factors that determined the rapid industrialization of the period 1934-1953 .We conclude that the market pushed industrialization by reducing costs, generating economies of scale, learning by doing, giving place to agglomeration economies, and rapid technological change. This paper also examines the structure of the Colombian manufacturing sector in 1945, which was the result of the deep economic transformations that took place in the previous decade. Estimations of a production function for industry in 1945 show that there were important differences in factor elasticities and productivities among sectors and regions, which led to different regional patterns of industrialization. In addition, the results indicate that labor productivity in 1945 was positively and significantly related to education and capital, whereas it was negatively related to the unskilled workers and the age of the firms.
N66|La Gran Depresión en Colombia: Un estímulo a la industrialización, 1930-1953|Este trabajo analiza el papel de los factores que determinaron la rápida industrialización del período 1934-1953. Se concluye que después de 1934 el mercado impulsó la industrialización a través de la reducción de costos, la generación de economías de escala, el desarrollo del aprendizaje por medio de la práctica, las economías de aglomeración y la transformación tecnológica. Se examina la estructura de la industria manufacturera colombiana en 1945, que fue el resultado de la profunda transformación económica que tuvo lugar en la década anterior. Las estimaciones de una función de producción para la industria en 1945 evidencian diferencias importantes en las elasticidades factoriales y la productividad entre sectores y regiones. Los resultados indican que la productividad de la mano de obra está positivamente relacionada con el nivel de capital humano y físico, mientras la antigüedad de las firmas se asocia con bajos niveles de la misma.
N66|Integration And Competitiveness Of The Automotive Industry In The State Of Puebla, Integracion Y Competitividad De La Industria Automotriz En El Estado De Puebla|"This paper analyzes the Mexican automotive industry, with emphasis on a conglomerate industry located in the State of Puebla. The objective is to analyze the conditions and perspectives of the production chains in the cluster, recent investments, as well as competitiveness. The ""Five forces Porter"" tool, is used for the analysis that examines the threats from competitors, the power of negotiations of the suppliers and customers, as well as government policies negotiations and the threat of substitute products. However the most significant issue is to visualize the level of competitiveness and the possibility to identify threats and opportunities for the automotive local industry, considering the importance of the industry as premises and as the axes of uncertainty in technological innovation and the competitiveness of support companies. We examine the cluster led by the German company Volkswagen, and the recent branch of luxury cars from Audi installed in the State of Puebla and its surroundings, the guidelines are obtained through the technique known as ""Delphi Method"", concluding with the assumptions and uncertainties of the industry."
N66|Elite Identity and Political Accountability: A Tale of Ten Islands|This paper examines the relationship between elite identity and political outcomes from a theoretical and empirical perspective. Elite members with distinct economic and social identities vote for or against an extractive policy, which benefits them at the expense of the citizenry. Voting is disciplined by the threat of citizen revolt, with some elite members being more accountable than others. The relationship between elite identity and political accountability is complex and non-monotonic. As their share in the elite grows, accountable elite members are more likely to vote for extractive policies. When the elite becomes too accountable as a whole, elite members may pursue extractive policies by altering the institutional framework. The model is grounded in an empirical exploration of ten British Caribbean sugar colonies where the emancipation of slaves in 1838 created a mixed local and British elite and for which we have unique data on elite composition and voting. Voting behavior depends on an individual's identity and the overall composition of the elite in a manner predicted by the theory. In all but one of the islands elites eventually dissolved their legislative assemblies, ceding their formal powers to the British Crown. Consistent with the theory, we find evidence linking this to rising accountability of the islands' elites.
N66|The Great Depression in Colombia: A Stimulus to Industrialization, 1930-1953|This paper analyzes the role of the Great Depression and protectionism in the Colombian industrialization of the early 1930s as well as the role of other determinants in the rapid industrialization that took place during the period 1934-1953. We conclude that the market pushed industrialization by reducing costs, generating economies of scale, learning by doing, giving place to agglomeration economies, and rapid technological change. This paper also examines the structure of the Colombian manufacturing sector in 1945, which was the result of the deep socio-economic transformations that took place in the previous decade. The results indicate that the industrialization process was uneven across regions, and that it was spatially concentrated. Estimations of a production function for industry in 1945 show that there were important differences in factor elasticities and productivities among sectors and regions, which led to different regional patterns of industrialization. In addition, the results indicate that labor productivity in 1945 was positively and significantly related to education and capital, whereas it was negatively related to the unskilled workers and the age of the firms.
N66|Los retos del desarrollo latinoamericano a la luz de la historia|Este ensayo analiza los retos del desarrollo latinoamericano a la luz de la historia y de los fuertes cambios recientes en el contexto económico mundial. Muestra el mediocre desempeño económico de la región a partir de las reformas en comparación con el periodo de industrialización dirigida por el Estado que lo precedió, aunque con resultados positivos durante la última década en materia social. A la luz de estos resultados y de las incertidumbres que rodean la economía mundial, plantea tres retos principales: adoptar políticas macroeconómicas anticíclicas más consistentes, estrategias activas de desarrollo productivo y continuar en la tarea de reducir los altos niveles históricos de desigualdad. ***** This paper discusses the challenges of Latin American development in the light of history and of the strong recent changes in the world economic context. This text highlights the mediocre economic performance of the region after the reforms compared to the period of state-led industrialization that preceded it, even though there were positive results in social matters during the last decade. In light of these results and the uncertainties surrounding the global economy, three main challenges arise: to adopt more consistent countercyclical macroeconomic policies, active productive development strategies, and to continue the task of reducing historically high levels of inequality.
N66|(Mis)measuring Argentina’s Progress: Industrial Output, 1870s-1913|Evidence of dramatic industrialisation has been used to support the optimistic, staple theory-inspired account of Argentina’s late nineteenth century, which is central to the dominant (neo)liberal narrative of the country’s history. This narrative is here challenged by a discussion of the available evidence of industrial output in Argentina from the 1870s to the eve of the First World War. Issue is taken, in particular, with Roberto Cortés Conde’s widely used industrial output index, which has suggested an 8-9 per cent annual industrial growth rate during this period. It is argued that he has overestimated the growth rate by relying upon dubious data taken from Argentina’s inland revenue service. Rather than reflecting increased production, the rapid growth of Cortés Conde’s index is actually due to increased taxation. Alternative indicators suggest a significantly lower annual growth rate of around 5 per cent, although even this should only be considered indicative, given the lack of data. This is illustrated by the case of textile production.
N66|Strategic Analysis For Development Of Brick Producers In Saltillo City, Coahuila, Mexico, Analisis Estrategico Para El Desarrollo De Los Productores De Ladrillo En La Ciudad De Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico|The manufacture of handmade bricks in Saltillo, Coahuila, has not modernized its processes and continues to pollute. In 15 years, 60% of producers have disappeared. The main objective of this research is to analyze factors that influence business management, to contribute to the design of public policies and strengthen decision-making. The survey instrument was applied to 74 owners. The research design was not experimental. The study is descriptive and transversal. The results show that 84% do not have basic services. 89% have no landline, however 88% have cell; 62% have no email; 95% do not use online banking and 100% have no website. Informality prevails, and 91% do not bill. The most pressing needs were found in formalization, business management, marketing, finance and production. If appropriate measures are not taken, this activity is not sustainable for the regional environment that involves constant degradation of ecosystems.
N66|Boundaries of firms and catching up by latecomers in global production networks : the case of a Mexican auto-parts manufacturer|For manufacturing firms in developing countries, there are high barriers to entry and to catching up with competitors in their global production networks (GPNs). This paper examines the case of a Mexican auto-parts manufacturer that succeeded in catching up in the automotive GPN. The author proposes that the door to GPNs is open thanks to frequent changes in the boundaries of firms, and also stresses the importance of the necessary conditions that generate opportunities, including institutional settings that facilitate market entry and catching up, and capability building by firms hopeful of entry.
N66|The Great Depression in Colombia: A Stimulus to Industrialization, 1930-1953|This paper analyzes the role of the Great Depression and protectionism in the Colombian industrialization of the early 1930s as well as the role of other determinants in the rapid industrialization that took place during the period 1934-1953. We conclude that the market pushed industrialization by reducing costs, generating economies of scale, learning by doing, giving place to agglomeration economies, and rapid technological change. This paper also examines the structure of the Colombian manufacturing sector in 1945, which was the result of the deep socio-economic transformations that took place in the previous decade. The results indicate that the industrialization process was uneven across regions, and that it was spatially concentrated. Estimations of a production function for industry in 1945 show that there were important differences in factor elasticities and productivities among sectors and regions, which led to different regional patterns of industrialization. In addition, the results indicate that labor productivity in 1945 was positively and significantly related to education and capital, whereas it was negatively related to the unskilled workers and the age of the firms.
N66|Road infrastructure spillovers on the manufacturing sector in Mexico|This paper investigates the effects of road infrastructure on industrial activity in Mexico from a quantitative perspective. It addresses three main issues. First, it investigates the existence of a relationship between road infrastructure and the industrial average product of labour. Second, it studies the determinants of such a relationship and quantifies the magnitude of the impact of road infrastructure on the average product of labour. Third, it analyses the spatial effects of road infrastructure in Mexico. The findings can be summarised as follows. First, road infrastructure has a positive and significant effect on the industrial average product of labour. However, not all the elements (roads or groups of roads) of the road system have the same effect. Second, we find that the actual magnitude of the effects of accessibility on the average product of labour depends on the physical attributes of the roads, as well as the peculiarities of the road network. Finally, we show that the regional gaps in the average product of labour across the country can be partially attributed to differences in infrastructure endowments. From a methodological perspective, the main contribution of this paper is the development of a comprehensive methodology for the analysis of some of the benefits of road infrastructure in Mexico. This methodology can be applied as a tool in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of actual infrastructure policy in this country.
N66|Quality Certification Management As A Determinant Of Competitiveness In The Industrial Manufacturing Sector In The Cd. Juarez, Chih., Mexico-El Paso, Texas, Usa Area ,Gestion De Certificacion De Calidad Como Factor De Competitividad En El Sector Industrial De Manufactura, En La Region Transfronteriza Cd. Juarez, Chih., Mexicoel Paso, Texas, Usa|Organizational competitiveness is based, primarily, on the quality of products or services offered to the end customer. This paper analyzes the quality certification process in manufacturing for the region Cuidad JuÃ¡rez, Mexico and El Paso, Texas. ISO-9000 and TS-16949 certifications for the Automotive Industry were the primary focused of this research. This research includes revision of strategic planning, top management leadership in quality, quality training of the human resource, client focus, documentation and evaluation of the quality system and lack of strategic planning. Expert opinions were considered in the use of quality tools to increase competitiveness. The results show levels of low performance at the department level with regard to the use of quality certifications. A model to analyze the impact of Management Quality System on competitiveness is proposed.
N66|Dutch Disease in Latin American countries: De-industrialization, how it happens, crisis, and the role of China|This study investigates if and how different episodes of large net inflows – export boom, remittances, FDIs, or aid – caused Dutch disease in Latin American countries. We investigate this disease – i.e. the decline of manufacturing output – with special reference to the channels through which it works, to the crisis period and to the role of China for LAC. The study conducts analyses at the 3-digit International Standard Industrial Classification level for manufacturing industries. Our results robustly suggest that export, aid and remittances booms may indeed have an adverse impact on the rate of growth of exportable industries. The exchange rate overvaluation has proven to be the channel through which these capital booms induced decline of manufacturing output growth, but only after the work monetary and fiscal policies is considered. The crisis likely softened the Dutch disease effects in LAC. We find China exporting manufactures to some of the LAC does not significantly affect the manufacturing growth of other fellow LAC, but depending on the type of manufacture industry and country considered China may play a negative or positive role for LAC’s manufacturing through the work on third-market competition: Mexican manufacturing suffering significant negative impacts while for the rest of Latin American countries studied the effect of China may be positive.
N66|Mortgages for machinery: credit and industrial investment in pre-World War I Brazil|O objetivo deste artigo é mostrar a relação entre o mercado de crédito hipotecário e as atividades industriais da Cidade de São Paulo, considerando as hipotecas uma forma não-usual de nanciamento industrial. Hipotecas registram diferentes formas de nanciamento. Por meio delas, podemos descobrir se as indústrias foram nanciadas por bancos nacionais ou estrangeiros, indivíduos privados ou emissão de debêntures. O período analisado está inserido em um contexto de intensa transformação da economia brasileira, que inclui: expansão das exportações cafeeiras, urbanização e investimentos em infra-estrutura. Analisando os dados, armamos que o capital nativo é preponderante em hipotecas industriais e que os tamanhos das indústrias importam para determinar as condições de nanciamento. Não obstante, embora bancos e títulos sejam importantes para se explicar o nanciamento industrial, as hipotecas mostraram que a maior parte das operações de crédito foram realizadas por agentes não-bancários.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N66|La industria molinera de trigo en Colombia: el caso del Molino Tres Castillos, 1940-2012|Fundada en Cartagena en 1861, la firma Rafael del Castillo & Cia. es una de las sociedades familiares más antiguas de Colombia. Ha estado bajo la administración de cuatro generaciones de sucesores, desde su fundación hasta el presente, cuando atraviesa un proceso de expansión y diversificación sin precedentes en su historia. Los cambios en la política económica nacional en el siglo XX marcan distintas etapas en la historia de esta empresa familiar que debió adaptarse a las nuevas reglas del juego implementando estrategias efectivas. Este trabajo describe y analiza los cambios más trascendentes que experimentó la empresa desde la década de 1940, cuando pasó de la actividad mercantil a la producción de harina. La trayectoria del Molino Tres Castillos entre 1940 y 2012, recogida en este estudio de caso, es útil para ilustrar cómo en la supervivencia y el éxito de las empresas familiares es tan importante el ambiente económico e institucional que moldea su estructura corporativa como las relaciones entre los familiares y la empresa.
N66|Los problemas del desarrollo de la industria autopartista argentina durante el peronismo (1945-1955)|Este artículo se propone examinar el desarrollo de la industria autopartista argentina durante los dos primeros gobiernos peronistas (1945 y 1955). Nos centramos en las políticas de incentivo al sector, principalmente a través de la fábrica automotriz de Industrias Aeronáuticas y Mecánicas del Estado. Asimismo, analizamos los límites con que esta actividad se encontró al expandirse en el período, en especial en relación con las materias primas y el equipamiento. Creemos que a pesar de los incentivos estatales, el desarrollo de esta rama encontró obstáculos propios de la estructura económica del país. En este trabajo utilizamos fuentes tanto oficiales como publicaciones de entidades empresariales, entre otras.
N66|Discurso e contexto: política siderúrgica no primeiro governo Vargas (1930-1937)<BR>[Speech and context: steel-making policy in the first Vargas government (1930-1937)]|In February 1931, Getúlio Vargas delivered a well known speech in Belo Horizonte and made then one of his most important public interventions in the Brazilian steel-making debate. This speech made fortune in the historiography, above all for its incisive statement in favor of a national steel-making industry and, by extension, of industry in general, few months after the Revolution of 1930. We discuss and interpret here this speech, alongside with a comparison between what was defended in the speech and the steel-making policy which effectively followed it along the first Vargas government, but before the Estado Novo. We try to understand the reasons which led Vargas to state what he did about the steel-making problem, at that moment in Belo Horizonte, based on the history of the debate until then, on the position which the state of Minas Gerais occupied in it and on other propositions made by Vargas on the same occasion. Regarding the steel-making policy actually implemented by the government after the speech, we conclude that, if it was not nonexistent, we must at least consider it as disappointing, if compared to the expectations which the vehemence of his 1931 speech could give rise to.
N66|Aportes a la medición de niveles de productividad desde una perspectiva comparada Metodología industry of origin|A la hora de comparar niveles de productividad entre países se requiere hallar una conversión adecuada para expresar los valores en una misma moneda. Este trabajo ofrece la aplicación de una metodología denominada industry of origin a través de la cual se pueden obtener factores de conversión que superan los problemas de usar tipo de cambio o paridades de poderes de compra. Dichos factores de conversión se basan en información de censos económicos de los países involucrados, y con la cual se estiman ratios de precios productor. La potencialidad del enfoque industry of origin se halla en su análisis a nivel sectorial de forma comparada de la productividad, por lo tanto, el mismo podría ser un insumo atractivo para los estudios vinculados al cambio estructural. Esta metodología fue aplicada en este caso para el sector manufacturero de Uruguay y Estados Unidos en el año 1988.
N66|Presença e ausência do estado na trajetória da indústria da construção naval brasileira, 1959-1989 [Presence and absence of the state in the trajectory of the Brazilian shipbuilding industry, 1959-1989]|This article aims to discuss the role of state planning in the setting up, the expansion and the crisis of the heavy shipbuilding industry in Brazil, between 1959 and 1989. The text is divided into five topics. The first discusses the setting up of the heavy marine industry within the political and strategic goals of the Plano de Metas, which is followed by a slowdown between 1963-1966. It ends with the transformation of CMM and of the SUNAMAM in 1969. A period of consolidation then becomes evident, marked by the rapid growth of the naval complex. The latter followed the shipbuilding plans established between 1969 and 1982. In the third topic, we discuss the beginning of the reversal of expectations, caused by the difficulties in meeting the growth goals set in the 1981 and 1982 plans. This is associated with the crisis in SUNAMAM. In the fourth topic, between 1982 and 1989, while SUNAMAM agonized and funding sources grew scarce, the industry enters a downturn route with a partial dismantling of the naval complex. Finally, the text provides a brief comparative history of the Latin American merchant marines and shipbuilding industries.
N66|Certification Process In Quality Management In Sme'S Border Region Of Cd. Juarez, Chih. Mexico As A Competitive Strategy El Proceso De Certificaciã“N De Gestion De Calidad En Las Pymes De La Region Fronteriza De Cd. Juarez, Chih. Mexico Como Estrategia Competitiva|Good performance of quality management systems in enterprises is a key factor in the international and domestic market competitiveness. This paper analyzes small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the local supply industry. We perform a search of competitiveness strategies present within the branch of SME's in the literature together with the application of a questionnaire that examines factors that manufacturing companies consider critical to the competitiveness of suppliers. The research shows that local manufacturing companies consider it important for their suppliers to have certification of quality management systems. It is viewed as a competitive advantage and increases the degree to which they are eligible to become a part of their supply chain. We propose a business strategy that generates higher performance for SME's to fulfill critical requirements of quality required by manufacturing companies.
N66|O desenvolvimento do setor siderúrgico brasileiro entre 1900 e 1940: Criação de empresas e evolução da capacidade produtiva<BR>[The development of the Brazilian steel-making sector between 1900 and 1940: Firm creation and evolution of productive capacity]|Despite the existence of several attempts to produce iron locally not only along the colonial period but also along the Empire, for different reasons these endeavors failed, each in its own time, and the Brazilian steel-making entered the 20th century with very little practical expression. However, when the Companhia Siderúrgica Nacional (CSN, National Steel Company) was created, in 1941, as an answer to the national steel problem, the domestic steel industry had already a much more significant expression. By the end of the 1930s, it had already 26 firms with a reasonably diversified production which supplied a relevant share of the internal demand. Thus, between 1900 and 1940, and especially in the 1920s and 1930s, the Brazilian steel-making sector was capable of conducing an important development process. The reconstruction of this process of evolution experienced by the steel-making sector, focused on the creation of firms and on the expansion of productive capacity, is the object of this paper.
N66|Industrial Growth and Structural Change: Brazil in a Long-Run Perspective|This paper presents a long-run analysis of industrial growth and structural change in Brazil, from the coffee export economy in the nineteenth century to the present day. We focus on Brazil’s high economic growth in most of the twentieth century and the disruption caused by the collapse of debt-led growth in the early 1980s. We then examine the recent trends in economic growth and structural change, with a sectoral analysis of output, employment and productivity growth. Employing new data and estimates, we identify a sharp break with the earlier period of high outuput and productivity growth in Brazil’s manufacturing industry before the 1980s. From the 1990s, the relatively successful process of learning and technological advance by manufacturing firms that took place since the early industrialization has lost strength and Brazil’s productivity growth has declined and stagnated.
N66|The Dawn of Italian Industry in Argentina: Pirelli in Buenos Aires (1898-1910)|With a great vocation for internationalization, Pirelli begins expanding in Argentina in the final years of the nineteenth century. The first step is the establishment of a commercial chain followed by the construction of a factory started in 1910. Essential for the growth of the enterprise is the strong bond to Italian culture that characterizes Alberto Pirelli's proposals for the Argentine soil, from the international exhibition in Buenos Aires in 1910 to the launch of Pirelli within the Compañía Italo-Argentina de Electricidad, together with other major Italian companies, the following year. The rise of Pirelli will continue, without interruptions, up to the present day.
N66|Experience Quality Management (Eqm): Managing Quality Experiences With Co-Creation Of Value In The Automobile Manufacturing Industry, In Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua,Experience Quality Management (Eqm): La Administracion De Experiencias De Calidad Con La Co-Creaciã“N De Valor En La Industria Manufacturera Automotriz, En Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua|In this paper, we analyze a group of Ciudad Juarez automobile manufacturing businesses. These businesses have Experience Quality Management (EQM) in place but experience low efficiency operating results, lack of reporting on defects and causes. We provide a new strategy that incorporates co-creation of value not only in the product chain, but also of consumer experiences. We provide a process to evaluate the effects of competitive position within the industrial sector. We also provide a system of revision and update according to technological advances a systems that constantly look for the next best practices.
N66|Agglomeration Externalities and 1981-2006 Regional Growth in Brazil|This paper focuses on manufacturing employment growth across the 26 states of Brazil. We employ the Glaeser et al. (1992) approach to identify the role played by knowledge externalities in growth and convergence. To assess robustness of the results, we compare cross-section models, dynamic panel models and pooled-periods fixed-effect models. We find that cross-section models confirm the positive impact of Porter’s and Jacobs’ competition externalities on growth, whereas dynamic panel models and pooled-periods fixed-effect models are consistent with the predictions of Marshall-Arrow-Romer and Porter regarding the role of specialisation in manufacturing vis-à-vis other employment. The results provide new insights into the rapid growth since 1981 in particularly the North and Centre West of Brazil.
N66|Origens dos empresários da indústria de máquinas e equipamentos em São Paulo, 1870-1900 [Entrepreneur origins in the capital goods sector of the state of São Paulo, 1870-1900]|The aim of this paper is to identify the origins of entrepreneurs, such as nationality and the genesis of capital to start the activity in the machinery and equipment industry in Sao Paulo and developments in the sector over the period 1870 to 1900. We will try to identify the entrepreneurs of the industry and its relation to the import and export trade, the farmers of products for export (mainly coffee), immigrants traders and immigrants who have some technical knowledge.
N66|Classic and Spatial Shift-Share Analysis of State-Level Employment Change in Brazil|This paper combines classic and spatial shift-share decompositions of 1981 to 2006 employment change across the 27 states of Brazil. The classic shift-share method shows higher employment growth rates for underdeveloped regions that are due to an advantageous industry-mix and also due to additional job creation, commonly referred to as the competitive effect. Alternative decompositions proposed in the literature do not change this broad conclusion. Further examination employing exploratory spatial data analysis (ESDA) shows spatial correlation of both the industry-mix and the competitive effects. Considering that until the 1960s economic activities were more concentrated in southern regions of Brazil than they are nowadays, these results support beta convergence theories but also find evidence of agglomeration effects. Additionally, a very simple spatial decomposition is proposed that accounts for the spatially-weighted growth of surrounding states. Favourable growth in northern and centre-western states is basically associated with those states’ strengths in potential spatial spillover effect and in spatial competitive effect.
N66|Colonial Mestizaje and its Consequences for Human Capital and Early Twentieth Century Regional Industrialization in Colombia|"This paper quantitatively shows that the 1945 regional differences in the degree of development of manufacturing industry are explained by human capital accumulation prior to industrial development. Human capital accumulation was more intense in the regions with higher presence of non white free population - the Free of all Colors"" caste - at the end of the colonial times. Once the country began industrializing at the beginning of the twentieth century the former ""Free of all Colors"" regions were better prepared to adapt and to use the industrial technology and hence manufacturing industry rose with greater strength in those regions. """
N66|Democracia y Crecimiento Económico en Colombia 1958-2000|El artículo es una historia económica de la segunda parte del siglo XX, después del restablecimiento de la democracia en 1958. Se describen los progresos de Colombia en términos de ingreso per capita, cambios en la estructura de la economía, la participación femenina, los progresos y reversos en ciertos indicadores sociales, y los cambios en las políticas de desarrollo económico y de comercio exterior.
N66|Capital formation in machinery and industrialization. Chile 1844-1938|The present paper revisits an old theme in Latin American and Chilean economic history; the early industrialization in the XIX - XX centuries. The difference with previous approaches is the elaboration of new quantitative series of Chilean machinery investment in the long run and its relative prices and composition, in the period when some authors have sited the beginning of the industrialization in the continent. Initial findings, based on the participation of capital formation in machinery imports and GDP, do not reinforce the idea of early industrialization in Chile.
N66|The impact of sectoral heterogeneities in economic growth and catching up: Empirical evidence for Latin American manufacturing industries|Building on different strands of literature this paper proposes an approach to characterize the structural patterns followed by the manufacturing sector of Latin American largest economies (VArgentina, Brazil and Mexico) during the last decades. The main focus of this approach relies on the evolution of technological gaps with the world frontier. Measures of relative labour productivity with respect to the US (as a proxy for technological gaps) are used to identify industries with different degrees of modernity and to analyze their distribution in different points of time in order to establish stylized patterns in their structural trajectories. The empirical analysis provides evidence supporting the hypothesis that the economies of the region are characterized by high and persistent sectoral heterogeneities. Moreover, it suggests that the manufacturing sector of these economies had followed a trajectory of partial catching-up with structural polarization. In short, these economies are lagging behind at the aggregate manufacturing level, but show very heterogeneous trends within their own structures. While a small fraction of industries seems to be using technologies close to the frontier or has managed to achieve fast reductions in the technological gap, the remaining industries are far away from the technological frontier and keep lagging further behind.
N66|Una revisión del desempeño de la industria en Uruguay entre 1930 y 1959|The process of industrialization by import substitutions in Uruguay has shown special characteristics in the Latin-American context, given its early beginning and its rapid conclusion. Additionally, this period has presented the biggest economic growth in the Uruguayan history, where significant advances in the quality of life of the population were made. This is why many contributions have been made in order to try to understand, describe and explain this process, both at a global level, as well as by industrial sectors. Nevertheless, the last efforts in this direction date back two decades. This work revisits the performance of the industry from a sector perspective. To do so, first of all, the main previous works in this matter are discussed, together with the introduction of a new database of industrial performance by sectors. Then, a quick description of the macroeconomic evolution results in the study of the industries performance through several dimensions: critical analysis of industrial classifications criteria; output, employment, productivity and wages evolution; and a brief discussion of economic growth and wages behavior par rapport to productivity.
N66|Fábrica y territorio: un caso al sur de la región metropolitana de Buenos Aires|En el presente artículo reflexionamos sobre el papel que jugaron las empresas y los empresarios en la configuración del territorio en una etapa de la economía argentina. Consideramos, como punto de partida, que el vínculo empresa-territorio se manifiesta tanto en una dimensión material como también en una inmaterial, que se observa en la conformación del imaginario colectivo y de la identidad industrial de una comunidad. El caso seleccionado es el de Cristalerías Rigolleau, una empresa productora de envases de vidrio instalada al sur de la región metropolitana de Buenos Aires a comienzos del siglo xx . En este sentido, el análisis y reelaboración de un caso particular permitiría hacer un aporte a un debate conceptual más amplio. Nos interrogamos, entonces, acerca de las condiciones de atractividad territorial que están en el origen de la instalación de las empresas en un determinado locus, y sobre los desafíos y las alternativas que supuso la industrialización por sustitución de importaciones a nivel local. KEY Classification-JEL: N66. O14. N86. N96
N66|The regional economic structure of Brazil in 1959: an overview based on an inter-State input-output system|This paper aims at describing the regional configuration of 1959 Brazil’s productive structure through the estimation of an Inter-State Input-Output system. The estimated matrix is the oldest of this kind for Brazil. It can, hence, be an important tool for the study of the regional productive structure at an historical moment in which the regional question appeared as a central national issue. In this paper we describe estimation procedures and sources of data, and present some general characterization of the regional structure of the economy in 1959 through selected structural indicators.
N66|La industria venezolana, auge y ocaso a través de tres modelos productivos|El propósito de este documento es analizar el proceso de desindustrialización experimentado por el sector productivo en Venezuela, a través de tres modelos productivos. Si bien el fenómeno se observa en el conjunto del sector y su vinculación a la renta petrolera, la contracción en la manufactura es apoyada en los indicadores macroeconómicos como el empleo y el POB. El petróleo que en un comienzo ayudó a construir la industria, ha contribuido a minimizarla.
N66|O problema siderúrgico nacional na Primeira República<BR>[The national steel-making problem in the First Republic]|The debate over the Brazilian national steel-making problem took shape in the end of the 1900 decade and lasted until 1941, with the creation, by the Brazilian federal government, of the Companhia Siderúrgica Nacional (CSN – National Steel Company) to build and exploit the Volta Redonda steel mill, which was hailed as the solution to the problem, thus closing a debate more than three decades long. Due to this and due to the symbolic importance to the Estado Novo with which the CSN was impregnated, the historiography was significantly marked by this particular outcome, which in light of the own debate was by no means necessary. Bearing this in mind, this dissertation aims at reconstructing and analyzing the efforts, debates and conflicts surrounding the steel-making question along the Brazilian First Republic. We attempt to identify the main agents which intervened and weighted in directing government policy relative to the steel sector and try to present the main proposals done and initiatives attempted by these agents, as well as to map the implications of these initiatives and proposals to the development of the sector. Three of the main axes around which the debates turned were the following: i) the counterpoint between “small-scale steel-making” and “large-scale steel-making” and the correlate choice between imported coal, national coal and charcoal; ii) the question of the link between iron ore export and national steel-making; and, at last, iii) the question of the location of the steel mill. We attempt to understand how these three dimensions interacted along the debate, as well as to identify the origin of the defenses of each of these positions at each moment. The dissertation is divided into four main chapters. In a first one, we describe the evolution of the Brazilian steel-making sector between 1900 and 1940, attempting to evaluate the quantitative and qualitative dimensions of this development. In a second one, we deal with the emergence, in the end of the decade of 1900 and beginning of the following one, of a series of proposals for the export of iron ore from the iron region in Minas Gerais, which were linked, or rather subordinated, to the steel production in the country. Thus the steel-making problem took shape entwined to the question of iron ore export. In a third chapter, we handle the important 1920 Itabira Iron Ore Co. contract and the more immediate reaction, internal and external, which it gave rise to. Finally, in a last chapter, we identify the configuration of a model alternative to the Itabira Iron’s to the solution of the steel-making problem, based on strictly national inputs, detached from the iron ore export and led by the mineiro government, as well as the resulting polarization of the debate over the steel-making problem.
N66|El consumo de automóviles en la América Latina y el Caribe (1902-1930)|The automobile as a durable consumer good spread in Latin America in the first three decades of the 20th century. The consumption of automobiles in the region was determined by foreign trade, with the exception of some countries which in the 1920s managed to set up automobile assembly plants with imported parts. This only occurred in places where both the market was big enough and income levels, high enough —Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay. Additional factors explain-ing the spread of the consumption of automobiles are the expansion of protectionist measures and a greater inequality in income distribution. In this regard, we propose that there was a negative impact on final consumption when consumption was biased towards up-market automobiles, while in those countries where consumption per inhabitant is high there is a proportionally greater consumption of down-market vehicles. Automobile imports show much of automobile consumption and allow us to calculate the vehicles in use, as well as to indicate which countries produced automobiles. The role played in these countries by the United States is virtually absolute as from 1920, after the First World War, although prior to this it had to share much of the market, albeit reduced, with various countries —France, Italy, Germany and Great Britain.// El automóvil como bien de consumo duradero se difunde en la América Latina en el primer tercio del siglo XX. El comercio exterior determina su consumo en la región, a excepción de algunos países que en el decenio de los veinte consiguen instrumentar plantas de ensamblaje de automóviles con piezas importadas, lo que ocurre solamente allí donde coincide una cierta dimensión del mercado con una renta alta (Argentina, Brasil, México y Uruguay). Otros factores explicativos, aunque en un claro segundo plano, son la extensión de medidas proteccionistas y una mayor desigualdad en la distribución de la renta. Al respecto proponemos que hubo un efecto negativo en el consumo final cuando el consumo se sesgó hacia los automóviles de gama más cara; en tanto que en los países donde el consumo por habitante es alto se consumen cantidades proporcionalmente altas de vehículos de la gama de precios bajos. Las importaciones de automóviles muestran buena parte del consumo de automóviles y nos permiten calcular los vehículos en circulación, además de indicar cuales fueron los países en los que se desarrollaron experiencias propias en la producción de autos. El papel que en ellas desempeña los Estados Unidos es casi absoluto a partir de 1920, después de la primera Guerra Mundial, aunque anteriormente tiene que compartir buena parte del, aún reducido mercado, con varios países europeos (Francia, Italia, Alemania y Gran Bretaña).
N66|Características de la marginalidad urbana: el caso del Estado de Oaxaca|Any conventional poverty line, determined from the purchase power standard ought to establish distinctions inside the essential expenditures, defining that poverty line, in the urban space as well as in the countryside. Migration flows toward cities are the result of employment composition. Farming activities are developed in rural fields, meanwhile industrial and service ones are achieved in urban spaces. Urban expansion has a diversifying capability for income and occupational structure. Marginalization is related to the anarchical urban growing, one of which consequences is that population groups can be found at the periphery, searching for job or carrying out low productivity activities.
N66|Análisis comparado de las trayectorias estratégicas de empresas siderúrgicas latinoamericanas. Desarrollo interno y contexto histórico|Large Latin American companies which remain under family control increasingly employ professionals at the executive level and have part of their capital in the stock market. This is the case of Hylsa/Hylsamex, property of the Alfa Group (Mexico), and of Siderca (Ternium) and Siderar (Tenaris) belonging to Techint (Argentina). They followed similar and different strategies along the last decades, until in 2005 Techint acquired Hylsamex and integrated it into its transnational Ternium. These divergent strategies – Alfa abandoned steel production, while Techint concentrated on it – have taken place within the same sector context, so this article explores the role played in these decisions by their national contexts and their own internal development. Comparative historical analysis is used in order to contrast strategies and nacional contexts. KEY Classification-JEL: N86, N16, N66, L21
N66|Estilo de Direcciòn del Don|"RESUMENAl estudiar la vida y obra de los tres Dones sujetos de estudio, nos encontramos con personajes que han sido catalogados por muchos como de los mejores estrategas empresariales de la segunda mitad del siglo XX, en Antioquia. En ellos confluyen una calidad humana excepcional, una visión empresarial destacada y un sentido de responsabilidad social y de preocupación por los problemas del entorno, en este caso de Medellín y de Antioquia.No se trata de elaborar un panegírico de los tres Dones, sino de construir sus historias de vida, de la forma más objetiva posible, fundamentada en los testimonios de sus más estrechos colaboradores y de las personas que compartieron sus sueños y sus ideas.Se resalta la importancia de las historias de vida como técnica de investigación, desde un enfoque cualitativo, para construir perfiles empresariales. Además, presenta los resultados del proyecto de investigación realizado en el programa de Administración de Empresas de la Universidad de Medellín titulado Tres de los últimos Donesantioqueños"", el cual comprende la construcción de las historias de vida de don Santiago Mejía Olarte, Don Carlos Manuel Echavarría Toro y de don Julio Ernesto Urrea Urrea.ABSTRACTIn studying the life and work of the three Gifts of study subjects, we find characters that have been rated by many as the best business strategists in the second half of the twentieth century, in Antioquia. They converge exceptional human quality, an outstanding business vision and a sense ofsocial responsibility and concern for environmental problems, in this case of Medellin and Antioquia.No attempt has been made a panegyric of the three gifts, but to build their stories of life, as objectively as possible, based on the testimonies of his closest aides and people who shared their dreams and ideas.It highlights the importance of life stories as an investigative technique, from a qualitative approach to build company profiles. It presents the results of the research project in the Business Administration program at the University of Medellin, entitled ""Three of the last Dones Antioquia,"" which involves the construction of the life stories of Don Santiago Mejia Olarte, Don CarlosManuel Echavarria Toro and Don Julio Ernesto Urrea Urrea."""
N66|Industrialización regional, café y capital humano en la primera mitad del siglo XX en Colombia|El desarrollo industrial colombiano en la primera mitad del siglo XX no solo fue un proceso tardío en el contexto internacional, sino desigual entre sus regiones. Con base en el censo industrial de 1945, utilizando información por municipio y por sector, el presente documento muestra de forma cuantitativa que tanto el surgimiento de la industria manufacturera como las diferencias regionales en la industrialización están explicados por la acumulación de capital humano muy anterior al auge industrial. El trabajo muestra que la acumulación de capital humano a nivel local y regional dependió del grado de libertad de la población al final del periodo colonial, expresado como el porcentaje de la población libre a nivel municipal. Las regiones en donde la proporción de la población libre fue alta durante este periodo acumularon mayor capital humano y en consecuencia tuvieron una fuerza laboral más hábil y mejor preparada para enfrentar los procesos de producción de la industria manufacturera. El artículo discute las hipótesis tradicionales sobre el surgimiento de la industria manufacturera enColombia que la asocian a las producciones de café y oro, a la geografía, a los mercadospotenciales, las políticas arancelarias o a las coyunturas externas como la Gran Depresión y las Guerras Mundiales.
N66|Engineering Change in Mexico: The Adoption of Computer Technology at Grupo ICA (1965-1971)|This article documents the adoption of computer technology by a civil engineering services and construction company in Mexico at the time that it became the first Mexican multinational enterprise. Computerization took place independently of cross border growth. The challenges, failures and successes of computerization attest to the transformation in the use of computer applications from the mechanization of routine procedures to the creative use of these applications. In line with company policy, the latter lead to the establishment of the computer centre as a standalone, profit generating business unit. However, this policy responded to ‘laissez faire’ and fiscal (i.e. minimizing tax payments) rather than strategic considerations. To little surprise computer services never grew to be a significant income stream.
N66|Da arte de conhecer as doenças: o diagnóstico da Economia Mineira de 1968 e o planejamento do desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais|The issue of politically oriented regional development occupies an important place in the Economic History of Minas Gerais during the republican period. Since the start of the 20th century, and throughout the most important transformative stages of the Brazilian economic system, notably between the 1930s and 1960s, overcoming underdevelopment and the peripheral position of the state has been a priority for the elites of Minas. For a variety of reasons that we will attempt to demonstrate, we understand that it is essential to study the Diagnóstico da Economia Mineira, published in 1968, by the Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (BDMG), if the goal is to understand the vicissitudes of the state’s economic development, especially considering the aforementioned priority. This study emphasizes the meaning of this rich document, especially the long-lived institutional relationships and theoretical matrixes that lent it legitimacy and made it suited it to its time. The text is structured in three coplementary parts: i) description and analysis of the document; ii) brief background of developmentism in Minas Gerais during the republican period; iii) presentation of four case studies about the themes of the Diagnóstico: transportation, electric energy, sugar industry and steel making.
N66|Who cried for Argentina? Notes on the 2001-02 Crisis|In the midst of the current global slowdown this paper revisits Argentina’s dismal experience in the 1990s with a complete embrace of globalisation, the crisis of 2001-02 and its subsequent recovery.
N66|La fábrica de tejidos Obregón de Barranquilla, 1910-1957|Historia de la Fábrica de Textiles Obregón de Barranquilla, como una empresa representativa del éxito industrial de Barranquilla que producía y proporcionaba productos a todo el país. Hasta 1934 la empresa de los Obregón fue la textilera más grande del país, pero luego perdió dinamismo. Se muestra la historia empresarial regional del Caribe en la mitad del siglo XX.
N66|El empresariado vitivinícola de la provincia de Mendoza (Argentina) a principios del siglo XX|We present a description of the viticulture undertaking in Mendoza (Argentina) during the first years of the 20th century sooner than the economic boom of 1904-1912 impelled some modifications. With documents dated in 1903 a sample of wine cellar's keepers with great manufacturing capacity is de1imited, and their history is reconstructed according to the bibliography and notarial protocols of the General Archive of Mendoza. The following general characteristics appear: territorial, productive and wealth concentration, predominance of immigrants, familiar enterprise, posession of land for viticulture best conditions for wine commercialization and investment of fixed capital.
N66|El índice de condiciones monetarias en Colombia y el perfil de la política monetaria reciente|Resumen: Este artículo analiza el perfil de la política monetaria colombiana entre 1998 y 2007, a partir de la construcción de un índice de condiciones monetarias. Así, utilizando coeficientes de variación de las desviaciones del tipo de cambio real y de la tasa de interés con respecto a un año de referencia, se contrastan los resultados arrojados por este índice con la evolución de los principales instrumentos monetarios. Se evidencia que tanto el índice construido como sus valores son útiles para hacer una lectura apropiada del perfil de la política monetaria en dicho período, el cual se caracterizó por ser contraccionista en la etapa de crisis y recesión de la economía colombiana (1998-2001) y expansivo en los años 2002-2007, época donde comienza el proceso de recuperación, expansión y auge de la actividad económica nacional
N66|Cambio técnico y empleo: a propósito del menor dinamismo relativo de la ocupación industrial en Colombia, 1976-2005|Resumen: Este artículo examina el comportamiento del empleo industrial entre 1976 y 2005, usando un modelo macroeconómico de dos bienes: transables y no transables. Su principal conclusión es que el menor dinamismo relativo del empleo manufacturero en los últimos treinta años se debe a la pérdida en la velocidad de crecimiento de la productividad o del cambio técnico en la industria.
N66|Capital goods imports and investments in Latin America in the mid 1920s|The assessment of Latin American long term economic performance is in urgent need of mobilizing more data to match the pressing demands of growth analysts. We present a systematic comparison of capital goods imports for 20 Latin American countries in 1925. It relies on both the foreign trade data of the importing countries and of the major exporting countries –the industrialized economies of the time. The quality of foreign trade figures is tested; an homogeneous estimate of capital goods imported is derived, and its per capita ranking is discussed providing new light on Latin American development levels before import substitution.
N66|La América Latina y la economía mundial en el largo siglo XX|This paper draws the broad trends of Latin American economic development and its relations to the world economy since 1870. It presents the raw materials dependence of the region, its industrialization strategy, the incidence of unstable capital flows, as well as of macroeconomic policy, as the fundamental factors that helped to shape the central features of Latin American economic development during this “long twentieth century”. It also explores the role of mayor international shocks vs. that of ideas and policies in the two major transitions experienced during the century. The analysis is divided in three broad phases: the “export age”, from the 1870s/1880s to the 1920s; the phase of “state-led industrialization”, between the 1930s and the 1970s; and the most recent period, which is termed the “neo-liberal order”.// Este ensayo presenta las principales tendencias del desarrollo latinoamericano y sus relaciones con la economía mundial desde 1870. Considera la dependencia regional de las materias primas, su estrategia de industrialización, la incidencia de la inestabilidad de los flujos de capital y la política macroeconómica como los factores fundamentales que ayudaron a moldear los rasgos centrales del desarrollo de la América Latina durante ese “largo siglo XX”. Explora también el papel que tuvieron los choques internacionales frente al papel de las ideas y las políticas en las dos transiciones principales que se experimentaron durante el siglo. El análisis se divide en tres fases: la “era de las exportaciones”, entre los decenios de 1870-1880 y los años 1920; la fase de “industrialización dirigida por el Estado” entre los decenios de 1930 y 1970, y el periodo más reciente, al que se denomina como “el orden neoliberal”.
N66|Retomando a questão do início da historiografia econômica no Brasil [Reopening the issue of early economic historiography in Brazil]|The publication in 2001 of Celso Furtado's PhD thesis, defended in 1948 at the University of Paris, and which until recently had remained inaccessible to Brazilian readers, together with the first two articles published in the journal História Econômica & História de Empresas, vol. II.2 (1999), reopened the issue of our economic historiography's formative period. Addressing the period between the years 1929 and 1959, this paper has the purpose of reconstructing that process, and of indicating its main theoretical landmarks, by stressing in the analysis the activities and writings of Roberto Simonsen, Caio Prado Jr. and Alice Canabrava, besides those of Celso Furtado himself. It attempts to identify and characterize their main conditioning factors, as well as their consequences for the present shape of our discipline.
N66|Industria manufacturera y sustitución de importaciones (Uruguay, 1911-1930)|The development of manufacturing industry in Uruguay began a long term before the thirties crisis. Since the last quarter of the nineteenth century there has been a process of industrial growth continued, with variations, over the first three decades of the twentieth century. This paper considers the question of whether industrial growth observed in the two decades between 1911 and 1930 can be considered as a process of economic structural change, on wich the industry serves as the dynamic sector of the economy. Therefore, we consider the pace and type of industrial growth and the degree of industrialization of the uruguayan economy during this period. It also discusses the importance and nature of import substitution in the period. In particular, it evaluates the importance of import substitution for industrialization process.
N66|Amaro Cavalcanti e os caminhos da industrialização brasileira|The purpose of this paper is to recover and to systematize the manifestations of Brazil's industrialist thought at the end of Empire and during the Republic's first decade, through the ideas of the intellectual and politician Amato Cavalcanti, viewed by historiography as one of its main representatives in that period. During his lifetime, Amato Cavalcanti never ceased to believe that industrialization would be the cure for all existing evils within Brazilian society, and, as a politician in the National Congress, he did not spare efforts in defending his ideas and in arguing for the adoption of economic policies geared to the protection of the country's infant industries. Through a critical assessment of his economic works, we attempt to better understand his ideas, pleas and arguments related to protectionism and to the State's role in the economy. By doing this, we intend not only to rescue the thoughts of a representative of industrialism at the beginning of the twentieth century, but also to situate his ideas on Brazil's industrialization within a historical perspective.
N66|Indicadores sectoriales y desarrollo economico en Latinoamerica|A traves de un analisis comparativo de 21 paises latinoamericanos se demuestra el efecto positivo que tiene la Industria, el Comercio Exterior y el Turismo sobre el desarrollo economico de un pais. Sin embargo, el crecimiento, en terminos per capita, ha sido demasiado moderado para la mayoria de los paises latinoamericanos en los ultimos años, en algunos casos debido a un excesivo aumento de la poblacion (como en Brasil y Mexico), y en otros, por el limitado crecimiento o simplemente estancamiento de los niveles de produccion. We analyse the positive effects of industry, external trade and tourism on economic development, with a comparative study of twenty-one Latin American countries and an especial reference to the case of MERCOSUR and Andean Community. Besides tourism the industrial evolution is also very important to improve the development of services sector through some intersectoral relations.
N66|Expansão do mercado interno e evolução institucional no processo de industrialização: uma análise comparativa Brasil-Estados Unidos|The purpose of this paper is to contribute to the debate on the factors which prevented Brazil from becoming a fully industrialized economy, as the United States did, after the culmination of its agrarian-export period. The main conclusion is that, in the USA, basically due to its better domestic income distribution, the export sector played a much more dynamic role in generating domestic markets, thus inducing a process of institutional change which reinforced the process of economic expansion that eventually led the American economy to the threshold of its industrial phase stricto sensu. The paper finally suggests that an improvement on the income distribution profile continues to be necessary condition, although not a sufficient one, for the economic development of countries like ours.
N66|Relaciones intersectoriales en Latinoamerica en el periodo 1980-99: un analisis econometrico|El objetivo del estudio es analizar las diferencias de desarrollo economico existentes entre los paises latinoamericanos, teniendo en cuenta su situacion en 1980 y la evolucion durante el periodo 1980-99. En el analisis econometrico se combinan datos de 22 paises y se mide el impacto de la evolucion de la agricultura y de la industria sobre el sector servicios, destacando las causas y consecuencias del debil impulso que la industria ha tenido en muchos paises durante dicho periodo. En el analisis de las diferencias de crecimiento industrial se tienen en cuenta las interrelaciones existentes entre la produccion, el comercio exterior, la educacion y otros factores sociales e institucionales, y se destacan las politicas que pueden evitar los desequilibrios economicos e impulsar el crecimiento. This paper analyses the differences in economic development among the Latin America countries, taking into account its situation in 1980 and its evolution along 1980-99. In the econometric analysis we include data for 22 American countries, including also US and Canada, in order to show the impact that the evolution in agriculture and industry has had over the services sector. In this connection, it has to be mentioned the sparse increase of industry in this period in many of the Latin American countries. In order to explain the differentials in industrial growth, we consider the inter-relationships among output, foreign trade, education and other institutional and social factors. Finally, we recommend some policies addressed to avoid economic imbalances and to foster economic growth.
N66|Industrialization and industrial policy in Colombia: a tale of economic development|This paper analyzes the main features and historical factors that played a central role for the industrialization process in Colombia during the twentieth century. The document surveys the legislation and policy instruments used in the programs of import substitution industrialization, nontraditional export promotion, and economic openness. ********************************************************************** Este articulo analiza los principales elementos históricos que tuvieron un papel central en el proceso de industrialización en Colombia durante el Siglo XX. El artículo resume la legislación e instrumentos de política usados en el programa de sustitución de importaciones, promoción de exportaciones no tradicionales y apertura económica.
N66|Estudio Econometrico de la Influencia del Capital Humano en el Crecimiento de la Productividad Industrial de Mexico, 1960-1993|La intencion de este trabajo consiste en contribuir al analisis de la aportacion del capital humano al crecimiento de largo plazo del sector industrial mexicano. En el modelo econometrico de corte transversal, las fuentes mas importantes en el crecimiento de la productividad industrial estan determinadas por las condiciones de inicio. Si bien en la estimacion de largo plazo el capital humano presenta un rendimiento velado frente al del fisico, es innegable que la inversion en educacion y salud reditua en crecimiento. Se concluye que en la etapa sustitutiva de importaciones la participacion del capital humano en el crecimiento de la productividad industrial excede a la del fisico. La valoracion en la fase subsiguiente refleja los avatares de la economia mexicana en las dos ultimas decadas y no fue posible encontrar una tendencia clara que defina a este respecto los resultados del nuevo modelo de desarrollo. The main purpose of this article is to analyse the positive influence of human capital on industrial productivity in Mexico. An econometric model is fitted with a cross-section of industries, showing that initial conditions are of great importance for explaining productivity growth. We found also that in the stage of imports substitution the importance of changes in human capital was greater than the influence of changes in physical capital, but the following stage, during the last two decades, does not show a clear trend in this respect due to the changing circumstances of Mexican economy. Although it is difficult sometimes to isolate the effect of human capital the conclusion is that the efforts in improving the educative level of population should follow in order to achieve higher standards of industrial productivity and development.
N66|Descentralização industrial no Brasil na década de noventa: um processo dinâmico e diferenciado regionalmente [Industrial decentralization in Brazil in the 1990's: a dynamic regionally distinct process]|The article discusses the trends in Brazilian industry in the 1990’s. It shows some important changes that are going on the manufacturing sector, such as the loss of employment in the main industrial regions (Southeast) and the increasing number of jobs offered in the less developed ones (South, Center-West and some states of the Northeast). Apparently, the new enterprises are looking for lower wages and fiscal advantages, as well as the good infrastructure in the South of the country. It is proposed an indicator, which uses worker’s wage and educational data, as well as the share of scientific and technical labor, so that the industry located in the different regions could be compared. As expected, the workers in the new industrial areas receive lower wages and have less years of education. These results may represent a change in Brazilian industrial localization pattern, so that the interior of the country could be benefited as the firms decide their future investments.
N66|La agroindustria láctea en el Uruguay 1911- 1943|Domestic market growth and urbanization encouraged the agricultural and industrial dairy production. This labour-intensive product played a strategic role in the batllist agenda. This paper studies the dairy farm production and dynamics as well as the causes of its stagnation. The public policies towards the sector are specially considered, particularly the ones related to the sanitary conditions. Another issue under examination relates to the creation of the first pasteurization plants in Montevideo and the state's role in creating Conaprole, an entity in charge of regulating the production in the country.
N66|Changing Stock Market Response to Announcement of Job Loss: Evidence from 1970-1997|We report preliminary results of an analysis of the reaction of stock prices to announcements of reductions in force (RIFs) using a large sample of such announcements during the 1970-1997 period collected from the Wall Street Journal index. We find some evidence that the stock market reaction to the announcement of RIFs has become less negative over this period. While a complete understanding of the underlying causes of this finding awaits further research, one possible interpretation is that, over the last three decades, RIF s designed to improve deficiency have become more common relative to RIFs designed to cope with reductions in product demand.
