N67|Trump's tariff’s impact on Africa and the ambiguous role of African agency|The international discussion of Trump's dispute over import tariffs for steel, aluminum and even cars is so far focused on the big global players. However, African countries suffer in particular from the planned punitive tariffs, similar to the famous African proverb: ‘When elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers’. After years of talk on partnership for economic development (AGOA, Cotonou Agreement, EPAs, etc) Trump’s tariffs mean a severe blow to participatory foreign trade and sustainable industrialization in Africa. Egypt and South Africa for example, the potentially most affected African countries, face massive job losses and earning opportunities, with all the consequences that this entails for their already fragile economy and the population in dire poverty. Trump’s intervention thus joins the continued power politics of former colonial powers vis à vis Africa. Nevertheless, despite these asymmetric power relations, unfair trade relations and the desolate state of African infant industries are not necessarily due to externalities. More often than not they are home-made. African agency plays an ambiguous role in enhancing participatory trade and indigenous industrialization.
N67|A Comparative Analysis Of East And West African Cotton Cloth Production From The Early Modern To The Post-Colonial Era|Abstract This article examines why “traditional” cotton textiles industries tended to decline in southern and central East Africa during the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries while cloth production persisted in much of northern East Africa and West Africa – where per-capita cloth imports were significantly higher – well into the post-colonial period. Comparative analysis reveals that relatively resilient industries tended to arise and persist where textile traditions were adopted comparatively early, allowing industries and demand for domestic cloth to develop several centuries before global integration and colonization; in areas with relatively dense populations and access to large markets; where centralized states developed and pre-colonial institutions helped encourage industrial growth; where local endowments and geography favored income-enhancing cash-crop cultivation; and where nineteenth- and twentieth-century colonial intervention and fiscal institutions were comparatively less disruptive to existing socio-economic organization.
N67|Trump's tariff’s impact on Africa and the ambiguous role of African agency|"The international discussion of Trump's dispute over import tariffs for steel, aluminum and even cars are so far focused on the big global players. However, smaller African countries in particular suffer too from the planned punitive tariffs, similar to the famous African proverb, ""When elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers"". After years of talk on partnership for economic development (AGOA, Cotonou Agreement, EPAs, etc) Trump’s tariffs mean a severe blow to participatory foreign trade and sustainable industrialization in Africa. Egypt and South Africa for example, the potentially most affected African countries, face massive job losses and earning opportunities, with all the consequences that this entails for their already fragile economy and the population in dire poverty. Trump’s intervention thus joins the continued power politics of former colonial powers vis à vis Africa. Nevertheless, despite these asymmetric power relations, unfair trade relations and the desolate state of African infant industries are not necessarily due to externalities but often home-made. African agency plays an ambiguous role in enhancing participatory trade and indigenous industrialization."
N67|Soviet Technological Projects and Technological Aid in Africa and Cuba, 1960s-1980s|This paper examines Soviet development projects in African countries and Cuba during the Cold War. We analyze types of projects led by Soviet specialists and engage into the question of how Soviets, both leadership and engineers, viewed their roles and impacts as well as challenges on African territory and Cuba. In so doing, this paper analyzes differences and similarities in Soviet penetration to lands with newly established governments in Africa and Cuba
N67|Enterprise promotion in the road construction sector in a conflict-ridden area in Kenya : a solution for the nexus of developmental problems?|Overcoming the missing middle syndrome by promoting growth of micro and small enterprises through training is a key to solve the nexus of problems including industrial stagnation, inequality, and ethnic confrontation in Africa. We focus on collaborative interventions by an international NGO and the Kenyan government to disseminate labor-based technology of road construction and strengthen managerial skills of youth self-help groups in a county ridden by an ethno-political conflict, called the Post-Election Violence. They tried to help groups formalize as corporations and develop their businesses through training. Our research reveals that ethnically homogenous groups might have better chances to obtain construction contracts but the reason would be trust among permanent members lowering internal transaction costs, rather than ethnicity itself. In conclusion, development of micro and small firms are to some extent determined by education of leaders and internal trust. Trainings could contribute in case groups are equipped with those conditions.
N67|Sub-Saharan Africa's Manufacturing Sector: Building Complexity|As Africa's working age population continues to grow rapidly, the region needs to experience both economic growth and high levels of job creation before it can realize the demographic dividend. This paper uses economic complexity analytics to provide product-level insights into sub-Saharan Africa's development path in comparison with that of the Eastern and Southern Asian regions. Specific emphasis is placed on the evolution of the manufacturing sector within these regions. The analysis from this study shows a sub-Saharan African (SSA) productive structure that is disconnected and characterized by products with low levels of economic complexity. The study further shows that the productive structure in SSA is inherently characterized by lower levels of economic complexity, which informed the notion of limited productive capabilities. This stands in contrast to the East and South Asian productive structure, which is connected and complex. This result implies that while the sheer scale and diversity of the manufacturing sector in Asia allows for the generation of a large number and diversity of employment opportunities that of the African manufacturing sector is marginal in nature and points to limited employment opportunities.
N67|The Impact of National Private Investment on Manufacturing in Egypt|This paper aims to present national private investment development phases and its contribution in manufacturing sector in Egypt. Moreover it devoted to examine the effect of national private investment on Egyptian manufacturing. Vector autoregressive analysis was adopted based on yearly data for the period (1990-2015). Time series stationarity are checked by augmented Dicky–Fuller test, and co- integration existence tested by Johansen co-integration test. The vector error correction model utilized to check the existence of long run relationship between the manufactured product as a dependent variable and the national private investment as explanatory variable. Finally this paper concluded that, however national private investment contribute high share to manufacturing sector, the empirical analysis results obtained negative impact of this type of investment on manufacturing sector in short and long run
N67|State Of Manufacturing In South Africa|The level of unemployment, poverty and inequality in South Africa is high in relation to the rest of the world. To overcome these three challenges, more and better jobs need to be created. A key source for these types of jobs can be found in the labour intensive manufacturing sector. Therefore, it is important to evaluate the performance of the South African manufacturing sector. We find that compared to other sectors of the economy, the manufacturing sector has performed poorly, both in terms of GDP growth and job creation. While all manufacturing sub-sectors showed GDP growth, that growth was marginal. Furthermore, although some manufacturing sub-sectors showed job growth, the rate of job losses in other manufacturing sub-sectors was far greater, resulting in overall job losses. We argue that the poor performance of the manufacturing sector can be attributed to increased competition from south-east Asia, and South Africa’s skills shortage. This research was commissioned by the Manufacturing, Engineering and Related Services SETA (merSETA). The authors wish to acknowledge merSETA’s contribution as funder, to the research and work herein.
N67|Historical patterns of economic growth in Africa: A review|The study of long term growth in Africa has recently been invigorated by the work of economists. To date, this literature has been motivated by explaining a divergence of income and has focussed on finding persistent factors that can explain a chronic failure of growth in Africa. This chapter reviews some periods of economic growth in the past two centuries, and suggest that there must be more to learn from studying these periods of economic change and accumulation, particularly because they were accompanied by significant changes in institutions, or how the economy and the society was organized. The African economic history literature does emphasise dynamism - as opposed to persistence, and diversity in outcomes across time and space - in contrast to the average stagnation that has prompted the economic literature. In sum, there is more to learn from studying the history of economic growth in the African past, than what can be gauged from a search for a root cause of African economic underdevelopment.
N67|Capitalism in pre-colonial Africa|To what extent did capitalism come into being in Africa before 1850? If by capitalism we mean the production of goods for exchange by capitalists who combine their own capital and land with labor bought from free workers without land, then the accumulative historical evidence tells us that only to a limited extent had capitalism emerged before 1850, and it was most certainly not the dominant system of production in Africa (Iliffe 1983). This does not mean that there was no production for the market. Nor does it imply that there was no wage labor, or that exchanges of capital did not take place. Finally it does not mean that there was no economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa before 1850. As will be analyzed here, markets did exist, there were some wage labor and there were means of exchange that facilitated some economic growth, though growth mostly occurred on the extensive margin.
N67|On the Relationship between Gross Output-based TFP Growth and Value Added-based TFP Growth: An Illustration Using Data from Australian Industries|Diewert (2015) develops simple expressions for the exact relationship between value added TFP growth and gross output TFP growth. These expressions suggest that the magnification factor relating the two TFP growth measures is approximately equal to the share of primary inputs in total costs. We apply these simple approximations to data on Australian industries, finding that they tend to provide very close approximations over short time periods, but are less reliable over longer time horizons. We find that magnification factors vary significantly across industries so that the results of comparative studies can be quite sensitive to the choice of output measure chosen to construct TFP. In particular, industries in which intermediate inputs account for a large share of total inputs exhibit much smaller TFP growth (in absolute value) compared to industries where intermediate inputs are relatively unimportant when gross output is used to construct TFP measures rather than value added.
N67|Editor’s Overview|The 29th issue of the International Productivity Monitor features six articles on the following topics: the role of productivity in long-term economic projections for the Canadian provinces and territories; productivity trends in the residential care sector in Canada; agricultural productivity in Australia, Canada and the United States; a mathematical reconciliation of gross output-based total factor productivity (TFP) growth with value added-based TFP growth; an empirical illustration with Australian industry data of the relationship between the two TFP measures; and a review article on the OECD report The Future of Productivity.
N67|Is Africa Too Late For ‘Late Development’? Gerschenkron South Of The Sahara|This essay presents an economic history perspective on prospects for industrialization in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Gerschenkron-Amsden ‘late development’/‘late industrialization’ approach has valuable insights for Africa, but is best set within Sugihara’s longer-term, non-Eurocentric framework of very long-term ‘paths’ of development, which respond to particular factor endowments with characteristic choices of technique and institution. Most of Africa has been labour-scarce until relatively recently, and accordingly showed a preference for land-extensive development, seeking to maximize returns to labour rather than land. The same resource conditions suggest that Africa was never likely to have moved directly from handicrafts to modern manufacturing without an intervening phase of specialization in primary products. But Africa’s resource ratios have changed radically in recent decades, towards labour abundance plus much greater human capital formation. This greatly increases the chance that industrialization, initially labour-intensive, can take off in at least some African economies, with state support.
N67|Moving Forward in African Economic History. Bridging the Gap Between Methods and Sources|The field of African economic history is in resurgence. This paper reviews recent and on-going research contributions and notes strengths in their wide methodological, conceptual and topical variety. In these strengths there is also a challenge: different methodological approaches may also result in divisions, particularly on the quantitative versus qualitative axis. The African Economic History Network has recently been formed to bridge the gap between methods and sources and to facilitate intellectual exchanges among the widest possible range of scholars working on Sub-Saharan economic history. This paper outlines current research projects and calls for future research as well as suggesting promising lines of enquiry in the discipline.
N67|Moving Forward in African Economic History: Bridging the Gap Between Methods and Sources|The field of African economic history is in resurgence. This paper reviews recent and on-going research contributions and notes strengths in their wide methodological, conceptual and topical variety. In these strengths there is also a challenge: different methodological approaches may also result in divisions, particularly on the quantitative versus qualitative axis. The African Economic History Network has recently been formed to bridge the gap between methods and sources and to facilitate intellectual exchanges among the widest possible range of scholars working on Sub-Saharan economic history. This paper outlines current research projects and calls for future research as well as suggesting promising lines of enquiry in the discipline.
N67|"""Global since Gold"" The Globalisation of Conglomerates: Explaining the Experience from South Africa, 1990 - 2009"|The internationalisation of enterprises is one of the essential ways to strengthen the competitiveness of firms from developing countries (UNCTAD, 2005c: 3). Strong growth in outward foreign direct investment (OFDI) from developing countries has become the distinguishing feature of the twenty-first century. This OFDI flows from state-owned enterprises, sovereign wealth funds (SWF) as well as private enterprises operating as multinational companies from a home base or as free-standing companies. Multinational corporations have commenced activities since the 1960s by moving operations to resource-rich, low-cost labour and capital markets (Wilkins, 1970; 1974; 1988; Jones, 1994; 2005). The first wave of OFDI during the 1960s and 1970s was motivated by efficiency and market-seeking factors. This wave was dominated by firms from Asia and Latin America. A second wave of OFDI followed in the 1980s, led by strategic assetseeking enterprises from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore and South Korea (Dunning et al., 1996; UNCTAD, 2005b: 3s). Since the 1990s China, Brazil, India, Russia (the so-called BRIC countries) Malaysia, Turkey and South Africa are among the countries expected to add significantly to OFDI growth (UNCTAD, 2005c: 4). The flow of investment funds from developed countries was expected, but the reverse trend displayed the emerging capacities in countries and firms outside the core of the international economy, which challenged the dominance of developed countries and companies from developed countries. These developments have prompted several questions: how do developing country firms succeed in entering global markets? Do these firms improve their competitiveness through OFDI? This paper investigates this phenomenon from the experience of South Africa. The emergence of EMNC (Emerging Market Multinational Corporations) prompted extensive analysis and debates about the nature of and motives for EMNCs, but has also led to more in-depth analysis of specific country characteristics and firm-specific reasons for OFDI.
N67|Industrialization, Exports and the Developmental State in Africa: The Case for Transformation|This essay explores the role of the state in promoting exports and industrialization in the quest for transformation of African economies. It does this by exploring the role of trade in African economies followed by a brief look at the East Asian Developmental state. This is followed by an examination of why many African states have failed at being drivers of transformation. It concludes by examining the potential role of African states in a project of transformation as well as the available avenues and resources for transformation. JEL Categories: O1; O2; O3; N17; N47; N57; N67; N77.
N67|Knowledge Transfer to the Subsidiaries: A Case Study of Multinational Enterprise Operating in Overseas|The business opportunities in Southern Africa have justified any effort to learn more about the phenomenon of the transfer of knowledge to the local subsidiaries. We studied four cases with activities in the industrial sector. The results obtained indicate that an efficient transfer of knowledge from the source to the recipient depends on the source¡¯s ability to transfer this knowledge; the climate of cooperation between the source and the recipient; and the absorptive capacity of the recipient, where the intervention of the expatriates with a profound knowledge of the African reality is fundamental to the creation of a climate of trust.
N67|The trade specialization of SANE: Evidence from manufacturing industries|This paper studies the evolution of the foreign trade specialization in manufacturing sectors of South Africa, Algeria, Nigeria and Egypt. These four countries, the so-called SANE, have recently been viewed as Africa’s best chance of producing an economic bloc whose role for Africa might be comparable to that of the BRIC economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China for the world economy. Using data on trade flows since mid-1970s, the results show that the SANE group has experienced few changes in its trade structure, which is still based on low-technology and slow-growth world demand sectors. The degree of persistence in the specialization model is higher in the case of Algeria and Nigeria, where the dependence on products based on natural resources is stronger.
N67|Managing Conflicts through Strength of Identity|Identity, in management sciences, comprises a newly popular research topic. This article assesses identity aspects based on intra- and inter-personal constructs, as well as conflict and the management thereof in a selected international automotive organization in South Africa. It introduces the recent theoretical research and presents selected qualitative research findings from a case study. The aim of this article, therefore, is to investigate managerial identity aspects, as well as their strengthening and weakening impacts with regard to conflict and its management. According to the research findings, managers construct identity and conflict which are simultaneously connected to strengthening and weakening internal and external impacts. These impacts influence the way in which managers resolve organizational conflicts and contribute, either positively or negatively, to their management. Multiple managerial identity aspects provide creativity spaces and flexibility in managing conflicts, whilst complex conflict and challenges in conflict management are connected to weakening identity aspects.
N67|Inactions and Spikes of Investment in Ethiopian Manufacturing Firms: Empirical Evidence on Irreversibility and Non-convexities|This paper provides empirical evidence on the effect of irreversibility and non-convexities in adjustment costs on firm investment decision based on 1996-2002 firm level data from the Ethiopian manufacturing. It relies on a rich census based panel data set that gives the advantage of disaggregating investment into different types of fixed assets. We document evidence of a large percentage of inaction intermitted with lumpy investment, which is consistent with irreversibility and fixed costs but not with the standard convex adjustment costs. The inaction is higher and investment lumpier for small firms. We complement the descriptive analysis with two econometric methods: a capital imbalance approach and a machine replacement model. With the capital imbalance approach we estimate the investment response of firms to their capital imbalance using a non-parametric Nadaraya-Watson kernel smoothing method. With the machinery replacement approach using a proportional hazard model that takes unobserved heterogeneity into account, we estimate the probability of an investment spike conditional on the length of the interval from the last investment spike.
N67|Attractiveness and agglomeration of automotive industry in Morocco and Tunisia: A comparative analysis (In French)|The paper proposes a comparative analysis of the development of the automotive industry in Morocco and Tunisia. In its first part, it analyses the convergence in the forms of international integration, oriented towards a subcontracting towards European Union, which leads to competition and also complementarities between these two countries. The role of multinational firms and governmental policies is discussed. Location of these automotive activities is analyzed in Part 2 to evaluate the agglomeration factors and the limits of spatial concentration.
N67|Policy options of agricultural biotechnology R&D in Sub-Saharan Africa: key issues and aspects|This paper reviews the status of Agricultural Biotechnology in Sub-Saharan Africa. It addresses the potential economic benefits to Sub-Saharan Africa and the effect biotechnology policies may have on growth, production and poverty reduction. The extent to which agricultural biotechnology will compound or mitigate the constraints faced by smallholders/subsistence farmers is also discussed. The status of crop biotechnology research worldwide is reviewed and the influence of intellectual property rights (IPRs) and market concentration on the development and diffusion of biotechnology in Sub-Saharan Africa is analyzed. The paper also explores the potential of public-private partnerships and recommends policy measures and investments that could focus more biotechnology research on the problems of the poor and alleviate some of the concerns about the impacts of biotechnology.
N67|Attractiveness and agglomeration of automotive industry in Morocco and Tunisia: A comparative analysis (In French)|The paper proposes a comparative analysis of the development of the automotive industry in Morocco and Tunisia. In its first part, it analyses the convergence in the forms of international integration, oriented towards a subcontracting towards European Union, which leads to competition and also complementarities between these two countries. The role of multinational firms and governmental policies is discussed. Location of these automotive activities is analyzed in Part 2 to evaluate the agglomeration factors and the limits of spatial concentration.
N67|Sectoral Performance In The African Economy – Some Issues And Trends|African economies are facing the critical challenge of raising the rate of GDP growth and sustaining high growth rates and thus meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The performance of agriculture is more paradoxical and African exports of industrial goods are dominated by mining and crude oil. The financial systems remain largely underdeveloped both in terms of the size and range of financial instruments and services offered. This article explores the recent growth performance both at the continental and subregional level. It discusses disparities in growth performance and the factors behind the observed disparities across countries and subregions. It also discusses developments at the sectoral level and progress and challenges in human development, closing with a brief exposition of the prospects for 2007. The paper further analyses the HIV/AIDS in the continent and its impact on the economy.
N67|The R&D performance of the South African manufacturing sector, 1970–1993|No abstract is available for this item.
N67|Mondialisation et régionalisation : le cas des industries du textile et de l'habillement|No abstract is available for this item.
N67|Interpreting Instrumental Variables Estimates of the Returns to Schooling| This article synthesizes economic insights from theoretical models of schooling choice based on individual benefits and econometric work interpreting instrumental variables estimates as weighted averages of individual-specific causal effects. Linkages are illustrated using college proximity to instrument for schooling. After characterizing groups differentially affected by the instrument according to family background, 1 directly compute weights underlying estimation of the overall return. In analyzing the level of schooling at which individuals change their behavior in response to the instrument, I demonstrate that this instrument has its greatest impact on the transition from high school to college. Specification robustness is also examined.
