N70|Trade Blocs and Trade Wars during the Interwar Period|What precisely were the causes and consequences of the trade wars in the 1930s? Were there perhaps deeper forces at work in reorienting global trade prior to the outbreak of World War II? And what lessons may this particular historical episode provide for the present day? To answer these questions, we distinguish between long-run secular trends in the period from 1920 to 1939 related to the formation of trade blocs (in particular, the British Commonwealth) and short-run disruptions associated with the trade wars of the 1930s (in particular, large and widespread declines in bilateral trade, the narrowing of trade imbalances, and sharp drops in average traded distances). We argue that the trade wars mainly served to intensify pre-existing efforts towards the formation of trade blocs which dated from at least 1920. More speculatively, we argue that the trade wars of the present day may serve a similar purpose as those in the 1930s, that is, the intensification of China- and US-centric trade bloc.
N70|Libéralisation du rail : qui va gagner, qui va perdre?|Cette étude aborde la libéralisation du rail dans les trois pays où celle-ci est la plus avancée (Grande-Bretagne, Suède et Allemagne). Nous étudions les impacts de la libéralisation sur les principaux acteurs susceptibles d’être affectés positivement ou négativement par celle-ci. Les résultats sont contrastés selon les variables étudiées et les pays. De manière générale, il semble que le coût pour le contribuable ne se soit pas réduit. Les subsides publics ont augmenté, que ce soit suite ou parallèlement aux expériences de libéralisation. La part modale du train et la ponctualité se sont améliorées dans tous les pays concernés, même s’il est difficile d’en attribuer la cause à la libéralisation, puisque celle-ci a été accompagnée d’un important refinancement et réinvestissement public. Les autres aspects de la qualité du service (prix, sécurité,...) ne semblent quant à eux pas avoir été sensiblement affectés par la libéralisation. Seule une différenciation des tarifs semble s’être généralisée, avec des billets plus coûteux en heure de pointe et moins coûteux en heure creuse. Enfin, il apparaît que le nombre de cheminots ait été considérablement réduit après la mise en place de la concurrence, entraînant plus de flexibilité et une augmentation des cadences pour le personnel restant. Les conditions de travail des cheminots se sont généralement détériorées.
N70|Early 20th Century American Exceptionalism: Production, Trade and Diffusion of the Automobile|The beginning of the twentieth century provides a unique opportunity to explore the interaction of rapid technological progress and trade barriers in shaping the worldwide diffusion of a new, highly traded good: the automobile. We scrape historical data on the quantity and value of passenger vehicles exported from the United States to other destination countries, annually from 1913 to 1940. We model the rise of US automobile from global obscurity toward a level dependent upon the extent of long-run pass-through of US prices into destination markets and destination GDP per capita. The results based on a diffusion model with CES preferences and non-unitary income elasticity shows that 62% of the gap in diffusion levels between the U.S. and the rest of the world is due to price frictions such as markups, tariffs, and trade costs, while the remaining 38% is due to income effects.
N70|Using structural diversity to measure the complexity of technologies|The paper introduces structural diversity as a new approach to quantify the complexity of technologies. By modeling technologies as combinatorial networks, a measure of technological complexity is derived that represents the diversity of (sub-)network topologies in these networks. It is further argued that this measure can be empirically approximated with the Network Diversity Score (NDS). The paper also presents an application of this approach to European patent data from 1980 to 2015. On this basis, the measure of structural diversity is shown to replicate a number of stylized facts commonly associated with technological complexity: Complexity increases over time and younger technologies are more complex than older technologies. Complex technologies are also associated to larger R&D efforts and require more collaborative R&D activities. Lastly, when controlling for technologies? size, technologies scoring high on structural diversity are also shown to concentrate in space.
N70|Early 20th century American exceptionalism: Production, trade and diffusion of the automobile|The beginning of the twentieth century provides a unique opportunity to explore the interaction of rapid technological progress and trade barriers in shaping the worldwide diffusion of a new, highly traded good: the automobile. We scrape historical data on the quantity and value of passenger vehicles exported from the United States to other destination countries, annually from 1913 to 1940. We model the rise of US automobile from global obscurity toward a level dependent upon the extent of long-run pass-through of US prices into destination markets and destination GDP per capita. The results based on a diffusion model with CES preferences and non-unitary income elasticity shows that 62% of the gap in diffusion levels between the U.S. and the rest of the world is due to price frictions such as markups, tariffs, and trade costs, while the remaining 38% is due to income effects.
N70|The Role of Electricity in Decarbonizing European Road Transport – Development and Assessment of an Integrated Multi-Sectoral Model|Despite regulation eﬀorts, CO2 emissions from European road transport have continued to rise. Increased use of electricity oﬀers a promising decarbonization option, both to fuel electric vehicles and run power-to-x systems producing synthetic fuels. To understand the economic implications of increased coupling of the road transport and electricity sectors, an integrated multi-sectoral partial-equilibrium investment and dispatch model is developed for the European electricity and road transport sectors, linked by an energy transformation module to endogenously account for, e.g., increasing electricity consumption and ﬂexibility provision from electric vehicles and power-to-x systems. The model is applied to analyze the eﬀects of sector-speciﬁc CO2 reduction targets on the vehicle, electricity and ptx technology mix as well as trade ﬂows of ptx fuels in European countries from 2020 to 2050. The results show that, by 2050, the fuel shares of electricity and ptx fuels in the European road transport sector reach 37% and 27%, respectively, creating an additional electricity demand of 1200 TWh in Europe. To assess the added value of the integrated modeling approach, an additional analysis is performed in which all endogenous ties between sectors are removed. The results show that by decoupling the two sectors, the total system costs may be signiﬁcantly overestimated and the production costs of ptx fuels may be inaccurately approximated, which may aﬀect the merit order of decarbonization options.
N70|Electricity and the role of the state: New Zealand and Uruguay before state-led development (1870-1930)|The configuration of a “modern” production structure requires there to be sufficient energy supply at competitive costs to justify exploiting the corresponding natural resources. New Zealand’s better economic performance, since the last third of the 19th century in coal production and better natural conditions to generate electric energy at low cost –thus offering energy at low prices– explain, at least partially, the differences with respect to Uruguay. New Zealand's advantage in energy endowments facilitated the development of a dairy sector, certain energy-intensive manufactures and a more efficient use of railways that reinforced the differences between the two economies. However, endowments are not the complete story and the institutional arrangements are another relevant factor of differentiation. Our argument is based on the concept of endogeneity of natural resources and we use it to prove the hugely different roles of states in the creation and management of the electricity systems. These differences were not related to the extent of state intervention but to the achievements of such action. This action aimed at improving the welfare conditions in the case of Uruguay without paying enough attention to those aspects related to the production conditions; instead, in New Zealand, the productive development was the focus of the public intervention. The result was the creation of differential production conditions that explain the long-run divergent economic performance in terms of sector diversification and international competitiveness in favour of New Zealand.
N70|Return of the tariffs: The interwar trade collapse revisited|Was the collapse of world trade between 1928 and 1937 caused by higher transport costs, increased protectionism or the collapse of the gold standard? Using recent advances in the estimation of gravity equations, I examine the partial and general equilibrium effects of bilateral distance, international borders, and the payment system on trade. My results suggest that had average tari and non-tari trade barriers remained at their 1928 level, total international trade would have been 64.6 % higher in 1937. Had the gold standard not collapsed in 1931 and had the British Empire not departed to establish its own currency and trade blocs, international trade would have been 3 % larger. Finally, had transport costs remained at their 1928 level, global trade would not have been significantly different nine years on. These results are supported by over 6,000 new hand-collected observations of ad-valorem ocean freight rates for cotton, which show an average increase of only 1.2 percentage points between 1928 and 1936. When expressed as an index, the movement of freight rates mirrors the evolution of the elasticity of trade to distance over the period.
N70|A look at Airline Management as Event Management: About the challenging task of trying to run a profitable Airline|Warren Buffett once famously stated that airlines were infamous for destroying shareholder value . His hindsight proposition to better have taken the Wright brothers out of the sky violently surely was a pointed one, if not entirely serious. This paper seeks to shed some light on the challenges underlying the industry that Buffett blames as a value destroyer, and explain the difficulties most airlines have to tackle on a daily basis. The idea of aviation management as event management is the basis of this exploration of the airline industry, emphasizing the daunting task of offering an intangible product , created long before demand is certain, at a price that is lowest when the product itself is most difficult and costly and complex to produce. This underlying conundrum is one of the central challenges airlines need to confront when trying - hard at most times - not to actively destroy shareholder value.
N70|Patents in the Long Run: Theory, History and Statistics|This paper examines the structural and spatial dynamics of patents in France, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. The time series are extracted from an international, comparative and historical database on the long term evolution of patents in 40 countries from the 17th century to 1945 and in more than 150 countries from 1945 to present (Diebolt and Pellier, 2010). We found strong proof of infrequent large shocks resulting essentially from the major economic and political events formed by the two World Wars in the twentieth century. Our results question the autonomous process, i.e. the internal dynamic of the patent systems. Wars seem to push innovation and finally the economic growth process itself. We further investigated the role of innovation in economic growth through a causality analysis between patents and GDP per capita. Our major findings support the assumption that the accumulation of innovations was a driving force only for France, the United Kingdom and the United States during the post World War II period.
N70|Ice(berg) transport costs|"Iceberg transport costs are one of the main ingredients of modern trade and economic geography models: transport costs are modelled by assuming that a fraction of the goods shipped ""melts in transit''. In this paper, we investigate whether the iceberg assumption applies to the costs of transporting the only good that literally melts in transit: ice. Using detailed information on Boston's nineteenth-century global ice trade, we show that ice(berg) transport costs in practice were a combination of a true ad-valorem iceberg cost: melt in transit, and freight, (off)loading and insurance costs. The physics of the melt process and the practice of insulating the ice in transit imply an immediate violation of the iceberg assumption: shipping ice is subject to economies scale."
N70|Market Potential and Global Growth over the Long Twentieth Century|We examine the evolution of market potential and its role in driving economic growth over the long twentieth century. Theoretically, we exploit a structural gravity model to derive a closed-form solution for a widely-used measure of market potential. We are thus able to express market potential as a function of directly observable and easily estimated variables. Empirically, we collect a large dataset on aggregate and bilateral trade flows as well as output for 51 countries. We find that market potential exhibits an upward trend across all regions of the world from the early 1930s and that this trend significantly deviates from the evolution of world GDP. Finally, using exogenous variation in trade-related distances to world markets, we demonstrate a significant causal role of market potential in driving global income growth over this period.
N70|Where Has the Rum Gone? Firms’ Choice of Transport Mode under the Threat of Maritime Piracy|Despite a general agreement that piracy poses a significant threat to maritime shipping, empirical evidence regarding its economic consequences remains scarce. This paper takes a step towards filling the gap by combining firm-level Chinese customs data with information on pirate attacks to investigate how exporting firms respond to maritime piracy. It finds that overall exports along a particular shipping route fall following an increase in pirate activity. In addition, piracy induces firms to switch from ocean to air shipping, while the remaining ocean shipments become larger.
N70|A Theory of Conservative Revivals|Why do some societies fail to adopt more efficient political and economic institutions in response to changing economic conditions? And why do such conditions sometimes generate conservative ideological backlashes and, at other times, progressive social and political movements? We propose an explanation that highlights the interplay - or lack thereof - between productivity, cultural beliefs and institutions. In our model, production shocks that benefit one sector of the economy may induce forward-looking elites to provide public goods associated with a different, more traditional sector that benefits their interests. This investment results in more agents generating cultural beliefs complementary to the provision of the traditional good, which in turn increases the political power of the traditional elite. Hence, productivity shocks in a more advanced sector of the economy can increase investment, political power, and cultural capital associated with the more traditional sector of the economy, in the process generating a revival of beliefs associated with an outdated economic environment.
N70|The global rise of patent expertise in the late nineteenth century|This paper examines the rise of various forms of patent expertise over the course of the second industrialisation. The essential insight here is that patent agents and lawyers, as well as consultant engineers, became, in the late 19th century, critical actors in the production and transmission of patent rights and patented technologies within and among societies. This paper considers three main themes. First, the global institutionalisation of patent agents during the late nineteenth century and their growing centrality in several national systems. Second, the transnational patenting networks created during the 1880s, particularly the activities of associations of patent agents and their impact on the making of an international patent system. Third, the controversial role of patent experts as agents of corporate globalism. The most important point remains that agentsâ€™ powers, and their many services to multinational corporations, had enduring consequences on the structure of knowledge property worldwide.
N70|Economic History and Contemporary Challenges to Globalization|The paper surveys three economic history literatures that can speak to contemporary challenges to globalization: the literature on the anti-globalization backlash of the nineteenth century, focused largely on trade and migration; the literature on the Great Depression, focused largely on capital flows, the gold standard, and protectionism; and the literature on trade and warfare.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N70|The long-term impact of Italian colonial roads in the Horn of Africa, 1935-2000|Between 1935 and 1940 the Italians built an extensive road network to facilitate the occupation of Ethiopia and secure control over the Horn of Africa, but were expelled in 1941. This provides a unique case study to examine the long-run effect of cheap transport networks on the concentration of economic activity in developing countries. The results show that cells located next to Italian paved roads are significantly richer today and that the relationship is causal. Persistence is explained by a combination of direct and indirect mechanisms: colonial roads attracted economic activity through lower transport costs until 1960. After that date, the advantage of treated locations persisted only indirectly through increasing returns to scale.
N70|Cosmographies for the discovery, development and diffusion of useful and reliable knowledge in pre-industrial Europe and Late imperial China: a survey and speculation|No abstract is available for this item.
N70|Machinery and horse power prices, 1850-1913|"""The debate on industrial revolution (IR) has been focused on the incentives behind investment deci- sions and how the preliminary conditions to allow this phenomena were situated in England. One of the most famous and original theories to explain IR is the developed by (Allen, 2012, 2009b,a), who taking into account a vast literature on organic fuels and the transition to fossil fuels (WRIGLEY, 1962; Wrigley, 2013), argues that the reason why IR was British is the unique combination of expensive labour and cheap en- ergy. This combination produces the incentives to invest in labour saving machinery. Several works have proved the existence of cheap fossil fuels during the XIX century, determined by the introduction of coal. Figures and indicators on wages and energy are broadly accepted, however, machinery price indexes are at least discussed and the elaboration of the most used index is based almost completely in the iron price (Feinstein (1972, 1988). To prove the Allen hypothesis we require a better index on machinery, measur- ing horsepower prices, relative costs and changes in their international trade. Using novel data based on merchants catalogues, several international trade statistics plus all the price indexes available, this article presents a improved machinery price index for UK in the period 1850 - 1913; given the influence of British Machinery & Equipment in the world market until 1913, this price index could be useful to understand relative costs transformation in several regions."""
N70|How to become a leader in an emerging new global market: The determinants of French wine exports, 1848-1938|When studying the emergence of new global markets it is essential to consider how countries and companies compete to obtain advantageous positions. Our objective is to study how France obtained an initial leadership position in the new global wine market which it subsequently consolidated. We will also analyse the main determinants of its exporting success. In order to do this we have quantified its exports and examined its evolution and its principal export markets. We have also used a gravity model for both ordinary wine and high quality wine in order to establish the key variables that explain this evolution. The article highlights the great efforts made by the exporters to improve the quality of their products and increase their sales using modern marketing techniques. Our econometric results also show some significant differences between the determinants of exports for the two types of wine. However, the exports of both products suffered the strong impact of a series of major events, such as The First World War, the Russian Revolution, the Prohibition in the United States and the Great Depression. The case of wine shows that the collapse of the first globalisation was not the same for all types of product.
N70|A Theory of Conservative Revivals|Why do some societies fail to adopt more efficient political and economic institutions in response to changing economic conditions? And why do such conditions sometimes generate conservative ideological backlashes and, at other times, progressive social and political movements? We propose an explanation that highlights the interplay—or lack thereof—between productivity, cultural beliefs and institutions. In our model, production shocks that benefit one sector of the economy may induce forward-looking elites to provide public goods associated with a different, more traditional sector that benefits their interests. This investment results in more agents generating cultural beliefs complementary to the provision of the traditional good, which in turn increases the political power of the traditional elite. Hence, productivity shocks in a more advanced sector of the economy can increase investment, political power, and cultural capital associated with the more traditional sector of the economy, in the process generating a revival of beliefs associated with an outdated economic environment.
N70|Trade and Immigration, 1870-2010|In this chapter, we describe long-run trends in global merchandise trade and immigration from 1870 to 2010. We revisit the reasons why these two forces moved largely in parallel in the decades leading up to World War I, collapsed during the interwar period, and then rebounded (but with much more pronounced growth in trade than in immigration). More substantively, we also document a large redistribution in the regional sources of goods and people with a shift from the former industrialized core countries—especially Europe—to those in the former periphery—especially Asia—as well as a very striking change in the composition of merchandise trade towards manufactured goods precisely dating from 1950. Finally, using a triple differences framework in combination with a dramatic change in US immigration policy, we find evidence that immigration and trade potentially acted as substitutes, at least for the United States in the interwar period.
N70|Economic history and contemporary challenges to globalization|Abstract The paper surveys three economic history literatures that can speak to contemporary challenges to globalization: the literature on the anti-globalization backlash of the nineteenth century, focused largely on trade and migration; the literature on the Great Depression, focused largely on capital flows, the gold standard, and protectionism; and the literature on trade and warfare.
N70|Геополитички Аспекти Стратешких Коридора Србије<BR>[Geopolitical Aspects of the Strategic Corridors of Serbia]|Serbian. Коридори преко Балкана могу имати вишеструки значај у саобраћају, енергетици, привреди уопште, али и у ширем геополитичком контексту. У раду се анализирају важни путни и енергетски коридори (цевоводи) преко Србије. У питању су магистрални путеви ширег регионалног па и европског значаја који пролазе преко територије Србије. Потом ту су железничке трасе, укључујући и оне у нацртима, попут оне која ће се уклапати у концепт кинеског пута свиле, пре свега Пиреј‒Будимпешта. Цевоводни правци, пре свега гасоводи, нафтоводи, имају изузетан и шири геополитички значај. То се посебно односи на могућности реализације неке од варијанти Јужног тока, који остаје актуелан, и хипотетички у неком облику остварљив. Иако Србија нема директан излаз на море, најближе луке суседних земаља, пре свега оних блиских и историјских савезника попут Црне Горе, Бугарске, Грчке и Румуније имају посебан значај. Ту су нарочито значајне луке Бар, Солун, а у мањој мери бугарске и румунске важне луке (Бургас, Варна, Констанца) одакле би Србија имала погодан транзит поморским саобраћајем. English. The corridors crisscrossing the Balkans bear significance in the context of transport, energetics and industry as a whole, as well as in a broader geopolitical context. The paper analyzes the important road routes and energy corridors (pipelines) passing through Serbia. Specifically, it refers to highways significant both regionally and on continental level, which pass through the territory of the country. It also covers railroads, including the ones still in draft phase, such as the Piraeus-Budapest one, which is wupposed to be included in the outline of the Chinese Silk Road. The pipelines, especially the gas lines and the oil pipelines, are of wider geopolitical relevance. Specifically, the possibility of the realization of one of the South Stream versions, which continues being considered and in some form a hypotetically attainable plan. Although Serbia does not have access to sea, the closest ports in neighboring countries, especially the close and traditionally friendly ones such as Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece and Romania, are especially important in that context. The ports of Bar and Thessaloniki are of extraordinary significance, while the Bulgarian and Romanian ports of Burgas, Varna and Constanta, although somewhat less important, could provide Serbia with convenient points for waterway transport routes.
N70|What’s in the annual database of Global Wine Markets, 1835 to 2016?|This paper documents a new, unique annual database of global wine markets covering 1835 to 2016. The database expands enormously the opportunities for conducting studies on wine production, consumption and trade from an historical perspective for the world as a whole and for most relevant countries. The combination of this basic information with other economic variables such as real GDP, population, total merchandise trade, total crop area and the consumption of other alcoholic drinks has enabled us to generate myriad derived variables that are helpful for comparative analyses as well as for studying the two waves of globalization.
N70|Patents in the Long Run: Theory, History and Statistics|This paper examines the structural and spatial dynamics of patents in France, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. The time series are extracted from an international, comparative and historical database on the long term evolution of patents in 40 countries from the 17th century to 1945 and in more than 150 countries from 1945 to present (Diebolt and Pellier, 2010). We found strong proof of infrequent large shocks resulting essentially from the major economic and political events formed by the two World Wars in the twentieth century. Our results question the autonomous process, i.e. the internal dynamic of the patent systems. Wars seem to push innovation and finally the economic growth process itself. We further investigated the role of innovation in economic growth through a causality analysis between patents and GDP per capita. Our major findings support the assumption that the accumulation of innovations was a driving force only for France, the United Kingdom and the United States during the post World War II period.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N70|The anatomy of a trade collapse: The UK, 1929-33|Abstract A recent literature explores the nature and causes of the collapse in international trade during 2008 and 2009. The decline was particularly great for automobiles and industrial supplies; it occurred largely along the intensive margin; quantities fell by more than prices; and prices fell less for differentiated products. Do these stylised facts apply to trade collapses more generally? This paper uses detailed, commodity specific information on UK imports between 1929 and 1933, to see to what extent the trade collapses of the Great Depression and Great Recession resembled each other. It also compares the free trading trade collapse of 1929-31 with the protectionist collapse of 1931-3, to see to what extent protection, and gradual recovery from the Great Depression, mattered for UK trade patterns.
N70|The Role of Novelty-Seeking Traits in Contemporary Knowledge Creation|This paper hypothesizes and empirically establishes the persistent effects of novelty-seeking traits on crosscountry differences in scientifc knowledge creation. I use data on the prevalence of specifc allele variants of the human DRD4 exon III gene, which population geneticists have linked to the human phenotype of novelty-seeking behavior to examine its relationship to scientifc knowledge creation in society. The results suggest a positive and statistically signifcant linear relationship between both outcomes that is consistent with the hypothesis that the prevalence of novelty-seeking traits in society facilitates scientifc knowledge creation through benefcial human behaviors related to risk-taking and explorative behavior. The empirical fndings remain qualitatively unaffected when controlling for additional historical, biogeographical, and socioeconomic factors that appear as additional important determinants in the creation of scientifc knowledge in society.
N70|The world periphery in Global Agricultural and Food Trade, 1900-2000|In the last two hundred years, agricultural trade has grown at a remarkably rapid rate. In the first globalizing wave, international trade was based on the exchange of primary products for manufactured goods. This provided important opportunities for complementarity in certain countries on the periphery that took advantage of the opportunity to base their economic development on the growth of their exports and the linkages between them and the rest of the economy. However, most of the agricultural exporting countries, obtained few benefits from this model of development. In the second wave of globalisation, an intra-industrial trade increasingly replaced this pattern of trade. In addition, the more developed countries tended to protect their agricultural production, which have been a major obstacle to agricultural trade.
N70|A tale of two tails: Commuting and the fuel price response in driving|Pricing greenhouse gases is widely understood as the most efficient approach for mitigating climate change, yet distributional effects hamper political acceptance. These distributional effects are especially important in transport, the fastest growing sector for greenhouse gas emissions. Using rich data covering the entire population of vehicles and households in Denmark, this study uncovers an important feature of driving demand: two groups of much more responsive households in the lower and upper tails of the work distance distribution. We further estimate the causal effect of public transport–a critical determinant of the upper tail–and show how public transport access can both reconcile differences in fuel price elasticities between the United States and Europe, and considerably influence the distributional effects of fuel pricing.
N70|The Ideological Roots of Institutional Change|Why do some societies fail to adopt more efficient institutions in response to changing economic conditions? And why do such conditions sometimes generate ideological backlashes and at other times lead to transformative sociopolitical movements? We propose an explanation that highlights the interplay – or lack thereof – between new technologies, ideologies, and institutions. When new technologies emerge, uncertainty results from a lack of understanding how the technology will fit with prevailing ideologies and institutions. This uncertainty discourages investment in institutions and the cultural capital necessary to take advantage of new technologies. Accordingly, increased uncertainty during times of rapid technological change may generate an ideological backlash that puts a higher premium on traditional values. We apply the theory to numerous historical episodes, including Ottoman reform initiatives, the Japanese Tokugawa reforms and Meiji Restoration, and the Tongzhi Restoration in Qing China.
N70|Exchange in the Absence of Legal Enforcement: Reputation and Multilateral Punishment under Uncertainty|Principal–agent problems can reduce gains from exchange available in long distance trade. One solution historically used to mitigate such problems is multilateral punishment, whereby groups of principals jointly punish cheating agents by giving them bad reputations. But how does such punishment work when there is uncertainty regarding whether an agent actually cheated or was just the victim of bad luck? And how might such uncertainty be mitigated—or exacerbated—by non-observable, pro-social behavioral characteristics? We address these questions by designing a simple modified trust game with uncertainty and the capacity for principals to employ multilateral punishment. Our experimental results indicate that a modest amount of uncertainty has little effect on overall welfare: while part of the surplus is destroyed by uncertainty, principals are also more willing to trust agents with bad reputations, thereby increasing the frequency of welfare-enhancing exchange. (JEL C91, C92, D02, D83, F10, N70)
N70|L'ouverture des canaux de Suez et de Panama et l'énigme de la distance|L’ouverture des canaux de Suez et de Panama, respectivement en 1869 et 19201, a profondément bouleversé le commerce mondial. Certaines routes commerciales s’en sont trouvées considérablement raccourcies, entre l’Europe et l’Asie pour le canal de Suez et entre la côte ouest de l’Amérique du Sud et l’Europe pour le canal de Panama. Ces événements sont des cas d’études qui permettent d’évaluer si une réduction de la distance entre deux pays augmente le commerce entre eux, et de quantifier cet effet. Nous montrons dans cette Lettre que les mesures généralement retenues dans les études empiriques pour étudier l’effet de la distance sur le commerce le surestiment beaucoup – de près de 7 fois, selon nos estimations – car elles prennent en compte des facteurs liés à la distance autres que les seuls coûts de commerce : la proximité linguistique ou culturelle, la politique commerciale, etc. Cela invite à rester prudent dans l’évaluation des enjeux commerciaux liés à de nouveaux projets d’infrastructures ou encore à l’ouverture de nouvelles routes commerciales à travers l’Arctique à la suite de la fonte des glaces.
N70|Trade costs and the Suez and Panama Canals|Current estimates offer a puzzling picture of the magnitude and historical evolution of the distance elasticity of trade. We take advantage of historical episodes that changed bilateral distance to estimate the distance elasticity in the time dimension and characterize its evolution over time. The openings of the Suez and Panama Canals -- as well as the closure of the Suez Canal from 1967 to 1975 -- allow us to control for unobserved time-invariant country pair characteristics in a gravity setting. Our estimates show that the impact of distance on trade remains particularly low, even if it has increased during the last half century. These results reconcile the distance elasticity of trade with its two components: the elasticity of trade to trade costs and the elasticity of trade costs to distance. In a second stage, we use these estimates to quantify the trade and welfare effects associated with the openings of the Suez and Panama Canals. We also perform the counterfactual exercise of closing the Panama Canal in 2012 to evaluate its current welfare effect.
N70|Two Great Trade Collapses: The Interwar Period & Great Recession Compared|In this paper, I offer some preliminary comparisons between the trade collapses of the Great Depression and Great Recession. The commodity composition of the two trade collapses was quite similar, but the latter collapse was much sharper due to the spread of manufacturing across the globe during the intervening period. The increasing importance of manufacturing also meant that the trade collapse was more geographically balanced in the later episode. Protectionism was much more severe during the 1930s than after 2008, and in the UK case at least helped to skew the direction of trade away from multilateralism and towards Empire. This had dangerous political consequences.
N70|The impact of crude oil prices on financial market indicators: copula approach|Oil price changes have varying impacts on the financial indicators of global markets and economies. This study aims to explore the dependence structure between crude oil prices and stock market indices, as well as the exchange rates in a number of economies categorized with respect to their status as developing/emerging markets, and oil importer/exporter countries. Dependence structures in this study are evaluated in considerable depth using copula models. The broad time period covered allows the investigation of the effect of global financial crisis on the mentioned dependence structure. An additional feature of this study is the inclusion of 1 to 30-day analysis to capture the variation of dependence on duration change. To serve these aims, as well as ARIMA and GARCH models, various copula measures are used to illustrate the level of the association. Additionally, a special focus on the Turkish case is given to illustrate its sensitivity to oil prices. We find that exchange rates and stock indices of most oil exporter countries show higher oil price dependency, whereas, emerging oil importer markets are less vulnerable to price fluctuations. Considerable impacts were found for the global crisis and the continuing recent sharp decrease in oil prices.
N70|Innovation and recurring shifts in industrial leadership: Three phases of change and persistence in the camera industry|This study examines factors underlying three phases of change or persistence in industrial leadership in the sector of interchangeable-lens cameras over the past century. During this period there were two major phases of leadership change, both associated with the emergence of innovations involving major discontinuities in the industry’s core technologies. First, Japan won market leadership from Germany in the mid-1960s after commercializing the single-lens reflex (SLR) camera that replaced the previously dominant German rangefinder camera. Second, in the late-2000s, Japanese latecomer firms and a Korean firm developed Mirrorless cameras, which allowed them to capture the majority of market share from the incumbent Japanese leaders. We also examine the long period (about 60 years) between these two phases of change, during which leading Japanese firms were able to sustain their market leadership despite the digital revolution from the 1980s to 1990s. This paper explores the factors influencing these contrasting experiences of change and persistence in industry leadership. The analysis integrates several aspects of sectoral innovation systems – i.e., windows of opportunity associated with technology, demand, and institution – as well as the strategies of incumbents and latecomer firms. The conclusions highlight the complex and diverse combinations and importance of the factors that help explain the patterns of shifts in leadership.
N70|Comment: Inferring trade costs from trade booms and trade busts|Jacks et al. (2011) offer a method to measure trade costs that relies exclusively on bilateral exports and GDP statistics. They argue that the reduction in trade costs was the main driving force of trade growth during the first globalization (1870–1913), whereas economic expansion was the main driving force during the second globalization (1950–2000). This potentially major result is driven by the use of an ad hoc aggregation method of bilateral trade costs at the country and at the global levels. What Jacks et al. (2011) capture is that some pairs of countries experienced faster trade growth in the first globalization than in the second globalization. More generally, we cast doubts on the possibility to reach conclusions on aggregate costs with a method that excludes a priori changes in non-trade costs determinants of openness rates and hence can only rephrase the information contained in them.
N70|Heterogeneity and the Distance Puzzle|This paper shows that reduced heterogeneity of exporter-specific goods can provide a direct explanation of the distance puzzle. Using COMTRADE 4-digit bilateral trade data we find that the elasticity of trade to distance has increased by 8% from 1962 to 2009. Theoretical foundations of the gravity equation indicate that the distance coefficient is the product of the elasticity of trade costs to distance and a measure of heterogeneity, e.g. the substitution elasticity between exporter-specific goods in the Armington framework. This parameter has increased by 13% from 1962 to 2009. The evolution of the distance coefficient is thus compatible with a 4% reduction in the elasticity of trade costs to distance.
N70|The ecological footprint of early-modern commodities Coefficients of land use per unit of product|Land availability and overseas trade have been central topics in economic history. The current paper contributes to this literature by setting the empirical foundations necessary for the calculation of the direct ecological footprints of more than eighty traded commodities throughout the 19th and early 20th century. The main focus is placed upon products which were heavily traded by and within the British Empire during this period. Various secondary sources have been reviewed and are critically discussed while the methodological steps that have been followed for the calculation of an acreage conversion factor for each product are analyzed in detail. The data presented here can be useful for researchers examining the importance of ghost acreages and ecological footprint historically but also the role of natural resources and land use in a long term perspective.
N70|Impact of innovation policy on firm innovation – A comparison of Finland and Sweden, 1970-2013|To what extent have public policies contributed to the innovation performance of Finland and Sweden in the period 1970-2013? This paper aims to assess the share of innovations stimulated by the public sector, specifically because of receiving public funding or being the result of research collaboration with public institutions. We combine survey and LBIO results on these variables, to overcome reporting biases found in the two methods. The main data comes from the new UDIT dataset, which gathers the most significant innovations of both countries for the period, in total about 4,100 Swedish and 2,600 Finnish innovations. It has been constructed following the LBIO method (Literature Based Innovation Output), which obtains information on relevant commercialized innovations from general technology journals as well as industry specific trade journals. Our results indicate that Finland had a substantially larger public involvement in these innovations than Sweden. This is specially true in the years between 1990 and 2000, when we see a drop in the relative role of the Swedish public sector in innovation output, while the Finnish trends are constant or slightly increasing over the period. However, in both countries public policies lie behind a significant share of the innovations (30-50% in Finland, 15-35% in Sweden), and in the Swedish case we can further assess that the publicly stimulated innovations were more often found among the most significant new products (written about in several articles).
N70|The Ideological Roots of Institutional Change|Why do some societies fail to adopt more e¢ cient institutions in response to changing economic conditions? And why do such conditions sometimes generate ideological backlashes and at other times lead to transformative sociopolitical movements? We propose an explanation that highlights the interplayó or lack thereofó between new technologies, ideologies, and institutions. When new technologies emerge, uncertainty results from a lack of understanding how the technology will Öt with prevailing ideologies and institutions. This uncertainty discourages investment in institutions and the cultural capital necessary to take advantage of new technologies. Accordingly, increased uncertainty during times of rapid technological change may generate an ideological backlash that puts a higher premium on traditional values. We apply the theory to numerous historical episodes, including Ottoman reform initiatives, the Japanese Tokugawa reforms and Meiji Restoration, and the Tongzhi Restoration in Qing China.
N70|Innovation-Led Transitions in Energy Supply|I generalize a benchmark model of directed technical change in order to reconcile it with the historical experience of energy transitions. I show that the economy becomes increasingly locked-in to the dominant energy source when machines and energy resources are substitutes, but a transition away from the dominant energy source is possible when machines and energy resources are complements. Consistent with history, a transition in research activity leads any transition in resource supply. A calibrated numerical implementation shows that innovation is critical to climate change policy. A policymaker uses a temporary research subsidy to permanently redirect innovation towards low-emission resources, avoiding much more warming than would a policymaker restricted to an emission tax instrument.
N70|Two Great Trade Collapses: The Interwar Period & Great Recession Compared|In this paper, I offer some preliminary comparisons between the trade collapses of the Great Depression and Great Recession. The commodity composition of the two trade collapses was quite similar, but the latter collapse was much sharper due to the spread of manufacturing across the globe during the intervening period. The increasing importance of manufacturing also meant that the trade collapse was more geographically balanced in the later episode. Protectionism was much more severe during the 1930s than after 2008, and in the UK case at least helped to skew the direction of trade away from multilateralism and towards Empire. This had dangerous political consequences.
N70|Financial development and prehistoric geographical isolation: global evidence|Using cross-country differences in the degree of isolation before the advent of technologies in sea and air transportation, we assess the relationship between geographic isolation and financial development across the globe. We find that pre-historic geographical isolation has been beneficial to development because it has contributed to contemporary cross-country differences in financial intermediary development. The relationship is robust to alternative samples, different estimation techniques, outliers and varying conditioning information sets. The established positive relationship between geographic isolation and financial intermediary development does not significantly extend to stock market development.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N70|Diffusing new technology without dissipating rents: some historical case studies of knowledge sharing|The diffusion of innovations is supposed to dissipate inventors’ rents. Yet in many documented cases, inventors freely shared knowledge with their competitors. Using a model and case studies, this article explores why sharing did not eliminate inventors’ incentives. Each new technology coexisted with an alternative for one or more decades. This allowed inventors to earn rents while sharing knowledge, attaining major productivity gains. The technology diffusion literature suggests that such circumstances are common during the early stages of a new technology.
N70|200 years diversifying the energy mix? Diversification paths of the energy baskets of European early comers vs. latecomers|The changes in the composition of the energy basket in the long run lead to energy transitions. Primary energy substitution models allow addressing these phenomena. However, the diversification paths of the energy mix of different countries in a long term compared perspective have not been studied yet. This paper proposes an indicator, based on the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, the Energy Mix Concentration Index (EMCI), to quantify the degree of diversification of the primary energy basket of eight European countries over the last two centuries. The results reveal that early comers, which are large energy consumers, required a huge concentration of their energy basket in the 19th century; however, the observed countries had converged to similar levels of diversification of their energy mixes from the second half of the 20th century, and more crucially after the oil crises. For some countries, today’s degree of diversification is the largest in their energy histories, but it is not the case for all of them. Our results suggest that small energy consuming countries would be able to achieve higher diversification, and therefore to do a faster transition to a low carbon economy, than large energy consumers.
N70|Is the WTO Passé?|The WTO has delivered policy outcomes that are very different from those likely to emerge out of the recent wave of preferential trade agreements (PTAs). Should economists see this as an efficient institutional hand-off, where the WTO has carried trade liberalization as far as it can manage, and is now passing the baton to PTAs to finish the job? We survey a growing economics literature on international trade agreements and argue on this basis that the WTO is not passé. Rather, and subject to some caveats, our survey of research to date suggests that the WTO warrants strong support while a more cautious view of PTAs seems appropriate.
N70|Sailing away from Malthus: intercontinental trade and European economic growth, 1500–1800|What was the contribution of intercontinental trade to the development of the European early modern economies? Previous attempts to answer this question have focused on static measures of the weight of trade in the aggregate economy at a given point in time, or on the comparison of the income of specific imperial nations just before and after the loss of their overseas empire. These static accounting approaches are inappropriate if dynamic and spillover effects are at work, as seems likely. In this paper, I use a panel dataset of 10 countries in a dynamic model that allows for spillover effects, multiple channels of causality, persistence, and country-specific fixed effects. Using this dynamic model, simulations suggest that in the counterfactual absence of intercontinental trade, rates of early modern economic growth and urbanization would have been moderately to substantially lower. For the four main long-distance traders, by 1800, the real wage was, depending on the country, 6.1–22.7 % higher, and urbanization was 4.0–11.7 percentage points higher, than they would have otherwise been. For some countries, the effect was quite pronounced: in The Netherlands between 1600 and 1750, for instance, intercontinental trade was responsible for most of the observed increase in real wages and for a large share of the observed increase in urbanization. At the same time, countries which did not engage in long-distance trade would have had real wage increases in the order of 5.4–17.8 % and urbanization increases of 2.2–3.2 percentage points, should they have done so at the same level as the four main traders. Intercontinental trade appears to have played an important role for all nations that engaged in it, with the exception of France. These conclusions stand in contrast to the earlier literature that uses a partial equilibrium and static accounting approach.
N70|Distance and Time Effects in Swedish Commodity Prices, 1732–1914|We study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion across 32 Swedish towns for 19 commodities from 1732 to 1914. The resulting large number of relative prices (502,689) allows precise estimation of distance and time effects, and their interaction. We find an effect of distance that declines significantly over time, beginning in the 18th century, well before the arrival of canals, the telegraph, or the railway.
N70|Patenting fashion: Salvatore Ferragamo between craftmanship and industry|In the 20th century, a wide array of manufacturing activities related to fashion featured a long-lasting phase of continuous innovations both in production methods and ornamental designs. Among them, the Italian footwear industry stands out as one of the most recurrent entries in the databases of registered patents. Drawing on evidence collected from the American and Italian register of patents, the paper focuses on Salvatore Ferragamo with the aim of understanding the reason why he patented inventions and ornamental models, regarding both whole shoes and parts of them, with increasing regularity and what his attitude as an inventor tells us about product innovation in the footwear industry. KEY Classification-JEL: N80. N70
N70|The Empirical Landscape of Trade Policy|This paper surveys empirically the broad features of trade policy in goods for 31 major economies that collectively represented 83 percent of the world's population and 91 percent of the world's GDP in 2013. We address five questions: Do some countries have more liberal trading regimes than others? Within countries, which industries receive the most import protection? How do trade policies change over time? Do countries discriminate among their trading partners when setting trade policy? Finally, how liberalized is world trade? Our analysis documents the extent of cross-sectional heterogeneity in applied commercial policy across countries, their economic sectors, and their trading partners, over time. We conclude that substantial trade policy barriers remain as an important feature of the world economy.
N70|The Impact of Technological Change on New Trade: Evidence from the Container Revolution|This paper exploits exogenous features of the 1960s/70s container revolution to estimate the impact of the introduction of refrigerated containers (or reefers) on new trade of temperature sensitive products. Our identification strategy is justified by a historical narrative which suggests that the containerization of bilateral trading routes was exogenous to the growth of trade in ‘reefer commodities’ and stimulated trade in non-traditional (exotic) non-bulk commodities such as pharmaceuticals, photo film and sensitive instruments. Our study combines previously collected data on variations in the container usage on bilateral trade routes with newly collected data on temperature sensitivity and applies them to 5-digit product level trade flows. Our benchmark estimates suggest that the introduction of reefer containers caused an increase in the likelihood of new trade in temperature sensitive products of 9% during 1968 and 1973 and 13% between 1968 and 1978.
N70|Back to the Future: International Trade Costs and the Two Globalizations|This article provides an assessment of the nineteenth century trade globalization based on a systematic collection of bilateral trade statistics. Drawing on a new data set of more than 1.9 million bilateral trade observations for the 1827-2014 period, we show that international trade costs fell more rapidly than intra-national trade costs from the 1840s until the eve of World War I. This ?nding questions the role played by late nineteenth century improvements in transportation and liberal trade policies in sparking this First Globalization. We use a theory-grounded measure to assess bilateral relative trade costs. Those trade costs are then aggregated to obtain world indices as well as indices along various trade routes, which show that the fall of trade costs began in Europe before extending to the rest of the world. We further explore the geographical heterogeneity of trade cost dynamics by estimating a border e?ect and a distance e?ect. We ?nd a dramatic rise in the distance e?ect for both the nineteenth century and the post-World War II era. This result shows that both modern waves of globalization have been primarily fueled by a regionalization of world trade.
N70|Two Centuries of Bilateral Trade and Gravity data: 1827-2014|This document provides a detailed description of the Historical Bilateral Trade and Gravity Data set (TRADHIST) that was put together for Fouquin and Hugot (2016) and designed for historical investigations of international trade. The data set is available on the website of CEPII. Speci?cally, the data set has been built to explore the two modern waves of globalization: the First Globalization of the nineteenth century and the post-World War II Second Globalization. The data set gathers ?ve types of variables: i) bilateral nominal trade ?ows, ii) country-level aggregate nominal exports and imports, iii) nominal GDPs, iv) exchange rates, and v) bilateral factors that are known to favor or hamper trade, including geographical distance, common borders, colonial and linguistic links, as well as bilateral tari?s. This data is unique both in terms of temporal and geographical coverage. Overall, we gather more than 1.9 million bilateral trade observations for the 188 years from 1827 to 2014. We also provide about 42,000 observations on aggregate trade, and about 14,000 observations on GDPs and exchange rates respectively.
N70|La régionalisation, moteur de la mondialisation|Historiens et économistes identifient généralement deux périodes modernes de mondialisation commerciale : la première s’étendrait de la fin du XIXème jusqu’à la Première Guerre mondiale ; la seconde aurait débuté au milieu des années 1970. Ces périodes se caractérisent par une forte baisse des coûts de transaction, dynamisant les échanges commerciaux entre les pays. À partir d’une base de données inédite, la plus complète à ce jour sur le commerce bilatéral, cette Lettre suggère une amorce plus précoce de la Première Mondialisation, dès le début du XIXème siècle. Celle-ci serait donc antérieure aux grandes innovations technologiques telles que le bateau à vapeur et le télégraphe, comme aux politiques de soutien au commerce telles que les traités de libre-échange ou l’étalon-or. Ces deux vagues ont surtout été alimentées par une intensification du commerce intra-régional. De quoi confirmer le paradoxe selon lequel plus le commerce se développe, plus la distance compte.
N70|Two Centuries of Bilateral Trade and Gravity Data: 1827-2014|This document provides a detailed description of the Historical Bilateral Trade and Gravity Data set (TRADHIST) that was put together for Fouquin and Hugot (2016) and designed for historical investigations of international trade. The data set is available on the website of CEPII. Specifically, the data set has been built to explore the two modern waves of globalization: the First Globalization of the nineteenth century and the post-World War II Second Globalization. The data set gathers five types of variables: i) bilateral nominal trade flows, ii) country-level aggregate nominal exports and imports, iii) nominal GDPs, iv) exchange rates, and v) bilateral factors that are known to favor or hamper trade, including geographical distance, common borders, colonial and linguistic links, as well as bilateral tariffs. This data is unique both in terms of temporal and geographical coverage. Overall, we gather more than 1.9 million bilateral trade observations for the 188 years from 1827 to 2014. We also provide about 42,000 observations on aggregate trade, and about 14,000 observations on GDPs and exchange rates respectively.
N70|Back to the Future: International Trade Costs and the Two Globalizations|This article provides an assessment of the nineteenth century trade globalization based on a systematic collection of bilateral trade statistics. Drawing on a new data set of more than 1.9 million bilateral trade observations for the 1827-2014 period, we show that international trade costs fell more rapidly than intra-national trade costs from the 1840s until the eve of World War I. This finding questions the role played by late nineteenth century improvements in transportation and liberal trade policies in sparking this First Globalization. We use a theory-grounded measure to assess bilateral relative trade costs. Those trade costs are then aggregated to obtain world indices as well as indices along various trade routes, which show that the fall of trade costs began in Europe before extending to the rest of the world. We further explore the geographical heterogeneity of trade cost dynamics by estimating a border effect and a distance effect. We find a dramatic rise in the distance effect for both the nineteenth century and the post-World War II era. This result shows that both modern waves of globalization have been primarily fueled by a regionalization of world trade.
N70|Transporte y mercado interno en Colombia: una contribución a un debate hasta ahora desconocido, 1928-1950|Algunos autores sostienen que durante el siglo XIX y principios del XX, el desarrollo del mercado interno colombiano fue escaso como consecuencia del atrasado sistema de transportes. Sin embargo, otros autores atribuyen el pobre desarrollo de las vías de comunicación precisamente a la ausencia de un mercado interno consolidado. El documento establece los términos de este debate inadvertido hasta ahora en la literatura sobre la primera mitad del siglo XX, incluso en la historiografía económica colonial, proponiendo la prueba de causalidad de Granger (procedimiento Toda-Yamamoto) como estrategia metodológica para contribuir empíricamente al debate.
N70|A tale of two globalizations: gains from trade and openness 1800–2010|Abstract This paper compares the waves of globalization before the outbreak of the Great Recession in 2007 with its alleged historical antecedent before the outbreak of World War One. We describe trends in trade and openness, investigate the proximate causes of changes in openness and estimate the gains from trade from the early nineteenth century onwards. Our results suggest that the conventional wisdom has to be revised. The first wave of globalization started around 1820 and culminated around 1870. In the next century, trade continued to grow, with the exception of the Great Depression, but openness and gains fluctuated widely. They resumed a clear upward trend from the early 1970s. By 2007, the world was more open than a century earlier and its inhabitants gained from trade substantially more than their ancestors did.
N70|The empirical landscape of trade policy|This paper surveys empirically the broad features of trade policy in goods for 31 major economies that collectively represented 83 percent of the world's population and 91 percent of the world's GDP in 2013. It addresses the following five questions: Do some countries have more liberal trading regimes than others? Within countries, which industries receive the most import protection? How do trade policies change over time? Do countries discriminate among their trading partners when setting trade policy? Finally, how liberalized is world trade? The analysis documents the extent of cross-sectional heterogeneity in applied commercial policy across countries, their economic sectors, and their trading partners, over time. It concludes that substantial trade policy barriers remain as an important feature of the world economy.
N70|Being Central and Productive? Evidence from Slovenian Visual Artists in the 19th and 20th Century|Slovenian art history has received very little (if any) attention from the viewpoint of network theory although there were several examples of artists co-working or working in groups, collectives or even loosely organized clusters (groups from the impressionist Sava in 1904 to postmodern Irwin in 1984). This may be interpreted as a way to acquire better positions in the national and international art circles and on the art market. In our article we use web-based dataset of Slovenska biografija (operated by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts), which contains data on numerous notable persons throughout Slovenian history to analyze the centrality of individual artistic figures and movements throughout Slovenian art history. We also study the influence of network centrality on cultural production controlling for endogeneity following the instrumental variable approach, proposed in the literature while using a new instrumental variable to solve the problem. Finally, we present results which show that women visual artists used their network positions more intensively than men and provide some first explanations for this observed relationship. In conclusion, we provide some reflections on the importance of these findings for further research work in the area.
N70|Market integration dynamics and asymptotic price convergence in distribution|This paper analyzes the market integration process of nominal prices, develops a model to analyze market integration, and presents a test of increasing market integration. A distinction is made between the economic concepts of price convergence in mean and variance. When both types of convergence occur, prices are said to converge in distribution. We present concepts and definitions related to the market integration process, link these to price convergence in distribution, argue that the law of one price is not a sufficient condition for market integration, and present a test of price convergence in distribution. We apply our methodology to two different cases, namely, the integration of (i) the inland grains market in 19th century USA and (ii) the Eurozone long-term bonds market after the euro entered circulation.
N70|Measurement matters: Productivity-adjusted weighted average relative price indices|Commonly used trade-weighted real exchange rate indices are computed as indices-of-indices, and thus do not adequately account for growth in trade with developing countries. Weighted Average Relative Price (WARP) indices solve this problem but do not control for productivity differences, as developing countries are observed to have lower price levels via the Penn Effect. I remedy these problems in two ways. First I propose a Penn Effect productivity adjustment to Weighted Average Relative Price indices (P-WARP). Secondly, I introduce a Weighted Average Relative Unit Labor Cost index (WARULC) for manufacturing and show that this measure does a much better job predicting trade imbalances and declines in manufacturing employment than the IMF's Relative ULC measure created as an index-of-indices. The new series reveal that for many countries currently mired in liquidity traps, relative prices reached historic highs heading into the financial crisis of 2008. I document that in 2002 – during the surprisingly sudden collapse in US manufacturing – US relative prices had not been that overvalued relative to trading partners since the worst year of the Great Depression.
N70|The effects of market integration: trade and welfare during the first globalization, 1815-1913|We investigate the effect of the decline in trade costs on trade, terms of trade and welfare of Europe (the United Kingdom and the Netherlands) and three large exporters (India, Indonesia and the United States) during the first globalization using a ‘bottom-up’ approach. We measure total route and product specific trade costs for a representative sample of commodities with price gaps predicted by observed trade costs. We use a simple microeconomic model and we buttress our findings with additional econometric testing. We find that price convergence accounted for almost all the improvement in terms of trade of producing countries and increased significantly welfare in both producing and especially consuming countries, while its positive effect on bilateral trade was often swamped by other factors. The findings caution against the substation of proxies to actual measures of trade costs.
N70|Persistent and Transient Efficiency of International Airlines|This paper examines the efficiency of international airlines for the period 1998-2012 by using stochastic frontier panel data models. It estimates a four-component random error cost model for multi-output airline services, separating passenger and goods transportation at the national and international levels. The model distinguishes between firm heterogeneity, time-invariant persistent inefficiency, as well as transient (time-variant) inefficiency and random error components. This model is compared with two other models in which one of the four components is missing. All the models are estimated by using the maximum likelihood method. The models produce persistent, transient and overall efficiency for each airline and time period. The outcomes indicate that the four-component model has an advantage over the traditional panel data approach of separating airline heterogeneity and time-invariant inefficiency effects. The mean and dispersion of cost efficiency amongst airlines differ by model specifications and according to their geographical area of operations. The performance difference may be a consequence of different market structures and deregulation processes, and of specific competitive conditions such as resource availability and strategic alliances with competitors. The results confirm that in general the airlines are not able to achieve full cost efficiency. We find that carriers based in the Asia region are more efficient than carriers based in the European and North American regions. The bigger airlines are unable to take advantage of economies of scale and are not more efficient than their smaller counterparts.
N70|Oil Prices and REER with Impact of Regime Dummies|This study is basically explores the long run relationship between REER, IRD and Oil Prices, with the use of dummies and interaction terms for exchange rate regimes in Pakistan. By using Hatemi – J residual based cointegration test. Test has modified by including level shift, level shift with trend and regime shift. The data span is from the period of 1982m01-2014m03 in case of Pakistan. Also negative relationship betweenIRD and REER is due to indirect relationship between inflation and nominal interest rate that leads to fall in exchange rate. Long run relationship has concluded from cointegration test between variables.
N70|Emisssion and Energy: A Catch 22|The COP21 process targets decarbonisation in three steps during the 21rst century. First the augmentation of CO2:s is to be halted. Next the 40 per cent reduction is to be implemented somehow until 2030. Finally, there is a hope for a carbon free economy at the end of this century. But how about energy? When we speak about the anthropocentric emissions of greenhouse gases, then we are in reality referring to the production and consumption of energy. Energy in a wide sense is vital for the operations of social systems, as energy is the capacity to do work. Without energy, no economic output or GDP. The COP21 Agreement calls for an energy revolution during this century, replacing traditional renewables and fossil fuels with modern renewables that are carbon free. But how could this be achieved in the many poor countries in the world?
N70|A Preliminary Model of Regulating Natural Capital Funds for Renewable Energy|Framing sustainable environmental laws in regulating Natural Capital funds for Renewable Energy (RE) is central to the discussion on sustainability strategies. Natural Capital is that limited form of capital assets or service (tangible or intangible) that satisfies basic and social conditions for human existence and protection. This paper proposes an analytical regulatory model utilizing Neural Network (NN) of substantive and procedural issues framing the regulatory parameters associated with Natural capital funding. The model recognizes the fact that the purpose of any legal system is not only to assign duties and responsibilities in protecting rights of individuals and groups in their respective endeavors; but for effective modelling of natural structures as well. Through a preliminarydiscussion of European and USA markets’; regulatory systems with a focus on market and social values, it attempts to discern a practical model to formulate social and regulatory measures on financial structures and energy matters that are considered rights and obligations of individuals and organizations in conducting their businesses. As it has been a subject of academic, government, and public discussions with intense controversies, finding the differences of methodological, and analytical foundation will most probably lead to deeper insight into regulating funds for renewable energy.
N70|The History of European Infrastructure Finance: An Analytical Framework|How can socio-economic resources be mobilized to pay for works that offer beneﬁts only in the future, often in the distant future? We discuss what we understand by infrastructure, a term that can have different meanings/semantic contents, and whose deﬁnition issues reveal some recurrent conceptual problems. Finance is here understood in the very broad sense of a set of mechanisms bringing to investment, and future beneﬁts, the resources needed in advance to pay for it. We offer a brief discussion of technological and organizational change, as several of our examples and other literature that we cite show that investment and ﬁnance decisions are deeply interwoven with knowledge, management, and technical progress. The paper analyses government involvement on both sides of our theme: investment and ﬁnancing decisions, but also on the wider issue of service provision in the context of emerging widespread social needs. In fact, the social demand for infrastructures often manifests itself as only mediated by governments or a small group of players, while the services offered by the infrastructure have subsequently created general interest, sometimes unexpectedly. We mention the tension between the national and the international dimensions and suggest a taxonomy of the macrotypes of infrastructure ﬁnancing we have identiﬁed, and sums up their spread and evolution over the long term.
N70|Distance And Time Effects In Swedish Commodity Prices, 1732-1914|We study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion across 32 Swedish towns for 19 commodities from 1732 to 1914. The resulting large number of relative prices (502,689) allows precise estimation of distance and time effects, and their interaction. We find an effect of distancethat declines significantly over time, beginning in the 18th century, well before the arrival of canals, the telegraph, or the railway.
N70|The Food Embargo and Choice of Priorities| The article focuses on the concept of national interest, for the sake of which the Russian government implemented an embargo on the supply of food to Russia. It is shown that its implementation had a positive effect for agricultural producers and a negative effect for consumers. The economies of the countries that fell under the embargo did not suffer as a whole: the share of their food exports increased because they were able to shift to other markets. In Russia, the effect of the embargo was blurred by the devaluation of the ruble, as a result of which much of the public largely avoided imported food because it was more expensive. The growth of Russian production, especially of meat, in the context of a reduction in effective demand led to a change in prices. External benefits to other countries came in the form of reexporting food to Russia. When enacting countersanctions, other priorities could have been chosen, which would have been more effective and less negative for the Russian public.
N70|Food embargo and choice of priorities|"In this paper the authors clarify the concept of ""national interest"", for the sake of which the embargo on food deliveries to Russia was introduced on August 7, 2014. Its impact on Russian agricultural producers, consumers and countries under embargo has been estimated. We find that the embargo had a positive effect on producers of agricultural products and a negative one on consumers. The economies of the countries under embargo have not suffered in general — the share of food in their exports increased as they managed to reorient them on other markets. In Russia the effect of the embargo was influenced by ruble devaluation which encouraged consumers to choose domestic food instead of imported one as less expensive. Growth of Russian production, especially meat, in conditions of decrease of solvent demand has led to changes in price trends. The possibility of food re-export to Russia has become an external positive effect of the embargo for other countries. Using other priorities when choosing countersanctions could make them more targeted having less negative impact on the population of Russia."
N70|Managerial Ship Procedures in Case of Oil Pollution in Maritime Transport|Sea oil spills produce unfortunate environmental damage with huge impact on sea life, humanhealth and economic prejudices for interconnected communities and industries. As prevention isbetter than to cure, specific managerial procedures in case of oil pollution are prepared,implemented and communicated by shipping companies. Ship oil pollution emergency plan(SOPEP) is a prevention plan carried on board by almost all commercial ships, which technicallysynthesize the managerial procedures in case of oil pollution. This paper present an overview onpollution emergency plans (SOPEP), emphasizing useful guidelines for establishing an efficient SOPEP.
N70|"Análisis de combustibles fósiles en el mercado de generación de energía eléctrica en Colombia: un contraste entre modelos de volatilidad || Analysis of Fossil Fuels in the Market for Electricity Generation in Colombia: A Contrast between Models of Volatility"|"La importancia del sector eléctrico en el crecimiento de las economías incentiva el estudio sobre las variables que determinan la ejecución de nuevos proyectos de inversión en el sector. Las barreras en la disponibilidad de los combustibles se traducen en un incremento de la incertidumbre, convirtiéndose en un aspecto fundamental en la toma de decisiones en los mercados de generación de energía. Ante esto, se realiza un contraste entre un modelo de volatilidad determinística y dos modelos de volatilidad estocástica paramétrica GARCH y EWMA, aplicados en el precio de los combustibles fósiles, con el fin de identificar trade off, entre costos y riesgo, enfrentado por los generadores en una matriz energética conformada por tecnologías basadas en carbón, gas y petróleo. Los tres modelos permiten contrastar los resultados empíricos de las covarianzas obtenidas a través de la metodología de Pearson, EWMA y Vech. La evidencia sugiere que en un contexto en el que sea necesario seleccionar uno de los combustibles, el carbón presenta menor exposición al riesgo y menor variación en su precio, implicando un menor egreso en los mercados de generación. Sin embargo, contar con la matriz energética conformada por los tres combustibles fósiles permite una menor exposición al riesgo para el mercado global. || The importance of the electricity sector in the growth of economies encourages the study of the variables that determine the implementation of new investment projects in the sector. The barriers in the availability of fuels result in increased uncertainty, becoming a key issue in making decisions in the markets for power generation. Regarding this, a contrast is performed between a deterministic volatility model and two parametric stochastic volatility models, GARCH and EWMA, applied to the price of fossil fuels, in order to identify trade off between cost and risk faced by generators in an energy matrix comprised of technologies based on coal, gas and oil. The three models allow to compare the empirical results for covariances obtained through Pearson's methodology, EWMA and Vech. Evidence suggests that, in a context where it is necessary to select one of the fuels, coal has less exposure and less variation in price, implying a lower discharge in generation markets. However, having the energy matrix formed by the three fossil fuels allows a lower risk exposure to the global market."
N70|Early Globalization and the Law of One Price: Evidence from Sweden, 1732-1914|We review research using departures from the law of one price to measure the advent of globalization in Europe and Asia. In an application, we then study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion across 32 Swedish towns for 19 commodities from 1732 to 1914. The resulting large number of relative prices (502,689) allows precise estimation of distance and time effects, and their interaction. We find an effect of distance that declines significantly over time, beginning in the 18th century, well before the arrival of canals, the telegraph, or the railway.
N70|"The prospect - in the continuation of reforms (of the monograph of F.I. Khusainov ""The reform of the railway sector in Russia: an unfinished liberalization of the problem"")<BR>[Перспектива — В Продолжении Реформ (О Монографии Ф.И. Хусаинова ""Реформа Железнодорожной Отрасли В России: Проблемы Незавершенной Либерализации""]"|The book Farida Iosifovicha Khusainova analyzed the course of the reform of one of the key sectors of the Russian economy - the railway - and address key economic issues of the industry. The author comes to the reasonable conclusion that these problems are due primarily to the incompleteness of the reforms. Reflections on the book by FI Khusainova lead to the conclusion that the prospect of a long-term effective development of not only the rail industry but also the entire Russian economy lies in the deepening of market reforms and the development of market institutions.
N70|As Evidenced by Theage-old Dynamics of Indicators of Major Rail System<BR>[О Чем Свидетельствует Столетняя Динамика Показателей Крупнейших Железнодорожных Систем]|The article compared results of economic development in terms of market mechanisms and centralized planning, based on an analysis of key indicators of the domestic and North American railroads for the century-long period. It was revealed that the higher and more sustainable dynamics of volume indicators, achieved in certain periods in a centrally planned economy does not show its advantages in comparison with the market economy, which is characterized by cyclical. It is shown that on the basis of centralized planning and control can not be implemented the strategy of “catching up development”. At the same time it found that the degree of success ensuring productive use of various resources in the framework of centralized planning and control is inversely proportional to their importance in the modern economy. This demonstrates the impossibility of the effective implementation of such methods of economic management. In conditions of market relations ensured advancing more efficient use of the main economic resource of our time — human capital. It is showing positive results of economic reforms in the railway transport. Made the conclusion about the necessity of development of market mechanisms and institutional framework (in particular, the removal of restrictions on the involvement of private capital in the development of the existing rail infrastructure) for the successful solution of problems of the Russian railway sector and the entire economy
N70|Managerial psychology and transport firms efficiency: a stochastic frontier analysis|This paper presents an original essay that explains how managerial psychology affects the efficiency of transport firms. Stochastic frontier analysis methods are applied to our sample over a 12-year period from 2000 to 2011, where we aim to detect the potential effect of a well-documented bias in behavioral economic and finance theory: the managerial optimism bias. We initiate a debate concerning the potential role of Chief Executive Officers’ (CEO) irrationalities in explaining the inefficiency of public transport operators, such as the shortfall between the optimal production function and the observed production level. We find strong evidence of the negative impact of CEOs’ optimism bias on transport firms’ technical efficiency, meaning that managerial optimism decreases transport firms’ technical efficiency. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016
N70|Knowledge Disclosure, Patent Management, and the Four-Stroke Engine Business|The appropriateness of patent systems has been largely discussed and has led to substantial theoretical debates and empirical analyses. One of the most significant arguments in favor of patents is that they enable knowledge disclosure, which would compensate their social cost. Through an evolutionary approach to a key case study based on a radical innovation and business –the four-stroke engine invented by the German Nicolaus August Otto in 1876– we provide new and fresh insights on the disclosure issue, on patent management hidden strategies, and on patent institutions and controversies.
N70|The History of Technological Anxiety and the Future of Economic Growth: Is This Time Different?|Technology is widely considered the main source of economic progress, but it has also generated cultural anxiety throughout history. The developed world is now suffering from another bout of such angst. Anxieties over technology can take on several forms, and we focus on three of the most prominent concerns. First, there is the concern that technological progress will cause widespread substitution of machines for labor, which in turn could lead to technological unemployment and a further increase in inequality in the short run, even if the long-run effects are beneficial. Second, there has been anxiety over the moral implications of technological process for human welfare, broadly defined. While, during the Industrial Revolution, the worry was about the dehumanizing effects of work, in modern times, perhaps the greater fear is a world where the elimination of work itself is the source of dehumanization. A third concern cuts in the opposite direction, suggesting that the epoch of major technological progress is behind us. Understanding the history of technological anxiety provides perspective on whether this time is truly different. We consider the role of these three anxieties among economists, primarily focusing on the historical period from the late 18th to the early 20th century, and then compare the historical and current manifestations of these three concerns.
N70|West versus Far East: early globalization and the great divergence|This paper addresses two important topics in recent economic historiography: globalization and the great divergence. We first present a search for statistical evidence in the Far East of an “Early Globalization” comparable to the one ongoing in the West since the mid-eighteenth century. Moreover, we analyze the extent of the integration of rice markets in Central southeast China and Japan during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries and its functioning in comparison with Western countries. Finally, the relevance of our findings for the debate on the great divergence is discussed. Our primary conclusions are as follows: (1) in contrast to the West, no international integration of the grain markets existed in the Far East during the Early Modern Era; (2) significant levels of domestic market integration were reached in some Far Eastern countries; (3) integration of the domestic grain markets may be reached through various combinations of agents and policies with dissimilar effects on long-run economic growth, which are better in the West and worse in the Far East. We suggest that the absence of an “Early Globalization” in the Far East reveals the existence of certain economic and institutional limitations in this part of the world that may have made contribution to its “Great Divergence” with the West from at least the eighteenth century.
N70|International Agricultural markets after the war, 1945-1960|The objective of the present study is to offer a general overview of the evolution of international trade in agricultural and food products between 1945 and 1960. The developed countries not only maintained policies of stimulating agricultural production implemented during the war, but also deepened their intervention and support with regard to the agricultural sector. The culmination of such policies was, in the case of Western Europe, the creation of the European Economic Community in 1957 and the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy. This was one of the first community-wide policies and had a notable impact on international agricultural trade.To achieve the objective proposed we concentrate on two principal themes. On the one hand a reconstruction will be performed of the international flows of agricultural trade for that period. Furthermore, we shall attempt to analyse the principal determinants of the development of agricultural trade, paying special attention to the political economy which led to the taking of crucial decisions for its evolution, such as its exclusion from the GATT agreements.
N70|A Civil Super-Manhattan Project in Nuclear Research for a Safer and Prosperous World|"Humankind is confronted with a ""nuclear stewardship curse'', facing the prospect of needing to manage nuclear products over long time scales in the face of the short-time scales of human polities. I propose a super Manhattan-type effort to rejuvenate the nuclear energy industry to overcome the current dead-end in which it finds itself, and by force, humankind has trapped itself in. A 1% GDP investment over a decade in the main nuclear countries could boost economic growth with a focus on the real world, epitomised by nuclear physics/chemistry/engineering/economics with well defined targets. By investing vigorously to obtain scientific and technological breakthroughs, we can create the spring of a world economic rebound based on new ways of exploiting nuclear energy, both more safely and more durably."
N70|The Breakeven Point Given Limit Cost Using Biomass Chp Plant|"Biomass is a renewable source, non-fossil, from which can be obtained fuels, which can be used in power generation systems. The main difference of fossil fuels is the availability biomass in nature and that it is in continue ""reproduction"". The use its enable the use of materials that could be destined destruction, as a source of energy ""renewable"", though result with many ecological values. In this paper we will study, applying a calculation model in view optimal sizing of the cogeneration plant based on biomass, biomass cost limit for the net present value is zero. It will consider that in cogeneration systems and in heating peak systems using biomass. After applying the mathematical model for limit value of biomass cost will determine the nominal optimal coefficient of cogeneration, for which discounted net revenue value is zero. Optimal sizing of CHP plants based on using biomass will be given by optimum coefficient of cogeneration determined following the application of the proposed mathematical model."
N70|The Role of Monetary Policy in Macroeconomic Volatility of Association of Southeast Asian Nations-4 Countries against Oil Price Shock over Time|This paper examines the impact of oil price, as a cause of economic crisis, and monetary policy through the four known channels of monetary transmission mechanism (interest rate, exchange rate, domestic credit, and stock price). Using a structural vector autoregression model based on monthly data from 2002 to 2013 for Association of Southeast Asian Nations-4 countries, oil price and monetary transmission channels are compared pre- and post-crisis. The result indicates oil price remains an important factor in explaining price volatility, even though oil price has a weaker effect compared to a stronger effect of monetary transmission mechanism on prices. Stock price for Malaysia and domestic credit for the three others can affect the prices against oil price shock. Unlike prices, the output of all countries except Thailand is more affected by oil price post-crisis compared to pre-crisis. Different monetary transmission tools affecting industrial production are compared for the four countries
N70|Enerji Sektörünün Finansal Analizi: Türkiye ve Avrupa Enerji Sektörü Karþýlaþtýrmasý|Bu çalýþmanýn temel amacý Türkiye enerji sektörü ve Avrupa enerji sektörünün bir finansal analiz türü olan oran analizi yöntemiyle likidite, mali yapý, verimlilik ve karlýlýk durumlarýnýn analiz edilmesidir. Türkiye enerji sektörüne iliþkin veriler Türkiye Cumhuriyet Merkez Bankasý’nýn yayýnladýðý 2009 – 2012 dönemine ait sektör bilançolarý ve gelir tablolarýndan yararlanýlarak oluþturulmuþtur. Avrupa enerji sektörüne ait finansal oranlarýn ortalamasýnýn belirlenmesinde ise Avrupa’da faaliyet gösteren ve saðlýklý verilerine ulaþýlan, 79 adet enerji iþletmesinin bilanço ve gelir tablolarýndan yararlanýlmýþtýr. Çalýþma sonucunda likidite, finansal yapý, verimlilik ve karlýlýk durumlarý açýsýndan Avrupa Enerji Sektöründe faaliyet gösteren iþletmelerin Türkiye Enerji Sektöründe faaliyet gösteren iþletmelerden daha iyi bir performans gösterdikleri belirlenmiþtir
N70|Gravity across Space and Time|How well can the standard gravity equation account for the evolution of global trade flows over the long run? This paper provides the first systematic attempt to answer this question using a newly-assembled data set of bilateral trade flows, income levels and trade frictions that spans the years from 1870 to 2005. Using this panel data set we perform a structural estimation of the gravity equation and compare the gravitypredicted trade flows with their empirical counterparts. The estimation results highlight two major puzzles: (i) the standard gravity model can explain only a small share of the variation in trade flows over time, and (ii) it requires very large time-invariant trade costs to match the average value of trade flows between country pairs. The two puzzles appear to be closely related to the assumption of a constant trade elasticity throughout the entire sample period. Allowing for modest changes in the trade elasticity across sub-periods significantly improves the time-series fit of the gravity equation and reduces to more reasonable magnitudes the time invariant trade costs required for gravity-predicted trade flows to match the data. These findings suggest that the key to reconciling the gravity equation with the experience of globalisation history may lie in understanding the reasons for changes in the trade elasticity over time.
N70|Testing fractional persistence and non-linearities in the natural gas market: An application of non-linear deterministic terms based on Chebyshev polynomials in time|Studying variations of natural gas prices in relation to consumer prices may give us better indicators for the analysis of economic activity. This paper deals with the analysis of natural gas spot prices using fractional integration techniques in the context of non-linear deterministic trends. We find nonstationarity with mean reverting coefficients (i.e., orders of integration in the range (0.5, 1)) in the daily and monthly series, as well as in their logarithmic transformations. Evidences of non-linearities are only obtained in the monthly series which may be a consequence of the higher degree of volatility associated with this frequency.
N70|Market potential and the rise of US productivity leadership|Today's globalization, driven by lower barriers to trade, has increased market potential for many nations and led to gains in GDP per capita. We test whether this was true in the first wave of globalization by constructing market potential measures for a sample of 27 countries in 1900 and 1910 based on a general equilibrium model of production and trade. Cross-sectional estimates suggest that market potential was an economically significant determinant of GDP per capita at this time. To assess welfare effects, we then study the general equilibrium impact of raising market potential by eliminating international borders in a quantitative counterfactual calculation for 1900. There are significant gains in real income per capita for all nations. We use US per capita output as a benchmark, since it attained leadership in this variable from the late 19th century and the literature frequently attributes this to its relatively large domestic market – a market unconstrained by trade costs associated with international borders. Because market potential was already near that of the US, the largest European countries do not entirely close their per capita income gaps with the US after removing all border barriers to trade within Europe or even globally. On the other hand, many small European countries could have done so.
N70|French International Trade, dataset 1836-1938 Montesquieu Database|This paper proposes to give an account of Base Montesquieu project computing with annual data from Tableau General du Commerce de la France between 1836 and 1938. The article presents also key original data concerning sectoral dimensions of French foreign trade. We used different level of disaggregation to analyze product’s inflows and outflows. These data can be interesting in order to drive studies on sectors in long run perspective or to analyse annually French international trade.
N70|The Fukushima Accident and Policy Implications: Notes on Public Perception in Germany|Major nuclear accidents as recently in Fukushima set nuclear power plant security at the top of the public agenda. Using data of the German Socio-Economic Panel we analyze the effects of the Fukushima accident and a subsequent government decision on nuclear power phase-out on several measures of subjective perception in Germany. We find that the Fukushima accident increases the probability to report greater worries about the environment. Furthermore, we find evidence for a decrease in the probability to be very worried about the security of nuclear power plants following the government's resolution on nuclear phase-out. Finally we find that the probabilities of reporting very high concerns are related to the distance between the respondents' place of residence and the nearest nuclear power station.
N70|Sharing Mare Nostrum: An analysis of Mediterranean maritime history articles in English-language journals|This discussion paper is a follow-up to a previous bibliometric analysis of articles published in The International Journal of Maritime History and maritime-themed articles published in other economic and business history journals over the last 25 years. The paper looks more closely at articles dealing with the Mediterranean and articles written by scholars from the Mediterranean countries. The article is structured around five propositions about current trends in Mediterranean maritime history publishing in English-language journals.
N70|Commercial and Economic Aspects of Antarctic Exploration From the Earliest Discoveries into the 19th Century|Antarctic exploration always had strong scientific as well as political motives. This paper argues that commercial motivations more often than not, also were an interwoven part of the rationale of the expeditions. The paper analyses the commercial and economic motivation in early Antarctic exploration, by the explorers themselves as well as their sponsors (governments, private businessmen, scientific communities). It reviews the earliest expeditions that searched for the still unknown continent that was hoped to advance commerce and trade. The eventual discoveries did not reveal a prosperous continent in a traditional sense. The exploitable resources – seals and whales were instead found in the ocean, at the islands and around the continent. The paper reviews the earliest discoveries and plans to exploit those resources, and the origins of what was to become the first industries of the Antarctic region. The paper deals primarily with the period before the ‘Heroic Age’ when the focus of the explorers became the penetration of the Antarctic continent itself.
N70|Understanding the Role of Technology in Free and Fair Elections in Developing Countries|Over the years accreditation of voters has been done using the manual method of painstakingly browsing through the voluminous voters register to verify if the voter is allowed to vote or not. Also the smart card reader has checkmated the problems of election rigging and multiple voting. On the other hand due to the aggressive voter’s education campaign by the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC), party stalwarts and agents who descend on polling units on election days to woo the electorate by offering them gift items and cash if they cast their votes in favor of a political party failed. However this paper will attempt to demonstrate how the introduction of the smart card readers by INEC reduced election rigging and inflated results as compared to previous elections. The research subscribed to the use of primary data to gather first-hand information from its respondents. This paper concluded that the smart card readers introduced by INEC have indeed tackled the menace of over inflated votes and also the voters education by INEC on not to accept gift and monies from political parties at the poling units has furtherenlightened the electorate on the rules at the polling units. However, we recommend that there should be an improvement on the smart card readers so that a voter can be accredited and vote at any part of the country. Also INEC should link up with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) so as to make the National Identity Card become the voter’s card.
N70|Regulation of Natural Gas in the United States, Canada, and Europe: Prospects for a Low Carbon Fuel|The United States and Canada have seen a competitive and technological revolution in unconventional natural gas production in the 21st Century—dramatically lowering the price of gas and displacing high-carbon coal with low-carbon gas for power generation. This gas revolution came from an earlier revolution in the regulation of gas pipelines, which ended the obstruction of gas markets by pipeline interests. Neither revolution has spread to Europe, where increasingly protectionist EU legislation has effectively blocked competitive pipeline entry and related gas markets. As a result, unconventional gas is untapped, coal displaces gas for power generation, and oil-linked gas prices have cost EU consumers a staggering $425 billion more than their US counterparts have paid since 2009 for about the same quantity of gas. Europe faces a serious institutional challenge to adopting the kind of pipeline regulation that facilitates the competitive flow of natural gas supplies and the accompanying lower carbon emissions. (JEL: D23, K23, L14, L51, L95, N70, Q54)
N70|Ship Management Benchmarking|Striving for an equilibrium consistency in the domain of ship management services, benchmarking is a useful tool for learning best practices of the best. We present in this paper our considerations regarding ship management benchmarking, taking into account the particularities of the shipping market.
N70|Divergent Paths to a Network World. An Approach to the IT from Savings Banks Industry|This study provides information on how the process of technological globalization was implemented prior to the Internet and what its limits were, which certainly helps to understand how computers are changing the world. One can see divergent patterns in the process of introducing computers (using the worldwide savings bank industry as a reference). However, the foundations of this divergence should be situated within an idiosyncratic and not an asymmetric landscape as a consequence of the role that adoption/appropriation processes (the end-user as an active participant) play in the perspective of technological diffusion.
N70|Germany's Wind and Solar Deployment 1991 - 2015|In this case study, Germany´s wind and solar deployment from 1991 to 2015 is analyzed with wind and solar representing a major pillar in Germany´s energy transition. Germany´s NREAP capacity goals for wind and solar power have been outreached, amongst others due to the (at times) generous and investor-risk minimizing feed-in tariff system (EEG) as well as supportive grid connection conditions for renewable energy generators. For a successful integration of further amounts of wind and solar energy, system flexibility, amongst others via a stronger integration of the European electricity market, is key. Also, market design adjustments will become necessary, for which the two in this research cooperation with Stanford University analyzed electricity markets in California and Texas can represent best-practice examples with regard to short-term gate closure times and regionalized electricity pricing.
N70|Solar and Wind Deployment: A Comparison of Experiences in Germany, California and Texas. Facts and brief analysis|In light of progressing climate change, both Germany as well as the two U.S. federal states California and Texas have enacted decarbonization strategies based on renewable energies. At the same time, the policy instruments to pursue their goals differ substantially. This comparative study identifies similarities and differences in policy structures as well as the penetration of variable renewable resources. It shows a fast deployment of wind and solar power in Germany at comparatively high cost. At the same time, it reveals that the two U.S. markets could ameliorate the investment conditions for renewable energy via three measures: 1. Reduction of institutional obstacles and transaction costs, 2. Introduction of CO2-pricing (Texas) or increasing CO2-pricing (California), 3. additional support schemes for wind and solar, if substantive reasons for additional support prevail.
N70|"The economy in the first five ""mirror"" of rail transport<BR>[Экономика Первых Пятилеток В «Зеркале» Железнодорожного Транспорта]"|"In the article on the example of the implementation of rail transport is considered ""mobilization"" for economic development during the first Soviet five-year plans. It was found that as a result it was not possible to achieve higher growth in freight volumes and high-quality performance in comparison with the period of the recovery taking place in the conditions of the NEP. The increase in traffic was extremely unstable and did not meet the needs of the economy, which, in turn, did not provide a supply of railway production resources in the required quantities. It is shown that in the first five years, a system of universal shortage, but the development was characterized by significant imbalances, inefficiency and low innovation. The conclusion about the need to implement innovative model of market-oriented economic development."
N70|The dynamics of international trade in cereals, 1900-1938|The aim of this paper is to analyse the dynamics of international trade in cereals in the first third of the twentieth century. To this end we will study its evolution over this period, comparing it also with the general trade of food and agricultural products. In addition, we will examine the structure of this trade. For wheat, maize and rice we will examine the operation of their respective markets, with special attention to the import and export flows between consumers and producers. To better understand the functioning of the market for these products, we will examine the changes in supply, demand and prices.
N70|The Origins of Energy Security: British Energy Policy in the Middle East (Selling the Same Horse Three Times!)|This specific text focuses on UK energy policy. It attempts to link the past to the present by making a short story focusing on energy sources. The United Kingdom has decided to use the «black gold» in warships, with a serious risk: it didn’t have its own inventory and had to look for it elsewhere. The decision of Britain involved countries and people of the wider Middle East in support of its energy interests for many years.
N70|Do energy natural endowments matter? New Zealand and Uruguay in a comparative approach (1870-1940)|Settler economies are characterized by abundant natural resources, but natural capital is not homogeneous between countries and it can produce different consequences in terms of economic performance. This paper discusses the effect of natural resources on economic performance as part of the debate about the “curse of natural resources hypothesis”. We consider energy natural resources and focus on two settler societies, New Zealand and Uruguay. There is very little literature about the economic development of settler economies that identifies differences within the “club” countries that have different natural resources. We look for differences in energy natural endowments, basically coal and suitable conditions for hydroelectric generation, to explain at least partially the different welfare levels between the two economies. In the nineteenth century and the early decades of the twentieth century, New Zealand and Uruguay were similar in many ways such as production structure, movements in production factors and insertion in international markets, but there were huge differences in income per capita levels. To explain this, we need to study other aspects of the economic system. The analytical framework associated with the curse of natural resources offers some interesting lines of argument for our inquiry. The conformation of a “modern” production structure requires there to be sufficient energy supply at competitive costs, to justify exploiting the corresponding natural resources. Our analysis shows that New Zealand’s better performance in coal production and better natural conditions to generate electric energy at low cost –thus offering energy at low prices– explain those differences. New Zealand's advantage in energy endowments at least partially explains the development of a dairy sector, certain energy-intensive manufactures and a more efficient use of railways
N70|Global water in a global world a long term study on agricultural virtual water flows in the world|: Agricultural and food products have been increasingly exchanged during the last half century. With them, water has been virtually transferred among countries. Thus, this paper studies the evolution of virtual water flows on the long term, analyzing the main factors driving them by means of a Decomposition Analysis. In particular, our study points at a gradual increase in virtual water consumption as a result of agricultural and food products trade in the world from 1965 to 2010. At the global level, the increase in the volume of trade has been the main factor driving water consumption increase.
N70|Women voters and trade protectionism in the interwar years|This paper examines the relationship between the granting of voting rights to women and protectionism during the interwar years. Public opinion survey evidence from the period indicates that women were more likely than men to hold protectionist attitudes, while panel data analysis of average tariff rates shows that when women were entitled to vote tariffs were, on average, higher. This result is supported by an instrumental variables approach using Protestantism as an instrument for female voting rights as well as an event-study analysis.
N70|Through the Looking Glass: A WARPed View of Real Exchange Rate History|Commonly used trade-weighted real exchange rate indices are computed as indices-of-indices, and thus do not adequately account for growth in trade with developing countries. Weighted Average Relative Price (WARP) indices solve this problem but do not control for productivity differences, as developing countries are observed to have lower price levels via the Balassa-Samuelson effect. I remedy these problems in two ways. First I propose a Balassa-Samuelson productivity adjustment toWeighted Average Relative Price indices (BS-WARP). Secondly, I introduce a Weighted Average Relative Unit Labor Cost index (WARULC) for manufacturing and show that this measure does a much better job predicting trade imbalances and declines in manufacturing employment than the IMF’s Relative ULC measure created as an index-of-indices. The new series reveal that for many countries currently mired in liquidity traps, relative prices reached historic highs heading into the financial crisis of 2008. I document that in 2002 – during the surprisingly sudden collapse in US manufacturing – US relative prices had not been that high relative to trading partners since the worst year of the Great Depression.
N70|On The Competitiveness Of Mexico’S Dry Chili Production| Mexico has become the sixth-largest dry chili exporter in the world and the largest chili (Capsicum annuum L) exporter, showing not only its production capacity but also giving it a decisive advantage over its main competitors. The aim of this paper is to describe the competitive structure and dynamics of chili exportations in Mexico over the period 1993- 2008. In order to compare the export growth performance with the performance of similar exporter countries, we look at the behavior of the Revealed Export Advantage index and the Constant Market Share Analysis. For all countries included in the analysis, the study considers the U.S as the objective market due to the current dry chili export market participation. The result suggests that Mexico occupies an important place in the global production but not a leadership place in exportations of dry chili at worldwide level.
N70|Navigating in Troubled Waters: South American Exports of Food and Agricultural Products in the World Market, 1900-1938|The present study offers a new quantitative base to analyze the evolution of exports of agricultural and food products from South America in the complicated period between 1900 and 1938. The data base has been elaborated from the information published by the International Institute of Agriculture (IIA), in those years. The paper also constructs a terms of trade series for South American agricultural exports, using the data of Grilli-Yang (1988), updated by Pfaffenzeller (2007). It is considered to be the first time of offering for this period a series for the evolution for the terms of trade in the region which takes into account in its construction the relative weight of the exports of the distinct agricultural products. An explanation is provided of the position of South America in the world market for agricultural products on the eve of the First World War. Then it is analyzed first the impact of the war on the volume of agricultural exports from the region and in second place that of the Great Depression. Finally the evolution of the terms of trade of South American agricultural exports throughout the period is analyzed..
N70|The impact of early nineteenth-century globalization on foreign trade in the Southern Cone: A study of British trade statistics|This paper deals with the impact of ‘early’ nineteenth-century globalization (c. 1815–1860) on foreign trade in the Southern Cone (SC). Most of the evidence is drawn from bilateral trades between Britain and the SC, at a time when Britain was the main commercial partner of the new republics. The main conclusion drawn is that early globalization had a positive impact on foreign trade in the SC, and this was due to: improvements in the SC's terms of trade during this period; the SC's per capita consumption of textiles (the main commodity traded on world markets at that time) increased substantially during this period, at a time when clothing was one of the main items of SC household budgets. British merchants brought with them capital, shipping, insurance, and also facilitated the formation of vast global networks, which further promoted the SC's exports to a wider range of outlets. KEY Classification-JEL: N70. N76. O19. R11
N70|Book Translations As Idea Flows: The Effects Of The Collapse Of Communism On The Diffusion Of Knowledge| We use book translations as a new measure of international idea flows and study the effects of Communism's collapse in Eastern Europe on these flows. Using novel data on 800,000 translations and difference-in-differences approaches, we show that while translations between Communist languages decreased by two thirds with the collapse, Western-to-Communist translations increased by a factor of 4 and quickly converged to Western levels. Convergence was more pronounced in the fields of applied and social sciences, and was more complete in Satellite and Baltic than in Soviet countries. We discuss how these patterns help us understand how repressive institutions and preferences towards Western European ideas shaped the international diffusion of knowledge.
N70|The “Emulator Effect” of the Uruguay Round on US Regionalism| Using a detailed data set at the tariff line level, we find an emulator effect of multilateralism on subsequent regional trade agreements (RTAs) involving the USA. We exploit the variation in the frequency with which the US grants immediate duty free access (IDA) to its RTA partners across tariff lines. A key finding is that the US grants IDA status especially on goods for which it has cut the multilateral most favored nation (MFN) tariff during the Uruguay Round the most. Our results suggest that the Uruguay Round multilateral “concessions” have elicited subsequent preferential trade liberalization.
N70|Institutions and Economic Growth in Historical Perspective: Part 1|This is Part 1 of a two-part paper which surveys the historical evidence on the role of institutions in economic growth. The paper provides a critical scrutiny of a number of stylized facts widely accepted in the growth literature. It shows that private-order institutions have not historically substituted for public-order ones in enabling markets to function; that parliaments representing wealth holders have not invariably been favourable for growth; and that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 did not mark the sudden emergence of either secure property rights or economic growth. Economic history has been used to support both the centrality and the irrelevance of secure property rights to growth, but the reason for this is conceptual vagueness. Secure property rights require much more careful analysis, distinguishing between rights of ownership, use and transfer, and between generalized and particularized variants. Similar careful analysis would, we argue, clarify the growth effects of other institutions, including contract-enforcement mechanisms, guilds, communities, serfdom, and the family. Greater precision concerning institutional effects on growth can be achieved by developing sharper criteria of application for conventional institutional labels, endowing institutions with a scale of intensity or degree, and recognizing that the effects of each institution depend on its relationship with other components of the wider institutional system. Part 1 of the paper discusses public-order institutions, parliaments, the distinction between generalized and particularized institutions, and property rights.
N70|Institutions and Economic Growth in Historical Perspective: Part 2|This is Part 2 of a two-part paper which surveys the historical evidence on the role of institutions in economic growth. The paper provides a critical scrutiny of a number of stylized facts widely accepted in the growth literature. It shows that private-order institutions have not historically substituted for public-order ones in enabling markets to function; that parliaments representing wealth holders have not invariably been favourable for growth; and that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 did not mark the sudden emergence of either secure property rights or economic growth. Economic history has been used to support both the centrality and the irrelevance of secure property rights to growth, but the reason for this is conceptual vagueness. Secure property rights require much more careful analysis, distinguishing between rights of ownership, use and transfer, and between generalized and particularized variants. Similar careful analysis would, we argue, clarify the growth effects of other institutions, including contract-enforcement mechanisms, guilds, communities, serfdom, and the family. Greater precision concerning institutional effects on growth can be achieved by developing sharper criteria of application for conventional institutional labels, endowing institutions with a scale of intensity or degree, and recognizing that the effects of each institution depend on its relationship with other components of the wider institutional system. Part 2 of the paper examines how institutions are situated in wider institutional systems, explores alternative approaches to explaining institutions, and applies the arguments established in earlier sections to the institution of serfdom. It concludes by drawing the implications of both parts of the paper for institutions and economic growth in historical perspective.
N70|The Long-Run Evolution of Infrastructure Services|This paper traces the 11,000 year evolution of infrastructure systems during major periods of innovation, expansion and diffusion. Throughout history, the key role of the State is self-evident. Private sector involvement has waxed and waned over millennia, although at times it has been pivotal in bringing innovation, taking risks and driving efficiency. It is argued that positive feedback between early capital market development and investment in infrastructure innovations that lowered system-wide transaction costs has been a critical factor in sustaining growth since 1800. The paper sets out a model of infrastructure innovation cycles, stressing that only an evolutionary, multi-disciplinary, systems approach embracing technology, finance, and institutions can capture such long term, complex dynamics.
N70|Through the Looking Glass: A WARPed View of Real Exchange Rate History|Commonly used trade-weighted real exchange rate indices are computed as indices-of-indices, and thus do not adequately account for growth in trade with developing countries. Weighted Average Relative Price (WARP) indices solve this problem but do not control for productivity differences, as developing countries are observed to have lower price levels via the Balassa-Samuelson effect. I remedy these problems in two ways. First I propose a Balassa-Samuelson productivity adjustment toWeighted Average Relative Price indices (BS-WARP). Secondly, I introduce a Weighted Average Relative Unit Labor Cost index (WARULC) for manufacturing and show that this measure does a much better job predicting trade imbalances and declines in manufacturing employment than the IMF’s Relative ULC measure created as an index-of-indices. The new series reveal that for many countries currently mired in liquidity traps, relative prices reached historic highs heading into the financial crisis of 2008. I document that in 2002 – during the surprisingly sudden collapse in US manufacturing – US relative prices had not been that high relative to trading partners since the worst year of the Great Depression.
N70|Growth, Import Dependence, and War|Theories of war predict that the leader may launch a war on a follower who is catching up, since the follower cannot commit to not use their increased power in the future. But it was Japan who attacked the West in 1941: both leaders and followers start wars. Similarly, many have argued that trade makes war less likely, yet the First World War erupted at a time of unprecedented globalisation. We develop a model of trade and war that can explain both observations. Dependence on imports can lead followers to attack leaders or resource‐rich regions when they are subject to blockade.
N70|The growing dependence of Britain on trade during the Industrial Revolution| Many previous studies of the role of trade during the British Industrial Revolution have found little or no role for trade in explaining British living standards or growth rates. We construct a three-region model of the world in which Britain trades with North America and the Rest of the World, and calibrate the model to data from the 1760s and 1850s. We find that while trade had only a small impact on British welfare in the 1760s, it had a very large impact in the 1850s. This contrast is robust to a large range of parameter perturbations. Biased technological change and population growth were key in explaining Britain's growing dependence on trade during the Industrial Revolution.
N70|The Renewable Energy Production-Economic Development Nexus|As renewable energy requirements increases, its relation with development is controversial. In this study, by taking human development index for development level, the relationship between renewable electricity net generation values and development has been searched with panel analysis. Study covers two different time periods: 1980-2010 with 5 year data to analyze long term effects and 2005-2010 yearly data for short term effects. Unlike previous studies, energy generation has been taken into consideration for it is thought to be more related with economic development. It is found that in the long run economic development will be leading to renewable energy production, while in the short run there exists a bidirectional causal relationship between renewable energy production and economic development. In addition, the causal relationship between economic development and renewable energy production varies both in the long run and in the short run due to human development level of the countries.
N70|On the optimal target curbside parking occupancy rate|Donald Shoup, following Vickrey, has long advocated cashing out free and underpriced parking. How should this be implemented for curbside parking in practice, considering the stochasticity of curbside parking vacancies? Shoup has proposed adjusting meter rates such that, for each block and time period, a target (average) curbside parking occupancy rate of 85% is achieved. This paper develops a simple structural model of stochastic steady-state curbside parking in an isotropic space, solving for the surplus-maximizing occupancy rate and the corresponding meter rate. By increasing curbside occupancy, a curbside parker imposes a curbside parking externality. The optimal meter rate internalizes this externality. The central comparative static result is that, ceteris paribus, the optimal occupancy and meter rates are higher, the higher is demand relative to curbside parking capacity. This suggests that, in practice, the occupancy rate should be higher in more trafficked locations and at busier times of the day.
N70|Growth from Globalization? A View from the Very Long Run|What is the connection between different forms of globalization, economic growth, and welfare? International trade, cross-border capital flows, and labor movements are three areas in which economic historians have focused their research. I critically summarize various measures of international integration in each of these spheres. I then move on to discuss and evaluate the ongoing and active debate about whether globalization is significantly associated with growth in the past. I pay particular attention to the role of globalization in the Great Divergence, the tariff-trade-growth debate, and the globalization of capital markets in the 19th century.
N70|Quantifying the evolution of world trade, 1870–1949|The typical narrative regarding the evolution of world trade prior to World War II refers to a secular rise starting around 1870 and a subsequent collapse beginning in 1914. This narrative, however, is based on measures of trade openness that do not fully take into account purchasing power differences across countries. Due to lack of alternative data, the measures employed in the existing literature are typically based on non-PPP-adjusted trade data denominated by PPP-adjusted GDP data. The present paper seeks to resolve this inconsistency by constructing new trade share estimates for 62 countries, representing 90% of world GDP, for the period from 1870 to 1949. Our estimates combine historical import and export figures with non-PPP-adjusted GDP values that we estimate via the short-cut method. Our estimates confirm qualitatively the narrative of a dramatic rise and fall of world trade over this period. Yet, they indicate that this rise and fall was quantitatively much more pronounced. We find that trade shares were on average 38% higher than previously documented and the world's level of trade openness in 1913 was comparable to that in 1974.
N70|Energy, Productivity and Production|Energy, Productivity and Production
N70|Geographic barriers to commodity price integration: evidence from US cities and Swedish towns, 1732-1860|"We study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion for 14 commodities from 1732 to 1860. The prices are reported for US cities and Swedish market towns, so we can compare international and intranational dispersion. Distance and commodity-specific fixed effects explain a large share - roughly 60% - of the variability in a panel of more than 230,000 relative prices over these 128 years. There was a negative ""ocean effect"": international dispersion was less than would be predicted using distance, narrowing the effective ocean by more than 3000 km. Price dispersion declined over time beginning in the 18th century. This process of convergence was broad-based, across commodities and locations (both national and international). But there was a major interruption in convergence in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, at apoleonic Wars, stopping the process by two or three decades on average."
N70|Emoticons|“Emoticon (“icon mood“) is used in Instant Messaging. Nowadays it is unthinkable to write messages without emoticons whose function is to display the mood or facial expression of sender. Emotion is often used to alert recipients of the message to the real meaning of the message and may improve interpretation of plain text. Emoticons help compensate for the nonverbal aspect of communication in the virtual world of instant messages. This paper reviews styles that are now in use in the world, the history of origin of emoticons and their property rights.
N70|How they made news pay: news traders’ quest for crisis-resistant business models|This paper discusses the problem, implied by Arrow’s fundamental paradox of information, of how to make money from news. To earn money from important news, news traders need to tell the potential buyer what it is, yet once they have revealed it, the buyer no longer needs to pay. This paper discusses how historically this paradox made it difficult for news agencies to profit from selling important news during crises, and how they gradually developed new business models in response. It examines these models and investigates how they interacted with market structure, resulting in just a few international news agencies dominating the international news supply.
N70|French Colonial Trade Patterns: European Settlement|We investigate how the colonial strategy through the settlement decision affected French trade patterns. In this regard, we construct a new database relying on various primary historical sources containing information on the value of French sectoral trade between 1880 and 1913. Our results show that French colonies with more European settlements traded more with France, whereas the opposite is true for other colonies. We also investigate two channels through which European settlements might have affected the French trade pattern with colonies: institutions and networking. We find that better institutions brought by European settlements had a negative impact on trade with French colonies, while it promoted trade with British colonies. These results are consistent with the extractive nature of French trade relations with its colonies. As for networking, it increases overall French trade within French colonies but reduces it in other colonies.
N70|On the Dynamic Linkages between CO2 Emissions, Energy Consumption and Growth in Greece|This paper attempts to analyze the short-and long-run causal dynamic interactions between energy consumption, CO2 emissions and economic growth in Greece, using time-series techniques. To this end, annual data covering the period 1980-2012 are employed and tests for unit roots, the ARDL-bounds approach of cointegration, and Granger-causality based on error-correction models are applied. The results reveal strong feedback in the long-run between all the examined variables. For the shortrun, there is evidence of two-way causality in all examined pairs with only exception the direction CO2 towards GDP.
N70|Geographic Barriers to Commodity Price Integration: Evidence from US Cities and Swedish Towns, 1732 - 1860|We study the role of distance and time in statistically explaining price dispersion for 14 commodities from 1732 to 1860. The prices are reported for US cities and Swedish market towns, so we can compare international and intranational dispersion. Distance and commodity-specific fixed effects explain a large share - roughly 60% - of the variability in a panel of more than 230,000 relative prices over these 128 years. There was a negative “ocean effect”: international dispersion was less than would be predicted using distance, narrowing the effective ocean by more than 3000 km. Price dispersion declined over time beginning in the 18th century. This process of convergence was broad-based, across commodities and locations (both national and international). But there was a major interruption in convergence in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, at the time of the Napoleonic Wars, stopping the process by two or three decades on average.
N70|Diffusion of Containerization|This paper uses a newly constructed, comprehensive dataset to investigate the diffusion of containerization. The data show that country adoption is exceptionally fast while firm usage increases more slowly. To guide my empirical investigation, I build a multi-country trade model with endogenous adoption of a new transportation technology that is consistent with these facts. I then test empirically the predictions of the model and find that: (1) usage of containerization increases with firms' fixed costs and the size and average income of the container network; and (2) adoption depends on expected future usage, adoption costs, and trade with the United States, the first and largest user of containerization.
N70|The Drivers of Long-run CO2 Emissions: A Global Perspective since 1800|Fossil-fuel-related carbon dioxide emissions have risen dramatically since 1800. We identify the long-run drivers of CO2 emissions for a sample of twelve developed economies using an extended Kaya decomposition. By considering biomass and carbon-free energy sources along with fossil fuels we are able to shed light on the effects of past and present energy transitions on CO2 emissions. We find that at low levels of income per capita, fuel switching from biomass to fossil fuels is the main contributing factor to emission growth. Scale effects, especially income effects, become the most important emission drivers at higher levels of income and also dominate the overall long-run change. Technological change is the main offsetting factor. Particularly in the last decades, technological change and fuel switching have become important contributors to the decrease in emissions in Europe. Our results also individualize the different CO2 historical paths across parts of Europe, North America and Japan.
N70|The Drivers of Long-run CO2 Emissions: A Global Perspective since 1800|Fossil-fuel-related carbon dioxide emissions have risen dramatically since 1800. We identify the long-run drivers of CO2 emissions for a sample of twelve developed economies using an extended Kaya decomposition. By considering biomass and carbon-free energy sources along with fossil fuels we are able to shed light on the effects of past and present energy transitions on CO2 emissions. We find that at low levels of income per capita, fuel switching from biomass to fossil fuels is the main contributing factor to emission growth. Scale effects, especially income effects, become the most important emission drivers at higher levels of income and also dominate the overall long-run change. Technological change is the main offsetting factor. Particularly in the last decades, technological change and fuel switching have become important contributors to the decrease in emissions in Europe. Our results also individualize the different CO2 historical paths across parts of Europe, North America and Japan.
N70|La globalización hispana del comercio y el arte en la Edad Moderna/The Hispanic Globalization of Commerce and Art in the Early Modern Era|Este artículo muestra algunos aspectos destacados de un fenómeno histórico de dimensiones planetarias: la globalización comercial y artística que, iniciada en la segunda mitad del siglo XVI, tuvo como principal protagonista durante la Edad Moderna a los territorios americanos, asiáticos y europeos de la Monarquía Hispánica. Los intercambios internacionales (básicamente, plata americana a cambio de objetos asiáticos más o menos lujosos) que siguieron al descubrimiento, en 1565, por Urdaneta del ?tornaviaje? entre Manila y Acapulco tuvieron profundos efectos sobre las formas de producir y de consumir tanto en el Viejo Mundo y como en el Nuevo. La trascendencia histórica de estas interacciones sin precedentes tal vez ha pasado un tanto inadvertida a los economistas e historiadores económicos españoles. Probablemente, el papel central desempeñado en esta globalización por el Virreinato de la Nueva España tampoco ha sido valorado adecuadamente. This article shows some important aspects of a worldwide, historical phenomenon: the globalization of commerce and art which started in the second half of the sixteenth century and had the American, Asian and European territories of the Hispanic Monarchy as main protagonist during the Early Modern Era. The international exchanges -basically, American silver in return for more or less luxurious goods from Asia- that followed the discovery by Urdaneta, in 1565, of the ?tornaviaje? between Manila and Acapulco had a profound influence on the forms of production and consumption in both the Old World and the New. Spanish economists and economic historians have probably underscored the historical significance of these unprecedented interactions. The central role played by the Viceroyalty of New Spain in this globalization has perhaps not been properly valued either.
N70|The Geographical Origins of Early State Formation|This research theoretically and empirically advances the hypothesis that in early stages of development, land and climatic variability had a persistent beneficial effect on the advent of early statehood. A high degree of land and climatic diversity, and its association with potential gains from trade, accentuated the incentives to develop social, political and physical infrastructure that could facilitate interregional interaction. Hence, the emergence of states was expedited in more diverse geographical environments. To explore the hypotheses the analysis exploits exogenous sources of variation in a) the measure of land variability across countries, and b) climatic variability within countries over the period 500-1500 CE. The research establishes that i) the advent of statehood was expedited in regions characterized by a higher degree of variability in land and climatic conditions, ii) the effect of (land and climatic) variability on statehood operates partly through the advancement of technologies associated with trade, thus suggesting that it is the pivotal role of states in facilitating trade that ultimately contributed to their emergence and consolidation, and, iii) the effect of land variability on statehood dissipates over time,
N70|How Dependent is Growth from Primary Energy? The Dependency ratio of Energy in 33 Countries (1970-2011)|Except for specialized resource economics models, economics pays little attention to the role of energy in growth. This paper highlights basic difficulties behind the mainstream analytical arguments for this neglect, and provides an empirical reassessment of this role. We use an error correction model in order to estimate the long-run dependency ratio of output with respect to primary energy use in 33 countries between 1970 and 2011. Our findings suggest that this dependency is much larger than the usual calibration of output elasticity with respect to energy. This strong dependency is robust to the choice of various samples of countries and subperiods of time. In addition, we show that energy and growth are cointegrated and that primary energy consumption univocally Granger causes GDP growth. The latter confirms and extends the results on cointegration and causality between energy consumption and growth already obtained in Stern (2010)
N70|How Dependent is Growth from Primary Energy? The Dependency ratio of Energy in 33 Countries (1970-2011)|This paper documents the paradoxical short-term effects of training and job programmes implemented by oil companies in the region of Onelga, Rivers State (Nigeria). We use two multidimensional indexes as dependent variables: the UNDP's Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) and a ‘Relational Deprivation Index’ (RDI) that measures the quality of social fabric. We find that while the programmes significantly reduce conventional poverty, their impact on RDI is twofold: the beneficiaries' integration into networks improves at the expense of deteriorated private relations. These different effects promote measuring poverty and development as multidimensional phenomena and taking into consideration social aspects of development
N70|Tourism Industry Worldwide – Testing Some Correlations Between Essential Indicators|Essential component of the global economy, tourism industry is in a strong interdependent relationship both with other sectors, as well as with different qualitative components– competitiveness, socio-human and environment issues. Result of the specificity of services, touristic consumption, both residents and visitors, is localized strictly to the meeting of supply and demand, so national receipts are consists of domestic tourism and visitor exports. Introducing investment in analysis, and also competitive tourism component, we propose in this paper to test the connections between tourism consumption, capital investments and travel and tourism competitiveness index. In order to achieve the objective, using the latest statistical data, there have been calculated and interpreted Pearson correlation coefficients, starting from the general hypothesis that there is a direct relationship between the variables analysed.
N70|Growth, Import Dependence and War|Existing theories of pre-emptive war typically predict that the leading country may choose to launch a war on a follower who is catching up, since the follower cannot credibly commit to not use their increased power in the future. But it was Japan who launched a war against the West in 1941, not the West that pre-emptively attacked Japan. Similarly, many have argued that trade makes war less likely, yet World War I erupted at a time of unprecedented globalization. This paper develops a theoretical model of the relationship between trade and war which can help to explain both these observations. Dependence on strategic imports can lead follower nations to launch pre-emptive wars when they are potentially subject to blockade.
N70|Rail Transport in Bulgaria – Upcoming Challenges|EU enlargement creates new challenges and opportunities that affect the market for rail transport services. While new business opportunities are developed with the growth of international trade, they would have to oppose the policy of deregulation, which will impact both on current concepts of secure and protected national markets and the accelerated development of infrastructure of transport competitive modes, in particular rail passenger transport. To compete in this new global business environment the railway companies in Bulgaria have no other alternative but to expand their business beyond national transport market in rail services, including in the new pan-European perspectives. This will allow them to focus on large amounts of new market segments. To be successful this new business needed rail transport to reach the best economic performance and productivity of work. Achieving this goal requires an adequate and efficient railway infrastructure which will be able to meet the ever- increasing demands on the transport service by users - transport time, reliability and quality of transport services that meet the specific needs of customers.
N70|Recent Evolution of Cruise Activities in European Ports of Embarkation: a Quantitative and Economic Approach|The Caribbean, the Mediterranean, Northern Europe, Alaska, Trans-Canal, West USA, Hawaii and South America are the major cruise markets. Europe is an important destination for cruisers growing its market share on the world map. In this paper, we try to do a critical analysis of the cruise industry in order to approach the significance of the cruise sector to the European economy. More specifically, we will focus on the recent development of cruise activities in European ports of embarkation, approaching this development from a quantitative and economic perspective. We will, also, estimate the economic revenues derived from cruise passengers in the European cities of embarkation. The paper’s methodology is based on theoretical and empirical data correlated with the passengers’ revenues.
N70|Wine historical statistics: A quantitative approach to its consumption, production and trade, 1840-1938|This working paper provides a compilation of statistics on international wine consumption, production and trade from the mid-nineteenth century until the beginning of the Second World War. The statistical data is structured in three parts dealing with consumption, production and trade both at the world level and for a broad sample of countries. The data presented for Spain, France and Italy, the leading three nations in the wine market, are especially wide-ranging.
N70|Priorities and Directions for Future Productivity Research: A BEA Perspective|This article identifies hard-to-measure services, land/natural resources, and factory-less goods manufacturing as three priority areas for productivity research. It highlights three hard-to-measure sectors for special attention: health, education, and financial services, given the difficulty of measuring prices and output in these sectors. It also argues that with the increased attention to the environment it has become increasing important to incorporate land and natural resources into the production function. Finally, it points out that the classification issues associated with factory-less goods producers have implications for the measurement of inputs and outputs at the sectoral level and hence for productivity estimates.
N70|Growth, bank credit, and inflation in Mexico: evidence from an ARDL-bounds testing approach|This paper explores the long-run effects of inflation on the dynamics of private sector bank credit and economic growth in Mexico over the period 1969–2011. With an ARDL-type model, the statistical results suggest that the availability of private sector bank credit in the economy exerts a positive impact on real GDP. In addition, inflation rates have contributed negatively to the increase in private credit, liquid liabilities, and financial development. A key outcome is that one percent increase in inflation is associated with a 0.07 % fall in long-run real rate of output through its effect on bank credit to the private sector. Another crucial finding is that policies of financial liberalization have helped stimulate economic growth. Reinforcing the literature on finance and growth, this study reaffirms that inflation rates are detrimental to long-run financial development and economic growth. Copyright The Author(s) 2014
N70|New directions of trade for the agri-food industry: a disaggregated approach for different income countries, 1963–2000|The principal objective of the present study is to explain the changes in the direction of agri-food trade flows during the second half of the twentieth century. Since the end of the Second World War, trade has tended to be concentrated among developed countries, breaking the pattern of complementarity among industrialized countries and developing countries from the first wave of globalization. Elsewhere, agricultural exports from developing countries to countries of similar income have significantly increased since the 1990s. To compare and explain the evolution of different trade directions, the present article estimates the gravity equation for the bilateral volume of agri-food trade, analyzed separately in four categories of trade flows based on the development level of countries. Specifically, we have used the UN-COMTRADE database to construct a data panel for bilateral trade among 30 reporting countries and 39 partner countries with a significant presence in international markets for the period 1963–2000. The following conclusions can be extracted from the present study. Firstly, while other types of trade, such as manufactures, enjoyed greater multilateral liberalization of their markets, strong market intervention caused them to base their growth on the proliferation and success of regional trade agreements in the North. As a result, agri-food trade concentrated progressively on developed economies. Secondly, the latest liberalization of some preferential trade agreements gave rise to new increases in agricultural trade, this time in South–South flows. Finally, the negative sign of income demand elasticity for imports of agricultural products from Southern countries demonstrates that the latter behaved like inferior goods and also explains why the export growth of such countries suffered a brake on such expansion. Copyright The Author(s) 2014
N70|Rhythms and cycles in happiness| This study analyses time-dependent rhythms in happiness in three aspects. We show that the Sunday neurosis exists exclusively for men with a medium level of education and both men and women with high levels of education. Men with high levels of education may even experience a weekend neurosis. This study is the first to test for intra-monthly rhythms and to demonstrate that men with a lower educational background may suffer from negative effects on happiness towards the end of the month, potentially because of liquidity problems. The study is also the first to demonstrate that happiness exhibits seasonal effects over the annual period, depending on gender and education.
N70|On the Effectiveness of Feed-in Tariffs in the Development of Photovoltaic Solar|Growing concern for climate change and rising scarcity of fossil fuels prompted governments to stimulate the development of renewables. This paper empirically tests whether feed-in tariff (FIT) policies have been effective in the development of photovoltaic solar (PV), explicitly taking into account structure and consistency of FITs. Panel data estimations are employed for 30 OECD member countries over the period 1990-2011. We find a positive effect of the presence of a FIT and the development of a country’s share of PV in the electricity-mix. This effect increases if policies are consistent. Tariff height is the most important characteristic of a FIT, but other characteristics such as cost level, duration of contract and restrictions on capacity levels can also not be neglected if the goal is to increase effectiveness of FITs.
N70|Changes in the Structure of World Trade in the Agri‐Food Industry: The Impact of the Home Market Effect and Regional Liberalization From a Long‐Term Perspective, 1963–2010| ABSTRACT This study examines the reasons for changes in the composition of international trade in agricultural and food products. We use a Gravity Model to compare the impact of the key factors in bilateral agri‐food trade, which we split into three main product groups following Rauch's classification of goods, between 1963 and 2010 for a representative sample of 40 countries. Our results show that the greater rhythm of growth in differentiated and reference priced products can be explained by the existence of the home market effect. Regional trade agreements have had an unequal impact on distinct product types, being especially important in the processed product markets. [JEL Classification: F14, N70, Q17]
N70|The cost of railroad regulation: the disintegration of American agricultural markets in the interwar period|We investigate the costs of transportation regulation using the example of agricultural markets in the United States. Using a large database of prices by state of agricultural commodities, we find that the coefficient of variation (as a measure of market integration between states) falls for many commodities until the First World War. We demonstrate that this reflected changes in transportation costs which in turn in the long run depended on productivity growth in railroads. 1920 marked a change in this relationship, however, and between the First and Second World Wars we find considerable disintegration of agricultural markets, ultimately as a consequence of the 1920 Transportation Act. We argue that this benefited railroad companies in the 1920s and workers in the 1930s, and we put forward an estimate of the welfare losses for the consumers of railroad services (i.e. agricultural producers and final consumers).<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N70|National borders matterwhere one draws the lines too|The fact that crossing a political border dramatically reduces trade flows has been widely documented in the literature. The increasing number of borders has surprisingly attracted much less attention. The number of independent countries has indeed risen from 72 in 1948 to 192 today. This paper estimates the effect of political disintegration since World War II on the measured growth in world trade. We first show that trade statistics should be considered carefully when assessing globalization over time, since the definition of trade partners varies over time. We document a sizeable resulting accounting artefact, which accounts for 17% of world trade in 2007. Second, based on a structural gravity equation, we estimate that since World War II political disintegration alone has raised measured international trade flows by 7% but decreased actual trade flows (including inter-regional trade) by 2%.
N70|LA PUERTA DE ÉBANO DEL PACÍFICO COLOMBIANO. El puerto de Buenaventura 1990-2011|El objetivo de esta investigación es describir la importancia económica del Puerto de Buenaventura, a partir de un análisis histórico durante las dos últimas décadas y su desempeño en la apertura económica de los años 90, además de establecer un punto de referencia ante nuevos desafíos de la economía colombiana como lo son TLC con los Estados Unidos y la conquista de los mercados de Asia Pacífico; de esta manera identificar al puerto como agente económico clave para el desarrollo económico y social de Colombia en la próxima década.
N70|The great escape? The contribution of the empire to Portugal’s economic growth, 1500-1800|Newly assembled macroeconomic statistics for early modern Portugal reveal one of Europe’s most vigorous colonial traders and at the same time one of its least successful growth records. Using an estimated model in the spirit of Allen (2009) we conclude that intercontinental trade had a substantial and increasingly positive impact on economic growth. In the heyday of colonial expansion, eliminating the economic links to empire would have reduced Portugal’s per capita income by roughly a fifth. While the empire helped the domestic economy it was not sufficient to annul the tendency towards decline in relation to Europe’s advanced core which set in from the 17th century onwards. We conclude that the explanation for Portugal’s long-term backwardness must be sought primarily in domestic conditions
N70|Impact of Renewable Energy Policy and Use on Innovation: A Literature Review|Technological changes in renewable energy technologies play an important role in the context of climate change as they contribute to a reduction of technology costs and lead to an increasing market penetration of emission reducing technologies. This paper provides a comprehensive literature review highlighting numerous motivations and necessities underlying the introduction of renewable energy policies. Starting with a brief overview on the induced innovation hypothesis, we show that policy intervention has been an effective tool to change relative prices, thus, incentivizing innovation, but that also various influencing factors are at play. We show that the literature agrees on the need for specific renewable energy policies in order to overcome concomitant market failures and barrier. We highlight that technology specific policies are generally understood as necessary complements to environmental non-technology specific policies in order to generate adequate demand in energy markets. However, in that respect, we outline the ongoing debate on the effectiveness of different technology specific policies on the demand-pull side and the role of technology-push policies. Additionally we provide a summary on methodological approaches to measure policy efforts and technological change respecting different impact levels and stages within the technological change process. Finally, by focusing on international competitiveness and technology cost we highlight two aspects of the effects renewable technology innovation and respective policy support.
N70|Gasoline prices, gasoline consumption, and new-vehicle fuel economy: Evidence for a large sample of countries|Countries differ considerably in terms of the price drivers pay for gasoline. This paper uses data for 132 countries for the period 1995–2008 to investigate the implications of these differences for the consumption of gasoline for road transport. To address the potential for simultaneity bias, we use both a country's oil reserves and the international crude oil price as instruments for a country's average gasoline pump price. We obtain estimates of the long-run price elasticity of gasoline demand of between −0.2 and −0.5. Using newly available data for a sub-sample of 43 countries, we also find that higher gasoline prices induce consumers to substitute to vehicles that are more fuel-efficient, with an estimated elasticity of +0.2. Despite the small size of our elasticity estimates, there is considerable scope for low-price countries to achieve gasoline savings and vehicle fuel economy improvements via reducing gasoline subsidies and/or increasing gasoline taxes.
N70|Regional spillover effects of renewable energy generation in Italy|In a multivariate setting, we document that renewable energy generation has a positive impact on economic growth at the regional level in Italy. We do so by adopting panel data unit-root and cointegration tests as well as Granger non-causality tests relying on the system GMM estimator. Our results are interpreted in three ways. Renewable energy generation alleviates balance-of-payments constraints and reduces the exposure of a regional economy to the volatility of the price of fossil fuels and to negative environmental and health externalities deriving from non-renewable energy generation. Therefore, our evidence supports policies promoting renewable energy generation. In an appendix we show that our results are robust to the adoption of alternative econometric methods and definitions for our energy variable. They are also stable over time.
N70|Modeling OECD energy demand: An international panel smooth transition error-correction model|This study is the first to apply a newly developed panel smooth transition regression model with the error-correction term (PSECM) to estimate the non-linear relationship among energy consumption, real income and real energy prices for 24 OECD countries. Unlike the existing literature on non-linear estimation, we consider five “candidates” for the threshold variable including per capita real GDP, real energy prices, energy intensity, the ratio of gross capital formation to GDP, and error-correction term to explore which threshold variable is suitable for the non-linear energy demand model. Our empirical results demonstrate that energy consumption, real income and real energy prices can be cointegrated, and are in favor of the non-linearity for energy demand when the energy intensity and the ratio of gross capital formation to GDP are considered as the threshold variables. Furthermore, the results indicate that the adjustment speed toward long-run equilibrium of PSECM is small and approximately 7–17% in 1year.
N70|Commercial Imperialism? Political Influence and Trade during the Cold War|We provide evidence that increased political influence, arising from CIA interventions during the Cold War, was used to create a larger foreign market for American products. Following CIA interventions, imports from the US increased dramatically, while total exports to the US were unaffected. The surge in imports was concentrated in industries in which the US had a comparative disadvantage, not a comparative advantage. Our analysis is able to rule out decreased trade costs, changing political ideology, and an increase in US loans and grants as alternative explanations. We provide evidence that the increased imports arose through direct purchases of American products by foreign governments. (JEL D72, F14, F54, N42, N72)
N70|The application of multi - agent systems in the field of transport|This paper describes the application of multi-agent systems for improving the transport networks. The growth of international traffic has created new problems in managing the passengers flow. Complex systems are needed to improve the management of transport companies that require new ways for finding solutions on improving their costs such as applying new methods and technologies. The main question that is addressed in this paper is: can the performance and economic status of the transport companies be improved by using multi-agent systems? In order to respond to this question I have presented in this article the main strategies that are used in the present for improving transport systems and a personal interpretation of these strategies.
N70|International Trade With Higher Education Services And Economic Growth In Central And Eastern Europe|The higher education international market is currently in a continuous development. In this article, we have analyzed the statistical data in order to determine Central and Eastern European countries’ flows of higher education. The aim was to see to which extent these countries are involved in international trade with higher education services, as well as the impact that this trade has on national economies. We have also tried to determine the conditions that would make these states benefit more due to educational flows.
N70|Demand patterns and Canada’s trade in services|Canada’s trade in commercial services appears inconsistent with what manufacturing-oriented Heckscher-Ohlin theory predicts. Canada’s services trade is overwhelmingly intra-industry, involving countries whose factor proportions and demand patterns are similar—findings consistent with the ‘new’ trade theory, and the Linder hypothesis: that there is a uni-directional causal relationship flowing from the similarity (convergence) in demand patterns amongst trading partners, to Canada’s exports to those partners. Support for this conjecture is found for the US, the UK, and Japan. We infer that liberalization of trade in commercial services is likely welfare enhancing, with gains greater within trade arrangements and entities such as the NAFTA, the EU, and the OECD. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
N70|Coping with Shocks and Shifts: The Multilateral Trading System in Historical Perspective|This paper provides a historical look at how the multilateral trading system has coped with the challenge of shocks and shifts. By shocks we mean sudden jolts to the world economy in the form of financial crises and deep recessions, or wars and political conflicts. By shifts we mean slow-moving, long-term changes in comparative advantage or shifts in the geopolitical equilibrium that force economies to undergo disruptive and potentially painful adjustments. We conclude that most shocks (financial crises and regional wars) have had relatively little effect on the trade policy, but that shifts pose a greater challenge to the system of open, multilateral trade.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N70|State Aid Policy In The European Union, Study Case:Romania|"This work is an approach to state aid policy, as part of European Union policy in the field of competition. The paper proposes to pursue the achievement of the specific objectives of: presentation of conceptual framework of ""economic competitiveness"", which contains the definitions formulated by the literature and the evolution of this concept from the perspective of economic theory and analysis of the forms that assume economic competition in the market economy; critical analysis of the role, importance and significance on state aid; economic analysis of granting state aid; analysis of the institutional framework of the state aid policy, aiming to give the existence of supranational control in this area from the European Commission, as well as the specific role fulfilled by the European Court of Justice, the European Parliament and the Council of the EU, the rules that are set out, The 'State aid rules' are set out by the European Commission and comprise various articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, regulations, frameworks and guidelines - which set out what aid can be given. The European Commission governs member states' compliance with these rules and must be notified of all schemes involving State aid. State aid control stems from the need to maintain a level playing field for all companies active in the Single Market, irrespective of the Member State in which they are established. State aid control also contributes to avoiding contests between Member States where they try to outbid each other to attract investment. Preserving competitive markets is the best way for European citizens to get the products they want at competitive prices, and to foster innovation and growth. State aid is one of the few remaining ways in which Member States can hold up liberalization and protect companies from competition. As sectors become open to competition, the State aid rules start to become more important â€"" this includes areas which have been the subject to State monopoly. Where in years past, sectors were national in nature, they have become cross-border: coal, transport, financial services and broadcasting are examples. The paper also contains an empirical analysis of State aid granted in the period 2008-2011 for Romania. State aid has been analyzed from multiple perspectives to pleasantly surprise to an extent as comprehensive place and their role as the grant of economic phenomenon."
N70|What Drives Commodity Market Integration? Evidence from the 1800s| This article provides empirical evidence from the 'first wave of globalization' in the 19th century for the question as to how commodity markets integrated domestically and internationally. I apply a dynamic factor model borrowed from business cycle analysis that for the first time allows me to fully exploit the cross-sectional and time-series dimensions of my large wheat price data set. It treats national and international market integration as conditional, and provides unique evidence on the integration of single cities as well as of countries and country groups. Three main results emerge from this: (i) The strongest push toward globalization happened in the first half of the century, not the second. This contradicts conventional wisdom emphasizing a transport revolution after 1850. (ii) After 1880, protectionist countries experienced a globalization backlash despite their well-developed transportation networks. (iii) National differences matter even when controlling for geography and trade policy. Some countries integrated domestically after some single cities, while others first developed a well-functioning domestic market and then globalized as a nation. The latter coincide with countries that have a long history as a unified nation. (JEL codes: N70, N71, N73, C32, F15, E32) Copyright The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.
N70|Shanghai's Trade, China's Growth: Continuity, Recovery, and Change since the Opium Wars|This paper provides an analysis of China's trade performance from the 1840s to the present. Its focus is on Shanghai, the world's largest port, which began direct trade relations with Western nations starting in 1843. The paper finds that Shanghai had, and continues to have, an important role in China's trade structure. Applying the well-known gravity equation of trade for Shanghai's treaty port period, the paper shows that this relationship fits today's actual trade quite well when projected into the modern period. Second, the foreign presence, as measured by foreign direct investment (FDI), in Shanghai is shown to be related not only to trade in the past, but also to trade today, which suggests that FDI is one of the sources of persistence in foreign trade.
N70|Oceanic Travel Conditions and American Immigration, 1890-1914|The pace and incidence of improvements to oceanic travel conditions for American immigrants, during the quarter century preceeding the First World War, were significantly constrained by shipping lines’ capacity considerations. The improvements had no detectable impact on the overall volume of migration, but did influence the flow by route and, probably, the frequency of repeat crossings. Data gathered from transatlantic shipping sources quantify the evolution of travel accommodations for migrants, as “closed berth” cabins, for two to eight passengers each, slowly supplanted older and less comfortable “open-berth” dormitory style quarters. By 1900, roughly 20% of North Atlantic second and steerage (third) class passenger capacity was in closed berths; by 1914, 35%. Steerage alone went from about 10% to 24% closed berths. Accommodation of migrants in closed berths came sooner for northern Europe routes and later for the southern. Prior suggestions attributing the pace of the conversion to competitive impediments, and to discrimination against southern European passengers, are not corroborated. Closed berths for migrants came gradually to all routes regardless of shifting cartel effectiveness, passenger cartels enhanced non-price competition (e.g. in on-board conditions) and differentiation was much more by travel route than by passenger ethnicity. Instead, closed berths were significantly related to the incidence of tourist traffic (highest for north Europe, and seasonally somewhat opposite to migration) because capacity utilization could be raised by using the same quarters for tourists and migrants, provided that the thus interchanged units were closed berth cabins. Growing rates of repeat migration seem to have been mostly a (further contributing) cause, but also partly an effect, of conversion from open to closed berths. Travel condition improvements on North Pacific migration routes lagged the North Atlantic, possibly due to the Pacific’s lower percentage of seasonally offsetting tourism, its less-concentrated migrant flows, and its smaller ships with lower scale economies.
N70|La globalización hispana del comercio y el arte en la Edad Moderna<BR>[The hispanic globalization of commerce and art in the early modern era]|This article shows some important aspects of a worldwide, historical phenomenon: the globalization of commerce and art which started in the second half of the sixteenth century and had the American, Asian and European territories of the Hispanic Monarchy as main protagonist during the Early Modern Era. The international exchanges –basically, American silver in return for more or less luxurious goods from Asia- that followed the discovery by Urdaneta, in 1565, of the “tornaviaje” between Manila and Acapulco had a profound influence on the forms of production and consumption in both the Old World and the New. Spanish economists and economic historians have probably underscored the historical significance of these unprecedented interactions. The central role played by the Viceroyalty of New Spain in this globalization has perhaps not been properly valued either.
N70|Guaranteeing Energy Supplies|Pipelines that carry much of the world’s oil and gas snake through the depths of the Black Sea, the frigid waters of the Russian Arctic and cross some of the world’s most dangerous conflict zones. The value of these pipelines, oil and gas installations, and nuclear power plants makes them attractive targets for hackers, pirates and extremists. An attack on critical energy infrastructure could have a substantial effect, not just on the health, safety and security of surrounding communities, but on the world economy. Protecting energy resources is particularly important as Europeans become more dependent on imported oil and gas and generate much of their electricity from nuclear energy. Energy infrastructure is uniquely border transparent, and cooperation to ensure European energy security is vital.
N70|Evaluation of the Adequacy of the Trade Theories' Assumptions to Explain the Impact of NICs/Regions on International Trade|International trade patterns and importance of trade regions changes in the course of time according to changing needs of humankind and entrepreneurial interest in increasing return hence looking for ways to accomplish it. Several numbers of trade theories have been developed to date to explain international trade. In this paper, classical trade theories, modern trade theory, new trade theory and a number of other contemporary approaches will be evaluated in terms of their validity and ability to explain international trade, particularly the impact of NICs on international trade.
N70|Is the Washington Consensus Dead? Growth, Openness, and the Great Liberalization, 1970s–2000s| According to the Washington Consensus, developing countries' growth would benefit from reductions in barriers to trade. However, the empirical basis for judging trade reforms is weak. Econometrics are mostly ad hoc, results are typically not judged against models, policies are poorly measured, and most studies are based on pre-1990 experience. We address these concerns by employing a model with capital and intermediate goods, compiling new disaggregated tariff measures, and employing treatment and control regression analysis with differences-in-differences. We find that a specific treatment, liberalizing tariffs on imported capital and intermediate goods, led to faster growth, consistent with the model. © 2013 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
N70|West versus East: Early Globalization and the Great Divergence|This paper extends our previous work on grain market integration across Europe and the Americas in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries (Dobado, García-Hiernaux and Guerrero, 2012). By using the same econometric methodology, we now present: 1) a search for statistical evidence in the East of an “Early Globalization” comparable to the one ongoing in the West by mid eighteenth century; 2) a study on the integration of grain markets in China and Japan and its functioning in comparison to Western countries; 3) a discussion of the relevance of our findings for the debate on the Great Divergence. Our main conclusions are: 1) substantial differences in the degree of integration and the functioning of grain markets are observed between East and West; 2) a certain degree of integration may be reached through different combinations of factors (agents, policies, etc.) and with dissimilar effects on long-run economic growth; 3) the absence of an “Early Globalization” in the East reveals the existence of some economic and institutional limitations in this part of the world and contributed to its “Great Divergence” with the West from at least the eighteenth century.
N70|France and Germany Nuclear Energy Policies Revisited: A Veblenian Appraisal|Nuclear energy policy should have been a major area of cooperation for France and Germany, playing a lead role in the energy policy of the EU. Yet they have retained different options, especially regarding nuclear energy while the EU energy policy remained very indicative. These two â€œcoordinated economiesâ€ should have been able to cooperate more closely on this issue. While the reasons for this difference in behavior have much to do with the specificities of the nuclear energy, they are more precisely related to the continuously rising level of security requirements, a learning process in which the magnitude of risks and time lengths appeared, even before Fukushima, to go beyond rational boundaries on which cooperation (as well as market) ventures could be based. This raises the issue in the present state of the technologies ofthe possibility of an international governance of this nuclear industry.
N70|The Geography of Conflicts and Regional Trade Agreements|In addition to standard trade gains, regional trade agreements (RTAs) can promote peaceful relations by increasing the opportunity cost of conflicts. Country pairs with large trade gains from RTAs and a high probability of conflict should be more likely to sign an RTA. Using data from 1950 to 2000, we show that this complementarity between economic and politics determines the geography of RTAs. We disentangle trade gains from political factors by a theory-driven empirical estimation and find that country pairs with higher frequency of past wars are more likely to sign RTAs, the more so the larger the trade gains. (JEL D72, D74, F15, N70)
N70|400 ans de protection par les brevets. Une contribution de cliométrie comparative|This paper contributes to the empirical understanding of economic growth. It examines, as an original case study, the structural and spatial dynamics of patents in Germany, France, the United States, Japan and the United Kingdom. The time series are extracted from a new international, comparative and historical database on the long term evolution of patents in 40 countries from the 17th century to 1945 and in more than 150 countries from 1945 to present (Diebolt and Pellier [2010a]). We found strong proof of infrequent large shocks resulting essentially from the major economic and political events formed by the two World Wars in the twentieth century. Our results question the autonomous process, i.e. the internal dynamic of the patent systems. Wars seem to push innovation and finally the economic growth process itself. Classification JEL : C22, C82, N70, O34
N70|How Much Trade Liberalization Was There in the World Before and After Cobden-Chevalier?|The Cobden-Chevalier Treaty of 1860 is regarded as central turning point in nineteenth-century trade policy, inaugurating a free trade era in Western Europe. We reexamine this story and put it into global perspective with a new database covering more than 7,500 data points for 11 categories of manufactures in 41 countries and colonies around the world between 1846 and 1880. It reveals that bilateralism after 1860 reinforced a process already underway before. Nevertheless, we highlight that trade liberalization was a global phenomenon over most of our period, so that the prominent British case appears as typical rather than exceptional.
N70|Long-Run Development in the Open Economy|Are open economies characterized by superior economic performance in the long-run? This paper revisits this important question from the point of the view of unified growth theory. Contrary to other recent attempts to study this question, the paper considers two distinct channels through which openness might affect growth, namely trade in final goods and technology transfer. Constructing a two-country two-sector unified growth model that incorporates both these channels, it is argued that although trade and the resulting specialization in production generate a force of divergence between the two economies, this can be mitigated or even countered by the effect of technology transfer. In this context, the paper identifies differences in the level of education between the two countries as the crucial factor in determining which of the two forces is going to dominate. The predictions of the theory are then confronted with empirical evidence from cross-sectional and panel growth regressions that span the period from 1870 to 2008. The obtained estimates indicate a strong pattern of convergence among open economies with high initial levels of human capital which is robust to various specification tests.
N70|Heterogeneity and the Distance Puzzle|This paper shows that reduced heterogeneity of exporter-specific goods can provide a direct explanation of the distance puzzle. Using COMTRADE 4-digit bilateral trade data we find that the elasticity of trade to distance has increased by 8% from 1962 to 2009. Theoretical foundations of the gravity equation indicate that the distance coefficient is the product of the elasticity of trade costs to distance and a measure of heterogeneity, e.g. the substitution elasticity between exporter-specific goods in the Armington framework. This parameter has increased by at least 12-29% from 1962 to 2009. The evolution of the distance coefficient is thus compatible with a 4-16% reduction in the elasticity of trade costs to distance.
N70|OPEC news announcements: Effects on oil price expectation and volatility|Several times a year, OPEC hosts conferences among its members to agree on further oil production policies. Prior to OPEC conferences, there is usually rampant speculation about which decision concerning world oil production levels (no change, increase, or cut) will be announced. The purpose of our investigation is to assess the impact of OPEC announcements on expectation and volatility of daily oil price changes (returns).
N70|The changing demand for energy in rich and poor countries over 25years|Country-specific income and own-price elasticities of demand for private consumption of energy are compared across time and affluence for 43 countries that participated in the 1980, 1996, and 2005 International Comparison Program based on estimates from a ten-good-demand system. Results indicate that income elasticities of demand for energy are significantly larger than unitary in 1980, are approximately unitary in 1996 but become inelastic for all 43 countries in 2005. Own-price elasticities decrease absolutely going from 1980 to 1996 to 2005 ranging from −0.8 to −1.0 in 1980, −0.7 to −0.8 in 1996, and −0.6 to −0.7 in 2005. Elasticity estimates are also calculated for the set of countries in 1996 and 2005 that do not participate in the ICP in 1980.
N70|Transport and the environment in Italy (1950-2006)|Historians - and not only in Italy - have begun only in recent years to address in detail the environmental problems caused by transport. In recent years we have seen an attempt at creating a new interdisciplinary study sector (environmental mobility studies) with the aim of studying, from the environmental point of view, the many topics concerning mobility. This article aims at putting forward a brief survey of the development of transport in Italy (taking into consideration the time span between the end of the Second World War and the early part of the 21st century) with a perspective which stands between environmental history and environmental mobility studies. The chief objective of this paper is to analyze, and possibly assess the environmental impact of transport, utilizing indicators referring to the driving forces (extension of infrastructures, traffic volume) to environmental pressures (emissions of carbon dioxide, PM10, NOx, waste production per worker) and to environmental impacts (energy resources consumption). In particular, in the article the author uses the notion of virtual water, an easily applicable indicator for industrial production (it does not require the necessary complex calculations, used for example to assess the ecological footprint) useful for quantifying the environmental impact caused by the production and utilization of means of transport.
N70|Portugal before and after the European Union: Facts on Nontradables|The rise of nontradable sectors has been mentioned as one of the causes of low economic growth and external imbalances in the Portuguese economy. In this paper we describe the main trends and jumps in the evolution of nontradable sectors, since the mid-1950s, using four different databases to shed light on different dimensions of this issue. We show that, despite the pattern of the growth of the share of services being similar to that observed in other developed countries, since the early 1990s it has been significantly larger than in most countries. We find that the shift to nontradables in Portugal has been fast and that it occurred essentially at the expense of agriculture in the period 1953-95, and essentially at the expense of industry in the period 1995-2009. In 2009, the share of nontradables in total GVA reached 61%, if we exclude open service sectors, and 74.4%, if we treat all service sectors as nontradable. We also find that more than half of the change towards nontradables since joining the European Union took place in the period 1988-1993. Finally, we show that construction and services facing a strong Government demand were the main drivers of the increasing weight of nontradables in the Portuguese economy since 1986.
N70|Reassessing the Evolution of World Trade, 1870-1949|"The typical narrative regarding the evolution of world trade prior to World War II refers to a secular rise that started around 1870 and a subsequent collapse that began in 1914. This narrative, though, is based on measures of trade openness that do not fully take into account purchasing power differences across countries, as in the literature non-PPP-adjusted trade data are typically denominated by PPP-adjusted GDP data. The present paper seeks to resolve this inconsistency by constructing new trade share estimates for 51 countries spanning the period from 1870 to 1949 by combining historical import and export data with non-PPP-adjusted GDP values that we estimate via the ""short-cut"" method. Our estimates indicate a much more pronounced rise and fall of world trade over this period with trade shares being on average 32% higher than previously documented and the world's level of openness to trade in 1913 being comparable to that in 1974. In addition, performing a similar correction for purchasing power differences in the context of standard gravity regressions for the 1870-1939 period we find that the existing literature has overestimated the importance of income movements during this period relative to tariffs changes and the evolution of the gold standard."
N70|Does infrastructure really cause growth?: the time scale dependent causality nexus between infrastructure investments and GDP|This paper investigates the relationship between infrastructure investments and economic activity in Sweden for the period 1800-2000. In order to overcome the problem of endogeneity, independent time scales are used to analyze the relationship. The paper also examines the dynamics between the variables by testing for causality in the Granger sense and constructing a vector autoregressive model separately for each time scale. The finding is that the causality nexus between growth and transport infrastructure investment is timescale-dependent since it reverses in a comparison of the short-run dynamics (2-4 years) and the longer-run dynamics (8-16 years). This causality reversal is unique for infrastructure investments compared to investments in other sectorsof the economy.
N70|Tariffs and income: a time series analysis for 24 countries|We argue for a new approach to examining the relationship between tariffs and growth. We demonstrate that more can be learned from time series analyses of the experience of individual countries rather than the usual panel data approach, which imposes a causal relation and presents an average coefficient for all countries. Tentative initial results using simple two-variable cointegrated VAR models suggest considerable heterogeneity in the experiences of the countries we look at. For most, however, there was a negative relationship between tariffs and levels of income for both the pre- and post-Second World War periods. However, in the second half of the twentieth century, the causality ran from income to tariffs: that is, countries simply liberalized as they got richer. Policy decisions based on the usual panel approach might thus be very inappropriate for individual countries.
N70|Survey of Models on Demand, Customer Base-Line and Demand Response and Their Relationships in the Power Market|The increasing use of demand-side management as a tool to reliably meet electricity demand at peak time has stimulated interest among researchers, consumers and producer organizations, managers, regulators and policymakers, This research reviews the growing literature on models used to study demand, consumer baseline (CBL) and demand response in the electricity market. After characterizing the general demand models, it reviews consumer baseline based on which further study the demand response models. Given the experience gained from the review and exiting conditions it combines an appropriate model for each case for possible application to the electricity market and discusses the implications of the results. In the literature these aspects are studied independently. The main contribution of this survey is attributed to the simultaneous treatment of the three issues as sequentially interdependent. The review is expected to provide a full understanding of the demand, CBL and demand response in the power market and their relationships. It enhances demand response in the electricity market. The objective is through a combination of demand and supply side managements to reduce demand through different demand response programs during peak times and thereby save costly power generation and energy resources and at the same time reduce vulnerability.
N70|Financing telegraph infrastructures (1850-1900)|In the late 1830s the first electric telegraph models were patented both in Europe and the United States, but it was only in the following decade that the first distance telegraph transmissions were started up, mainly with the aim of supporting the railway lines. In fact, existed two kind of telegraphy: 1) land telegraphy, 2) submarine telegraphy. In the first case, the telegraph infrastructures were easy to built and cheap. For this reason, land telegraphy was managed by the state in all European countries (except United Kingdom, until 1869, when the telegraph companies were nationalized). On the other hand, submarine cables were difficult to built and very expensive. Besides, in order to work, submarine telegraphy had to solve some important issues: 1) building a well insulated cable; 2) transporting the cable with a ship; 3) laying the cable on the bottom of the sea; 4) communicating at great distance. Only Great Britain had the technology to build and lay a submarine cable but this was a very expensive enterprise. In other words, in the second half of XIX century two kinds of telegraph financing existed: 1) the state directly financed the development of land telegraph; 2) the business-men, as a stock-holder, invested in the submarine telegraph companies, which represented a high market risk but it also represented a big return. In the paper one will concentrate on the Great Britain case where many connections existed among these two kinds of telegraph financing. For example, the most influencing business lobbies invested directly in the most important submarine telegraph companies while, the same lobbies tried to influence on the government decisions about the national telegraph network development (which was public).Starting from the British case of study (Great Britain was the only country where telegraph service was managed either by private companies or by public administration) one will describe who, why and how invested in telegraph infrastructures in the second half of XIX century.
N70|Portugal Before and After the European Union: Facts on Nontradables|The rise of nontradable sectors has been mentioned as one of the causes of low economic growth and external imbalances in the Portuguese economy. In this paper we describe the main trends and jumps in the evolution of nontradable sectors, since the mid-1950s, using four different databases to shed light on different dimensions of this issue. We show that, despite the pattern of the growth of the share of services being similar to that observed in other developed countries, since the early 1990s it has been significantly larger than in most countries. We find that the shift to nontradables in Portugal has been fast and that it occurred essentially at the expense of agriculture in the period 1953-95, and essentially at the expense of industry in the period 1995-2009. In 2009, the share of nontradables (defined as the sum of services plus construction) in total GVA reached 68%, if we exclude open service sectors, and 81.1%, if we treat all service sectors as nontradable. We also find that more than half of the change towards nontradables since joining the European Union took place in the period 1988-1993. Finally, we show that construction and services facing a strong Government demand were the main drivers of the increasing weight of nontradables in the Portuguese economy since 1986.
N70|Marketing And Innovation: Young People'S Attitude Towards New Products|This paper explores the perceptions of young students, who are training in the field of economics, to the very new products and outlines the role that marketing plays in bringing to market products based on innovative technologies. The study is conducted in Romania and tries to highlight Romanian specific features about the relationship between marketing and innovation. The goal is to outline in a clear and actual image of young people thoughts about new technologies insertion on the market. The pursued objectives are: motivation investigation of option for new products; determining predisposition to the radical or incremental innovations, assessing perceptions of the link between marketing and innovation. Research have been made in this field on various areas of activity. At the level of the European Community there are several organizations which activate in the field of innovation research. Eurobarometer through its subdivision Innobarometer brings in the attention of the public on a regular basis, through a series of publications, the results of researches undertaken from the business perspective, and are concerning all areas of action. Research aims to identify the impact that new technologies have on the consumers most open to innovation. This exploratory research is based on a direct gathering of information, using an online questionnaire. Data are processed using SPSS software package, and the results show the type and nature of links between variables to be examined by applying bivariate and multivariate correlation tests. Analysis report provides descriptive, easy to follow, for all the situations covered and investigated in the questionnaire. The results show a clear output of the relationship between compromises that those open to using new technologies are making to obtain superior advantages from the newest products on the market. Research carried out by the author being the first one in this area, only manages to outline the general framework of marketing in the process of bringing new innovations to market. Other research focused on several areas of participants in the process of bringing innovations to market, like inventors, distributors, intermediaries and final consumers, will be undertaken in the future. The study bring into the attention of all participants in economic exchanges that marketing tools can be used to accelerate or to stop different directions of development. Marketing strategies and techniques can be implemented centrally in the economic environment of a country or communities, with immediate impact in the development (subject to certain priorities) of the society as a whole. Marketing can facilitate all socio-economic activities, starting from helping people interested in obtaining patents, attract their results into the economic cycle (production), going through transfer of the products to consumers (distribution), continuing to explain and inform all parties involved (promotion) and ending with the recording and collection of profits (price) of any kind (tangible or intangible). Although the literature treats for a long time and in various ways the relationship between marketing and innovation, research on this direction in Romania are relatively few undertaken. Identification and assessment of consumer perceptions is an important step in any development process, especially in processes with a high innovative component, and this study tries to highlight Romanian characteristics of the relationship between marketing and innovation.
N70|Commodity market disintegration in the interwar period| In this paper, we document the disintegration of international commodity markets between 1913 and 1938. There was dramatic disintegration during World War I, gradual reintegration during the 1920s, and then a substantial disintegration after 1929. The period saw the unravelling of many of the integration gains of 1870-1913. While increased transport costs help explain the wartime disintegration, they cannot explain the post-1929 increase in trade costs. The proliferation of tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade, the collapse of the interwar gold standard, and the evaporation of commercial credit loom large as suspects. Copyright , Oxford University Press.
N70|Urban Growth and Transportation| We estimate the effects of interstate highways on the growth of U.S. cities between 1983 and 2003. We find that a 10% increase in a city's initial stock of highways causes about a 1.5% increase in its employment over this 20 year period. To estimate a structural model of urban growth and transportation, we rely on an instrumental variables estimation that uses a 1947 plan of the interstate highway system, an 1898 map of railroads, and maps of the early explorations of the U.S. as instruments for 1983 highways. Copyright , Oxford University Press.
N70|The Spanish ßag over an Anglo-Chinese commercial colony: the Philippines in the 19th century|Nineteenth-century Philippines, unlike most colonies, was not economically dependent on its mother country, Spain, which ranked generally only fourth among its trading partners, behind the United Kingdom, the United States, and China. The index-measured concentration of Philippine trade was only moderately high owing to competition among its trading partners. Foreign trading was mainly conducted by the British and Americans. The Chinese were pervasive in domestic trade. Thus arose the jibe that the Philippines was an Anglo-Chinese colony with a Spanish ßag. With the growth of foreign trade, wealth circulated into the rural areas, assisting in the rise of a native middle class. But there were costs, among them the destruction of the domestic textile industry. With the coming of the United States, the Philippines once again came under a unitary politico-economic metropole, leading to a high degree of economic complementarity lasting until long after World War II.
N70|Reassessing the Evolution of World Trade, 1870-1949|"The typical narrative regarding the evolution of world trade prior to World War II refers to a secular rise that started around 1870 and a subsequent collapse that began in 1914. This narrative, though, is based on measures of trade openness that do not fully take into account purchasing power di¤erences across countries, as in the literature non-PPP-adjusted trade data are typically denominated by PPP-adjusted GDP data. The present paper seeks to resolve this inconsistency by constructing new trade share estimates for 51 countries spanning the period from 1870 to 1949 by combining historical import and export data with non-PPP-adjusted GDP values that we estimate via the ""short-cut"" method. Our estimates indicate a much more pronounced rise and fall of world trade over this period with trade shares being on average 32% higher than previously documented and the world's level of openness to trade in 1913 being comparable to that in 1974. In addition, performing a similar correction for purchasing power differences in the context of standard gravity regressions for the 1870-1939 period we find that the existing literature has overestimated the importance of income movements during this period relative to tariffs changes and the evolution of the gold standard."
N70|Strategic Alliances in Container Lines|The container-shipping industry's poor performance in 2011 and its continued struggles in 2012 are primarily the result of supply and demand imbalance, which triggered intense competition and price wars. Some carriers have begun to recognize the importance of alliances, as reflected by their expanded efforts to collaborate during the past year. This article present how the global rates in container industry had dropped as the carriers added ships in anticipation of an economic recovery, causing overcapacity. Container lines began cutting capacity and raising rates to restore profitability. The article conclude that a way of avoiding for container-shipping lines maritime market fluctuations and increasing opportunities of success in the event of a fierce competition is a strategic alliance.
N70|Assessment of Acceptable Swiss post-2012 Climate Policies|In the framework of the revision of the Swiss CO2-Law and in the preparation of the international negotiations that place at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Swiss Government has proposed a set of instruments and two levels of abatement to define the Swiss climate policy for the post-2012 period. By 2030, Switzerland would recuce its GHG emission by 30% or 45%, depending on whether or not the rest of the world world would commit to strong emissions reductions. The proposed policies are the result of consultation procedures take into account the views of major stakeholders and lobbies and allow for differienciated carbon prices in different sectors of the Swiss economy. Linking a Cumputable General Equilibrium (CGE) and two sectoral energy models, we evaluate the policies for the two scenarios. We find important disparities in the prices of carbon faced by the different economic sectors and higher welfare costs than those that would be triggered by a uniform carbon tax.
N70|Distance to the Technological Frontier and Economic Development|This research explores the effects of distance to the pre-industrial technological frontiers on comparative economic development in the course of human history. It establishes theoretically and empirically that distance to the frontier had a persistent non-monotonic effect on a country's pre-industrial economic development. In particular, advancing a novel measure of the travel time to the technological frontiers, the analysis establishes a robust persistent U-shaped relation between distance to the frontier and pre-industrial economic development across countries. Moreover, it demonstrates that countries, which throughout the last two millennia were relatively more distant from these frontiers, have higher contemporary levels of innovation and entrepreneurial activity, suggesting that distance from the frontier may have fostered the emergence of a culture conducive to innovation, knowledge creation, and entrepreneurship.
N70|Defining Quality Bulk Tonnage: A Task for Researchers and Policy-Makers|The aim of this paper is to propose a set of suitable variables on which a comprehensive definition of quality bulk shipping can be built. The authors of this paper explore the alternatives of quality differentiation in bulk shipping, in view of the methodological and data problems researchers have encountered by the absence of a definition of quality for traditional bulk tonnage that goes beyond catch-all indicators such as the age of the vessel. The lack of appropriate available data for the otherwise extensively, yet not necessarily systematically documented, bulk shipping markets, calls for concerted action on the part of researchers and policy makers to compile such databases and make them publicly (widely) available.
