N73|Neither the elite, nor the mass. The rise of intermediate human capital during the French industrialization process|This paper investigates the development of intermediate human capital in nineteenth century France. We perform panel and cross-section regression analyses to compare the effect of technological change on basic vs. intermediate human capital accumulation. Our contribution reveals that a shift in the kind of skills required occurred in the second half of the nineteenth century. We show that steam technology adoption was conducive to the accumulation of intermediate human capital in the second half of the nineteenth century.
N73|Ease Versus Noise: Long-Run Changes in the Value of Transport (Dis)amenities|For a complete cost-benefit analysis of durable infrastructures, it is important to understand how the value of non-market goods such as transit time and environmental quality changes as incomes rise in the long-run. We use difference-in-differences and spatial differencing to estimate the land price capitalization effects of metro rail in Berlin, Germany today and a century ago. Over this period, the negative effect of rail noise tripled in percentage terms. Our results imply long-run income elasticities of the value of noise reduction and transport access of 2.2 and 1.4, substantially exceeding cross-sectional contingent valuation estimates.
N73|Roman Transport Network Connectivity and Economic Integration|We show that the creation of the first integrated pan-European transport network during Roman times influences economic integration over two millennia. Drawing on spatially highly disaggregated data on excavated Roman ceramics, we document that interregional trade was strongly influenced by connectivity within the network. Today, these connectivity differentials continue to influence cross-regional firm investment behaviour. Continuity is largely explained by selective infrastructure routing and cultural integration due to bilateral convergence in preferences and values. Both plausibly arise from network-induced history of repeated socio-economic interaction. We show that our results are Roman-connectivity specific and do not reflect pre-existing patterns of exchange.
N73|A Time to Print; a Time to Reform|The public mechanical clock and the movable type printing press were two of the most important and complex general purpose technologies of the late medieval period. We document two of their most important, yet unforeseeable, consequences. First, an instrumental variables analysis indicates that towns that were early adopters of clocks were more likely to also be early adopters of presses. We posit that towns with clocks became upper-tail human capital hubs—both technologies required extensive technical know-how that had many points of overlap. Second, a three-stage instrumental variables analysis indicates that the press inﬂuenced the adoption of Lutheranism and Calvinism, while the clock’s eﬀect on the Reformation was indirect (via the press).
N73|How Britain Unified Germany: Endogenous Trade Costs and the Formation of a Customs Union|We analyze the foundation of the German Zollverein as an example of how geography can shape institutional change. We show how the redrawing of the European map at the Congress of Vienna 1815, notably Prussia's control over the Rhineland and Westphalia, affected the incentives for policymakers to cooperate. Our argument comes in three steps. First, we show that the new borders were not endogenous to trade. They were at odds with the strategy of Prussia in 1815, but followed from Britain's intervention at Vienna regarding the Polish-Saxon question. Second, we develop a theoretical framework, where state planners set tariffs on imports and transits to maximize revenue. We show that in a world with transit tariffs a revenue-maximizing state planner faces a trade-off between benefits from cooperation and the cost of losing geographical advantage. In a third step we calibrate the model combining historical data on prices, freight rates, and market sizes with GIS data on lowest costs routes under endogenous tariffs. We then run counterfactuals to show how borders affected incentives: if Prussia would have succeeded with her strategy to gain the entire Kingdom of Saxony instead of the western provinces, the Zollverein would not have formed. We conclude that geography can shape institutional change. To put it differently, as a collateral damage to her intervention at Vienna, Britain unifed Germany.
N73|Ease vs. noise: Long-run changes in the value of transport (dis)amenities|For a complete cost-benefit analysis of durable infrastructures, it is important to understand how the value of non-market goods such as transit time and environmental quality changes as incomes rise in the long-run. We use difference-in-differences and spatial differencing to estimate the land price capitalization effects of metro rail in Berlin, Germany today and a century ago. Over this period, the negative effect of rail noise tripled in percentage terms. Our results imply long-run income elasticities of the value of noise reduction and transport access of 2.2 and 1.4, substantially exceeding cross-sectional contingent valuation estimates.
N73|Roman Transport Network Connectivity and Economic Integration|We show that the creation of the first integrated pan-European transport network during Roman times influences economic integration over two millennia. Drawing on spatially highly disaggregated data on excavated Roman ceramics, we document that interregional trade was strongly influenced by connectivity within the network. Today, these connectivity differentials continue to influence cross-regional firm investment behaviour. Continuity is largely explained by selective infrastructure routing and cultural integration due to bilateral convergence in preferences and values. Both plausibly arise from network-induced history of repeated socio-economic interaction. We show that our results are Roman-connectivity specific and do not reflect pre-existing patterns of exchange.
N73|Without coal in the age of steam and dams in the age of electricity: An explanation for the failure of Portugal to industrialize before the Second World War|We provide a natural resource explanation for the divergence of the Portuguese economy relative to other European countries before the Second World War, based on a considerable body of contemporary sources. First, we demonstrate that a lack of domestic resources meant that Portugal experienced limited and unbalanced growth during the age of steam. Imports of coal were prohibitively expensive for inland areas, which failed to industrialize. Coastal areas developed through steam, but were constrained by limited demand from the interior. Second, we show that after the First World War, when other coal-poor countries turned to hydro-power, Portugal relied on coal-based thermal-power, creating a vicious circle of high energy prices and labor-intensive industrialization. We argue that this was the result of (i) water resources which were relatively expensive to exploit; and (ii) path-dependency, whereby the failure to develop earlier meant that there was a lack of capital and demand from industry.
N73|Full steam ahead: Insider knowledge, stock trading and the nationalization of the railways in Prussia around 1879|The costs and benefits of insider trading is a persistent topic in the economic literature and public discourse alike. Nowadays insider trading is principally illegal and morally banned implying that the costs are supposed to weigh heavier than the potential benefits. We study insider trading pre-1914 in order to shed new light on its extent when it was still legal. Our focus is on the first wave of railway nationalisation in Prussia around 1879, the biggest financial transaction in German economic history by this time. Anecdotal evidence has it that insiders – e.g. involved banks or single bankers – made decent use of their exclusive knowledge on how nationalisation would proceed, thereby incurring huge profits. We show that insiders were active at the Berlin Stock Exchange, but contrary to anecdotal evidence could be so only in a very small time-window limiting their options sustainably. Contrary to what Braggion and Moore (2013) found for the London Stock Exchange, the rather modest extent of insider trading was not due to insiders’ ethical reservations, but due to the stock exchange’s institutional design that limited excessive insider trading in the absence of laws against it.
N73|High Wages or Wages For Energy? An Alternative View of The British Case (1645-1700)|Energy was one of the keys to the remarkable increase in English GDP between 1650 and 1700. Increased per head physical activity and basal metabolic rate led to increased energy consumption. In response, subsistence wages, productivity, wages and incomes increased. Malthusian adjustment explains only 50 per cent of the increase in calorie intake, the other 50 per cent is associated with higher energy consumption. Non-agricultural wages began to differ from agricultural wages. British economic development occurred everywhere, in the city and in the countryside. This approach opens new perspectives to the debate between enclosures and open fields and why underemployment became common among the philosophers' British debates.
N73|A Time to Print, a Time to Reform|The public mechanical clock and the movable type printing press were two of the most important and complex general purpose technologies of the late medieval period. We document two of their most important, yet unforeseeable, consequences. First, an instrumental variables analysis indicates that towns that were early adopters of clocks were more likely to also be early adopters of presses. We posit that towns with clocks became upper-tail human capital hubs—both technologies required extensive technical know-how that had many points of overlap. Second, a three-stage instrumental variables analysis indicates that the press influenced the adoption of Lutheranism and Calvinism, while the clock’s effect on the Reformation was indirect (via the press).
N73|Spain's tourism models in the first third of the twentieth century|The remarkable emergence of the service sector to dominate the modern economy is the most outstanding consequence of the Industrial Revolution in the first third of the twentieth century. With it appeared a new social class which made an active contribution to the sector’s growth by opting for a new kind of tourist provision which was very different from traditional models, above all holidays in Spain. In the first third of the twentieth century, tourism in Spain was characterised by a variety of coexisting business models. On the one hand, business travellers went to the major cities. On the other hand, there was holiday travel, which can be broken down into three categories: the first type is traditional leisure-based tourism of an aristocratic cast, which dominated in the north, in the region of the Bay of Biscay, while the second type involves foreigners visiting the mythic south of Andalusia: Granada, Malaga, Seville and Cordoba. The third and final type, which appeared on the island of Majorca shortly after World War I, is the most modern, based on international colonial maritime traffic and cruise liners.
N73|Railways, Growth, and Industrialisation in a Developing German Economy, 1829-1910|This paper provides a comprehensive assessment of the effect of railways on the spatial economic development of a German economy, the Kingdom of Württemberg, during the Industrial Revolution. Our identification strategy compares the economic development of `winning' municipalities that were connected to the railway in 1845-54 to the development of `losing' municipalities that were the runners-up choice for a given railway line between two major towns. Estimates from both differences-in-differences and inverse-probability-weighted models suggest that railway access increased annual population growth by 0.4 percentage points over more than half a century. Railways also increased wages, income and housing values, in line with predictions of economic geography models of transport infrastructure improvements, reduced the gender wage gap, and accelerated the transition away from agriculture. We find little evidence that these effects are driven by localised displacement effects.
N73|Neither the elite, nor the mass. The rise of intermediate human capital during the French industrialization process|This paper investigates the development of intermediate human capital in nineteenth century France. We perform panel and cross-section regression analyses to compare the effect of technological change on basic vs. intermediate human capital accumulation. Our contribution reveals that a shift in the kind of skills required occurred in the second half of the nineteenth century. We show that steam technology adoption was conducive to the accumulation of intermediate human capital in the second half of the nineteenth century.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|German Export Survival in the First Globalisation|How were trade relations structured in the first globalisation? Previous literature has highlighted the strong activity of the extensive margin during the first globalisation, i.e. that here was substantial entry and exit. However, so far little is known about what happens between market entry and exit. Traditional narratives of the first globalisation relying on the Heckscher-Ohlin factor endowments or the gravity model are mute about these features of the data. In this paper I study the survival margin of international trade and wonder how long trade relationships lasted and what factors mattered for the duration ofexports. Using product-evel export data from 1889 to 1913, I find that the first years of an export were the most hazardous. The median length of an export spell was 2 years, only about 60 per cent survived the first year, and a mere third of exports lasted longer than 3 years. However, once exporters survived the first two years they face less hazard from year to year. I take Rauch and Watson�s (2003) search cost model of trade relationships and derive hypotheses that I test in order shed light on the duration of Germany�s exports. Key to this model is that a fraction of exports serve to learn about market conditions. I quantify this learning, and my findings suggest that search costs as well as reliability turn out to have been important for export survival, and so did prior export experience. In other words, learning to export was a salient feature of Germany�s experience in the first globalisation.
N73|The margins of trade: market entry and sector spillovers, the case of Italy (1862-1913)|Between its Unification and WWI, Italy faced a period of increasing participation in the international economy. The growth of Italian exports was gradual, and alternately promoted by its intensive and extensive margins. In this paper, using a disaggregated database at country-product level, I first construct the intensive (average export per product) and extensive (number of products) margins of trade (for Italian imports and exports) and, second, within a quasi-gravity model framework, I estimate the drivers of market entry for Italian exports (1862-1913), with particular attention to the presence of eventual sector spillover effects. I find that the presence of “similar” exported products increased the probability of entry in the destination market (export spillovers), even if with diminishing marginal effects, potentially linked to a “saturation”/“congestion” of the market. Equally, I find that the higher the imports’ growth rate for a specific product, the more likely it was to be internationalised by Italian exporters (import spillovers).
N73|Landscape Change and Trade in Ancient Greece: Evidence from Pollen Data|In this paper we use pollen data from a number of sites in southern Greece and Macedonia to study long-term vegetation change in these regions from 1000 BCE to 600 CE. Based on insights from environmental history, we interpret our estimated trends in the regional presence of cereal, olive, and vine pollen as proxies for structural changes in agricultural production. We present evidence that there was a market economy in ancient Greece and a major trade expansion several centuries before the Roman conquest. Our results are consistent with auxiliary data on settlement dynamics, shipwrecks, and ancient oil and wine presses.
N73|Fast Track to Growth? Railway Access, Population Growth and Local Displacement in 19th Century Switzerland|We study the effect of railway access on population growth in 19th century Switzerland. Our analysis is based on geo-referenced railway network information and an inconsequential units IV approach. Gaining direct railway access increased annual population growth by 0.4 percentage points, while municipalities in close vicinity but no direct access (i.e. 2{10 km distance) experienced a growth slump of similar magnitude. We interpret these findings as evidence of highly localised displacement effects related to railway connections.
N73|Fast track to growth? Railway access, population growth and local displacement in 19th century Switzerland|We study the effect of railway access on population growth in 19th century Switzerland. Our analysis is based on geo-referenced railway network information and an inconsequential units IV approach. Gaining direct railway access increased annual population growth by 0.4 percentage points, while municipalities in close vicinity but no direct access (i.e. 2-10 km distance) experienced a growth slump of similar magnitude. We interpret these findings as evidence of highly localised displacement effects related to railway connections.
N73|European goods market integration in the very long run: from the Black Death to the First World War|The paper examines price convergence and increases in the efficiency of wheat markets across Europe from the mid-fourteenth to the early twentieth century. The analysis is based on a new data set of prices from more than 500 markets. Unlike previous research, we find that convergence was a predominantly pre-modern phenomenon. It started in the late fifteenth and reached a first high point in the early seventeenth century - a level of integration that was surpassed only in the nineteenth century. In terms of market integration, the ‘little divergence’ between parts of North-Western Europe and the rest of the continent appears since about 1600. Long-term improvements in market efficiency began in the early sixteenth century, with advances being temporarily as uneven as in price convergence. We trace this to uneven institutional change and the non-synchronous spread of modern media and systems of information transmission that affected the ability of merchants to react to news.
N73|Secrets for sale? Innovation and the nature of knowledge in an early industrial district: the Potteries, 1750-1851|This paper investigates innovation and knowledge in the North Staffordshire Potteries during the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. It evaluates new empirical evidence of formal and informal patterns of knowledge creation and dissemination in order to highlight tensions between forms of open knowledge sharing and the appropriation of returns to innovative activity. By presenting new patent data it shows that formal protection was not a widespread strategy in the industry. It uses patent specifications to determine what specific types of knowledge were, and could be, patented in the district, and by whom. A range of sources are used to demonstrate evidence of innovation and knowledge appropriation outside of the patent system. The paper identifies distinct types of knowledge in the industry and shows how differences in these led to a range of strategies being employed by potters, with the role of secrecy highlighted as a particularly prevalent and effective strategy.
N73|The emergence of maritime insurance in Bordeaux port-city in the 19th century|The resurgence of the marine insurance specialty in the years 1830-1860 reflected the resumption and the extension of transoceanic trade as well as the technical and quantitative renewals of the fleets. Communities of place crystallized around this tool: the Bordeaux city-port federated ship-owners, traders-ship-owners, traders and insurers to sharpen it, by establishing a capital of experience according to the hazards of the navigation.
N73|Economic consequences of state failure; Legal capacity, regulatory activity, and market integration in Poland, 1505-1772|With use of innovative proxies and new annual data, I demonstrate that relatively high legal capacity and regulatory activity of the early-modern Polish parliament was positively associated with deeper commodity market integration. Conversely, the lack of effective law-making, caused by the right of a single delegate to discontinue the parliamentary sessions, fostered market fragmentation. This indicates that early parliamentary regimes might have required legal capacity to harmonize domestic institutions and reduce the transaction costs. The Polish case suggests a hypothesis that the pre-1800 ‘Little Divergence’ between European parliamentary regimes could potentially be partially explained by differences in their capacities.
N73|The energy transition in the Swedish iron and steel sector, 1800-1939|This article analyses the particular energy transition of the Swedish iron and steel sector (1800- 1939), a relevant actor in the European context during the nineteenth and twenteenth century. The Swedish iron and steel sector is an interesting case to analyse in the perspective of energy transition and the composition and change of the capital stock (classified by energy technology). An in-depth study of the change of the capital stock in the sector will enable us to study the dynamics of energy transition; moreover, the Swedish iron and steel sector, with particular emphasis in technology adoption, lock-in carbon infrastructure and energy transitions is a powerful tool to understand current difficulties to change our infrastructure towards cleaner energy sources.
N73|Consumption of Chinese silk fabrics in Marseille and Seville, 1680 – 1840|Historiography about Asian goods consumption in Early Modern Europe has advanced in the understanding of how these commodities changed consumption patterns and production in Europe. Global History indisputably has contributed with a theoretical perspective in this achievement. However, in this literature lacks more studies in the long term and in more specific geographical units. This research intends to contribute with a case study in two specific European ports: Marseille and Seville. The study is about the consumption of Chinese silk fabrics in 1680 – 1840 period and has as aim find the way like these commodities change the taste and pattern of consumption in local population preparing the receipt of Silk fabrics with Chinese taste made in Europe in an import substitution process. An innovation in the research is the use of Chinese sources and the database of GECEM project
N73|A Study on Consumption of European Red Wine in China (1680-1840): state of the art, questions, hypothesis, sources and methodology|The global history perspective and comparison research between Eurocentric and Sinocentric methods on economic history give us new perspective on the topic of European-Chinese trade during early modern period. Compared with the large number of researches on the consumption society of Western Europe around the 18th century about the goods from Eastern world like tea, silk, and porcelain, very few researches have been done about the European commodities in Eastern countries. Especially, the studies on consumption of European wine in China market during the 17th and 18th centuries is completely void. Therefore, based on the economic conditions of southern and eastern China, considered the geographical, political and cultural aspects, several questions and hypothesis are designed, including consumption groups of the European wine, the consumer volumes, consumption habits, wine market shares, the merchant groups’ role, etc. The research will be down upon the cross-referencing of primary data and the materials, along with the application of database.
N73|The Growth of the Italian Economy, 1861-1913: Revised Second-Generation Expenditure-Side Estimates|This paper presents revised expenditure-side constant-price historical national accounts for Italy from Unification to 1913. The extant estimates at 1911 prices by the present author on the one hand and Alberto Baffigi on the other are both derived from the better-documented production side, but with significantly different algorithms and results. The new estimates are based on the new, extensively revised production-side accounts; the underlying methodology remains the present author’s, arguably altogether sounder than Baffigi’s.
N73|Currency unions and heterogeneous trade effects: the case of the latin monetary union|The Latin Monetary Union (LMU) agreement signed in December 1865 by France, Italy, Belgium and Switzerland standardised gold and silver coinage in member countries and allowed free circulation of national coins in the Union. In his seminal study, Flandreau (2000) found no evidence of an overall positive effect of the LMU on trade. In this paper, I estimate the effects of this currency agreement on trade. In my gravity model I explicitly take into account the changing conditions in the international environment that affected the LMU’s underlying economic foundations (i.e. the limits on silver coinage agreed upon in 1874) and its rules (i.e. the “liquidation clause” of 1885). I also test the existence of heterogeneous effects on bilateral trade within the LMU. In line with Flandreau, I find no significant LMU trade effects. However, I find support for the hypothesis that the LMU had significant trade effects for the period 1865-1874. These effects were nonetheless concentrated in trade flows between France and the rest of the LMU members, following a hub-and-spokes structure. Moreover, I find evidence for the existence of an 1874 “LMU-wide” structural break, which affected the course of trade flows within the Union.
N73|Toward understanding 17th century English culture: A structural topic model of Francis Bacon's ideas|We use machine-learning methods to study the features and origins of the ideas of Francis Bacon, a key figure who provided the intellectual roots of a cultural paradigm that spurred modern economic development. Bacon's works are the data in an estimation of a structural topic model, a recently developed methodology for analysis of text corpora. The estimates uncover sixteen topics prominent in Bacon's opus. Two are key elements of the ideas usually associated with Bacon—inductive epistemology and fact-seeking. The utilitarian promise of science and the centralized organization of the scientific quest, embraced by Bacon's followers, were not emphasized by him. Using strategic communication, Bacon facilitated reception of his scientific methodology, targeted influential groups, and finessed powerful opponents. We provide the first quantitative evidence that the genesis of Bacon's epistemology lies in his experience in the common-law. Combining our findings with accepted arguments in the existing literature, we suggest that the effects of common-law culture can help explain the coincidence of early political and economic development in England.
N73|The Rise of New Corruption: British MPs during the Railway Mania of 1845|In the 1840s, speculation in railway shares in the UK prompted the creation of hundreds of new railway companies. Each company needed to petition Parliament for the approval of new railway routes. In this paper, we investigate whether parliamentary regulation of the new railway network was distorted by politicians' vested interests. Drawing on methods from peer-effects analysis, we identify situations where MPs could have traded votes with specific colleagues in order to get their preferred projects approved (logrolling). We confirm that logrolling was both prevalent and significant. Our estimates suggest that at least a quarter of approved lines received their bills because of logrolling. Companies approved through logrolling also underperformed in the stock market during the railway bubble and after its final crash in 1847.
N73|The making of a national currency. Spatial transaction costs and money market integration in Spain (1825-1874)|This article analyses the integration of the Spanish money market in the 19th century. We use a Band-TAR model of prices in Madrid of bills of exchange on 9 Spanish cities to measure convergence and efficiency in the market between 1825 and 1875. While price gaps between cities were significantly reduced during the period, no progress took place in efficiency. We suggest that increasing convergence was associated to the reduction in transaction costs, which started before the railways through improvements in roads and postal services. By contrast, increases in efficiency were prevented by a very restrictive regulation of arbitrage.
N73|Technology and Geography in the Second Industrial Revolution: New Evidence from the Margins of Trade|In the Belle Époque, Belgium recorded an unprecedented trade boom, but growth in output per capita was lackluster. We seek to reconcile this ostensible paradox. Because of the sharp decline in both fixed and variable trade costs, the trade boom was as much about the expansion in the number of products delivered and markets served as it was about shipping more of the same old products. We use a new highly disaggregated data set on bilateral exports at the product level to illustrate these claims. In line with new trade theory, the effect of trade on productivity was mediated by sector-level firm heterogeneity and product differentiation. In new technology sectors, like tramways, the high degree of firm heterogeneity amplified the effect of trade on productivity. But in other sectors, mainly old staple industries like cotton textiles, a high level of firm uniformity muted the effect of trade. Into the twentieth century, old staples trumped new technology sectors, per capita income growing modestly as a result.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|Historical energy price shocks and their changing effects on the economy|The purpose of this paper is to identify the changes in the impact of energy shocks on economic activity — with an interest in assessing if an economy's vulnerability and resilience to shocks improved with economic development. Using data on the United Kingdom over the last three hundred years, the paper identifies supply, aggregate demand and residual shocks to energy prices and estimates their changing influence on energy prices and GDP. The results suggest that the impacts of supply shocks rose with its increasing dependence on coal, and declined with its partial transition to oil. However, the transition from exporting coal to importing oil increased the negative impacts of demand shocks. More generally, the results indicate that improvements in vulnerability and resilience to shocks did not progress systematically as the economy developed. Instead, the changes in impacts depended greatly on the circumstances related to the demand for and supply of energy sources. If these experiences are transferable to future markets, a transition to a diversified mix of renewable energy is likely to reduce vulnerability and increase resilience to energy price shocks.
N73|Locomotives of local growth: The short- and long-term impact of railroads in Sweden|This paper studies the impact of railroads on 150years of urban growth in Sweden, identifying the short- and long-term effects of a first wave of railroad construction. Difference-in-differences and instrumental variable estimates show that towns that gained access experienced substantial relative increases in population, though such growth mainly reflected a relocation of economic activity. Over the twentieth century, we find little evidence of convergence in town populations, despite the railroad network expanding further to connect nearly all towns. Evidence on historical investments and present-day factors is consistent with the idea that the transitory shock of the first railroads gave rise to path dependence in the location of economic activity.
N73|Directed technical change and the British Industrial Revolution|We build a directed technical change model of the British Industrial Revolution where one intermediate goods sector uses a fixed renewable energy (“wood”) quantity, and another uses coal at a fixed price. With a high enough elasticity of substitution between the two goods in producing final output, an industrial revolution, where over time the coal-using sector grows relative to the wood-using sector and its growth accelerates, is not inevitable. However, greater initial scarcity of wood and/or higher population growth puts the economy on a path to an industrial revolution. The converse slows industrialization, or even prevents it forever.
N73|Historical energy price shocks and their changing effects on the economy|The purpose of this paper is to identify the changes in the impact of energy shocks on economic activity – with an interest in assessing if an economy's vulnerability and resilience to shocks improved with economic development. Using data on the United Kingdom over the last three hundred years, the paper identifies supply, aggregate demand and residual shocks to energy prices and estimates their changing influence on energy prices and GDP. The results suggest that the impacts of supply shocks rose with its increasing dependence on coal, and declined with its partial transition to oil. However, the transition from exporting coal to importing oil increased the negative impacts of demand shocks. More generally, the results indicate that improvements in vulnerability and resilience to shocks did not progress systematically as the economy developed. Instead, the changes in impacts depended greatly on the circumstances related to the demand for and supply of energy sources. If these experiences are transferable to future markets, a transition to renewable energy sources is likely to reduce vulnerability and increase resilience to energy price shocks.
N73|British capital and merchandise exports, 1870-1913: the bilateral case of New Zealand|The Ford thesis argued that there was a short-term causal relationship between British overseas investment and British merchandise exports in the late nineteenth century. However, economic historians since Ford have found little empirical evidence in support of this argument. Using data on bilateral British lending, this article finds that such a relationship did exist, with British ex ante lending preceding merchandise exports by 2 years. A case study of New Zealand, which had an extraordinarily high share of Britain in its imports, reveals that the relationship was conditional upon the lending being allocated to social overhead capital.
N73|National rules, regional differences? Explaining the regional provision and productivity of a public monopolist: The case of the German Reichspost|"""Public monopolies operate with substantial regional differences in their efficiency. This paper uses the Reichspost, the German Imperial Postal Service, to investigate what factors explain these differences. Additionally scale effects and the comparative efficiency on input and output side are investigated."""
N73|An Analysis of Revenues at the Comédie française, 1680-1793|I study the business practices of the Comédie française, the main theater in Paris, between 1680 and 1793. The theater was an actors’ partnership and operated within a (contested) oligopoly. Newly available data provide revenues by price category for over 32,000 performances. Attendance varied considerably from one performance to the next. Total revenues increased in the second half of the 18th century as demand for entertainment in Paris boomed. The increase came in part from box rentals (by performance or by season). Pricing practices changed over time, as premium pricing for high-demand events made way for premium pricing on specific weekdays, and ultimately constant pricing. The repertory consisted of proven classics to which successful novelties were added. As demand grew, the theater provided more variety and more novelty.
N73|A new empirical test of the infant-industry argument : the case of Switzerland protectionism during the 19th century|I employ the “granger causality” test to determine the nature of Swiss protectionism during the first wave of globalization (1886-1913). This test is applied for the first time to test if the protectionism takes the form of an infant-industry protection. I argue that if tariffs cause exports flow, the economy implement a protection following List’s principles. I use a highly disaggregated database of exports flow and tariffs at the product level. It allows dealing with a panel-VAR structure to test my hypothesis. In the descriptive study I show that Switzerland protectionism is moderate and selective, giving argument in favour of an infant industry protection. Then, the result of the “granger causality” test clearly shows that my different measures of protection “granger cause” exports flows. This article gives a new empirical test of the infant industry protection argument.
N73|The gun-slave hypothesis and the 18th century British slave trade|The Gun-Slave Hypothesis is the long-standing idea that European gunpowder technology played a key role in growing the transatlantic slave trade. I combine annual data from the Transatlantic Slave Trade Database and the Anglo–African Trade Statistics to estimate a Vector Error Correction Model of the 18th century British slave trade that captures four versions of the Gun-Slave Hypothesis: guns-for-slaves-in-exchange, guns-for-slaves-in-production, slaves-for-guns-derived and the gun-slave cycle. Three econometric results emerge. (1) Gunpowder imports and slave exports were co-integrated in a long-run equilibrium relationship. (2) Positive deviations from equilibrium gunpowder “produced” additional slave exports. This guns-for-slaves-in-production result survives 17 placebo tests that replace gunpowder with non-lethal commodities imports. It is also confirmed by an instrumental variables estimation that uses excess capacity in the British gunpowder industry as an instrument for gunpowder. (3) Additional slave exports attracted additional gunpowder imports for 2–3 more years. Together these dynamics formed a gun-slave cycle. Impulse-response functions generate large increases in slave export in response to increases in gunpowder imports. I use these results to explain the growth of slave exports along the Guinea Coast of Africa in the 18th century.
N73|The Political Economics of Growth, Labor Control and Coercion: Evidence from a Suffrage Reform|In this paper, we analyze how a suffrage reform in 1862/63 that shifted the de jure distribution of political power from landowners to industrialists affected Sweden’s industrialization and economic and social development from the 1860s to the 1910s. Using a newly constructed, comprehensive historical data set of the universe of approximately 2,400 Swedish local governments, we document that the change in suffrage affected a very large number of development and social outcomes at the local level, such as labor coercion, factor price manipulation in the form of entry barriers including investments in local public goods (i.e., schooling) and transportation (i.e., local railways), the real wage structure, technology adoption in both agriculture and industry, labor productivity in both agriculture and industry, changes in the composition of employment and the structure of production, demographic transition, organized labor, and persistence in dysfunctional local political institutions. Our findings are consistent with the idea that political institutions are a key determinant of long-run development and growth. Specifically, our results suggest that politically powerful landowners can block economic development using labor coercion and factor price manipulation, i.e., using entry barriers and other distortionary policies.
N73|Perspectives on the Transformation of the Organic Energy System in 19th Century Sweden|This article discusses the transformation from an organic to a mineral energy system from a Swedish historical perspective. Main arguments are that there was a dynamic interaction between the two systems during the Swedish industrialization process. For one, a diffusion of the mineral energy system contributed to opening previously inaccessible organic resources in the forest of northern Sweden. Secondly, the development of the pulp- and paper industry contributed to the switch from charcoal to coke in the iron industry. Thirdly, the development of hydropower, itself an organic source of energy, further contributed to the emergence of a mixed energy system. One can therefore see the Swedish transition from an organic to a mineral energy system as a shift from a traditional organic energy system to an industrialized organic energy system, which is to say an organic energy system which for its operation was depending on technologies and organizational structures of the mineral energy system.
N73|The evolution of ottoman–European market linkages, 1469–1914: Evidence from dynamic factor models|This paper exploits data on a set of traded goods to undertake the first comprehensive empirical analysis of market integration between the Ottoman Empire and Europe from 1469 to 1914. Computing dynamic factor models via Bayesian inference, we overcome such data constraints as missing observations and a small sample size. The results of this analysis suggest that there were persistent market linkages until the first half of the 19th century, followed by a decline in price convergence. We also find that the intensity of Ottoman–European conflict had a negative effect on integration, especially during the 1844–1914 period.
N73|The Growth of the Italian Economy, 1861-1913: Revised Second-Generation Production-Side Estimates|This paper presents revised production-side constant-price historical national accounts for Italy from Unification to 1913; these amend the extant estimates at 1911 prices by the present author on the one hand and Alberto Baffigi on the other. The time series are updated to allow for short-term movements of agricultural production, to include the results of recent research on industry, to remove conspicuous overestimates in the services sector, and more: estimated total product appears more volatile, and generally lower, than the extant series suggest.
N73|Poor man's crop? Slavery on Brazilian cotton regions (1800-1850)|The literature about cotton production in Brazil during the nineteenth century in large part associates cotton as a “poor man’s crop” – cultivated by small farmers who did not employ a large slave labor force. Information from population maps between 1800 and 1840, however, shows that slaves represented half the population in Maranhão, the most important cotton exporter in Brazil until 1850. This represented a higher share than that observed in any northeast region in Brazil, and was comparable to those recorded in the United States’ Cotton South. This paper shows that, during the cotton boom years (1790-1820), not only large plantations cultivated the cotton exported from northeast Brazil to Britain and other countries in Europe, but also that slave prices were higher in Maranhão than in other provinces.
N73|Patent Networks, Collaboration Patterns, and National Innovation Systems. Sweden and Spain during the Second Industrial Revolution|Sweden and Spain have developed very distinct systems of innovation over the long term. The former has a highly innovative economy while the latter drags serious problems in science and technology. However, during the first half of the nineteenth century both countries were latecomers to the industrial revolution in the European periphery with similar economic, technological, and institutional challenges ahead. In this paper, we hypothesize that one possible reason for this long-term divergence lies in the different collaboration patterns that emerge from interactions among innovative agents. To analyse such cooperation patterns we apply social network analysis methods and study co-patent networks in Sweden and Spain during the second industrial revolution (1878-1914). The results demonstrate that collaboration among innovators and openness to foreign influence was greater in Sweden than in Spain. This research opens new paths for further studies both on economic history and innovation networks dynamics.
N73|Did Science Cause the Industrial Revolution?|The role of science and technology in the First Industrial Revolution is still contested. Some scholars, focusing on the textiles sector, argue that skilled and talented artisans with no scientific training were mainly responsible for the key inventions; others, with steam power in mind, hold that the links between science and the crucial inventions of the period were fundamental. Margaret Jacob has been a leading contributor to the debate for nearly four decades. The publication of her The First Knowledge Economy offers an opportunity to review the issues. ( JEL J24, L26, N13, N73, O31, O33)
N73|Technical Change, Non-Tariff Barriers, and the Development of the Italian Locomotive Industry, 1850–1913|"This paper examines the dynamics of technical change in the Italian locomotive industry in the period 1850-1913. From an historical point of view, this industry presents a major point of interest: it was one of the few relatively sophisticated ""high-tech"" sectors in which Italy, a latecomer country, was able to set foot firmly before 1913. Using technical data on the performance of different vintages of locomotives, we construct a new industry-level index of technical change. Our reassessment reveals the critical role played by non-tariff barriers for the emergence and consolidation of national manufacturers in this field.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N73|Ease vs. Noise: On the Conflicting Effects of Transportation Infrastructure|Many transport technologies cause a gnot]in]my]backyardh (NIMBY) reaction of locals in that they often oppose the nearby location of necessary infrastructure despite benefiting from greater mobility. We employ quasi]experimental research methods to disentangle the offsetting noise and accessibility effects of one technology of mass transit, metro rail, analyzing land price effects of the opening of the first German electrified metro rail line in Berlin in 1902. Examining a long]run micro]geographic data set, we find that, ceteris paribus, a 1 km reduction in distance from the nearest station increases land prices (house prices) by 21% (5%), while a 10 db increase in noise depreciates land prices (house prices) by 5% (1%). We show that these effects are underestimated by 40% (access) to 80% (noise) if they are not estimated conditional on each other. A complementary analysis of recent property transactions data suggests that preferences for accessibility have remained quite stable over the 20th century, while noise sensitivity increased substantially. The case for constructing underground as opposed to elevated rail lines is therefore stronger today than a century ago.
N73|Cross checking the sound database with the french balance du commerce data|During the eighteenth century Europe set the cultural, political and economic conditions for its entry in the industrial era. While the role of international trade has been for a long time considered as a minor factor in the industrial revolution, the focus of economic history has changed somewhat during the last two decades. The emergence of a global perspective in economic history has led prominent scholars to account for the important role of international trade in the rise of Europe over other world regions 5 But whereas extra-European trade is comparatively well known and has been the object of recent syntheses,6intra-European trade has largely been neglected. The scarcity of works on foreign trade statistics of preindustrial times is all the more unfortunate as external trade flows are the single economic data that (some) early modern states have collected with the most care. Indeed, the first attempts at measuring foreign trade regularly can be dated back to the seventeenth century. From 1696 on, the English crown was able to collect a continuous series of customs data and release a yearly evaluation of the English balance of trade. The French royal administration created the Bureau de la balance du commerce in 1713. Its task was to produce a yearly document that detailed the French external trade and calculated its general balance. There was a pan European move towards a more extensive and better measurement of external trade throughout the eighteenth century, with various countries gathering the same data through their central administrations .
N73|How did trade norms evolve in Scandinavia? Long-distance trade and social trust in the Viking age|As the saying goes, “it takes years to build up trust and only seconds to destroy it.” In this paper, we argue that this is indeed the case when explaining trust formation in Scandinavia. Hence, in an attempt to explain why the Scandinavian welfare states hold the highest social trust scores in the world today, we argue that one possible historical root of social trust may be the long-distance trade practices of the Viking age. To manage the risk of being cheated, trade between strangers in an oral world required a strong informal institution of trust-based trade norms out of necessity to deal with the risk of being cheated. In contrast to similar cases like the famous medieval Maghribi traders, who counted on writing (Greif, 1989), the punishment of cheaters could not be supported by written documents such as legal documents and letters, as the large majority of Vikings were non-literate. If a trader did not keep his word, social sanctioning by word of mouth was most likely the only method to discipline the cheater and prevent future free-rider behavior. The early rise of trust-based trade norms in Scandinavia is an overlooked factor in the region’s long-term socio-economic development and social trust accumulation. This result points to the importance of free trade today, especially in poor countries with low levels of economic development and high rates of non-literacy.
N73|Deskilling and decline in skill premium during the age of sail: Swedish and Finnish seamen, 1751–1913|The study examines the evolution of skill premium and share at industry level in shipping during the age of sail. We argue that the period from the 1750s to the 1910s represented deskilling for the seamen working in sailing ships. The growth of international trade and shipping during the first era of globalization increased the overall demand for sailors but decreased the relative demand for skilled labor in favor of less skilled ones. This deskilling was associated with a decline in wage inequality, as the premium for high skilled seamen fell relative to mean wages in the shipping industry. The decline in skill premium may have facilitated the growth of trade and shipping, as the relative costs of transport declined. This in turn might have hastened the first era of globalization.
N73|Does medieval trade still matter? Historical trade centers, agglomeration and contemporary economic development|This study establishes a link between medieval trade, agglomeration and contemporary regional development in ten European countries. It documents a statistically and economically significant positive relationship between prominent involvement in medieval trade and regional economic development today. The analysis indicates that a long-lasting effect of medieval trade on contemporary regional development is transmitted via its effect on agglomeration and industry concentration. Further empirical analyses show that medieval trade positively influenced city development both during the medieval period and in the long run; they also reveal a robust connection between medieval city growth and contemporary regional agglomeration and industry concentration. This research thus highlights the long-run importance of medieval trade in shaping the development of cities as well as the contemporary spatial distribution of economic activity throughout Europe.
N73|The revealed comparative advantages of late-Victorian Britain|This paper calculates indicators of revealed comparative advantage (RCA) and revealed symmetric comparative advantage (RSCA) for 17 British manufacturing industries for the years 1880, 1890, and 1900. The resulting indicators show that the late-Victorian ‘workshop of the world’ was at a marked comparative disadvantage in a number of manufacturing industries. The paper then proceeds to identify the factor determinants of Britain’s manufacturing comparative advantages (disadvantages) using a four-factor Heckscher-Ohlin model that relies upon these indicators. In contrast with previous scholarship, the manufacturing comparative advantages of late-Victorian Britain were in the relatively labour non-intensive industries, and this pattern became more pronounced throughout the period. The paper concludes with the observation that the factor determinants of Britain’s manufacturing comparative advantages appear closer to those of the United States than had traditionally been thought.
N73|Medieval market making brokerage regulations in Central Western Europe, ca. 1250-1700|This paper examines brokerage regulations in Central and Western Europe from approximately 1250 to 1700. Based on a sample of 70 cities with more than 1609 sets of regulations, we find that brokerage was a multifunctional institution, which served matchmaking, quality certification, and tax collection functions, mainly in product wholesale markets but also in finance and real estate markets. We argue that the implementation of regulations for matchmaking and certification solved incentive problems related to asymmetric information between buyers and sellers, consequently improving the allocation process and fostering trade. In line with these results, we find that most brokerage regulations occur along trade routes and in merchant towns.
N73|The role of demesnes in the trade of agricultural horses in late medieval England|This paper examines the role of demesnes – the farms of lords, as opposed to the lands of their peasant tenants – in the trade of agricultural horses in medieval England. The introduction of horse power is recognised to have been a major factor in the development of the medieval English economy, increasing labour productivity in farming and the efficiency of overland transport, but the infrastructures through which these animals were produced and distributed has remained poorly understood. This paper uses a national sample of over 300 manorial accounts from c.1300 to assess the role of demesnes in the production and distribution of working horses. It finds that demesnes were significant net consumers of horses, primarily relying upon the market for their supply. This illustrates that there was a well established market for these animals by c.1300, but also that these large institutional farms did not breed enough horses to sustain their own demand, let alone a surplus that could have supplied the market. Demesnes (and their managers) did, however, fill an important distributive role in the trade of agricultural horses by acting, perhaps inadvertently, as ‘middle men’ in marshaling the various channels of work horse acquisition and dispersion.
N73|Cross-checking the Sound database with the French Balance du Commerce data|During the eighteenth century Europe set the cultural, political and economic conditions for its entry in the industrial era. While the role of international trade has been for a long time considered as a minor factor in the industrial revolution, the focus of economic history has changed somewhat during the last two decades. The emergence of a global perspective in economic history has led prominent scholars to account for the important role of international trade in the rise of Europe over other world regions 5 But whereas extra-European trade is comparatively well known and has been the object of recent syntheses,6intra-European trade has largely been neglected. The scarcity of works on foreign trade statistics of preindustrial times is all the more unfortunate as external trade flows are the single economic data that (some) early modern states have collected with the most care. Indeed, the first attempts at measuring foreign trade regularly can be dated back to the seventeenth century. From 1696 on, the English crown was able to collect a continuous series of customs data and release a yearly evaluation of the English balance of trade. The French royal administration created the Bureau de la balance du commerce in 1713. Its task was to produce a yearly document that detailed the French external trade and calculated its general balance. There was a pan European move towards a more extensive and better measurement of external trade throughout the eighteenth century, with various countries gathering the same data through their central administrations .<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|French Textile Specialisation in Long Run Perspective (1836-1938) : Trade Policy as Industrial Policy|By using a new database covering French international trade between 1836 and 1938 this paper focuses on the country’s specialisation in textiles. It demonstrates, for the first time, the major influence of trade policy on French international trade in textiles during the first globalisation. Tariffs appear to be crucial determinants of specialisation measured by the Lafay Index. Tariffs are also major determinants of intra-industry trade in textiles. By analysing changes in tariffs between raw textiles and finished textiles and decorrelation between tariffs we show that an effective trade protection approach was applied by successive French governments in order to sustain the industrial competitiveness of textiles. Trade policy slowed down textile de-specialisation until WWI.
N73|The revealed comparative advantages of late-Victorian Britain|This paper calculates indicators of revealed comparative advantage (RCA) and revealed symmetric comparative advantage (RSCA) for 17 British manufacturing industries for the years 1880, 1890, and 1900. The resulting indicators show that the late-Victorian ‘workshop of the world’ was at a marked comparative disadvantage in a number of manufacturing industries. The paper then proceeds to identify the factor determinants of Britain’s manufacturing comparative advantages (disadvantages) using a fourfactor Heckscher-Ohlin model that relies upon these indicators. In contrast with previous scholarship, the manufacturing comparative advantages of late-Victorian Britain were in the relatively labour nonintensive industries, and this pattern became more pronounced throughout the period. The paper concludes with the observation that the factor determinants of Britain’s manufacturing comparative advantages appear closer to those of the United States than had traditionally been thought.
N73|Az Adria Magyar Királyi Tengerhajózási Rt. szerepe Fiume hajó- és áruforgalmában (1874-1914)<BR>[The role of the Adria Royal Hungarian Shipping Co. in the shipping and goods turnover of Fiume (1874-1914)]|A dualizmus időszaka alatt megvalósult fejlesztések hatására Fiume Európa 10. legforgalmasabb kikötője lett. A szerző bemutatja az akkori tengeri kereskedelem motorjainak számító államilag finanszírozott gőzhajózási vállalatokat, kiemelt figyelmet szentelve az említett társaságnak. Megvizsgálja a velük kötött és törvénybe iktatott szerződéseket, és a statisztikai források alapján összegzi hajó- és áruforgalmukat. Ezt követően elemzi részesedésüket a fiumei kikötő összforgalmában, és felteszi a kérdést, vajon az államnak megérte-e támogatni őket. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: N73.
N73|Развитие Внешнеторговых Связей России В Период Царствования Михаила Федоровича Романова<BR>[The Development Of Russian Foreign Trade Relations During The Reign Of Mikhail Romanov]|The article is devoted to the evolution of the foreign trade relations of Russia during the reign of Mikhail Romanov (1613-1645). The author analyzes the routes of foreign trade, the range of export goods, social composition of the merchants, the changes of foreign trade geography. The special attention is paid to the impact of the Russian Orthodox Church in the development of foreign trade.
N73|Fast Track to Growth? The Impact of Railway Access on Regional Economic Development in 19th Century Switzerland|We study the effect of railway access on regional development in 19th century Switzerland. The identification strategy in our analysis of geo-referenced railway network information, population growth rates, sectoral work shares and body height, relies on panel data techniques and an inconsequential units IV approach. Gaining railway access increased annual population growth by 0.4 percentage points compared to unconnected municipalities, mainly via the local migration balance. Railway improvements also promoted structural shifts from the primary to the secondary/tertiary sectors, and marginally accelerated body height growth.
N73|El comercio de vinos entre España e Inglaterra en la segunda mitad del siglo XVII: Problemas que plantea la construcción de una serie anual y primeros resultados|Wine became the prime commodity amongst Spanish exports to England in the seventeenth century. This article offers a review of current data and a new annual data series on Spanish wine exports to England from 1664 to 1697, derived from the London and Bristol Port Books. An analysis is offered of the changes that took place in the regional provenance of Spanish wine in those years, most notably the decline of wine from Málaga and the Canary Islands along with the rise of imports of Cádiz sherry. As outlined in this article, the main importers of Spanish wines in 1676, 1686, and 1696 were a small group of merchants that controlled this trade. Some lines of further research are suggested.
N73|The Rise of the Cotton Trade in Brazil during the Industrial Revolution|When and why did Brazilian cotton become important to the Industrial Revolution? After 1780, Brazil increased substantially its trade share relative to other cotton suppliers. Between 1791 and 1801, Brazilian cotton represented 40 percent of raw cotton imports in Liverpool, rivalling the West Indies. Using archival data between 1760 and 1808, this paper shows that Brazil benefited from increasing British demand for a new variety of cotton staple that emerged with mechanized textile production. Previous explanations for the rise of Brazilian cotton trade attributed it to the revolutions in the Caribbean in the 1790s, and the American Revolutionary War, which ended in 1783. Evidence, however, suggests that these explanations are incomplete or incorrect. The United States did not export cotton to Britain before 1790, and British imports from the West Indies did not fall after the revolutions. The increase in cotton trade between Brazil and Britain can be explained by four parallel stories: 1) how diplomatic conflicts between Portugal and Britain involving the wine trade increased Brazilian cotton importance in the Portuguese trade balance; 2) how cotton plantations in Brazil managed to respond to Britain’s increasing demand after the 1780s; 3) why the West Indies were not a viable alternative to Brazilian cotton; 4) why the Brazilian cotton staple had natural advantages over initial alternatives for new textile machines in Britain.
N73|Los determinantes internacionales de la evolución del sistema español de patentes durante el siglo XIX|The various nineteenth-century national patent systems had a heterogeneous institutional evolution. This article explores the international determinants of this institutional diversity, using the Spanish system as a case study. Instead of presenting the causality as running from institutions to economic performance, it explores the inverse relationship, that is, how Spain’s technological backwardness and dependency set the stage for the institutional organisation of this country’s patent system. The international dynamics manifested in different aspects of the system: its peripheral, hybrid and dual nature; the Spanish reception of the European controversy over patent rights; the early Spanish integration into the international patent system; and the prominence of international intermediaries. The article concludes that nineteenth-century variations in the institutional architecture and the administrative practices of the various national systems were the consequence of the historical making of an asymetric international patent system.
N73|What Makes a Successful Entrepreneur? Historical Evidence from Italy (XIX-XX Centuries)|in this paper we employ a “quantitative” prosopographical approach to study the nature and the determinants of entrepreneurial success. Our main source is the “Biographical Dictionary of Italian Entrepreneurs” which contains very detailed information on 608 major Italian entrepreneurs active over more than two centuries. Our findings indicate the multidimensional nature of entrepreneurial success, comprising both a strictly economic and a “celebrity” dimension. Concerning the determinants of success, our findings point to the “political” nature of Italian capitalism.
N73|Introducing Railway Time in the Balkans: Economic eﬀects of railway construction in Southeast Europe and beyond since the early 19th century until present days|Abstract In this paper we analyse the economic eﬀects of railway infrastructure at the national level for European countries as well as at the local level for Southeast European cities based on a novel railway database capturing decades of the 19th century up to the early 21th century. A panel ﬁxed eﬀects regression analysis at the country level indicates a positive economic impact emanating from railway infrastructure, whereby the eﬀect appears to be even stronger for less developed Southeast European countries. In addition, a linear spatially augmented multilevel model at the city level sheds light on the positive eﬀects resulting from railway infrastructure on urban development. Its positive spillover eﬀects occur within countries as well as across borders.
N73|Las relaciones comerciales contemporáneas de Aragón con Cataluña: de la complementariedad al modelo intraindustrial|En este trabajo se muestran las estrechas relaciones comerciales que Aragón ha mantenido con Cataluña durante la contemporaneidad. La industrialización de Cataluña permitió una creciente complementariedad productiva y comercial con la economía agraria aragonesa. Durante la segunda mitad del siglo XX el avance de la industrialización en Aragón permitió diversificar su especialización productiva. En este contexto, Cataluña ha seguido siendo, con gran diferencia, el principal mercado exterior de Aragón. Desde finales de siglo Aragón ha pasado a ser el principal destino de las exportaciones catalanas, tras Francia, y también su principal proveedor regional. Su comercio muestra ya un claro perfil intraindustrial.
N73|How England Unified Germany: Geography and the Rise of Prussia After 1815|We analyze the formation oft he German Zollverein as an example how geography can shape institutional change. We show how the redrawing of the European map at the Congress of Vienna—notably Prussia’s control over the Rhineland and Westphalia—affected the incentives for policymakers to cooperate. The new borders were not endogenous. They were at odds with the strategy of Prussia, but followed from Britain’s intervention at Vienna regarding the Polish-Saxon question. For many small German states, the resulting borders changed the trade-off between the benefits from cooperation with Prussia and the costs of losing political control. Based on GIS data on Central Europe for 1818–1854 we estimate a simple model of the incentives to join an existing customs union. The model can explain the sequence of states joining the Prussian Zollverein extremely well. Moreover we run a counterfactual exercise: if Prussia would have succeeded with her strategy to gain the entire Kingdom of Saxony instead of the western provinces, the Zollverein would not have formed. We conclude that geography can shape institutional change. To put it different, as collateral damage to her intervention at Vienna,”’Britain unified Germany”’.
N73|The Zollverein and the Formation of a Customs Union|The Zollverein, the German customs union of 1834, was the institutional centrepiece of Germany's economic unification. A bargaining model is applied to analyze the structure of its negotiation process and accession sequence. The existence of negative coalition externalities, the effect of a coalition of non-participants, led Prusssia to choose sequential over multilateral negotiations. The nature of these externalities within the areas of financial revenues, trade policy and domestic political economy also explains the observed accession sequence. The choice of a customs union as institutional structure allowed Prussia to extract higher concessions from other states due to stronger coalition externalities.
N73|Markets before economic growth: the grain market of medieval England|England from 1200 to 1600 was a society caught in apparent technological stasis, typical of the pre-industrial world. Many believe this pre-industrial stagnation was the result of political and cultural constraints, such as those on the operation of markets. Indeed medieval English law outlawed many arbitrage activities in markets. The paper shows using information of grain yields and prices at 227 different locations that the most important of all markets, that for grain, was nevertheless both extensive and relatively efficient as early as 1209. Whatever the rhetoric of medieval law and social thought the real effect of constraints on the operation the grain market seems to have been minimal. England had an elaborate market economy at least 500 years before it had sustained economic growth.
N73|Railroads And Growth In Prussia| We study the effect of railroad access on urban population growth. Using GIS techniques, we match triennial population data for roughly 1,000 cities in 19th-century Prussia to georeferenced maps of the German railroad network. We find positive short- and long-term effects of having a station on urban growth for different periods during 1840–1871. Causal effects of (potentially endogenous) railroad access on city growth are identified using propensity score matching, instrumental variables, and fixed-effects estimation techniques. Our instrument identifies exogenous variation in railroad access by constructing straight-line corridors between nodes. Counterfactual models using pre-railroad growth yield no evidence to support the hypothesis that railroads appeared as a consequence of a previous growth spurt.
N73|Railways and the Productivity Gap in Italy: Persistence and Divergence after Unification|The political unification of Italy in 1861 led to the establishment of a single market, by removing the trade barriers across the pre-existing states, with a single currency. Market integration was the economic outcome of this process. At the same time, the Kingdom of Italy started a large infrastructure project to spread railways, which were largely confined in Northern Italy, all over the country. Using tools from spatial econometrics, we find that railways played a positive effect on productivity, but this effect was stronger in the areas in which railways were already built. Moreover, railways helped industrial firms to locate closer to water sources and gain access from there to the overall market. This effect is in line with New Economic Geography according to which infrastructure lead to a widening of territorial disparities.
N73|What Do We Really Know About Protection Before The Great Depression: Evidence From Italy|The impact of protection on economic growth is one of the traditional issues in economic history, which has enjoyed a revival in recent times, with the publication of a number of comparative quantitative papers. They all share a common weakness: they measure protection with the ratio of custom revenues to imports, which is bound to bias results if imports are not perfectly inelastic. In this paper, we show that the measure of protection matters, by estimating the Trade Restrictiveness Index (TRI) by Anderson and Neary (2005) for Italy from its unification to the Great Depression. We put forward a different interpretation of some key moments of Italian trade policy and we show that the aggregate welfare losses were small in the long run and mostly related to the outlandish protection on sugar in the 1880s and 1890s. We also show that different measures of protection affect considerably the results of econometric tests on the causal relation between trade policy on economic growth in Italy and in the United States. Accordingly, we argue that the economic history of trade policy needs a systematic re-estimating of protection.
N73|The Ghost in the Attic? The Italian National Innovation System in Historical Perspective, 1861–2011|In this paper we provide a survey of the long term evolution of the Italian “National innovation system” since the unification. . First we provide a broad reconstruction of long term trends by examining a wide range of quantitative indicators of science and technological activities in comparative perspective. Second, on the basis of this quantitative picture, we put forward a conjectural interpretation of the fundamental features of the Italian national innovation system. Our conclusion is that Italy has approached the process of Modern Economic Growth following a peculiar path characterized by a limited commitment to investments in science and technology in combination with low real wages and the intense use of unskilled labour.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|France’s international insertion strategy in globalization in long run perspective 1836-1938|Using a new long term database on French foreign trade at a high level of disaggregation the paper deepened France’s international specializations, comparative advantages and exports concentration. At the beginning of the period, France appears to have espoused a Ricardian model of trade, exporting few textiles products in large quantities. The decreasing of the degree of specialization from 1860 to WWI calling into question dynamic Ricardian model expectations about an increasing of French exports concentration. The decline of exports concentration is correlated with chronic deficit of its balance of trade during Belle Epoque. We observe the same phenomena during the major part of interwar particularly after 1927.
N73|Sharing Mare Nostrum: An analysis of Mediterranean maritime history articles in English-language journals|This discussion paper is a follow-up to a previous bibliometric analysis of articles published in The International Journal of Maritime History and maritime-themed articles published in other economic and business history journals over the last 25 years. The paper looks more closely at articles dealing with the Mediterranean and articles written by scholars from the Mediterranean countries. The article is structured around five propositions about current trends in Mediterranean maritime history publishing in English-language journals.
N73|The East Indian Monopoly and the Transition from Limited Access in England, 1600–1813|Many markets are limited by laws and customs enforced by political and religious authorities. North, Wallis, and Weingast (2009) argue that the transition from limited access requires a series of steps like rule of law for elites and the creation of perpetually lived organizations. This paper studies how these steps were taken in England in the case of the East Indian market. The East India Company had a legal monopoly over all trade between England and modern day India and China, but its privileges and property were far from secure. The king and parliament authorized interlopers to enter the Company’s market and forced the Company to make loans to retain its monopoly. A secure monopoly only emerged in the mid-eighteenth century when political stability and fiscal capacity increased. However, liberalization of the market had to wait several more decades. A fiscal and political partnership between the government and the Company kept its monopoly stable until a confluence of events in 1813 brought it to an end.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|Stages of Diversification: France, 1836-1938|A large literature has documented an association between economic growth and export diversification. We study this question in France between 1836 and 1938. The period witnessed the onset of modern economic growth and sharp changes in the level of international competition. We use a new long term database on French foreign trade at a high level of disaggregation. At the dawn of the first Globalization, France appears to have specialized along Ricardian lines, exporting a handful of textile products in large quantities. There is a decrease in specialization from 1860 to World War I along the lines of modern studies. Changes in trade costs along with economic growth help explain the evolution of France’s comparative advantage. The decline of export concentration is associated with a chronic deficit in the balance of trade during the Belle Époque and the major part of the interwar period particularly after 1927.
N73|Chicken or egg? The PVAR econometrics of transportation|To analyse the mutually dependent relationship between local economic performance, demand for and supply of transport services, we employ the structural panel VAR method that is popular in the macroeconomic literature, but has not previously been applied to the modelling of the within-city dynamics of transportation. We focus on a within-city panel of Berlin, Germany during the heyday of the construction of its dense public transit network (1890–1914). Our results suggest that economic outcomes and a supply of transport infrastructure mutually determine each other. We find a short-run (long-run) elasticity of property prices with respect to transport supply of 2% (8.5%). Both transport demand and supply seem to be driven more by firms than by residents.
N73|Being Bad by Being Good: Owner and Captain Value-Added in the Slave Trade|We use slave voyage data from 18th century Great Britain and France to answer two questions: 1) How important was the managerial quality of owners and captains in slave trading? and 2) What explains the substantial variation in managerial quality? Utilizing the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade Database, in which we observe the performance of owners and captains in each of their voyages, we follow the teacher evaluation literature to estimate the value-added of owners and captains to slave voyage output, i.e. the number of slaves arriving in the Americas. Several results emerge. First, if we replace all owners with the 90th percentile owner in the country, slave voyage output would be 15% and 25% higher than if we replaced all owners with the 10th percentile owner in Great Britain and in France. This 90/10 ratio is 1.27 for British captains. Second, owner value-added is negatively associated with family businesses and positively associated with the level of competition. A comparison of owner value-added before and after the unexpected outbreak of the Seven Years' War, which historians suggest decreased (increased) competition in the French (British) slave trade, suggests competition's effect on owner value-added might be causal.
N73|Magna Carta, the rule of law, and the limits on government|This paper surveys the legal tradition that links Magna Carta with the modern concepts of the rule of law and the limits on government. It documents that the original understanding of the rule of law included substantive commitments to individual freedom and limited government. Then, it attempts to explain how and why such commitments were lost to a formalist interpretation of the rule of law from 1848 to 1939. The paper concludes by arguing that a revival of the substantive commitments of the rule of law is central to reshaping modern states.
N73|La promozione turistica durante la Belle Époque: il caso della Riviera ligure<BR>[Tourist Promotion during the Belle Époque: the case of the Riviera Ligure]|During the second half of the 19th century Liguria, the well-known Italian Riviera, emerged as a leading tourist region in Europe. Although its initial success depended on natural resources (a mild winter climate and a beautiful landscape), the progressive growth of international competition forced Liguria’s leading resorts to improve tourist facilities and to invest in advertising and communication. This paper analyses the strategies adopted and the role played by the different actors involved (hoteliers, nonprofit associations, municipalities, etc.) in building and disseminating a fascinating image in order to succeed in the international tourist market.
N73|The public passenger transport. Role and evolution|Achieving a comprehensive analysis on the evolution and role of public passenger transport, analysis of the level of structural and institutional development through the principles, functions and procedures of transport as a basis for national economic growth and development.
N73|La circulación del ganado y los poderes locales en el Pirineo entre Navarra, Labourd y Bearne (siglos XIII y XIV)|The Western Pyrenees were for the Navarrese an area of livestock grazing during the central Middle Ages, thanks to age-old usage of the mountain passes, along with the benefits of lower altitude lands such as Ultrapuertos in Navarre. In contrast with the surrounding mountainous areas, these lands were well suited to transhumance. Therefore, we consider livestock flows essential to understanding the geographic features of this region that bordered the important French, Navarrese and English medieval kingdoms of that period. This article seeks to identify a whole network of relationships that go from the principal livestock movements to gains obtained by local authorities or the king by means of taxing or leasing pastures. Also pertinent are the commercial dynamics affecting livestock in regional markets on both sides of the Pyrenees. This signals an area of exchange and collaboration between the people of Navarre, Labourd and Béarn, in a relationship which has survived until the present. One can see this in the fact that some treaties rooted in the Middle Ages have survived until today, such as the facerias.
N73|El transporte ferroviario de ganado y el mercado entre 1848 y 1913|This paper analyses the transport of livestock by rail between 1848 and 1913. To do this, first of all it has been necessary to previously establish two methodologies that have allowed us to reconstruct the quantitative evolution of live animal shipping and the origin-destination characteristics of rail journeys. The results of this research suggest: first, that during the last third of the nineteenth century the transportation of sheep and pigs grew at a slower pace than that of cows, goods and cereals. And, second, that railways offered from a very early stage enough mobility to meet the demand for fresh meat coming from a national market mainly based on urban consumers. Demand for fresh meat was high and could not have caused the weak trend in sheep and pig transportation growth. Thus, the explanatory factor must be the supply. Although further research on this subject is needed, a plausible hypothesis emerges, namely, that there were two different tendencies in the Spanish farming system, which is consistent with the argument of an agrarian sector for which environmental aspects are a determinant factor. In consequence, while pig and sheep production increased below what the market demand could absorb in the extensive farming model characteristic of dry Spain, in the intensive farming of the rainy part of Spain beef production could grow with few obstacles. Rail transport flows reflect these circumstances, which disappeared after 1900.
N73|El comercio de cabotaje del vino de Jerez en el siglo XIX: un análisis cuantitativo|In this paper, we tackle the most relevant aspects of the evolution in the market for sherry wine by studying the coastal trade in the region of Cadiz during the period 1857-1900. We develop a database using the information contained in the Estadísticas Generales del Comercio de Cabotaje en España (General Statistics of Coastal Trade in Spain) over the second half of the nineteenth century. We use these data to divide the period into different phases, in order to study the major historical features of the domestic market of sherry. Then we formulate a series of hypotheses to be tested empirically. In particular, we investigate the causal links between the dynamics of coastal trade and exports, as well as major historical events such as the outbreak of phylloxera or the global crisis of the late twentieth century. We find empirical evidence to support our hypotheses by estimating econometric time-series models.
N73|All access: a micro-level case study on the secondary center of Berlin (1871–1936)|In an empirical analysis, I show that in the case of Berlin, Germany (1871–1936), the emergence of the second CBD during the first half of the past century was largely driven by market access generated by rail-based public transport. By applying a multistep measure of accessibility, it can be shown that while the city brought-up several economic centers simultaneously, the area around the Kurfürstendamm revealed a strong initial advantage leading to a rapid clustering of economic activity that consisted even decades after this advantage had vanished (hysteresis effect). Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
N73|Paving the way to modernity: Prussian roads and grain market integration in Westphalia, 1821-1855| This study investigates the relation of pre-railroad transport infrastructure on Westphalian grain market integration in the early nineteenth century. It is motivated by recently found indications of macroeconomic change in Prussia such as increased demand for labour, disappearance of positive Malthusian shocks and grain market integration. These coincide and correspond well with a number of institutional breaks such as border changes and state creation after the end of the Napoleonic Wars, liberal political reforms such as the abandoning of corporatist regulations in Prussia and substantial public investment in paved roads in a number of Prussian provinces. In this study, we show that (1) paved road connections mattered economically and statistically for bilateral rye and wheat price differences, (2) the usual dummy-variable approach to measure the effect of transport infrastructures proves to be unreliable and we propose a new indicator that takes into account the effects of the transport network, (3) the role of the early railroad connections is not robust. In this pilot study, we for the first time establish the correlation between economic development and pre-railroad transport infrastructure for a Prussian province, and thus call for more research on the causes of macroeconomic change in early nineteenth century Prussia.
N73|Huth & Co.’s credit strategies: a global merchant-banker’s risk management, c. 1810-1850|The pivotal role played by non-banking institutions in supporting the expansion of international trade after the Napoleonic Wars and before first globalization c. 1870-1913 has long been recognised. Merchant-bankers in particular played a crucial role by advancing monies to consignors of products all over the world. Without this form of credit, many international trade operations could not have taken place. Despite the important extant literature on merchant-banking, we knew little about how these international lenders protected themselves against the risks involved in advancing during this period, in particular for merchantbankers who had diversified both geographically and by products. This paper is concerned with the risk protection strategies followed by one of these actors: Huth & Co., the first of these companies to globalize their operations. During this expansionary period they provided credit to many of their connections all over the world, thus becoming an important financial intermediary within world trade. This paper, therefore, provides the first account of the credit risk management strategies followed by this pioneer global lender.
N73|The innovation-trade nexus: Italy in historical perspective (1861-1939)|This work investigates the relationship between trade and technological specialisation in Italy, during the long time span ranging from Unification to the eve of the Second World War. To do this, new series of Italy's indices of specialisation in trade and technology are calculated on the base of offcial data. Empirical analysis, based on Spearman rank correlation coefficients and fixed-effects regression, shows the emergence of a positive relationship between specialisation in technology and specialisation in trade after the start of the country's modern economic growth, around the turn of the twentieth century. This, however, was uniquely driven by a negative relationship between technological specialisation and import shares, while no significant relationship between the former and export shares emerges. Furthermore, this finding excludes the most important sector, leading Italian industrialisation, i.e. textiles, the outstanding performance of which can be seen as largely determined by its being particularly suited to the country's factor endowment.
N73|The long shadow of history: Roman legacy and economic development - evidence from the German limes|This paper contributes to the understanding of the long-run consequences of Roman rule on economic development. In ancient times, the area of contemporary Germany was divided into a Roman and non-Roman part. The study uses this division to test whether the formerly Roman part of Germany show a higher nightlight luminosity than the non-Roman part. This is done by using the Limes wall as geographical discontinuity in a regression discontinuity design framework. The results indicate that economic development - as measured by luminosity - is indeed significantly and robustly larger in the formerly Roman parts of Germany. The study identifies the persistence of the Roman road network until the present as an important factor causing this development advantage of the formerly Roman part of Germany both by fostering city growth and by allowing for a denser road network.
N73|A Review of Peter Temin's The Roman Market Economy|"Herein, I review Peter Temin's book, ""The Roman Market Economy"", and take the occasion to alert economists to the exciting work that is being done and could be done in the economic history of the ancient world. (JEL C80, N01, N13, N73)"
N73|Did patents of introduction encourage technology transfer? Long-term evidence from the Spanish innovation system|In this article, we reflect on how patents of introduction or importation, which compose an institutional policy related to weak IPR systems, could influence long-term international technology transfer. Both theoretically and empirically, the consequences of strengthening IPRs in lagging economies for technology transfer and innovation remain unclear. Although the mainstream literature tends to link stronger patent enforcement with better invention and innovation markets now and in the past, new theoretical and historical evidence supports extreme complexity in the relationship between IPR extension and scope and technological diffusion. For the first time, in this study, we analyze a large series of patents of introduction, which were a common feature of the early stages of almost all patent systems designed to favor technology transfer and innovation above original inventor property rights. Though typically used by pioneers, followers, and latecomers, we know little of how they functioned and their consequences. In this study, we analyze the use of patents of introduction throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in Spain, which was a lagging country on the European periphery. The results demonstrate that this institutional policy could facilitate technology transfer, innovation, and advancement at earlier stages of industrialization. As additional research has demonstrated, such evidence may have serious implications for IPR treatment in both developing and underdeveloped economies.
N73|The spinning jenny and the guillotine: technology diffusion at the time of revolutions|Scale economies and demand, combined with the relative prices of input factors, can provide an economic explanation to the location and timing of the Industrial Revolution. Its labor-saving innovations were profitable only above a minimum output threshold, which allowed to cover the upfront cost of capital. In turn, the possibility to exceed such threshold depended on consumer demand, which was affected by the level and by the distribution of real income. The case of the spinning jenny and the cotton industry in England and France serves as a valuable case study to show how scale and demand considerations might have mattered even at the eve of the Industrial Revolution, thus implying also a potentially important role for income distribution.
N73|The value-added of service industry 1861-1951: the new series at current prices and first interpretations|This paper presents the new yearly series of the value-added of services for Italy, from 1861 to 1951, at current prices. For each sector, after discussing sources and methodology, the results are compared with the early Istat (1957) series. By looking at the production value of specific activities, it is possible to reveal the strong underestimation of the early series. From 1861 to 1911, our new estimate is consistently higher: the gap increases while the Italian economy grows strongly, which may lead to a more favourable evaluation of the contribution of services to the industrialization of the country. Between 1911 and 1938, our series is more cyclical, performing better in the twenties, worse during the 1929 crisis, but then again showing faster recovery in the 1930s. Finally, the changes between 1938 and 1951 are essentially due to the heavy underestimation of services found in the early series for 1951.
N73|Crown Rule, Home Charges, and U.K.-India Terms of Trade|This paper examines possible determinants of the long-run bilateral commodity terms of trade between the United Kingdom and British India during the Crown Rule period of 1858-1947. The potential influences of aggregate real incomes, price levels/money supplies, international transportation costs, and the exchange rate are included in the analysis, but we especially focus on the Home Charges that India was obliged to pay to Britain. The econometric results provide some support for the hypothesis that a rise in Home Charges was associated with an improvement in Britain’s terms of trade with India. In addition, a clear role was played by changes in transport costs and in the exchange rate.
N73|Measuring integration in the English wheat market, 1770–1820: New methods, new answers|We show that vector error correction models encompass different approaches to analysing market integration; we illustrate our method using English weekly wheat prices, 1770–1820. Price variation decomposes into: (i) magnitude of price shocks; (ii) correlation of price shocks; (iii) between-period arbitrage. Data frequency affects these components, but has the largest effect on between-period arbitrage, commonly measured by half-life. Since this measure has been generally employed, previous analyses should be interpreted with caution. We further show that estimated effects of better transport and communication depend on the model used to measure market integration. Notably, we observe market integration improvements, not in between-period arbitrage, but in the within-week behaviour of prices (i.e. over much shorter time periods). So transport impacted English market integration, but in a way not captured by half-lives.
N73|Long run demand for energy services: income and price elasticities over two hundred years|This article investigates how the demand for energy services has changed since the Industrial Revolution. It presents evidence on the income and price elasticities of demand for domestic heating, passenger transport, and lighting in the United Kingdom over the last two hundred years. As the economy developed and energy service prices fell, income elasticities have generally followed an inverse U-shape curve, and price elasticities have generally followed a U-shape curve. However, these general trends also appear to have been affected by energy and technological transitions, which boosted demand (by either encouraging poorer consumers to fully enter the market or offering new attributes of value to wealthier consumers). The evidence presented offers insights that will be helpful for identifying likely future trends in energy use and carbon dioxide emissions, and for developing long-term climate policies.
N73|The political economy of Byzantium: transaction costs and the decentralisation of the Byzantine Empire in the twelfth century|This thesis aims to contribute to an explanation of how the development of political institutions is influenced by the costs of information and exchange across society in a pre-modern context. The Byzantine Empire in the twelfth century presents an apparent paradox of an expanding economy alongside a weakening central state. Application of a dynamic transaction-cost framework can illustrate how political and economic decentralisation can rationally occur as non-state actors begin to gain a comparative transaction-cost advantage over the state. Geopolitical and economic developments of the late-eleventh and twelfth century empowered non-state provincial interests in the Byzantine Empire to the detriment of the central state apparatus, including the imperial bureaucracy. Economic growth, an increasingly fluid provincial political environment, and the decline of the imperial navy simultaneously raised the transaction costs of the state and lowered the transaction costs of local interests. This shift prompted the decentralisation of power that ultimately contributed to the destruction of the Byzantine state in 1204. The state faced increasing relative costs of information acquisition, security provision, and tax collection as provincial transaction costs declined and state networks were allowed to degrade. Decentralisation of political and economic power became first possible, then practical, and finally unavoidable in a process that fatally undermined the cohesion of the empire. This thesis uses a transaction cost framework to provide an economically informed explanation of political decline that complements the traditional politically focused narrative and begins to address the contradiction apparent in a state ruling over increasingly prosperous territory, yet proving so fragile by the closing years of the twelfth century.
N73|Soft power: the media industries in Britain since 1870|This paper discusses the emergence and growth of various media industries in Britain. It shows how a rise in real wages and leisure time, rapid urbanisation and the development of fast urban transport networks, and a rapid growth of the market’s size let to a sharp rise in the demand for media and entertainment products and services, which was met by ever-new technologies coming from constantly emerging new industries, such as recorded music, film, radio, television, cable, videogames, internet, and social media. The paper argued these industries contributed to a sharp productivity rise by industrialising traditional media and entertainment, and to a sharp welfare growth as consumers valued them so highly that they were willing to incur ever-higher opportunity costs to consume them. It also discusses how four factors quality races, marginal revenues equalling marginal profits, the superstar effect and agglomeration benefits shaped the evolution of individual industries, and it assesses the success or failure of British industrial policy towards media industries. The paper observes media’s impact on the aggregate economy through opportunity costs, expectations and aspirations, the functioning of the market, education, and, finally, through shaping the means of institutional change. In addition, the paper makes new decennial benchmark estimates for British consumer expenditure on books between 1870 and 1900, on recorded music between 1900 and 1930 and on cinema between 1910 and 1930, for which previously no estimates were available
N73|American tariff policy and the British alkali industry, 1880-1905|Until the late nineteenth century, the British alkali industry enjoyed a colossal export market in the United States. Yet, as several scholars have already noted, the highly protectionist Dingley Tariff of 1897 caused a precipitous and irreversible decline in the volume of British alkali exports to the United States. Drawing upon an abundance of textual evidence, this study argues that, in addition to the climactic Dingley Tariff, previous American tariff acts in 1883, 1890, and 1894 also exerted a pronounced influence on the volume of British alkali exports to the United States. Further corroborating this claim is a regression analysis that employs, as an explanatory variable, newly constructed annual estimates of the ad valorem equivalent tariff that the United States imposed upon alkali imports from Britain. Approaching the British alkali industry from a microeconomic standpoint, this study also argues that one particular British alkali firm, Brunner, Mond & Co., mitigated its financial exposure to American tariff policy by acquiring, in 1887, a minority shareholding in a nascent American alkali firm, the Solvay Process Company. Profits from Brunner’s shareholding in the Solvay Process Company substantially offset the profits that Brunner, Mond & Co. lost as the result of its diminished alkali exports to the United States. The other dominant British alkali firm, the United Alkali Company, did not fare so well.
N73|Quakers, coercion and pre-modern growth: why friends’ formal institutions for contract enforcement did not matter for early Atlantic trade expansion|During the late seventeenth century the Atlantic trade experienced unprecedented growth. The New Institutional Economists attribute this to the emergence of new institutions for property rights enforcement. During this period, Quakers emerged as the region’s most prominent trading community. This paper constitutes the first study of the London Quaker community. In contrast to the literature, claiming that they enjoyed a competitive advantage due to their church’s formal institutions for contract enforcement, this paper argues that Friends’ formal institutions for contract enforcement emerged only after 1750. This constituted a response to contemporary concern about debt.
N73|Economic theory and economic history: Graziani’s vision|"After summarising the essay on economic history by Augusto Graziani, Il commercio estero del Regno delle due Sicilie dal 1838 al 1858, the article compares the idea which he had of the relationship between economic theory and economic history with those of other great economists and economic historians. From the comparison there emerge many points in common and, basically, that the economist needs the historian to obtain material on which to work, while - according to John Hicks - it is not the task of the historian ""to think in theoretical terms""."
N73|Market potential estimates in history: a survey of methods and an application to Spain, 1867-1930|New Economic Geography (NEG) models stress the importance of access to demand as a key driver of the spatial and temporal distribution of economic activity (Krugman, 1991). Therefore, in order to test the theoretical predictions emanating from NEG a sound measure of accessibility is required. In line with Crafts (2005b), this paper constructs market potential estimates for Spain at the province level (NUTS3) between 1867 and 1930 using Harris’s (1954) equation. This period is particularly appealing as it was during these years that the Spanish market became integrated thanks to the fall in transport and trade costs. A number of key processes, including the substitution of traditional transport modes and the improvement in transport technologies (the railways and steam navigation), were set in motion. At the same time, the Spanish economy was experiencing the early stages of industrialization in a context characterised by changing trade policies. Interestingly, these long-term processes brought about asymmetric changes in regional accessibility, thus potentially affecting the evolution of Spain’s regional economies. The results show that the main changes to regional market accessibility in Spain can be traced to the second half of the 19th century, a period characterised by centrifugal tendencies. The availability of this dataset is essential for undertaking empirical exercises, through the lens of NEG, examining the Spanish experience up to the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939), when an increasing spatial concentration in the country’s manufacturing sector and an upswing in regional per capita income inequality took place.
N73|The Impact Of The German Autobahn Net On Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study Using Historical Instrument Variables|This paper analyzes the impact of the German autobahn net on the economic performance of German regions. To address endogeneity and reverse causation problems, we use historical instrument variables, i.e. a plan of the railroad net in 1890 and a plan of the autobahn net in 1937. We find a statistically and economically significant causal effect of transport infrastructure investments as measured by changes in the length of the autobahn net of West German NUTS 3 areas on regional employment and the wage bill.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|The Impact of the German Autobahn Net on Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study Using Historical Instrument Variables|This paper analyzes the impact of the German autobahn net on the economic performance of German regions. To address endogeneity and reverse causation problems, we use historical instrument variables, i.e. a plan of the railroad net in 1890 and a plan of the autobahn net in 1937. We find a statistically and economically significant causal effect of transport infrastructure investments as measured by changes in the length of the autobahn net of West German NUTS 3 areas on regional employment and the wage bill.
N73|Editor's Choice Long-Run Demand for Energy Services: Income and Price Elasticities over Two Hundred Years|This article investigates how the demand for energy services has changed since the Industrial Revolution. It presents evidence on the income and price elasticities of demand for domestic heating, passenger transport, and lighting in the United Kingdom over the last two hundred years. As the economy developed and energy service prices fell, income elasticities have generally followed an inverse U-shape curve, and price elasticities have generally followed a U-shape curve. However, these general trends also appear to have been affected by energy and technological transitions, which boosted demand (by either encouraging poorer consumers to fully enter the market or offering new attributes of value to wealthier consumers). The evidence presented offers insights that will be helpful for identifying likely future trends in energy use and carbon dioxide emissions, and for developing long-term climate policies. (JEL: Q41, N73, N74, D12)
N73|Technical Change, Non-Tariff Trade Barriers and the Development of the Italian Locomotives Industry, 1850-1913|In this paper we examine the dynamics of technical change in the Italian locomotive industry in the period 1850-1913. From an historical point of view, the case of the Italian locomotive industry presents a major point of interest: it was one of the few relatively sophisticated “high-tech” industries in which Italy, a latecomer country, was able to firmly set foot before 1913. Using technical data on the performance of different vintages of locomotives, we construct a new aggregate index of technical change for the industry. Overall the most successful phase for the Italian locomotive industry seems to be period 1895-1913 characterized by a very rapid technical progress and by the effective consolidation of the technological capabilities in this area of two major firms: Breda and Ansaldo. Our re-assessment reveals the critical role of non-tariff trade barriers in the development of this industry.
N73|Printing and Protestants: An Empirical Test of the Role of Printing in the Reformation| The causes of the Protestant Reformation have long been debated. This paper seeks to revive and econometrically test the theory that the spread of the Reformation is linked to the spread of the printing press. I test this theory by analyzing data on the spread of the press and the Reformation at the city level. An econometric analysis that instruments for omitted variable bias with a city's distance from Mainz, the birthplace of printing, suggests that cities with at least one printing press by 1500 were at minimum 29 percentage points more likely to be Protestant by 1600. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
N73|Technological Transfers and Foreign Multinationals in Emerging Markets: Derosne & Cail in the 19th Century|Did multinationals already existed in the 19th century? and if so, what was their role in international technology transfer to colonial markets? In this paper we examine a French machinery manufacturer -Derosne & Cail- one of the most innovative engineering firms in the mid-nineteenth century as well as one of the first European companies supplying advanced sugar technology and railway equipment to emerging colonial plantations. This firm was indeed an early multinational that created an extensive international network of factories, branches, intermediaries and agents across four continents. This socio-technical network sustained the distribution of Derosne & Cail's machinery to sugar planters who, in turn, adapted the new technology to local conditions and helped spread the necessary practical knowledge for the operation of the machines. The strategy of the company became globally successful because technology transfer was linked to the migration of trained mechanical and chemical experts.
N73|Immigrant Skill Selection and Utilization: A Comparative Analysis of Australia, Canada, and the United States|We compare literacy test scores and relative wage and employment outcomes of Australian, Canadian and U.S. immigrants using the 2003/2006 Adult Literacy and Life Skills Survey (ALLS). We find substantially higher immigrant skill levels at the lower end of the distribution in Australia, especially among recent arrivals, but little difference across countries at the top. In addition, we identify substantially larger wage returns to immigrant skill in the U.S., which we argue reflects language-skill complementarities, as opposed to more efficient skill utilization or unobserved productivity characteristics. Our results suggest that the benefit of a point system for the U.S. lies in its potential to limit unskilled immigration flows, rather than in raising skills at the top end of the distribution where the economic growth potential of immigration is likely greatest.
N73|The Impact of Transport Infrastructure on Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study For Germany Using Historical Instrument Variables|No abstract is available for this item.
N73|Variability in overseas travel by Americans, 1820–2000|There were substantial fluctuations in the number of American overseas travelers, especially before World War Two. These fluctuations in travel around the long-term upward trend are the focus of this paper. We first identify those fluctuations in the data and then try to explain the patterns. We show that, despite the impact of a myriad of episodic events, fluctuations in travel can be explained to a large extent by changes in the direct price of travel, changes in per capita GDP and wealth in the United States, and by periods of armed conflict.
N73|Les cartels, une voie vers l'intégration européenne ?. Le rôle de Louis Loucheur (1872-1931)|The interwar period constituted a “golden age” for cartels. A lot of entrepreneurs or politicians considered even cartels as a good way to rebuild the European economy and to resolve the difficult problem of Reparations. It was the case of Louis Loucheur. Big contractor of civil engineering, Loucheur controlled, at the eve of the World War I a powerful group of construction, electricity and transport. During the war, he became the most important organizer of the French industrial mobilization, with his predecessor, Albert Thomas, a socialist. Taking his inspiration of the Walter Rathenau’s action in Germany, Loucheur surrounded himself of a brain trust of brilliant engineers, accelerated the rationalization process of the French industry and opened the way to an independent national oil policy. After the War, he played a determining role in the French reconstruction. Become a leader of the Republican Left Party, Loucheur campaigned for the development of the international inter-firms agreements and cartels. Loucheur considered that cartels were the only mean to reconcile France and Germany and to compete with us economy. Very active within the League of Nations, he saw cartels as a tool to open the way to United States of Europe. Classification JEL: D43, F23, F53, L26, N73, N74
N73|The Trade Impact of the Zollverein|The Zollverein was arguably the most important free-trade agreement of the 19th century. This paper investigates the economic impact of the Zollverein on trade in Germany. Although 1834 is the official date of the Zollverein's establishment, member states in fact joined in a non-random sequence over several decades. This was because the benefits of becoming a member increased, both as the size of the union increased, and as membership in the union became increasingly important for accessing foreign markets. Our key innovation in this paper is to incorporate the endogenous effects of accession into an estimate of the economic impact of the Zollverein customs union. We find these effects are important--our estimated effects are several times larger than the simpler estimates that do not take these effects into account. The paper discusses the implications of this for Germany's economic history as well as for other studies of trade liberalization.
N73|Integration in the English wheat market 1770-1820|Cointegration analysis has been used widely to quantify market integration through price arbitrage. We show that total price variability can be decomposed into: (i) magnitude of price shocks; (ii) correlation of price shocks; (iii) betweenperiod arbitrage. All three measures depend upon data frequency, but betweenperiod arbitrage is most affected. We measure variation of these components across time and space using English weekly wheat price data, 1770-1820. We show that conclusions about arbitrage are sensitive to the precise form of cointegration model used; different components behave differently; and different factors – in terms of transport and information – explain behaviour of different components. Previous analyses should be interpreted with caution.
N73|The ripples of the Industrial revolution: exports, economic growth and regional integration in Italy in the early 19th century|The conventional wisdom about the early stages of modern economic growth in Italy is still heavily influenced by the work of L.Cafagna (1989). He argued that exports of primary products to industrializing North Western countries were the main source of growth and that exports of silk stimulated the industrialization of the North-West (the “industrial triangle”). However, the benefits did not extend to the rest of the country. In this paper we argue that this view is not supported by the trade data. Italian exports grew slowly relative to European and world trade and exports from the North grew less than the total. This view tallies well with some recent estimates of GDP per capita, which show no increase before the Unification (1861)
N73|Europe's many integrations: Geography and grain markets, 1620–1913|This article documents and examines the integration of markets across the early modern/late modern divide, exploiting the largest dataset compiled to date on grain prices, spanning one hundred European cities evenly spread across land-locked and low-land areas. Using those series, it studies various measures of integration across distances and regions, and relies on principal component analysis to identify market structures. The analysis finds that European market integration was a gradual and step-wise rather than sudden process, and that early modern market structures were shaped by geography more directly than by political borders.
N73|Retail development in the consumer revolution: The Netherlands, c. 1670–c. 1815|The Netherlands pioneered an early modern ‘Retail Revolution’, facilitating the Consumer Revolution. We analyze 959 Dutch retail ratios using multivariate regressions. Retail density rose with female headship everywhere. Density was high in Holland, but moderate in intermediate provinces and low in Overijssel. Differences in retail density between large and small settlements were trivial in Holland, moderate in intermediate provinces, and prominent in Overijssel. Retail ratios stagnated everywhere across the eighteenth century but rose sharply after 1800. The Dutch Retail Revolution did not unleash ineluctable growth, we conclude, but varied significantly with agrarian structure, the institutional powers of guilds, and female autonomy.
N73|Integration in the English wheat market 1770-1820|Cointegration analysis has been used widely to quantify market integration through price arbitrage. We show that total price variability can be decomposed into: (i) magnitude of price shocks; (ii) correlation of price shocks; (iii) between-period arbitrage. All three measures depend upon data frequency, but between-period arbitrage is most affected. We measure variation of these components across time and space using English weekly wheat price data, 1770-1820. We show that conclusions about arbitrage are sensitive to the precise form of cointegration model used; different components behave differently; and different factors – in terms of transport and information – explain behaviour of different components. Previous analyses should be interpreted with caution.
N73|The Transportation Revolution in Industrializing Britain: A Survey|Between 1700 and 1870 Britain's transport sector improved dramatically. This paper surveys the literature on Britain’s transport revolution and examines its contribution to economic growth during the Industrial Revolution. It reviews the important infrastructural and technological developments, documents the evolution of transport markets, and examines the developmental effects of transport. The most striking finding is that freight charges decreased by 95 percent in real terms from 1700 to 1870 implying an annual TFP of more than 2 percent. The broader conclusion is that transport improvements were major factor in raising the standard of living in Britain and were as significant as other innovations. At the same time, Britain's history shows that many transport improvements were difficult to implement because they required financial innovation and involved taxation and vexing property rights issues.
N73|A taxonomy of infrastructure financing in Europe on the long run (12th-18th cc.)|This paper intends to trace the evolution of the financing solutions devised by some European countries to create their infrastructure framework. Starting from some indications on the Roman Age, when the first main public work was constructed, the analysis focuses on the Middle Ages and on the Early Modern Age. The primary goal is to elaborate a taxonomy pointing out the varied and different instruments developed over time to finance consistent works, targeted to provide services and facilities to the highest number of citizens. We concentrate specifically on ‘economic’ infrastructures such as roads, canals, bridges, water and sewer lines. Most of the current historiography has unduly projected the successful financing of todays leading countries onto the past, measuring only the distance of the previous specific financing means from an ideal current pattern. This stance led mostly to fictitious narratives. Highlighting the context-dependent specificities, this research conversely aims to draw a picture of how manifold and interrelated infrastructure financing were in the pre-industrial Europe and how they were highly performative related to their institutional, social and political background. Our preliminary result is that the effectiveness of infrastructure financing ways is strictly correlated to a set of variables that dynamically encompass institutions, political regimes, supply-side and demand-side factors, whose interplay determines a path-dependence.
N73|What Drives Commodity Market Integration? Evidence from the 1800s| This article provides empirical evidence from the 'first wave of globalization' in the 19th century for the question as to how commodity markets integrated domestically and internationally. I apply a dynamic factor model borrowed from business cycle analysis that for the first time allows me to fully exploit the cross-sectional and time-series dimensions of my large wheat price data set. It treats national and international market integration as conditional, and provides unique evidence on the integration of single cities as well as of countries and country groups. Three main results emerge from this: (i) The strongest push toward globalization happened in the first half of the century, not the second. This contradicts conventional wisdom emphasizing a transport revolution after 1850. (ii) After 1880, protectionist countries experienced a globalization backlash despite their well-developed transportation networks. (iii) National differences matter even when controlling for geography and trade policy. Some countries integrated domestically after some single cities, while others first developed a well-functioning domestic market and then globalized as a nation. The latter coincide with countries that have a long history as a unified nation. (JEL codes: N70, N71, N73, C32, F15, E32) Copyright The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.
N73|The Origins of the Spanish Railroad Accounting Model: A Qualitative Study of the MZA's Operating Account (1856-1874)|The lack of external regulation about the form and substance of the financial statements that railroad companies had to report during the implementation phase of the Spanish railway, meant that each company developed its own accounting model. In this study we have described, analysed and interpreted the more relevant changes in the accounting information in relation to the business result. Using the analysis of an historical case, we developed an ad-hoc research tool, for recording all the changes of the operating account. The results of the study prove that MZA’s operating account reflected the particularities of the railway business although subject to limitations, and the reported information improved during the study period in terms of relevance and reliability.
N73|Kırım’ın Merkantilist Dönemde Karadeniz Ticaretindeki Yeri<BR>[The Place of Crimea at the Black Sea Trade in the Mercantilist Period]|Located on major trade routes, its location at Blacksea, climate, inherited heritage provided having a live economic and commercial life in Crimea. The main sources of infome was animals but Crimea was also well developed at wine trade, the slave trade, sources of salt and dried fishery. From the participated in Ottoman Empire in the last quarter of 15th century to the last quarter of 18th century, Ottoman Empire protected its control on Crimea which was one of the provinces of the Ottoman Empire recognized the various concessions. The trade and economic relations of the Crimea which established a strong and as well as unique link between Ottoman Empire with the various concessions and variety of economic activities will form the basis of this study.
N73|The Dual Crises of the Late-Medieval Florentine Cloth Industry, c. 1320 - c. 1420|During the hundred-year period from about 1320 to about 1420, the Florentine woollen cloth industry underwent two closely connected crises. The first crisis was the consequence, direct and indirect, of the ravages of warfare and falling population, afflicting the entire Mediterranean basin and western Europe from the 1290s, which raised transportation and other transaction costs to such an extent that long-distance trade in cheaper textiles became unprofitable, thereby forcing West European cloth producers to reorient their export-oriented production to very high priced luxury woollens (and silks) and also to shift from being price-takers to price-makers. Initially, the first crisis seemed to have had beneficial consequences for Florence: for its luxury woollens industry soon became late-medieval Italy's single most important export-oriented manufacturing industry, with large spill-over benefits for Italian commerce, banking, and finance. Indeed, by the third quarter of the 14th century, the Florentine woollen industry (Arte della Lana) was rivalling and then surpassing the previously pre-eminent leaders - those in the southern Low Countries (Flanders and Brabant); and in Mediterranean markets of this era, Florentine woollens reigned supreme over all rival textiles. But the consequences of that first economic crisis, in the ensuing transformation of the Florentine cloth industry, contained the very seeds that spawned the second and far more major crisis, which led to the inexorable downfall of this once majestic industry, by the early 15th century. The chief factors in that decline were: the accelerating population decline (especially after the Black Death), further raising transaction costs; the reorientation to very narrow luxury markets, with very restricted demand; and especially the complete dependence on imported, tax-burdened English wools (as the prime determinant of both luxury quality and the very high prices of Florentine woollens). All of these adverse factors led to drastic reductions in Florentine cloth production: from about 75,000 bolts in the 1330s to only about 9,500 in the 1420s - an overall fall of 87% (far more than the decline in the Florentine labour supply, or the European population). The Florentine cloth industry never regained its former if transitory glory. How the industry did, however, manage to achieve some recovery in the later 15th and 16th centuries, by resorting to domestic and then Spanish wools, is beyond the scope of this study.
N73|Foreign Direct Investments and Intellectual Property Rights. International Intangible Assets in Spain circa 1820–1939|We devote this paper to reflecting on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) in the long run, particularly analyzing the case of Spain during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Although the interactions between IPRs and FDI have attracted significant research efforts in distinct economic and business areas, the results lack permanent answers. Our findings demonstrate that, from a macro-level perspective, 1) FDI and IPRs are effectively related in the long term; 2) weak IPR protection does not seem to have stopped FDI; and 3) the countries with major FDI in Spain were less worried about IPR management than others with less FDI.
N73|Chicken or egg? Transport and urban development in Berlin|Infrastructure and especially mass transit play a major role in urban economics and are the centre of many research questions. Probably due to simultaneous determination of infrastructure supply and demand most research is only carried out on the supply side driven relationship explaining how transport leads to urban development. The intention of the paper is to provide a new and purely empirical perspective on the chicken-and-egg-problem. We propose a panel VAR approach employing a unique data set for historic Berlin between 1870 and 1936. We argue that it is of a planner's interest to not only incorporate the supply side driven relationship but also the demand sided one. We turn the simultaneity problem into a purely empirical question since in practice it becomes difficult to derive theoretical implications from a comprehensive model that fully reflects all mutual interactions. Our analysis follows a twofold approach: Firstly, we estimate the interaction between population and transport. We then secondly extend the analysis by looking into the relation between land values and transport. Our estimates suggest a supply side driven relationship between transport and population and a positive reciprocal one between transport and land values. We conclude that new lines are not built entirely into undeveloped land but need to be connected to areas characterised by high land values to serve as a commuting mode.
N73|Social Networks of Innovation in the European Periphery : Exploring Independent versus Corporate Patents in Spain circa 1820-1939|No abstract is available for this item.
N73|Apuntes para una relación comercial velada: la República de Florencia y el Reino de Granada en la Baja Edad Media|Las repúblicas mercantiles italianas (Génova, Venecia) desempeñaron un papel fundamental en la inserción del Reino de Granada en el comercio internacional de la Baja Edad Media. El presente artículo pretende estudiar un aspecto mal conocido hasta el momento, la posición de la República de Florencia en el sultanato nazarí. Para ello se tomarán como referencia los mecanismos comerciales desarrollados por los mercaderes toscanos en las relaciones con el Islam occidental entre los siglos xiii y xv , destacando las particularidades observadas en Granada. Por último, los datos localizados sobre el comercio de las galeras estatales florentinas servirán para alcanzar una conclusión provisional. KEY Classification-JEL: N43. N73. N83. N93.
N73|Segovia versus Ávila: la conexión ferroviaria entre Madrid y la Cuenca del Duero (1845-1865)|En este artículo se describe el largo proceso político y administrativo que desembocó en la elección de la ruta de Ávila como lugar de paso del ferrocarril que debía enlazar Madrid con la Cuenca del Duero y la frontera francesa. Fue una decisión equivocada porque existía una alternativa mejor, la construcción de un túnel de tres kilómetros de longitud en la Sierra de Guadarrama (Segovia). Probablemente el coste de construcción de aquella obra hubiera sido inferior a lo presupuestado; así como el de todo el ferrocarril con respecto al que realmente se hizo. Pero, sobre todo, los gastos de explotación del ferrocarril abulense eran significativamente mayores que los del segoviano. KEY Classification-JEL: N73. N43. N93
N73|Railroads and Micro-regional Growth in Prussia|We study the e ect of railroad access on urban population growth. Using GIS techniques, we match triennial population data for roughly 1000 cities in nineteenth-century Prussia to georeferenced maps of the German railroad network. We nd positive short- and long-term e ects of having a station on urban growth for di erent periods during 1840-1871. Causal e ects of (potentially endogenous) railroad access on city growth are identi ed using instrumentalvariable and xed-e ects estimation techniques. Our instrument identi es exogenous variation in railroad access by constructing straight-line corridors between terminal stations. Counterfactual models using pre-railroad growth yield no evidence in support of the hypothesis that railroads appeared as a consequence of a previous growth spurt.
N73|Railroads and Micro-regional Growth in Prussia|We study the effect of railroad access on urban population growth. Using GIS techniques, we match triennial population data for roughly 1000 cities in nineteenth-century Prussia to georeferenced maps of the German railroad network. We find positive short- and long-term effects of having a station on urban growth for different periods during 1840–1871. Causal effects of (potentially endogenous) railroad access on city growth are identified using instrumental variable and fixed-effects estimation techniques. Our instrument identifies exogenous variation in railroad access by constructing straight-line corridors between terminal stations. Counterfactual models using pre-railroad growth yield no evidence in support of the hypothesis that railroads appeared as a consequence of a previous growth spurt.
N73|Retail Ratios in the Netherlands, c. 1670 - c. 1815|The Netherlands are thought to have pioneered an early modern 'Retail Revolution' which reduced the transaction costs of bringing market wares to wider social strata, facilitating the Consumer Revolution. This paper addresses open questions about this development using a commonly used quantitative benchmark â€“ the 'retail ratio', defined as the number of retailers per 1,000 inhabitants. We present a large dataset of Dutch retail ratios and use them to show how the density of retailing in the Netherlands varied across space, over time, and with other local characteristics. We conclude by drawing broader implications of our findings for understanding the early modern Retail Revolution.
N73|War, Conquest and Local Merchants: The Role of Credit in the Peripheral Military Administration of the Hispanic Monarchy during the First Half of the Sixteenth Century|During the early modern period the European Monarchies were expanding geographically and politically. Despite the importance of the military campaigns the challenge was, however, not in conquering independent polities but in keeping them. For that reason the mobilization of resources to maintain the war effort was especially important and the members of the different military administrations were frequently obliged to obtain loans from the local merchants and financiers of the recently conquered communities. The reputation or 'credit' (the term employed to designate the borrower's trustworthiness) of these monarchical agents in charge of the organization and funding of the military campaigns played a key role in the mobilization of local resources to maintain these conquests. Through a micro-historical analysis of some local loans negotiated during this period, I will analyse the credit assessment around these loans as conditioned by information about past conducts, future rewards and individual credibility. In doing so, we can realise the complexity of this reputation-based credit-assessment and reconstruct the different meanings of reputation that they handled.
N73|Italy’s Comparative Advantage: A Long-Run Perspective|The growth of the Italian economy over the past 150 years since unification was accompanied by a dramatic increase in the country’s integration with European and global commodity markets: foreign trade in the long run grew on average faster than the overall economy. Behind the dynamics of aggregate trade, Italy’s comparative advantage changed fundamentally over the last 150 years. The composition of trade, in terms of both commodities imported and exported and in terms of trading partners, developed from a high concentration of a few trading partners and a handful of rather simple commodities into a wide diversification of trading partners and more sophisticated commodities. In this paper we exploit a new long-term database on Italian foreign trade at a high level of disaggregation to document and analyze these changes. We conclude with an assessment of Italy’s growth prospects from a historical perspective.
N73|What lessons for economic development can we draw from the Champagne fairs?|The medieval Champagne fairs are widely used to draw lessons about the institutional basis for long-distance impersonal exchange. This paper re-examines the causes of the outstanding success of the Champagne fairs in mediating international trade, the timing and causes of the fairs' decline, and the institutions for securing property rights and enforcing contracts at the fairs. It finds that contract enforcement at the fairs did not take the form of private-order or corporative mechanisms, but was provided by public institutions. More generally, the success and decline of the Champagne fairs depended on the policies adopted by the public authorities — for good or ill.
N73|The role of the media in a bubble|We examine the role of the news media during the British Railway Mania, arguably one of the largest financial bubbles in history. Our analysis suggests that the press responded to changes in the stock market, and its reporting of recent events may have influenced asset prices. However, we find no evidence that the sentiment of the media, or the attention which it gave to particular stocks, had any influence on exacerbating or ending the Mania. The main contribution of the media was to provide factual information which investors could use to inform their decisions.
N73|Going beyond social savings: how would the British economy have developed in the absence of the railways?: a case study of Brunner Mond 1882-1914|This paper confirms the conclusion of the social savings methodology that industrial development was not dependent on the railways. However, it finds that there would have been a significant change in the distribution of industry without rail, a point underestimated by the social savings methodology because of its flawed assumption that in the absence of the railways the cost of water transport would have remained constant. The paper uses a case study of the large industrial chemical firm Brunner Mond to demonstrate that bulk transport requirements could not be absorbed by the narrow capacity waterways that constituted 40% of the UK waterway network without significant price increases. As a result, industrial development would have been dependent on access to high capacity water transport. Some waterways could have provided such capacity inland but water supply would have limited the extension of the high capacity inland waterway network. Thus, in a non-rail economy sustained industrial development would have predominantly occurred in coastal locations.
N73|The establishment of new market-places in East- Flanders, 1750-1900|This paper reconstructs the number of markets established in East-Flanders between 1750 and 1900, and tries to find whether there was a link with economic ideas and the discourse on the effects of periodic markets: whether more markets were established, and permissions to establish markets were more easily given, in times when free-trade ideas flourished. No clear connection was found between the ideas on the effects of market-places and the number of markets actually established. A comparatively large number of new markets was established in East- Flanders between 1750 and 1900, but this must have been related to other factors than merely the ideas on markets.
N73|Market reform and food prices: Did the 1912 Slaughterhouse Reform affect meat prices in Stockholm?|In February 1912, the Slaughterhouse Reform was introduced by the city of Stockholm to address the unsanitary conditions prevalent in the production and sale of meat, and thereby improve food safety. However, opponents argued that the reform would lead to price increases, and that poorer households would therefore replace meat with cheaper products. We find that meat prices increased by 21% due to the introduction of the Reform, which meant that consumers had to pay a substantial cost for improved food safety within the boundaries of Stockholm.
N73|Amateur or professional? A new look at 19th century. patentees in Norway|The paper analyses Norwegian 19th century patentees. A special focus is on the affiliation or relationship of the patentees to the manufacturing industries, business and the wider economy. A main question is whether the inventors were what might be called ‘amateurs’ working independently, or ‘professionals’ working closer to firms or institutions. A main finding is that even the individual patentees, that comprised the majority of all patentees, had strong associations with industry, and the distinction between ‘professionals’ and ‘amateurs’ is not all that useful.
N73|Profiting from Public Works: Financial Returns to Infrastructure and Investment Strategies during Britain's Industrial Revolution|The infrastructure sector has the potential to generate wide differences in profits and economic outcomes. This paper examines financial returns and investment strategies for Britain’s turnpike roads in the early nineteenth century. There are three main findings. First, rates of return on capital invested and returns to bondholders were similar to competitive sectors. Second, there was significant variation in returns across trusts. Third, there is evidence that turnpike investors were driven by financial motives, although economic motives appear to be important in some cases. The findings have implications regarding the connection between infrastructure and Britain’s industrialization.
N73|Role of the state in infrastructure provisioning from 1880s to World War I: telecommunications infrastructure in Europe|The telecommunications industry, as provider of essential infrastructure, generator of welfare and promoter of freedom of speech, has experienced a series of dramatic changes since its beginnings in the late 19th century. Being initially a sector with a wide range of different forms and structure types, telecommunications have gradually developed into a public-owned industry without competition. However, in the past several decades, following the latest liberalisation and privatisation wave worldwide, the telecommunications industry has become an increasingly dynamic environment with a great potential for further growth. Nevertheless, in many countries the state has asserted its strong position within the sector regardless of the proceeding liberalisation process. Against this backdrop, the aim of the paper is to investigate the role of the state in the provisioning and financing process regarding telecommunications infrastructure in Europe from a cross-temporal perspective. To answer this question a cross-country analysis will be applied by comparing different political and institutional patterns across the European Union. By investigating telecommunications infrastructure projects across time periods, the paper aims at identifying different industrial structures that have emerged within the industry at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century and, hence, analysing the corresponding role the central authority had played in providing telecommunications services.
N73|The public-private financing of the first Italian highways: a historical analysis|No abstract is available for this item.
N73|Financing telegraph infrastructures (1850-1900)|In the late 1830s the first electric telegraph models were patented both in Europe and the United States, but it was only in the following decade that the first distance telegraph transmissions were started up, mainly with the aim of supporting the railway lines. In fact, existed two kind of telegraphy: 1) land telegraphy, 2) submarine telegraphy. In the first case, the telegraph infrastructures were easy to built and cheap. For this reason, land telegraphy was managed by the state in all European countries (except United Kingdom, until 1869, when the telegraph companies were nationalized). On the other hand, submarine cables were difficult to built and very expensive. Besides, in order to work, submarine telegraphy had to solve some important issues: 1) building a well insulated cable; 2) transporting the cable with a ship; 3) laying the cable on the bottom of the sea; 4) communicating at great distance. Only Great Britain had the technology to build and lay a submarine cable but this was a very expensive enterprise. In other words, in the second half of XIX century two kinds of telegraph financing existed: 1) the state directly financed the development of land telegraph; 2) the business-men, as a stock-holder, invested in the submarine telegraph companies, which represented a high market risk but it also represented a big return. In the paper one will concentrate on the Great Britain case where many connections existed among these two kinds of telegraph financing. For example, the most influencing business lobbies invested directly in the most important submarine telegraph companies while, the same lobbies tried to influence on the government decisions about the national telegraph network development (which was public).Starting from the British case of study (Great Britain was the only country where telegraph service was managed either by private companies or by public administration) one will describe who, why and how invested in telegraph infrastructures in the second half of XIX century.
N73|The financing history of urban water infrastructure in Paris (1807-1925): lessons from the past to enlighten present and future challenges?|Sustainable financing is a major challenge for the water sector both in many developing countries where water and sanitation services are still in the expansion phase and in Europe where the water industry is faced to major investments needs too. To give more depth to the present policy debate a historical perspective on water services financing is needed. This paper is focused on the financing history of the Paris water infrastructure brought to completion in the 1807-1925 time frame (Ourcq canal, water supply network and sewers, long distance aqueducts, water treatment plants, waste water treatment units). A variety of financing schemes and institutional solutions (municipal budget - fiscal resources, concession, municipal bond and land added value capture schemes) are identified and described. A deeper analysis is made on the financial flows of Paris’ water, sanitation and canals service over the 1893-1930 time frame. A discussion on the institutional choices and on the long run cost allocation of the chosen financing schemes is made. It appears that long term debt, inflation and land added value capture mechanisms played key roles in absorbing part of the investments’ costs.
N73|Italy and the first age of globalization, 1861-1940|The paper presents trade policy as in line with that of other continental European powers, with a move to moderate levels of tariff protection for politically sensitive sectors such as steel and textiles and clothing, but also in agriculture, with levels of protection falling slightly before the First World War. Monetary policy was similarly driven by the constraints of capital scarcity, and by the political priority attached to reducing the cost of funding government debt. The most innovative area was probably in industrial policy, where after the 1880s and again in the 1930s in response to sever shocks, quite creative institutional policies were adopted. In particular financial restructuring was used as an opportunity to reshape the structure of industry.
N73|Matthew Boulton fs Sales in Christie fs -A Review of Research Trends -|Research about Matthew Boulton in recent years indicates that the background for his business product development was based not only on management plans for his steam engine, but also on cultural factors and new global businesses, e.g. coinage. The Bank of England launches a new ’50 note in 2011, featuring Matthew Boulton. It seems that the role of Matthew Boulton in the Industrial Revolution has come to be evaluated highly by the UK public. Boulton fs ormolu business has still been underestimated in economic and business history. However, if we look at the expansion of manufacturing ormolu, which was the core business, as was the gtoy h trade in his early career, it has been found that Boulton intended to expand the market by new lines of consumer goods and the adoption of neo-classical design. Products were diversified by the development of Blue John ware in combination with ormolu. Boulton also attempted new style sales e.g. exhibitions, where he invited the upper classes, including the royal family. Some of these attempts were not successful. From the gwindow dressing h of sales and fictitious names of bidders on sales in 1771, we know that the financial result was a failure, and also that Boulton had a hard time to find ways to deal with the result of the sales. The adoption of neo-classical design for his products could not be said to have increased sales. However, analysis of the sales in 1771 shows Boulton tried to sell not only adornment, but also many practical products with associated decoration. This method of combining decoration and practical use was visible in many Boulton products after the sales in 1771. Boulton fs business did not simply shift from decorative products to the steam engine, but also to adornments to products which had both a decorative and a practical function. The technique, accumulated in the development and manufacturing of the adornments, was combined with a practical function such as the movement of the hall clock. This had a great influence on later business, e.g. the steam engine. In other words, the experience of sales in 1771 was not a purely negative experience, but a hint of business to come in the later career of Matthew Boulton.
N73|What caused the failure of nationalisation of the railway system in Germany? : Malfunction of the German Imperial Railway Office (Reichseisenbahnamt) in the 1870s and 1880s|This paper identifies the causes of failure of the nationalisation of the German railway system by the Imperial Railway Office (das Reichseisenbahnamt; REA) that was established during 1873-1874 under the order of Otto v. Bismarck, the first Imperial Chancellor (Reichskanzler). The REA was not able to keep railways in the Reich (unified Germany) under its perfect control as provided by the German Imperial Constitution. What impeded the REA fs mission? We must pay attention to the REA fs problems as an organisation. As the official documents of the REA suggested, the organisation was not free from bureaucratic inflexibility in both structural and personal matters. Furthermore, compared with the other railway administration bodies in Germany in the 19th century, I point out the REA fs incapability in collecting regional information. The REA, the central bureau in the German-Prussian capital, had no regional unit. Its top-heavy structure and the higher-ups in the bureaucracy did not collect the non-lettering information from those who were doing the actual work at each railway, and this caused a criticized edisproportionate emphasis on documents f. To illustrate this point, I focus on the failure by the REA in playing the leading role in compiling the first German national railway statistics.
N73|Italy and the First Age of Globalization, 1861-1940|The paper presents trade policy as in line with that of other continental European powers, with a move to moderate levels of tariff protection for politically sensitive sectors such as steel and textiles and clothing, but also in agriculture, with levels of protection falling slightly before the First World War. Monetary policy was similarly driven by the constraints of capital scarcity, and the political priority attached to reducing the cost of funding government debt. The most innovative area was probably in industrial policy, where after the 1880s and again in the 1930s in response to severe shocks, quite creative institutional policies were adopted. In particular financial restructuring was used as an opportunity to reshape the structure of industry.
N73|Market Access and Information Technology Adoption: Historical Evidence from the Telephone in Bavaria|Information technology, like the telephone, influences market access; this paper answers the question about a reverse effect, does market access affect information technology, in particular its adoption? Using the introduction of the telephone in Bavaria, I demonstrate with a rank, order and stock effects diffusion model how market access affects the diffusion of local telephone exchanges over towns as well as the rate of adoption of telelphone lines within towns. The results of a duration analysis show that market access speeds up the diffusion, a spatial correlation specification demonstrates that this is not just a geographic effect. The rate of adoption within towns is also affected by the adoption of lines in other towns, the results indicate that about 4% of all lines are due to the ability to call outside your local exchange network. Market access is therefore shown to impact the adoption of technology.
N73|Market, civic virtues, and civic bargaining in the medieval and early modern age: some evidence from sixteenth century Italy|In the last decades, historians have shown that the modern market is rooted in the institutional system created in European towns since the middle ages. This approach leads us beyond the usual opposition between market and society or between public and private market. Indeed, in the medieval and early modern age, the market was part of a wider institutional design of civil life, which had a basic conceptual frame of reference in the notion of the common good, a feature typical of such organicistic and hierarchical societies. This paper explores the process of market construction in the medieval and early modern age. I firstly analysed the role of the market in these societies and then focused on the case of foodstuff provision: a key element of the non-written, ancient pact between rulers and people, based on the assurance of subsistence. As a basis for the study, I employed sixteenth century documents regarding Vicenza, a medium-sized town in the Republic of Venice. These show very clearly that, in general, market and price regulation was not the result of arbitrary interventions by public authorities; on the contrary, it was the result of a process of negotiation, which I call civic bargaining. This process involved—to various degrees—public authorities, landowners, merchants and guilds, and the town’s people, the pursuit of the common good being, in practice, a matter of balancing various needs and interests. Present-day economic and social public policies are, in many aspects, an inheritance of the institutional system created in the medieval and early modern age: knowledge of these origins is useful in the present debate regarding economic versus social development, as discussed at the end of the paper. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2012
N73|Social Networks of Innovation in the European Periphery. Exploring Independent versus Corporate Patents in Spain circa 1820-1939|There is a widespread idea that corporations have completely taken over invention and innovation processes throughout the twentieth century, thus becoming the main users of patent systems. However, recent studies suggest that, in spite of corporate expansion, independent invention is still economically significant nowadays, and that individuals outside the boundaries of the firm were actually the principal source of innovation before World War II. This article analyzes the history of corporate and independent patents in Spain in the long-term, in order to confirm that independents were also very relevant to promoting innovation and technology transfer in latecomers with high rates of technological dependence. Employing a new method of work with patent files, we also offer new historical evidence of the structure, effectiveness and scope of emerging international social networks of innovation. After introducing the research framework, Section Two briefly summarizes the characteristics of the Spanish patent system, and compares corporate and independent patents taken out between 1820 and 1939. Section Three studies the duration and strength of independent patents and the structure of the communities of innovation, and the conclusions make up Section Four.
N73|The Modern Commercial And Accounting Culture In The Educational Model Of Bulgarian National Revival – Initial Manifestations And Dissemination|The object of presentation in the article are the initial manifestations and forms of dissemination of the modern commercial and accounting culture in the educational model of Bulgarian National Revival (the beginning of the XVIIIth c. – 1878). Various aspects of the theme have already been the object of scientific interest. Here, on the basis of additionally drawn source material there is made an attempt at a generalized and analytical exposition of the issue with a view to outline the experienced foreign influences; the ways in which these influences reached Bulgarians who lived during the Bulgarian national revival; their adoption and further development in time; the peculiar Bulgarian way in the modern commercial and educational area of the XIXth century.
N73|Do technological booms matter? New evidence on the relationship between firm size and innovativeness|Many papers have been written about the effect of firm size on innovativeness, revealing a positive, a negative or a mixed impact. To this day, the so-called Schumpeterian hypothesis of the above-average innovativeness of large firms has neither been confirmed nor rejected, often because of insufficient data or a too-short observation period. Many studies concentrate only on a specific region or sector, or they analyze a very short time period. Windows of technological opportunities, providing technological booms for both firms and sectors, have not yet been investigated. An analysis of Germany’s chemical, metal and electrical-engineering sectors between 1877 and 1932 reveals that the sector-specific long-term relationship between firm size and innovativeness is negative, except during times of specific technological booms. In combination with firm-specific characteristics, this new aspect can contribute to a better understanding of the long-term relationship between firm size and innovativeness.
N73|What can price volatility tell us about market efficiency? Conditional heteroscedasticity in historical commodity price series|The development in the working of markets has been an important topic in economic history for decades. The volatility of market prices is often used as an indicator of market efficiency in the broadest sense. Yet, the way in which volatility is estimated often makes it difficult to compare price volatility across regions or over time for two reasons. First, if prices are non-stationary, the variance is inflated. Second, the variance of commodity prices contains information on a number of region- and time-specific factors that are not related to market efficiency. Hence, the popular coefficient of variation and related indicators are not adequate measures of the efficiency of markets and are incomparable across regions. As a solution, we suggest using a conditional heteroscedasticity model to estimate the residual (conditional) variance of commodity prices. This measure reflects how markets react to unexpected events and can therefore be seen as a measure of market efficiency. Using this approach on grain prices from the Early Modern Pisa, Paris, Vienna, and Japan, we find that the residual price volatility had declined (and market efficiency increased) in the European markets in the late sixteenth century while it remained stable in Japan.
N73|The early diffusion of the steam engine in Britain, 1700–1800: a reappraisal|We examine the diffusion of steam technology across British counties during the eighteenth century. First, we provide new estimates for the regional variations in the timing, pace and extent of usage of steam engines. Our main data source is an updated version of the list of steam engines erected in Britain during the eighteenth century originally compiled by Kanefsky and Robey (Technol Cult 21:161–186, 1980). Following a rather established approach for analysing the diffusion of new technologies we fit S-shaped growth functions to the data on the numbers of steam engines installed in each county. In this way, we are able to provide a comprehensive appraisal of the relative speed of the diffusion process in different counties. Second, in order to assess the relative importance of the variables shaping the diffusion of steam power technology, we study the relationship between the number of steam engines installed in each county and localization factors such as coal prices, availability of water sites, number of textile mills and number of blast furnaces.
N73|Comparative Advantages in Italy: A Long-Run Perspective|The history of Italy since her unification in 1861 reflects the two-way relationship between foreign trade and economic development. Its growth was accompanied by a dramatic increase in the country's integration with European and global commodity markets: foreign trade in the long run grew on average faster than the overall economy. Behind the dynamics of aggregate trade, Italy's comparative advantage changed fundamentally over the last 150 years. The composition of trade, in terms of both commodities imported and exported and in terms of trading partners, developed from a high concentration of a few trading partners and a handful of rather simple commodities into a wide diversification of trading partners and more sophisticated commodities. In this chapter we use a new long-term database on Italian foreign trade at a high level of disaggregation to document and analyze these changes. We will conclude with an assessment of Italy's prospects from a historical perspective.
N73|Explaining nineteenth‐century bilateralism: economic and political determinants of the Cobden–Chevalier network|This study investigates the empirical determinants of the treaty network of the 1860s and 1870s. It makes use of three central theories about the determinants of PTA formation, considering economic fundamentals from neoclassical and ‘new’ trade theory, political-economy variables, and international interaction due to trade diversion fears (dependence of later PTAs on former). These possible determinants are operationalized using a newly constructed dataset for bilateral cooperation and non-cooperation among 13 European Countries and the US. The results of logistic regression analysis show that the treaty network can be explained by a combination of ‘pure’ welfare-oriented economic theory with political economy and international interaction models.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|Did the Glorious Revolution contribute to the transport revolution? Evidence from investment in roads and rivers|Transport infrastructure investment increased substantially in Britain between the seventeenth and eighteenth century. This paper argues that the Glorious Revolution of 1688-89 contributed to transportation investment by reducing uncertainty about the security of improvement rights. It shows that road and river investment was low in the 1600s when several undertakers had their rights violated by major political changes or decrees from the King. It also shows that investment permanently increased after the Glorious Revolution when there was a lower likelihood that undertakers had their rights voided by acts. Together the evidence suggests that the political and institutional changes following Glorious Revolution made rights to improve infrastructure more secure and that promoters and investors responded to greater security by proposing and financing more projects.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|The political economy of agricultural protection: Sweden 1887|We analyse the Swedish general elections that took place in spring and autumn 1887. Our aim is to discover which groups of voters supported free trade and which protectionism. We find that while capital owners and wage earners consistently favoured free trade, in the spring election only the largest farmers supported protectionism. By autumn, political preferences among smallholders and middling farmers had shifted in favour of protectionism too. As these groups were not specialised in the production of import-competing goods, we assume that the political landslide in the autumn elections can be attributed to a loss of trust in the government.
N73|Foreign wars, domestic markets: England, 1793–1815|This article explores the means by which warfare influences domestic commodity markets. It is argued that England during the French Wars provides an ideal testing ground. Four categories of explanatory variables are taken as likely sources of documented changes in English commodity price disintegration during this period: weather, trade, policy and wartime events. Empirically, increases in price dispersion are related to all of the above categories. However, the primary means identified by which warfare influenced domestic commodity market integration was through international trade linkages and the arrival of news regarding wartime events.
N73|Bennet Woodcroft and the value of English patents, 1617-1841|We examine the potentialities of a new indicator measuring the value of English patents in the period 1617-1841. The indicator is based on the relative visibility of each individual patent in the contemporary technical and legal literature as summarized in Bennet Woodcroft's Reference Index of Patents of Invention. We conclude that the indicator provides a reasonable proxy for the value of patents and that it can be usefully employed to shed light on the timing and scope of innovation during the Industrial Revolution. In particular, our indicator offers a suitable reconciliation between the patent records evidence and the Crafts-Harley view of the Industrial Revolution.
N73|Economic Growth and Clean Water in the Göta River - A Pilot Study of Collective Action and the Environmental Kuznets Curve 1895-2000|Because of a growing population and industrialization, total pollution levels in many water-courses around the world have increased considerably for hundreds, if not thousands, of years. In the last few decades, however, the trend of increasing water pollution has been turned in many industrialized countries, delinking economic growth from environmental pollution. This is in essence one aspect of what many environmental economists call an ‘environmental Kuznets curve’. The research question of this project is why there is such a pattern to water quality in many countries? Much previous literature on the topic studies only the positive impact of environmental legislation. This study, focusing upon the case of the river Göta in Sweden, undertakes a more thorough analysis, including other crucial factors as well such as industrial transformation and decline, as well as stakeholder associations. The project utilizes a very long series of data on the water quality in the river Göta, covering more than 100 years of data for crucial indicators, in order to establish what factors were contributing to reducing levels of pollution. Analyzing the driving factors of this ‘Environmental Kuznets Curve’ can give us crucial insights into how a sustainable development might be achieved in the future.
N73|FDI of German Companies During Globalization and Deglobalization|No abstract is available for this item.
N73|The Rate and Direction of Invention in the British Industrial Revolution: Incentives and Institutions|No abstract is available for this item.
N73|The Rate and Direction of Invention in the British Industrial Revolution: Incentives and Institutions|During the Industrial Revolution technological progress and innovation became the main drivers of economic growth. But why was Britain the technological leader? We argue that one hitherto little recognized British advantage was the supply of highly skilled, mechanically able craftsmen who were able to adapt, implement, improve, and tweak new technologies and who provided the micro inventions necessary to make macro inventions highly productive and remunerative. Using a sample of 759 of these mechanics and engineers, we study the incentives and institutions that facilitated the high rate of inventive activity during the Industrial Revolution. First, apprenticeship was the dominant form of skill formation. Formal education played only a minor role. Second, many skilled workmen relied on secrecy and first-mover advantages to reap the benefits of their innovations. Over 40 percent of the sample here never took out a patent. Third, skilled workmen in Britain often published their work and engaged in debates over contemporary technological and social questions. In short, they were affected by the Enlightenment culture. Finally, patterns differ for the textile sector; therefore, any inferences from textiles about the whole economy are likely to be misleading.
N73|Coordination, compensation and the expansion of trade: The merchant guilds revisited|"Greif, Milgrom and Weingast (1994) argued that the ability of the merchant guilds to encourage trade expansion required an internal mechanism to enforce compliance to trade embargoes, otherwise credible incentives for ""embargo breaking"" would have rendered them ine¤ectual. We show that sustaining e¢ cient trade implied an ability of the guilds to restrict their membership but no internal enforcement mechanism was necessary. Our reformulation of the guilds´ strategies - based on the historical evidence - makes trade embargoes self-enforcing and allows us to provide a richer picture of how the guilds could have facilitated trade expansion by controlling merchant trading activities."
N73|Energy and Economic Growth in Europe. The Last Two Centuries|The aim of this article is to analyze the role of energy in longterm economic growth. Particular attention will be paid to the relation between energy and GDP. Energy productivity, that is the ratio of output to energy (Y/E), will be reconstructed and, through a decomposition analysis, I will try to show the relative importance both of rising consumption and of changes in the productivity of energy in growth of per capita output.
N73|Wheat varieties and technological change in Europe, 19th and 20th centuries: New issues in economic history|This article: a) analyzes the evolution of biological innovations in wheat varieties from the mid 19th to the end of 20th century in Britain, France, Spain and Italy, and b) shows that the analysis of technological changes in agriculture provides a better understanding of the evolution of grain yields in these countries. The article also shows the effect of four key variables in these innovations: scientific advances in the field of biology, alongside environmental, institutional and technological factors. In addition, it provides a new indicator for the evolution of these innovations, which can be particularly useful to better determine the distribution of short-stemmed and semidwarf wheats over time: wheat production per weight unit of hay harvested.
N73|The Rise, Expansion, and Decline of the Italian Wool-Based Textile Industries, 1100-1730: a study in international competition, transaction costs, and comparative advantage|This (revised) study seeks to examine the rise, expansion, and ultimate decline of the Italian wool-based textile industries over a period of six centuries (from ca. 1100 to ca. 1730). An international trade model combining transaction costs and comparative advantage is employed to explain the changing fortunes of the Italian cloth industries over these six centuries, in competition with their major northern rivals, in the Low Countries and England, who fought for market dominance both within Europe and abroad, in the Islamic world, in particular the MamlÅ«k and then Ottoman domains in the Levant (eastern Mediterranean). The transaction costs model is used to explain in particular which branches of this textile industry fared better and which fared worse during the Commercial Revolution era (ca. 1100-ca.1320), the so-called Great Depression era (ca. 1320-ca. 1460), the ensuing economic recovery and Price Revolution era (ca. 1460-ca. 1620), the General Crisis of the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries (ca. 1620-ca.1740), to the eve of the Industrial Revolution era. One of the major errors in the literature is the failure to distinguish between the two main branches of the wool-based cloth industries, the technology of their industrial production, their relative prices, and markets, and the impact of transaction costs in international trade. For much of this era, the leading branch was the luxury-oriented woollens industry (Old Draperies), based on very fine, short-stapled English and then Spanish merino wools, producing fulled, heavy-weight, and generally high priced cloths. In the earlier and later periods, the other branch prevailed (New Draperies): the lighter-weight (unfulled), generally coarser and cheaper fabrics that were either full worsteds (cheap, coarse, long-stapled wools) or serges (hybrids with worsted warps and woollen wefts). The transition from a predominance of the lighter, worsted-style fabrics to the heavy-weight woollens, throughout western Europe, took place from the 1290s, with a rapid rise in transaction costs that were the direct and indirect result of a spreading stain of international warfare, especially injurious to overland trade routes, combined with a drastic fall in population, that engulfed most of Europe and the Mediterranean basin until the 1460s. That rise in transportation and transaction costs (determined by market scale economies) set a cost-price floor below which international trade in cheaper textiles became unprofitable: so much so that most West European wool-based industries re-oriented their production towards luxury markets, with far higher prices sustained by price-making monopolistic competition better able to withstand the rise of such costs, an impossible solution for those marketing cheap textiles as price-takers in Mediterranean markets. Such problems were less severe for the Italian industries, whose markets were chiefly in the Mediterranean; and thus the transition to luxury production was far less complete than in the north. The comparative advantage model is based on the price that woollen-cloth producers in both the Low Countries and Italy had to pay in that luxury re-orientation: a total dependence on the finest English wools as the prime component of luxury quality. From the late 1330s, English monarchs took advantage of that dependence by imposing exorbitant taxes on wool-exports, with even higher taxes imposed on Italian merchants, ultimately depriving them of almost all such wools by the early fifteenth century. At the same time, English clothiers were able to weave luxury-quality cloths from the very same wools, but free of any such taxes, giving them an almost insuperable cost advantage over all foreign woollen manufacturers. But England's comparative advantage in its wool supply, though finally giving them mastery of northern markets for luxury woollens, was undermined, during the later fifteenth, early sixteenth century, by the development of fine but much cheaper merino wools in Spain, which Italians could acquire with lower transport costs. The other change undermining the supremacy of English and other woollens industry was the sharp fall in transaction costs by the late fifteenth, early sixteenth centuries: with the decline in warfare, the recovery and growth of population, and with technological advances in both ocean and land transport, especially the latter with a major transition in long-distance trade from maritime to overland continental routes. Along with that decline in costs came a revival and expansion of the lighter, cheaper textile industries, though chiefly in the Low Countries and England, more so than in Italy, despite the continued predominance of Mediterranean markets. For woollens, the Italian industries, especially the Venetian, gained the comparative advantage in wools: with much cheaper access to (now more expensive) Spanish merinos. But in the Mediterranean and especially Ottoman markets the English finally gained supremacy over both the Florentine and Venetian woollens industries, by the later seventeenth century, from a new comparative advantage, in capital formation: from superior business organization (the new joint stock companies) and naval power (large, heavily gunned, swift carracks). The so-called General Crisis era of the later seventeenth century had again favoured maritime routes, and thus sea-power, over land routes. At the same time the Tudor-Stuart enclosure movements, in transforming English sheep -- from small sheep with fine short-stapled to larger (meatier) sheep with coarser, long-stapled fleeces, gave England's worsted-style New Draperies a comparative advantage in wool supplies over all its continental rivals, including the Italian; and by the 1730s, both branches of the Italian wool-based textile industries had succumbed to foreign competition, and become moribund.
N73|Propiedad industrial y competitividad global en perspectiva histórica.Una década de colaboración entre la OEPM y la UAM|La capacidad de competir globalmente ha sido algo cambiante en el tiempo. Los procesos de innovación tecnológica y la educación condicionan en gran medida el crecimiento económico y esa competitividad internacional. La evolución y desarrollo histórico de los derechos de propiedad industrial han sido parte esencial de la gestión de la I+D+i y de la capacidad creativa e innovadora de las distintas sociedades. La historia económica y tecnológica se convierte, de este modo, en una herramienta esencial para el analista especializado en política económica. Y el archivo histórico de la Oficina Española de Patentes y Marcas en un laboratorio del pasado en el que reflexionar sobre el futuro
N73|Energy Production, Ecological Footprint and Socio-Economic Transformation of the Territory in an Organic Economy. The Case Study of Early Modern Madrid|The aim of this paper is to evaluate the impact of Madrid’s fuel demand on the near surrounding territory in the early modern period, both from an economic and an ecological viewpoint. Fuel supply (charcoal and timber) to Madrid required the raising of resources from a vast territory of inland Spain, and caused a process of specialization of forests in fuel extraction and commercialization. The economic structures of the villages of Castile adapted to the rising needs, and rural populations could take an active part in transportation of fuel and charcoal production. This paper also aims to define the area affected by the city’s charcoal production in order to analyze the ecological footprint in an organic economy.
N73|Institutions and Agents of Technological Diffusion in 19th Century Spain|Although some recent studies have provided fresh intellectual insights on the role of patent practitioners during the nineteenth century, they have largely overlooked the activity of these actors in international patenting and peripheral countries. This study will fill a gap in the existing scholarship through an examination of the role and influence of patent agents in Spain from the introduction of the country’s first modern intellectual property law in 1826 to the regulation of agents’ practice in 1902. The study explores the range of activities carried out by those individuals employed by Spanish and foreign patentees to deal with both the patent application process and the commercialisation of property rights. Our argument here is that a focus on patent agents and other forms of agency can provide us with a better understanding of processes of invention, innovation and technology transfer in the European periphery during the nineteenth century. The history of technology in the periphery requires attention not only to the incentives for innovation but also to the social procedure of transmission of knowledge, ideas and information as well as the actors involved in this activity. Our focus cannot be solely on the transfer and communication of knowledge and information from advanced industrial nations to ‘backward’ ones; it must also include the processes of interaction, exchange and appropriation that occurred in both directions.
N73|Turning Points in Leadership: Shipping Technology in the Portuguese and Dutch Merchant Empires|This paper focuses on the implications of organizational control on the race for economic leadership across merchant empires. Poor organizational choices reduce incentives to invest, which in turn stifle technological improvements and make leading empires lag behind new entrants. Using historical evidence on shipping technology, I show that this may have been a factor behind the loss of leadership of the Portuguese merchant empire in the late sixteenth century.
N73|Labour market response to globalisation: spain, 1880-1913|This paper analyses the impact of globalisation (trade and migration) on the Spanish labour market between 1880 and 1913 by examining the influence that globalisation factors had on agricultural and industrial wages. Our results show that the nineteenth century grain invasion had a negative impact on agricultural wages, whereas the fall in wheat prices did not benefit industry workers. We also found that migration pushed up real agricultural and industrial wages. As agriculture was the main sector in the economy the final impact was a wage decrease. The negative impact of trade on agricultural and industrial labour markets partly explains the trade policy response of “integral protection”. However, other alternatives that would have been effective in raising living standards, such as migration policy, were not used
N73|Demand Matters: German Wheat Market Integration 1806-1855 in a European Context|This study analyzes annual wheat prices in 13 German cities in the years 1806 to 1855, together with wheat price series from 44 other European and American cities. The method used is a dynamic factor model, which allows for distinguishing common price uctuations on international and national levels. I find a significant increase of price synchronization between German cities and international markets, between the first and the second quarter of the 19th Century. This is probably mainly due to the increased demand for food imports in Britain and the disappearance of political barriers, as well as economies of scale and gradual improvements to existing transportation technology. Within Germany, I find increasing common price uctuations in Mannheim and Munich, which arguably refl ects a customs union effect. Tree ring records as indicators of general plant growth conditions indicate that comovement was not driven by exogenous shocks.
N73|Identifying International Business Cycles in Disaggregate Data: Germany, France and Great Britain|This article analyzes international business cycles in Europe 1862-1913 using disaggregated data and Dynamic Factor Analysis. In comparison with estimates of real national product there is more evidence for international business cycles in disaggregated data of Germany, France and Great Britain before World War I. This is because data used to construct historical national accounts are often not sufficient to date business cycles, and especially because little is known about general price fluctuations. Thus, national products in current prices show higher degrees of international correlation than deflated ones although price indices themselves are not very well correlated across countries.
N73|Consumption, Social Capital, and the “Industrious Revolution” in Early Modern Germany|This paper uses evidence from German-speaking central Europe to address open questions about the Consumer and Industrious Revolutions. Did they happen outside the early-developing, North Atlantic economies? Were they shaped by the “social capital” of traditional institutions? How were they affected by social constraints on women? It finds that people in central Europe did desire to increase market work and consumption. But elites used the “social capital” of traditional institutions to oppose new work and consumption practices, especially by women, migrants, and the poor. Although they seldom blocked new practices wholly, they delayed them, limited them socially, and increased their costs.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|Domestic Trade and Market Size in Late-Eighteenth-Century France|This paper checks if differences in market size can explain the retardation of the Industrial Revolution in France compared to Britain. It uses an exceptional source on French domestic trade in a variety of goods in the late eighteenth century: the Tableaux du Maximum. The first part presents this source and the data. The second part checks if the data are plausible using a logit theoretical gravity equation. The third part uses the results of this gravity equation to compute the expected markets size of specific supply centres. For all types of high value-to-weight goods, some French supply centres reached 25 million people or more. For all types of textile groups, some French supply centres reached 20 million people or more. Even taking into account differences in real, nominal and disposable income per capita, these supply centres had access to domestic markets that were at least as large as the whole of Britain. Differences in the size of foreign markets were too small to reverse that result.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|Spain’s international position, 1850-1913|Spain's financial position during the late 19th and early 20th century has usually been presented as one of persistent deficit on current account, which resulted from her integration into international commodity and factor markets and this, in turn, slowed down growth. In this essay a preliminary reconstruction of the balance of payments on current account allows us to reject this view. In fact, a net capital inflow made possible to meet the demand for investment boosting economic performance. Current account reversals in a context of macroeconomic domestic imperfections help to explain the economic slowdown at the turn of the century.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|Atlantic trade and the European Economy: a bibliography|Most European intercontinental trade passed through the Atlantic during the Early Modern period, with the exception of Mediterranean trade and caravan trade through the Eurasian landmass, both in relative decline. Both the rise to primacy of the European economy and the increase of Atlantic trade have been momentous events in the history of the world. The temptation to links these two events has been very high in both popular and scholarly history since the nineteenth history. The debate about their relationship is not yet settled, as there is no general agreement on either the causes and characteristics of the divergence of Europe from other Old-World economies or the benefits that intercontinental trade have provided to European economies. This bibliography provides elements to answer the question of the effect of Atlantic trade on European economies. Looking at Europe as a whole is probably misleading as every country – and probably every region – had a specific experience of interaction with the Atlantic. This entry provides readings on the experience of Britain, Denmark-Norway, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Sweden and Spain. The experience of Britain is explored in more details in Atlantic Trade and the British Economy. Yet, it is so important to history of the European economy that this entry would not be complete without some readings on the effect of the Atlantic trade on the British Industrial Revolution.
N73|How streetcars shaped suburbanization: a Granger causality analysis of land use and transit in the Twin Cities|This paper presents a causality analysis of the coupled development of population and streetcars in the Twin Cities metropolitan area. Historic residence and network data were assembled for 1900-1930, and linear cross-sectional time-series models were estimated at both a tract and block level using this data. It is found that, in contrast with transportation systems that were expanded in response to increased demand, the rapid expansion of the streetcar system during the electric era has been driven by other forces and to a large extent led land development in the Twin Cities. The main forces that have driven this process include technological superiority, monopoly, close connections with real estate business, and peopleÕs reliance on the streetcar for mobility. Proximity to the streetcar is found to be a crucial factor that determines the distribution and development of residences: it is observed that residential density declines with the distance from streetcar lines, and significantly drops beyond a walkable distance; it is also observed that gaining a closer access to streetcar lines within 800 meters (about a half mile) predicts the increase in residential density to a significant extent.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N73|Patents and Industrialization: An Historical Overview of the British Case, 1624-1907 w|"The aim of this paper is to provide an overview of the research on the role played by patent systems in the industrialization process (with a special focus on the British case). Perhaps surprisingly, no consensus has been reached yet as to whether the emergence of modern patent systems exerted a favourable impact on inventive activities. However, the recent literature has shed light on a number of fundamental factors which affect the links between inventive activities and the patent system. The concluding section of the paper outlines some ""history lessons"" for the current debate on the role of patent in economic development."
N73|Why Did Corporations Patent in Spain? Some Historical Inquiries|In this paper we will explore how international corporations used the Spanish patent system in the late nineteenth century and the first decades of the twentieth century in order to discover what the actual effects of its apparent weakness were. The origins and evolution of corporate patenting in Spain, the effects of compulsory working clauses, the management of assignments, the various strategies followed by the firms, and the effects of patents on technology transfer to the Spanish economy will be clarified. The conclusions yields understanding on real patent management in the long-term by analyzing the strategies of Brown Boveri and Babcock Wilcox corporations in Spain.
N73|Actividades y estrategias económicas de la burguesía alicantina en los años cuarenta del siglo XIX|In this text we analyze the main economic activities that were developed in the city of Alicante in the mid 19th century promoted by dynamic elite of aristocrats and middle classes. The economy was moderately diversified, the main weight falling on trade and commercial farming. Following this we examine the economic strategies of these elites who pursued the creating of a state of opinion in order to influence the authorities to put into practice economic development policies for agriculture and free trade.
N73|Periodization Problems in the Economic History of Science and Technology|Nowadays there is no doubt about the interrelation between and mutual dependence of scientific and technical progress on the one hand and economic development on the other. Since this has not always been so, it has become necessary to define and to justify the time from which we may conceive an economic history of science and technology. This problem is easier to solve in relation to the latter than with regard to the former: the relationships between the scientific and the economic systems of any society are not only much more recent than those of the economy with its underlying techniques, but they are also predominantly indirect, usually mediated by or linked to some form of technological development. Technology acquired a scientific basis with the Second Industrial Revolution, whose nature however can only be understood when contrasted with that of the First one as well as with the processes of the professionalization of research and of the transition from natural philosophy and natural history to the contemporary scientific disciplines, both of which took place from the mid-eighteenth century onwards. KEY Classification-JEL: N73, 030, 039, 123
