N74|Ease Versus Noise: Long-Run Changes in the Value of Transport (Dis)amenities|For a complete cost-benefit analysis of durable infrastructures, it is important to understand how the value of non-market goods such as transit time and environmental quality changes as incomes rise in the long-run. We use difference-in-differences and spatial differencing to estimate the land price capitalization effects of metro rail in Berlin, Germany today and a century ago. Over this period, the negative effect of rail noise tripled in percentage terms. Our results imply long-run income elasticities of the value of noise reduction and transport access of 2.2 and 1.4, substantially exceeding cross-sectional contingent valuation estimates.
N74|Ease vs. noise: Long-run changes in the value of transport (dis)amenities|For a complete cost-benefit analysis of durable infrastructures, it is important to understand how the value of non-market goods such as transit time and environmental quality changes as incomes rise in the long-run. We use difference-in-differences and spatial differencing to estimate the land price capitalization effects of metro rail in Berlin, Germany today and a century ago. Over this period, the negative effect of rail noise tripled in percentage terms. Our results imply long-run income elasticities of the value of noise reduction and transport access of 2.2 and 1.4, substantially exceeding cross-sectional contingent valuation estimates.
N74|Patterns of innovation during the industrial revolution: a reappraisal using a composite indicator of patent quality|We introduce a new bibliographic quality indicator for English patents granted in the period 1700-1850. The indicator is based on the visibility of each patent both in the contemporary legal and engineering literature and in modern authoritative works on the history of science and technology. The indicator permits to operationalize empirically the distinction between micro and macroinventions. Our fi ndings indicate that macroinventions did not exhibit any speci c time clustering, while at the same time they were characterized by a labor-saving bias. These results suggest that Mokyr's and Allen's views of macroinventions, rather than conflicting, should be regarded as complementary.
N74|More Power to the People: Electricity Adoption, Technological Change and Social Conflict|There is a wide-spread concern that technical change may spur social conflicts, especially if workers are replaced with machines. To empirically analyze whether job destruction drives protests, we study a historical example of a revolutionary new technology: the adoption of electricity. Focusing on the gradual roll-out of the Swedish electricity grid between 1900 and 1920 enables us to analyze 2,487 Swedish parishes in a difference-in-differences framework. Proximity to large-scale water-powered electricity plants is used to instrument for electricity adoption. Our results confirm that the labor saving nature of electricity was followed by an increase of local conflicts in the form of strikes. But displaced workers were not likely to initiate conflicts. Instead, strikes were most common in sectors with employment growth. Similarly, we find that the strikes were of an offensive rather than a defensive nature. Thus, electrification did not result in rebellions driven by technological anxiety. It rather provided workers with a stronger bargaining position from which they could voice their claims through strikes.
N74|More Power to the People: Electricity Adoption, Technological Change and Social Conflict|There is a wide-spread concern that technical change may spur social conflicts, especially if workers are replaced with machines. To empirically analyze whether job destruction drives protests, we study a historical example of a revolutionary new technology: the adoption of electricity. Focusing on the gradual roll-out of the Swedish electricity grid between 1900 and 1920 enables us to analyze 2,487 Swedish parishes in a difference-in-differences framework. Proximity to large-scale water-powered electricity plants is used to instrument for electricity adoption. Our results confirm that the labor saving nature of electricity was followed by an increase of local conflicts in the form of strikes. But displaced workers were not likely to initiate conflicts. Instead, strikes were most common in sectors with employment growth. Similarly,we find that the strikes were of an offensive rather than a defensive nature. Thus, electrification did not result in rebellions driven by technological anxiety. It rather provided workers with a stronger bargaining position from which they could voice their claims through strikes.
N74|The Blue Maritime Cluster Crisis: Financial Instability and Supply Chain Management Effects|The present paper investigates the offshore crisis 2015-2017 and its impact on one of the most complete maritime clusters, more precise the Blue Maritime Cluster, located at Møre og Romsdal at the North Western Coast of Norway. As this cluster is heavily involved in offshore petroleum operations, it experienced an almost devastating blow during the crisis. The cluster lost almost one third of its employees as its value added contracted by 39 percent. The crises is basically seen as result of the falling oil prices and, thus, lower activity and squeezed profit margins, particularly in marginal oil and gas fields. The paper does not dispute this. However, it also investigates the crisis in the light of financial instability and chain reactions down the maritime supply chain. By collecting data from the Blue Maritime Cluster and the Norwegian central company register one is able, both to trace the fall in activity due to the crisis and measures of financial strength. The study approaches the data by using structural time series analysis in order to map cycles as deviations from polynomial trends. The conclusions are that financial instability was dominant within the Blue Maritime Cluster during its boom before the crisis. Debt ratios, and thereby gearing or leverage was high. Thus, the companies could not meet their obligations when the crisis hit, due to low solidity and loss of financial stability. The paper also finds that narrow focused supply chain management, made the cluster fall deep in to the abyss when ship owning companies and shipyards were hit. Companies with a more diversified portfolio were able to meet the hard years better than others.
N74|Spain's tourism models in the first third of the twentieth century|The remarkable emergence of the service sector to dominate the modern economy is the most outstanding consequence of the Industrial Revolution in the first third of the twentieth century. With it appeared a new social class which made an active contribution to the sector’s growth by opting for a new kind of tourist provision which was very different from traditional models, above all holidays in Spain. In the first third of the twentieth century, tourism in Spain was characterised by a variety of coexisting business models. On the one hand, business travellers went to the major cities. On the other hand, there was holiday travel, which can be broken down into three categories: the first type is traditional leisure-based tourism of an aristocratic cast, which dominated in the north, in the region of the Bay of Biscay, while the second type involves foreigners visiting the mythic south of Andalusia: Granada, Malaga, Seville and Cordoba. The third and final type, which appeared on the island of Majorca shortly after World War I, is the most modern, based on international colonial maritime traffic and cruise liners.
N74|Deuss’ demise: an oil trader’s struggle to keep up with the market, 1970s-1990s|In contrast to many other commodities, crude oil trading is a relatively new phenomenon. The end of the concession system in the 1970s caused the oil value chain to disintegrate and a spot market for crude oil to emerge. Oil traders, in particularly the infamous US oil trader Marc Rich, have been credited with creating this spot market and its subsequent development into the global locus of oil price formation. As such traders can be viewed as the little known but vital agents of globalization. Although traders certainly did contribute in the first formative years of the spot market in the late 1970s and early 1980s, their business models were fundamentally challenged by the subsequent evolution of the market in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Whereas globalization is about market integration, traders were typically geared toward profiting from large market distortions and opaque prices. As the spot market matured and gained global acceptance for price formation, the original oil traders were either forced out of the market or fundamentally transformed their businesses. One particular example is Dutch oil trader John Deuss. During the 1980s among the top 3 global oil traders, Deuss’ company languished in the 1990s after a failed corner of the Brent market and competition from firms that were both more sophisticated and better financed. Using Deuss as an example, this paper raises two questions: On the one hand, how did independent oil trading firms contribute to the formation of the modern oil market since the 1970s? On the other hand, how did the subsequent evolution of the market affect the business model of independent oil trading firms from the mid-1980s onwards? The core aim of the paper is to question the relationship between the economics of the trading firm and the economics of the market. The paper combines quantitative data on the development of the spot market using a deals database compiled by Argus Media since 1975 with secondary material ranging from scholarly, trade and news publications.
N74|The Crumbling of Francoist Spain’s Isolationism Thanks to Foreign Currency Brought by European Tourists in the Early Years of the Golden Age|The ‘Golden Age’ refers to an era of rapid economic growth which led to dramatic changes within European society. The steady rise in income coupled with recently introduced paid holidays encouraged the new middle classes to emulate the lifestyle of the glamorous and privileged trendsetters of the Belle Époque and the 1920s. The outward trappings of this included the purchase of a car and annual holidays in the Mediterranean, amounting in the 1950s to a sort of yearly pilgrimage. In the Balearic Islands and the Costa Brava an ample tourist sector flourished against a political background that was essentially in opposition to it – the autarchic stage of the Franco regime. Tourism, in the end, became one of the determining factors which provoked radical changes to this regime, leading eventually to complete abandonment of its militant isolationism.
N74|Revisiting the euro's trade cost and welfare effects|When, about twenty years ago, the Euro was created, one objective was to facilitate intra-European trade by reducing transaction costs. Has the Euro delivered? Using sectoral trade data from 1995 to 2014 and applying structural gravity modeling, we conduct an ex post evaluation of the European Monetary Union (EMU). In aggregate data, we find a significant average trade effect for goods of almost 8 percent, but a much smaller effect for services trade. Digging deeper, we detect substantial heterogeneity between sectors, as well as between and within country-pairs. Singling out Germany, and embedding the estimation results into a quantitative general equilibrium model of world trade, we find that EMU has increased real incomes in all EMU countries, albeit at different rates. E.g., incomes have increased by 0.3, 0.6, and 2.1 percent in Italy, Germany, and Luxembourg, respectively.
N74|Electrical Bus Mobility in the EU and China: Technological, Ecological and Economic Policy Perspectives|The analysis provides a hybrid techno-economic perspective on EU and China e-bus development dynamics. China is a leading global electric bus user – particularly in certain provinces. In Europe, the European Commission has started an electric bus initiative and several EU member countries have tried to achieve progress with regard to their own municipal e-bus fleets. While the economic analysis shows that e-bus innovation and diffusion dynamics can be influenced by government procurement policy, it is also obvious that certain pricing schemes in e-bus (mixed) municipal mobility networks are not successfully promoting clean e-bus expansion. A key issue is that various grant schemes depress the prices for used e-buses which in turn creates additional risk for e-bus leasing arrangements. Industrial policy aspects as well innovation policy face challenges in the e-bus context. China’s regional e-bus approaches have shown considerable success and part of China’s patent dynamics supports e-bus expansion perspectives. From a technological perspective, there are several alternative modes of e-bus mobility whose technological and economic advantages have to be explored in the context of the characteristics of local and regional bus routes. A very important technological element of e-mobility concerns technical aspects of battery charging – for example, cycle lifetime, power density, charging time and safety. The price dynamics of battery packs is rather high and should stimulate the expansion of e-bus mobility in Europe and China. One key problem faced by Europe and Asia is the challenge of common technical standards. As regards Germany’s and the UK’s position as a potential lead markets for e-bus mobility – or a similar positioning of a network of EU cities – much depends on adequate new policy initiatives. The emissions reductions which could be achieved by transitioning to 100% e-bus mobility in the EU would amount to an estimated 1.3% cut in terms of emissions of the transport sector (without aviation).
N74|Quantifying the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement|This paper provides a quantitative analysis of the new EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA), the biggest bilateral deal that both the EU and Japan have concluded so far. It employs a generalized variant of the Eaton–Kortum (2002) model, featuring multiple sectors, input-output linkages, services trade, and non-tariff barriers (NTBs). It uses the results of an econometric ex post analysis of a related existing FTA, the one between the EU and Korea, to approximate the expected reductions in the costs of NTBs. This approach yields long-run welfare effects for Japan of about 18 bn USD per year (0.31% of GDP) and of about 15 bn USD (0.10%) for the EU. On average, the agreement does not appear to harm third countries. 14% of the welfare gains inside the EPA stem from tariffs, the remaining 86% from NTB reform, and the services sector account for more than half. In the EU, value added in the agri-food sector goes up most, while in Japan the manufacturing and services sectors gain.
N74|Quantifying the EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement|This paper provides a quantitative analysis of the new EU-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA), the biggest bilateral deal that both the EU and Japan have concluded so far. It employs a generalized variant of the Eaton–Kortum (2002) model, featuring multiple sectors, input-output linkages, services trade, and non-tariff barriers (NTBs). It uses the results of an econometric ex post analysis of a related existing FTA, the one between the EU and Korea, to approximate the expected reductions in the costs of NTBs. This approach yields long-run welfare effects for Japan of about 18 bn USD per year (0.31% of GDP) and of about 15 bn USD (0.10%) for the EU. On average, the agreement does not appear to harm third countries. 14% of the welfare gains inside the EPA stem from tariffs, the remaining 86% from NTB reform, and the services sector account for more than half. In the EU, value added in the agri-food sector goes up most, while in Japan the manufacturing and services sectors gain.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N74|Quantifying Brexit: From Ex Post to Ex Ante Using Structural Gravity|Exploiting changes in the geography of economic integration in Europe, this paper uses detailed bilateral trade data for 50 sectors to carry out an econometric ex post evaluation of the trade cost effects of the United Kingdom’s various arrangements with the European Union. The analysis reveals important heterogeneity across agreements, sectors, and within pairs. In particular, the EU’s eastward enlargement or the EU-Korea trade agreement have lowered the UK’s outward trade costs only relatively modestly. These asymmetries matter for the size and distribution of the welfare effects of Brexit – the withdrawal of the UK from EU agreements resulting into a return of trade costs to the situation quo ante. We make this point with the help of a modern multi-sector trade model that is able to capture inter- and intranational production networks. In line with other papers, the welfare costs of Brexit are higher in the UK than in most other EU countries. However, the considered asymmetries tend to attenuate overall costs while giving rise to substantial heterogeneity between EU27 members and sectors.
N74|The Anatomy of a Trade Collapse: The UK, 1929-33|A recent literature explores the nature and causes of the collapse in international trade during 2008 and 2009. The decline was particularly great for automobiles and industrial supplies; it occurred largely along the intensive margin; quantities fell by more than prices; and prices fell less for differentiated products. Do these stylised facts apply to trade collapses more generally? This paper uses detailed, commodity specific information on UK imports between 1929 and 1933, to see to what extent the trade collapses of the Great Depression and Great Recession resembled each other. It also compares the free trading trade collapse of 1929-31 with the protectionist collapse of 1931-3, to see to what extent protection, and gradual recovery from the Great Depression, mattered for UK trade patterns. Deflation was a feature of the 1930s trade collapse, and after 1931 protectionism made the UK's trade collapse geographically unbalanced. Many other features of the two trade collapses are remarkably similar, however. Both took place along the intensive rather than the extensive margin; the same types of goods were particularly badly hit in both instances; and prices of differentiated durable manufactured goods barely fell on either occasion.
N74|Can Kings Create Towns that Thrive? The long-run implications of new town foundations|Town foundations have been at the core of urban planning since the onset of civilization. This paper describes the long-run impact of an urbanization place-based policy that was considered a failure by contemporary policymakers. We test the impact of founded towns using a series of town foundations that took place between 1570 and 1810, when the Swedish Crown conferred monopoly market rights to trade upon 31 previously rural ordinary parishes. We show that towns were founded in locations with little natural potential, evident in their limited impact on agricultural surplus in the surrounding hinterlands. However, the new foundations drove extensive growth in terms of population and created positive spillover effects up to 40-50 km around the settlements. Still, the founded towns remained extraordinarily small by the end of the policy period. It was not until the Industrial Revolution that these towns began to thrive. We suggest that trading rights and sunk investments initially served to coordinate expectations about future growth. Once the towns started to grow, agglomeration effects generated persistence in the long term.
N74|European goods market integration in the very long run: from the Black Death to the First World War|The paper examines price convergence and increases in the efficiency of wheat markets across Europe from the mid-fourteenth to the early twentieth century. The analysis is based on a new data set of prices from more than 500 markets. Unlike previous research, we find that convergence was a predominantly pre-modern phenomenon. It started in the late fifteenth and reached a first high point in the early seventeenth century - a level of integration that was surpassed only in the nineteenth century. In terms of market integration, the ‘little divergence’ between parts of North-Western Europe and the rest of the continent appears since about 1600. Long-term improvements in market efficiency began in the early sixteenth century, with advances being temporarily as uneven as in price convergence. We trace this to uneven institutional change and the non-synchronous spread of modern media and systems of information transmission that affected the ability of merchants to react to news.
N74|The anatomy of a trade collapse: The UK, 1929-33|A recent literature explores the nature and causes of the collapse in international trade during 2008 and 2009. The decline was particularly great for automobiles and industrial supplies; it occurred largely along the intensive margin; quantities fell by more than prices; and prices fell less for differentiated products. Do these stylised facts apply to trade collapses more generally? This paper uses detailed, commodityspecific information on UK imports between 1929 and 1933, to see to what extent the trade collapses of the Great Depression and Great Recession resembled each other. It also compares the free trading trade collapse of 1929-31 with the protectionist collapse of 1931-3, to see to what extent protection, and gradual recovery from the Great Depression, mattered for UK trade patterns.
N74|The anatomy of a trade collapse: The UK, 1929-33|A recent literature explores the nature and causes of the collapse in international trade during 2008 and 2009. The decline was particularly great for automobiles and industrial supplies; it occurred largely along the intensive margin; quantities fell by more than prices; and prices fell less for differentiated products. Do these stylised facts apply to trade collapses more generally? This paper uses detailed, commodityspecific information on UK imports between 1929 and 1933, to see to what extent the trade collapses of the Great Depression and Great Recession resembled each other. It also compares the free trading trade collapse of 1929-31 with the protectionist collapse of 1931-3, to see to what extent protection, and gradual recovery from the Great Depression, mattered for UK trade patterns.
N74|Studiu retrospectiv privind comerțul exterior al României în ultimii 100 de ani<BR>[A retrospective study on Romania’s external trade in the past 100 years]|Throughout the last century, Romania's economy has suffered major adverse costs, especially caused by external factors, with an adverse impact both on the volume of foreign trade and its commodity structure and geographical orientation. The study focuses on the evolution of Romania's foreign trade over the past 100 years trying to highlight the main features and trends in the different stages of the Romanian economy development, covering the periods 1918-1947, 1948-1989 and 1990-2017, marked by the the interwar economy particularities, the socialist political and economic regime, and the Romania's transition to the market economy, in the context of pre-accession and integration in the European Union. The presentation of the main coordinates of Romania's trade policies precedes the foreign trade quantitative and qualitative analysis for each of the above mentioned periods.
N74|Геополитички Аспекти Стратешких Коридора Србије<BR>[Geopolitical Aspects of the Strategic Corridors of Serbia]|Serbian. Коридори преко Балкана могу имати вишеструки значај у саобраћају, енергетици, привреди уопште, али и у ширем геополитичком контексту. У раду се анализирају важни путни и енергетски коридори (цевоводи) преко Србије. У питању су магистрални путеви ширег регионалног па и европског значаја који пролазе преко територије Србије. Потом ту су железничке трасе, укључујући и оне у нацртима, попут оне која ће се уклапати у концепт кинеског пута свиле, пре свега Пиреј‒Будимпешта. Цевоводни правци, пре свега гасоводи, нафтоводи, имају изузетан и шири геополитички значај. То се посебно односи на могућности реализације неке од варијанти Јужног тока, који остаје актуелан, и хипотетички у неком облику остварљив. Иако Србија нема директан излаз на море, најближе луке суседних земаља, пре свега оних блиских и историјских савезника попут Црне Горе, Бугарске, Грчке и Румуније имају посебан значај. Ту су нарочито значајне луке Бар, Солун, а у мањој мери бугарске и румунске важне луке (Бургас, Варна, Констанца) одакле би Србија имала погодан транзит поморским саобраћајем. English. The corridors crisscrossing the Balkans bear significance in the context of transport, energetics and industry as a whole, as well as in a broader geopolitical context. The paper analyzes the important road routes and energy corridors (pipelines) passing through Serbia. Specifically, it refers to highways significant both regionally and on continental level, which pass through the territory of the country. It also covers railroads, including the ones still in draft phase, such as the Piraeus-Budapest one, which is wupposed to be included in the outline of the Chinese Silk Road. The pipelines, especially the gas lines and the oil pipelines, are of wider geopolitical relevance. Specifically, the possibility of the realization of one of the South Stream versions, which continues being considered and in some form a hypotetically attainable plan. Although Serbia does not have access to sea, the closest ports in neighboring countries, especially the close and traditionally friendly ones such as Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece and Romania, are especially important in that context. The ports of Bar and Thessaloniki are of extraordinary significance, while the Bulgarian and Romanian ports of Burgas, Varna and Constanta, although somewhat less important, could provide Serbia with convenient points for waterway transport routes.
N74|The anatomy of a trade collapse: The UK, 1929-33|Abstract A recent literature explores the nature and causes of the collapse in international trade during 2008 and 2009. The decline was particularly great for automobiles and industrial supplies; it occurred largely along the intensive margin; quantities fell by more than prices; and prices fell less for differentiated products. Do these stylised facts apply to trade collapses more generally? This paper uses detailed, commodity specific information on UK imports between 1929 and 1933, to see to what extent the trade collapses of the Great Depression and Great Recession resembled each other. It also compares the free trading trade collapse of 1929-31 with the protectionist collapse of 1931-3, to see to what extent protection, and gradual recovery from the Great Depression, mattered for UK trade patterns.
N74|That's classified! Inventing a new patent taxonomy|Patent studies inform our understanding of innovation. Any study of patenting involves classifying patent data according to a chosen taxonomy. The literature has produced numerous taxonomies, which means patents are being classified differently across studies. This potential inconsistency is compounded by a lack of documentation provided on existing taxonomies, making them diffcult to replicate. Because of this, we develop a new patent taxonomy using machine learning techniques, and propose a new methodology to automate patent classification. We contrast existing taxonomies with our own upon a widely used patent dataset. In a regression analysis of patent classes upon patent characteristics, we show that classification bias exists: the size, statistical significance, and direction of association of coefficients depend upon how a patent dataset has been classified. We recommend investigators adopt our approach to ensure future studies are comparable and replicable.
N74|Patent costs and the value of inventions: Explaining patenting behaviour between England, Ireland and Scotland, 1617-1852|Ascertaining whether patents encourage invention necessitates understanding the incentives inventors respond to. The British patent system prior to its reform in 1852 was cumbersome and expensive. Whether it facilitated or delayed the Industrial Revolution is hotly debated. This paper's contribution is to examine the incentives to patent, and the characteristics of patentees, by observing the entire population of British patents granted up to the patent reforms of 1852. I find inventors patented widely because they had valuable inventions. Their value was positively associated with the skills and wealth of patentees. Inventors responded to demand-side conditions, and the system's expense did not hinder invention.
N74|"""War, what is it good for?"": The industrial revolution!"|Did the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars contribute to the Industrial Revolution? Recent scholarship argues warfare was an important factor in explaining Britain's industrialisation, by encouraging the invention and diffusion of key technologies with military applications. I re-examine this hypothesis by analysing the patenting of military inventions and inventions considered to be economically valuable during the Industrial Revolution. I find war led to a permanent increase in the rate of military and valuable patenting. War likely created a demand for superior military technologies, while increased wartime production led to demands for more valuable technologies, which both stimulated the Industrial Revolution.
N74|When Britain turned inward: Protection and the shift towards Empire in Interwar Britain|International trade became much less multilateral during the 1930s. Previous studies, looking at aggregate trade flows, have argued that discriminatory trade policies had comparatively little to do with this. Using highly disaggregated information on the UK’s imports and trade policies, we find that policy can explain the majority of Britain’s shift towards Imperial imports in the 1930s. Trade policy mattered, a lot.
N74|Savings banks and the industrial revolution in Prussia: Supporting regional development with public financial institutions|We show that smaller, regional public financial intermediaries significantly contributed to industrial development, using a new data set of the foundation year and location of Prussian savings banks. This extends the banking-growth nexus beyond its traditional focus on the large universal banks, to savings banks. The saving banks had an impact through the financing of public infrastructure, such as railways, and new private factories. Saving banks were public financial intermediaries, so our results strongly suggest that state intervention can be very successful, particularly in regions in the early stages of industrial development when capital requirements are manageable, and access to international capital markets is limited.
N74|Forecasting the distributions of hourly electricity spot prices|We present a stochastic modelling approach to describe the dynamics of hourly electricity prices. The suggested methodology is a stepwise combination of several mathematical operations to adequately characterize the distribution of electricity spot prices. The basic idea is to analyze day-ahead prices as panel of 24 cross-sectional hours and to identify principal components of hourly prices to account for the cross correlation between hours. Moreover, non-normality of residuals is addressed by performing a normal quantile transformation and specifying appropriate stochastic processes for time series before fit. We highlight the importance of adequate distributional forecasts and present a framework to evaluate the distribution forecast accuracy. The application for German electricity prices 2015 reveal that: (i) An autoregressive specification of the stochastic component delivers the best distribution but not always the best point forecasting results. (ii) Only a complete evaluation of point, interval and density forecast, including formal statistical tests, can ensure a correct model choice.
N74|KWK-Mindest- und Maximaleinspeisung - Die Erzeugung von Zeitreihen fuer die Energiesystemmodellierung|Die gekoppelte Erzeugung von Strom und Waerme in KWK-Anlagen ist eine der brennstoffeffizientesten Erzeugungsformenim Strommarkt. Aus diesem Grund wird sie in vielen europaeischen Laendern gefoerdert und ihr Ausbau ist erklaertes Ziel von Regierungen und Nichtregierungsorganisationen. Durch die gekoppelte Erzeugung richtet sich der Betrieb nicht allein nach dem Strompreis und der Elektrizitaetsnachfrage, sondern auch nach der lokalen Waermenachfrage und den verfuegbaren Erzeugungseinheiten im Waermenetz. Fuer den KWK-Anlagenbetreiber ergeben sich dadurch Restriktionen fuer die Vermarktung des Stroms im Elektrizitaetsmarkt. Aus dem gleichen Grund ergeben sich Herausforderungen aus Systemsicht: Die Flexibilitaet des Betriebs von KWK-Anlagen, die beispielsweise zum Ausgleich von Prognosefehlern Erneuerbarer Erzeugung genutzt werden kann, ist begrenzt. Das vorliegende Paper gibt einen Kurzueberblick ueber die Modellierung dieser Restriktionen im Kontext der europaeischen Energiesystemmodellierung und traegt somit zum Verstaendnis der Wirkzusammenhaenge und wesentlichen Treiber bei.
N74|The impact of intraday markets on the market value of flexibilityâ€“Decomposing effects on profile and the imbalance costs|An increasing share of variable renewable energy sources (VREs) basically affects the electricity price formation in two ways: (1) The so-called merit order effect tends to lower the base price level and challenges conventional plants to remain profitable. (2) Due to the variable nature of renewable energy infeed, the shortterm demand for flexibility increases and changes the volatility of electricity prices. The more variable prices offer opportunities for controllable electricity producers (CEPs) to provide up- and down-ramping flexibility to increase their revenues. In contrast, the VREs with high degrees of simultaneity tend to pay for this flexibility in the electricity spot market to reduce their imbalance exposure. The intraday market (IDM) for electricity has gained importance for the market value of different technologies lately and continues to expand due to the increasing efforts to balance within-day deviation from day-ahead schedules. This article presents a combination and extension of two existing models to capture the peculiarities of the intraday price formation and to analyse the impact of the IDM on the market value of VREs and CEPs. Doing so, the paper suggests an adjustment of the classical market value factor metric and to go beyond classical day-ahead market (DAM) information. The article shows that market value factors (MVFs) can be stabilized if the IDM delivers â€˜marketbasedâ€™ price signals for the costs of flexibility, that are sufficient to activate flexibilities prior to the usually more expensive imbalance mechanism (IBM). Yet, the MVFs from single VRE technologies will worsen if their market share is high enough to outweigh forecast errors from other technologies and if they become a permanent price maker in the IDM and the IBM.
N74|Currency valuations, retaliation and trade conflicts evidence from interwar France|The devaluations of the 1930s facilitated a faster recovery from the Great Depression in the countries depreciating, but their unilateral manner provoked retaliatory commercial policies abroad. This paper explores the importance of the retaliatory motive in French trade policy during the 1930s and its effects on trade. Relying on a novel dataset of bilateral tariff rates and a difference in differences approach, the quantification of the protectionist response suggests that retaliation was an important motive behind increasing tariffs. The resulting beggar-myneighbour penalty reduced trade to a similar degree that modern regional trade agreements foster trade. Furthermore, the analysis of contemporary newspapers reveals that the devaluations of the early 1930s triggered a lasting Anglo-French trade conflict marked by titfor-tat protectionist policies. Overall, the quantitative and qualitative results indicate that the unilateral currency depreciations came at a high price in political and economic terms.
N74|The Trade Effects of Border Controls: Evidence from the European Schengen Agreement|The Schengen Agreement is an important milestone in the European integration process. The purpose is to facilitate the flow of goods, services, and persons across intraâ€ European borders. How successful is it in achieving this goal? We apply an econometric gravity analysis to bilateral trade. Unlike earlier analysis, we acknowledge that Schengen treats different country pairs differently, depending on their relative geographical location. Moreover, we find it crucial to carefully control for other elements of European integration such as membership in the customs union, the single market or the currency union, and to factor in countries' trade with themselves. Schengen has boosted trade by about 2.81 per cent on average, on top of the EU's trade effects (equivalent to a drop in tariffs between 0.46 and 1.02 percentage points). Trade creation effects for services are stronger than for goods, but estimates feature larger parameter uncertainty. Peripheral countries benefit more than central ones. Other aspects of EU integration matter much more for trade than Schengen.
N74|Currency Valuations, Retaliation and Trade Conflicts Evidence from Interwar France|The devaluations of the 1930s facilitated a faster recovery from the Great Depression in the countries depreciating, but their unilateral manner provoked retaliatory commercial policies abroad. This paper explores the importance of the retaliatory motive in French trade policy during the 1930s and its effects on trade. Relying on a novel dataset of bilateral tariff rates and a difference in differences approach, the quantification of the protectionist response suggests that retaliation was an important motive behind increasing tariffs. The resulting beggar-my-neighbour penalty reduced trade to a similar degree that modern regional trade agreements foster trade. Furthermore, the analysis of contemporary newspapers reveals that the devaluations of the early 1930s triggered a lasting Anglo-French trade conflict marked by tit-for-tat protectionist policies. Overall, the quantitative and qualitative results indicate that the unilateral currency depreciations came at a high price in political and economic terms.
N74|The Gains from Import Variety in Two Globalisations: Evidence from Germany|What are the gains from trade today compared to those in the globalisation hundred years ago? To answer this question I rely on Krugman’s (1980) idea that consumers value growing import variety, and very granular German product-level data from the ﬁrst globalisation (ahead of World War I), and today. First, I derive structural estimates of the elasticity of substitution at the product-level for both globalisation episodes. I ﬁnd substantial heterogeneity in terms of how elastic demand over goods and their varieties is, especially when compared over the long run. The median elasticity is 3.8 in the ﬁrst globalisation, but only 2.5 in the second. This suggests that demand was more elastic in the ﬁrst globalisation and that the structure of demand is not easily approximated by using a single elasticity of substitution, which is often done in the literature. Second, I use these estimated elasticities and calculate the consumer gains from growing import variety ahead of World War I and for today. The welfare calculations suggest that the gains from trade in the ﬁrst globalisation are twice as much as today. Welfare turns out much lower—falling down to a ﬁfth of the benchmark— when using non-contemporary, that is, inadequate elasticities. Simply taking one single elasticity or a set of ahistorical elasticities can be easily misleading because gains from international trade as well as the eﬀects of changes in trade costs may be wrongly captured.
N74|Navigating through torpedo attacks and enemy raiders: Merchant shipping and freight rates during World War I|During World War I ocean freight rates rose to extraordinary levels. Using a new monthly dataset it is shown that freight rates can be well explained by economic activity, commodity prices, war risk and world tonnage in the period 1912 to 1916. In the first two years of the war part of the British merchant fleet was directly controlled by the Government but neutral shipping was basically free to operate as normal. In this period neutral shipping accounted for about one third of British imports. In the final two years of the war a much stricter regime of freight control was introduced that resulted in the withdrawal of a large proportion of neutral shipowners from British and Allied trade. Together with the mounting losses of tonnage due to the German submarine campaign this created an acute shortage of carrying capacity and reduced imports. It is argued that the policy of freight control may have rested on a misconception of the role of freight rates as a source of the high wartime in ation.
N74|When Britain turned inward: Protection and the shift towards Empire in interwar Britain|International trade became much less multilateral during the 1930s. Previous studies, looking at aggregate trade flows, have argued that discriminatory trade policies had comparatively little to do with this. Using highly disaggregated information on the UK's imports and trade policies, we find that policy can explain the majority of Britain's shift towards Imperial imports in the 1930s. Trade policy mattered, a lot.
N74|Independent Ireland in Comparative Perspective| Abstract This paper surveys independent Irelandâ€™s economic policies and performance. It has three main messages. First, the economic history of post-independence Ireland was not particularly unusual. Very often, things that were happening in Ireland were happening elsewhere as well. Second, for a long time we were hampered by an excessive dependence on a poorly performing UK economy. And third, EC membership in 1973, and the Single Market programme of the late 1980s and early 1990s, were absolutely crucial for us. Irish independence and EU membership have complemented each other, rather than being in conflict: each was required to give full effect to the other. Irish independence would not have worked as well for us as it did without the EU; and the EU would not have worked as well for us as it did without political independence.
N74|Harmony of Games in Normal Form|Game harmony is a generic game property that can be used to predict cooperation in both generic and well-known normal form games. It describes how harmonious (non-conflictual) or disharmonious (conflictual) the interests of players are, as embodied in the payoffs. Pure coordination games are games of complete harmony, and constant-sum games of pure disharmony: the majority of games is somewhere in the middle. This paper provides measures of game harmony, analyzes their properties and reviews their use as predictors of cooperation in games. Framing effects increasing cooperation may work by increasing perceived game harmony.
N74|Game Perception and Harmony in 3 x 3 Games|The experiment presented in this paper employs 3 x 3 games to analyze how perception of a game affects behavior in the presence or absence of a minimal framing effect and of uncertainty about the values of some game payoffs. We vary the harmony of practice stage games, and explain how this changes later behavior. We employ techniques, such as payoff integration and similarity evaluations, that could be used in further research to open the black box of framing effects. Game harmony is a measure summarizing how harmonious the interests of the players are in the game. It is associated with cooperation.
N74|Економски Односи Србије И Румуније На Почетку 21. Века И Могућности Унапређења<BR>[Serbian-Romanian Economic Relationships at the Beginning of 21st Century and Possibilities of Improving]|Serbian. Економске односе, посебно спољнотрговинске односе, Србије и Румуније на почетку 21. века карактеришу стабилност али и релативно низак интензитет размене. Обе земље у целини бележе дефицит у спољнотрговинској размени са светом, али у међусобној размени суфицит је на страни Србије. Иако Румунија заузима једно од водећих места међу земљама спољнотрговинским партнерима Србије, њено учешће у укупном извозу Србије је свега око 5,5, а у увозу Србије нешто испод 3 процента, што указује да постоји много простора за унапређење. У раду се анализира структура размене и сугеришу могући правци њеног повећавања. English. Economic relations, especially foreign trade relations, between Serbia and Romania at the beginning of the 21st century are characterized by stability, but relatively low intensity of exchange. Both countries in general have a deficit in foreign trade with the world, but in the mutual exchange there is a surplus on the side of Serbia. Although Romania takes one of the leading positions among the foreign trade partners of Serbia, its share in the total export of Serbia is only about 5.5%, while Serbia's import is slightly below 3%, which indicates that there is many possibilities for improvement. The paper analyzes the structure of the exchange and suggests possible directions of its increase.
N74|Collaborative networks and export intensity in family firms: a quantile regression approach|This paper examines if collaborative networks affect the export status and intensity in family firms. We suggest that the network effect is more relevant when the firm has low export intensity because when the firm is in the first stages of internationalization, networks are very useful to provide export resources and to solve common problems. However, this role becomes less relevant when firms show higher export intensity. For the empirical analysis, we use a dynamic Heckman-Probit model, using in the second stage a quantile regression model.
N74|Savings Banks and the Industrial Revolution in Prussia Supporting Regional Development with Public Financial Institutions|We show that smaller, regional public financial intermediaries significantly contributed to industrial development, using a new data set of the foundation year and location of Prussian savings banks. This extends the banking-growth nexus beyond its traditional focus on the large universal banks, to savings banks. The saving banks had an impact through the financing of public infrastructure, such as railways, and new private factories. Saving banks were public financial intermediaries, so our results suggest that state intervention can be successful, particularly at early stages of industrial development when capital requirements are manageable, and access to international capital markets is limited.
N74|When Britain turned inward: Protection and the shift towards Empire in interwar Britain|Abstract International trade became much less multilateral during the 1930s. Previous studies, looking at aggregate trade flows, have argued that discriminatory trade policies had comparatively little to do with this. Using highly disaggregated information on the UKâ€™s imports and trade policies, we find that policy can explain the majority of Britainâ€™s shift towards Imperial imports in the 1930s. Trade policy mattered, a lot.
N74|Uniform Service, Uniform Productivity? Regional Efficiency of the Imperial German Postal, Telegraph, and Telephone Service|Using the regional productivity of the Reichspost, the postal service of the German Empire, I investigate whether a public monopolist operates with uniform regional productivity. Using DEA efficiency scores we derive the relative productivity of the post, telegraph and telephone sectors from 1891 to 1908. Results show a fairly stable system with substantial raw productivity differences between postal districts and that the expansion of the service offset technological productivity increases for the mail service.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N74|The Effects of Tourism on the GDP of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia in the Process of European Integration|Tourism is a socio-economic phenomenon exerting considerable economic, social and political impact, thus securing itself an important position in the overall economic growth. The principal purpose of this paper is to present the effects of the EU integration process on tourist movements in Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro during the period 2006-2014, as 2006 was the year when one of the surveyed countries initiated EU accession negotiations, and tourism sector contribution to GDP in these countries in the period from 2002-2013 based on the data available for these years. To that end, the authors have compared the relationship between the number of foreign tourist arrivals and overnight stays and the GDP rates in the surveyed countries. Upon reviewing the available sources, the authors have reached the conclusion that during the EU integration period, an increase in the number of foreign tourists and overnight stays positively correlated with the GDP growth. EU integration process has had a positive bearing on tourism movements in the surveyed countries. The panel regression method has shown that despite a continuous increase in the number of foreign tourist arrivals, tourism sector still makes a modest direct contribution to the overall economic growth of the surveyed countries (Serbia, Montenegro, and Macedonia). Also, the Granger causality test was applied to demonstrate that it is not possible to predict GDP values in any of the surveyed countries based on the tourism revenue growth, while tourism contribution to GDP in Macedonia and Montenegro can be predicted based on their GDP.
N74|Sailing away from Malthus: intercontinental trade and European economic growth, 1500–1800|What was the contribution of intercontinental trade to the development of the European early modern economies? Previous attempts to answer this question have focused on static measures of the weight of trade in the aggregate economy at a given point in time, or on the comparison of the income of specific imperial nations just before and after the loss of their overseas empire. These static accounting approaches are inappropriate if dynamic and spillover effects are at work, as seems likely. In this paper, I use a panel dataset of 10 countries in a dynamic model that allows for spillover effects, multiple channels of causality, persistence, and country-specific fixed effects. Using this dynamic model, simulations suggest that in the counterfactual absence of intercontinental trade, rates of early modern economic growth and urbanization would have been moderately to substantially lower. For the four main long-distance traders, by 1800, the real wage was, depending on the country, 6.1–22.7 % higher, and urbanization was 4.0–11.7 percentage points higher, than they would have otherwise been. For some countries, the effect was quite pronounced: in The Netherlands between 1600 and 1750, for instance, intercontinental trade was responsible for most of the observed increase in real wages and for a large share of the observed increase in urbanization. At the same time, countries which did not engage in long-distance trade would have had real wage increases in the order of 5.4–17.8 % and urbanization increases of 2.2–3.2 percentage points, should they have done so at the same level as the four main traders. Intercontinental trade appears to have played an important role for all nations that engaged in it, with the exception of France. These conclusions stand in contrast to the earlier literature that uses a partial equilibrium and static accounting approach.
N74|Rusnano i Skolkovo – czołowe rosyjskie przedsięwzięcia na drodze do innowacji / Rusnano and Skolkovo – leading Russian initiative on the road to innovation|This paper explains the issues related to the development of the Russian economybased on innovation, and the role of government in supporting the developmentof innovation. In particular, attention is drawn to two examples: Skolkovo and Rusnano, with a preliminary evaluation of their effectiveness.
N74|La balance du carbone incorporé au commerce bilatéral entre la France et la Chine : transferts d’émissions ou nouvelles créations ?|We calculate the balance of carbon embodied in trade (BCET) between China and France during 1996-2005. Our results confirm China’s role as a net carbon exporter and the fast increasing trend of the surplus in BCET since China’s adhesion to the World Trade Organization. However, the quasi-totality of the carbon surplus is due to China’s low carbon efficiency. The part of carbon emission discharged on China’s territory that is directly transferred from France via trade stays very little (1-2 %). The bilateral trade between China and France seems to continue benefiting mainly from their difference in factor endowment; the environmental regulation related comparative advantage plays only a marginal role. Classification JEL : Q56, Q54, N74, N75.
N74|Energy subsidies at times of economic crisis: A comparative study and scenario analysis of Italy and Spain|From 2005-2012, Spain and Italy saw significant investment in renewable energy, most notably in onshore wind and solar, driven by generous subsidies, the expectation of rising carbon prices and falling renewables (especially solar panel) costs. As a result of the Global Financial Crisis, both countries were faced with massive fiscal deficits and were forced to curtail their renewable support schemes, although these efforts took several years to take effect after the onset of the initial crisis. Ironically, both Spain and Italy incurred the lion’s share of their liability for renewables support after the onset of the crisis particularly because of the rapid drop in costs of solar PV panels, while subsidy levels remained high. In spite of changes to their support regimes, Italy is likely to meet its 2020 climate and renewable targets, whereas Spain is unlikely to meet its 2020 renewables target based on current trajectories. Following a comparative historical survey of the two large EU member states, we present a scenario analysis that contrasts alternative futures of 2030 where renewable support remain at current levels (essentially zero) or is revived and where carbon prices stay at current low levels (€5/t CO2) or rises to levels needed to accomplish the proposed 40% EU 2030 reduction target. We find that, by 2030, in large parts of Spain, solar PV will be cost-competitive even under low-carbon price and low renewable support regimes, whereas concentrated solar power (CSP) and onshore wind, will require at least either a sustained renewable support regime or a high carbon price to become cost competitive. In Italy, solar PV becomes cost competitive in the low-carbon, low-renewable support scenario except when fossil fuel prices are unusually low. By 2030, there would be large-scale penetration of onshore wind and geothermal in Italy if there is either a high-carbon price or a high renewable support regime or both. In general, if the current levels of carbon price were to exist post-2020, both Italy and Spain would find it rather difficult to increase the penetration of renewables in their electricity mix. A high subsidy world, on the other hand, would be result in the most favourable outcome, particularly for Spain, although it may incur additional costs in comparison to a high carbon price world.
N74|Ease vs. Noise: On the Conflicting Effects of Transportation Infrastructure|Many transport technologies cause a gnot]in]my]backyardh (NIMBY) reaction of locals in that they often oppose the nearby location of necessary infrastructure despite benefiting from greater mobility. We employ quasi]experimental research methods to disentangle the offsetting noise and accessibility effects of one technology of mass transit, metro rail, analyzing land price effects of the opening of the first German electrified metro rail line in Berlin in 1902. Examining a long]run micro]geographic data set, we find that, ceteris paribus, a 1 km reduction in distance from the nearest station increases land prices (house prices) by 21% (5%), while a 10 db increase in noise depreciates land prices (house prices) by 5% (1%). We show that these effects are underestimated by 40% (access) to 80% (noise) if they are not estimated conditional on each other. A complementary analysis of recent property transactions data suggests that preferences for accessibility have remained quite stable over the 20th century, while noise sensitivity increased substantially. The case for constructing underground as opposed to elevated rail lines is therefore stronger today than a century ago.
N74|Deskilling and decline in skill premium during the age of sail: Swedish and Finnish seamen, 1751–1913|The study examines the evolution of skill premium and share at industry level in shipping during the age of sail. We argue that the period from the 1750s to the 1910s represented deskilling for the seamen working in sailing ships. The growth of international trade and shipping during the first era of globalization increased the overall demand for sailors but decreased the relative demand for skilled labor in favor of less skilled ones. This deskilling was associated with a decline in wage inequality, as the premium for high skilled seamen fell relative to mean wages in the shipping industry. The decline in skill premium may have facilitated the growth of trade and shipping, as the relative costs of transport declined. This in turn might have hastened the first era of globalization.
N74|Germany’s early industrialisation: regional innovativeness and technology transfer, 1843-77|"""In this paper we introduce a new dataset of over 1,500 patents granted in the Grand-Duchy of Baden between 1843 and 1877. Since almost 80 percent were owned by non-domestic patentees, the dataset sheds light on technology transfer within Germany and Europe. We show that technology transfer became increasingly important since the late 1850s. Thereby, innovative activity was concentrated within some major research economies and German regions. Compared to the period 1877-1914 this pattern remained fairly stable – except for the rise of the United States. Regional innovativeness cannot be explained with the emergence of strong technological clusters related to the leading industries of Germany’s early industrialization. Indeed, we only observe a strong specialization in these technologies in the Rhineland and the Prussian province of Saxony. Furthermore, our data suggests that the incentives to apply for patent protection were negatively influenced by distance due to boarder effects and high transaction costs. At last, we investigate the effects of technology transfer on the local research economy of Baden. Here, we find evidence for spillover-effects in agriculture-related technologies. However, in the case of textile and railway related industries, domestic inventors were crowded out by foreign competitors."""
N74|Energy Subsidies at Times of Economic Crisis: A Comparative Study and Scenario Analysis of Italy and Spain|No abstract is available for this item.
N74|L'europe de l'énergie : de la concurrence à la solidarité ?|L’article 194 du TFUE a conféré de nouveaux pouvoirs aux instances européennes notamment dans le domaine de l’énergie. Une politique énergétique peut être menée dans une logique de solidarité afin de garantir des objectifs communs, tels la sécurité d’approvisionnement. Ce faisant le Traité de Lisbonne semble donner de nouveaux leviers à la Commission dans le domaine de l’énergie en addition des politiques de concurrence et environnementale. Cependant, ces possibilités semblent entravées par leur subordination aux Etats membres qui demeurent libres de déterminer leur mix énergétique et leur politique d’approvisionnement extérieur. Ce faisant, la politique de concurrence semble s’avérer le seul levier de mettre en œuvre une politique énergétique européenne. Cependant, dans le même temps, la capacité de l’outil concurrentiel à créer des marchés dans le secteur de l’énergie reste questionnable. Notre article montre sous quelles conditions une action publique européenne basée sur les principes de solidarité et de subsidiarité pourrait répondre aux limites des « energy only markets ». A cette fin, nous nous penchons plus en détail sur la question des contrats de long terme et nous mobilisons le cadre théorique de l’économie des conventions.
N74|Issues and paradoxes of the French maritime economy at the start of the 21st century|Arguments about the dwindling French power became intense. They also involve the maritime (or “blue”) economy. Several activities are to be taken into account: Shipbuilding, fishing, harbour and logistics flows, shipping companies, and firms specialised in undersea digital connections foster a large field for the assessment of French competitiveness. The issue is to gauge the factors of weakness, but moreover the leverage forces contributing to resistance and even rebirth of the various poles of entrepreneurship and growth fuelled by the sea economy.
N74|La construction d'un système statistique : Le cas des statistiques du commerce intérieur en France, de 1945 à la fin des années 1960|This paper studies the construction of quantitative data for the French national trade between 1945 and the 1970s. Our purpose is to provide an account of the establishment of a statistical system specific to this economic sector. By statistical system we imply the apparatus and devices that were put together in order to produce statistical information, in particular political willpower, the professional and institutional actors involved, the accounting frameworks, and the tools and classifications used. In the first section we provide an overview of the transformations of French trade during the period studied, while in the second section We examine the production of statistical data for this sector. In the third section, we study the conditions of emergence of these data, examining the role that particular merchants and political regimes might have had to provoke biases, and questioning the possible political use of these statistics. We show that the construction of a statistical system is not exclusively an institutional or a technical matter, but also that political decisions and particular interests play an important role in the construction of such a system Classification-JEL: B00; N14; N74
N74|Shipping in dire straits: New evidence on trends and cycles in coal freights from Britain, 1919-1939|New monthly freight rate indices for 13 coal trade routes from Britain 1919-1939 are presented. The new indices form the basis of a review of the interwar freight markets and their relationship to the timing and severity of general business cycles. New time series of laid-up tonnage provide the background for this discussion. The Great Depression starting in the autumn of 1929 created a shipping cycle of unusual length and severity. Real freight rate indices used as a cross-check on productivity gains in shipping raise some doubt on previous estimates of productivity growth in British shipping in the interwar years.
N74|The Energy Union pillars: competitiveness, security and sustainability|This research focuses on the study of energy union, from the perspective of the three pillars: competitiveness, sustainability and security. The author uses descriptive research methodology to analyze the implementation of the main objectives of energy union. The article analyzes, based on the literature in the energy field, the weaknesses and the strengths of each pillar. The study findings show the opportunities, but also the challenges that hinder the development of energy union and identify the priorities for Romania.
N74|La construction d'un système statistique : Le cas des statistiques du commerce intérieur en France de 1945 à la fin des années 1960|This paper studies the construction of quantitative data for the French national trade between 1945 and the 1970s. Our purpose is to provide an account of the establishment of a statistical system specific to this economic sector. By statistical system we imply the apparatus and devices that were put together in order to produce statistical information, in particular political willpower, the professional and institutional actors involved, the accounting frameworks, and the tools and classifications used. In the first section we provide an overview of the transformations of French trade during the period studied, while in the second section We examine the production of statistical data for this sector. In the third section, we study the conditions of emergence of these data, examining the role that particular merchants and political regimes might have had to provoke biases, and questioning the possible political use of these statistics. We show that the construction of a statistical system is not exclusively an institutional or a technical matter, but also that political decisions and particular interests play an important role in the construction of such a system.
N74|La Belgique et l’Europe dans la tourmente monétaire des années 1970 - Entretiens avec Jacques van Ypersele|Jacques van Ypersele de Strihou is a discrete person but well-known in Belgian and international political and economic circles. After an outstanding academic career at the Universities of Namur, Leuven and Louvain and then at Yale in the United States where he gained a PhD, he started out his professional life as an official at the International Monetary Fund. He then returned to Belgium where he held important posts in various Finance Ministers’ cabinets. He played a major role in European and international monetary negotiations, notably in his capacity as President of the European Monetary Committee when the European Monetary System was being set up. Later, as head of Prime Minister Wilfried Martens’ cabinet, he was one of the architects of the 1982 devaluation of the Belgian franc. Discretion and modesty prevented Jacques van Ypersele from talking about himself much. He took some convincing before agreeing to be interviewed. The end result was these three interviews which took place at his home between June and October 2015 which he re-read the following summer. We were also given access to his private archives, the source of the documents published in the Annex.
N74|Structural analysis of foreign trade of Romania|In this paper, the authors study the evolution of Romania’s foreign trade during the recent period. There are used relevant indicators for the purpose of the research, such as the value of FOB exports, CIF imports, the foreign trade balance, its result, the coverage degree of imports by exports, formation of fixed capital through the contribution of foreign capital, structure of imports and exports. As part of the research, the evolution of the international trade depending on the partner countries is approached.
N74|«A un panal de rica miel?»: empresas y empresarios en la exportación de aceite de oliva andaluz, 1886-1936|This article examines, from an entrepreneurial perspective, Andalusian olive oil exports in the first third of the twentieth century, when the region became the world’s largest producer. Although the region exhibited good conditions for olive production, the sale of olive oil abroad required certain technological and organizational innovations. With their superior knowledge and experience in national and international markets, foreign or non-Andalusian companies drove this transformation process. Prior to the First World War, these non-local commercial firms were able to integrate the final phase of olive oil production, mainly refining, but rarely entered into the initial phases such as olive cultivation, nor did these companies establish significant connections with the regional companies. The sources of this historical analysis derive from documentation produced by the Spanish Federation of the Olive Oil Industry and by the Mercantile Registers of Andalusia.
N74|L'Europe de l'énergie : de la concurrence à la solidarité|L’article 194 du TFUE a conféré de bouveaux pouvoirs aux instances européennes notamment dans le domaine de l’énergie. Une politique énergétique peut être menée dans une logique de solidarité afin de garantir des objectifs communs, tels la sécurité d’approvisionnement. Ce faisant le Traité de Lisbonne semble donner de nouveaux leviers à la Commission dans le domaine de l’énergie en addition des politiques de concurrence etenvironnementale. Cependant, ces possibilités semblent entravées par leur subordination aux Etats membres qui demeurent libres de déterminer leur mix énergétique et leur politique d’approvisionnement extérieur. Ce faisant, la politique de concurrence semble s’avérer le seul levier de mettre en oeuvre une politique énergétique européenne. Cependant, dans le même temps, la capacité de l’outil concurrentiel à créer des marchés dans le secteur de l’énergie reste questionnable. Notre article montre sous quelles conditions une action publique européenne basée sur les principes de solidarité et desubsidiarité pourrait répondre aux limites des « energy only markets ». A cette fin, nous nous penchons plus en détail sur la question des contrats de long terme et nous mobilisons le cadre théorique de l’économie des conventions.
N74|Independent Ireland In Comparative Perspective|This paper surveys independent Ireland’s economic policies and performance. It has three main messages. First, the economic history of post-independence Ireland was not particularly unusual. Very often, things that were happening in Ireland were happening elsewhere as well. Second, for a long time we were hampered by an excessive dependence on a poorly performing UK economy. And third, EC membership in 1973, and the Single Market programme of the late 1980s and early 1990s, were absolutely crucial for us. Irish independence and EU membership have complemented each other, rather than being in conflict: each was required to give full effect to the other. Irish independence would not have worked as well for us as it did without the EU; and the EU would not have worked as well for us as it did without political independence.
N74|Patents, exhibitions and markets for innovation in the early twentieth century: Evidence from Turin 1911 International Exhibition|This work contributes to the recent literature on international exhibitions, and on the use of data from these events as a proxy for innovation in economic history. In particular, it investigates the nature of international exhibitions, the role they played in the early twentieth century, the reasons why economic agents attended them, the relationship between exhibition data and patent data, and their suitability for measuring innovation. To do so, it makes an in-depth analysis of the International Exhibition held in Turin in 1911, and it matches a new database, built from the catalogue of this event, with data about patents granted in Italy. It is found that exhibiting and patenting did mostly occur separately, as exhibitions mainly worked as markets for products, which attracted firms, while patents were primarily taken out by individuals, most of whom might not be interested in that function. Yet, the presence is observed of a qualified niche of independent inventors, using the exhibition as a market for ideas, i.e. to advertise their findings to a selected public of potential investors, buyers or licensees.
N74|What Makes a Successful Entrepreneur? Historical Evidence from Italy (XIX-XX Centuries)|in this paper we employ a “quantitative” prosopographical approach to study the nature and the determinants of entrepreneurial success. Our main source is the “Biographical Dictionary of Italian Entrepreneurs” which contains very detailed information on 608 major Italian entrepreneurs active over more than two centuries. Our findings indicate the multidimensional nature of entrepreneurial success, comprising both a strictly economic and a “celebrity” dimension. Concerning the determinants of success, our findings point to the “political” nature of Italian capitalism.
N74|Introducing Railway Time in the Balkans: Economic eﬀects of railway construction in Southeast Europe and beyond since the early 19th century until present days|Abstract In this paper we analyse the economic eﬀects of railway infrastructure at the national level for European countries as well as at the local level for Southeast European cities based on a novel railway database capturing decades of the 19th century up to the early 21th century. A panel ﬁxed eﬀects regression analysis at the country level indicates a positive economic impact emanating from railway infrastructure, whereby the eﬀect appears to be even stronger for less developed Southeast European countries. In addition, a linear spatially augmented multilevel model at the city level sheds light on the positive eﬀects resulting from railway infrastructure on urban development. Its positive spillover eﬀects occur within countries as well as across borders.
N74|Elusive Development in the Balkans: Research Findings|Summary Research findings of the latest round of the wiiw-GDN project on development in the Balkans are surveyed. Historical and structural deficiencies of development in the Balkan countries are discussed in detail with emphasis of the role of investment, integration, and structural and policy deficiencies. These structural features have led to policy challenges in particular after the crisis of 2008-2009. Which are investment- and export-led growth, which implies slower growth of consumption than national savings; slow growth of wages and incomes over the period of structural adjustment and for reasons of prevention of real exchange rate appreciation; and free access to foreign markets due to slower recovery of domestic demand. With the policy framework biased towards rigidity, and having in mind the needed structural adjustment, development policies that are compatible with them are infrastructure, physical and institutional, investments supported by the EU and regionally; trade integration – regional, European, and within the World Trade Organisation; financial and entrepreneurial cooperation within the manufacturing networks in the EU primarily; sustainable macroeconomic policies especially when it comes to external balances. A list of studies and of the relevant literature is included.
N74|Las relaciones comerciales contemporáneas de Aragón con Cataluña: de la complementariedad al modelo intraindustrial|En este trabajo se muestran las estrechas relaciones comerciales que Aragón ha mantenido con Cataluña durante la contemporaneidad. La industrialización de Cataluña permitió una creciente complementariedad productiva y comercial con la economía agraria aragonesa. Durante la segunda mitad del siglo XX el avance de la industrialización en Aragón permitió diversificar su especialización productiva. En este contexto, Cataluña ha seguido siendo, con gran diferencia, el principal mercado exterior de Aragón. Desde finales de siglo Aragón ha pasado a ser el principal destino de las exportaciones catalanas, tras Francia, y también su principal proveedor regional. Su comercio muestra ya un claro perfil intraindustrial.
N74|HPAI Impact on EU-27’s Import Demand for Cooked and Uncooked Poultry and Other Meats| The article applied a Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) differential model to evaluate the impact of HPAI (H5N1) virus outbreaks on EU-27’s import demand for five meat products: cooked poultry, uncooked poultry, beef, pork, and other meats. One novel feature of this work is the division of poultry into two distinct import products—cooked (safe) and uncooked (less safe). Analysis shows that HPAI (H5N1) outbreaks had statistically significant impacts on EU27 import demand for meats, increasing cooked poultry and decreasing uncooked poultry, beef, pork, and other meats. The shift in import demand regime was permanent and statistically significant, making cooked poultry imports EU27’s largest, averaging more than 50 percent of EU imports in 2013 and 2014.
N74|Learning that milk comes from a cow: supply management and the character of neoliberalism in Spain’s dairy chain|This article takes Spain’s dairy chain as a study case of the transformations in the political economy of the food system in the West since the Second World War. I find that there is much to support the prevailing narrative in food regime analysis: the organised capitalism of 1952-1986 was gradually weakened by a policy agenda of deregulation stemming from both internal and external pressures. I also find, however, a thread of continuity between the period 1952-1986and the post-1986 period – in both periods there were strategies of supply chain management by means of which the power of political or business elites joined the market as a mechanism for the coordination of decisions. I argue that there is a case for reassessing the degree up to which the term “neoliberalism” does a good job at describing the new historical era that started in the food system in the latter decades of the twentieth century.
N74|Visible and invisible walls: World trade patterns and the end of the Cold War|This paper revisits the empirical trade literature on East–West trade in the early 1990s and provides a replication of the traditional gravity findings of that period with the Baier–Bergstrand version of the model, providing thereby better estimates of the trade hindering impact of the Cold War by including multilateral and world resistance factors and simultaneously considering country fixed effects. Breaking down the Cold War Walls increased world trade by 2.7% of world GDP. The replication with the Baier–Bergstrand model also reveals that Cold War trade distortions also significantly impacted China’s trade with the West.
N74|Economy Of Sibiu County. Resources For A Future Development|Economically, the County of Sibiu has been characterized, especially after 2007, by an accelerated speed of development, the recorded increase pushing our County among the most dynamic economies at regional and national level as well. The present paper aims at analyzing the specificity of the economic development of Sibiu County, namely to identify the resources of the obtained economic progress. The purpose of this study also consists in identifying new opportunities for the local economy, outlining new sources of development that are more important as competition, both at regional and national level, is tighter and tighter.
N74|Radio and the Rise of The Nazis in Prewar Germany|How do the media affect public support for democratic institutions in a fragile democracy? What role do they play in a dictatorial regime? We study these questions in the context of Germany of the 1920s and 1930s. During the democratic period, when the Weimar government introduced progovernment political news, the growth of Nazi popularity slowed down in areas with access to radio. This effect was reversed during the campaign for the last competitive election as a result of the pro-Nazi radio broadcast following Hitler’s appointment as chancellor. During the consolidation of dictatorship, radio propaganda helped the Nazis enroll new party members. After the Nazis established their rule, radio propaganda incited anti-Semitic acts and denunciations of Jews to authorities by ordinary citizens. The effect of anti-Semitic propaganda varied depending on the listeners’ predispositions toward the message. Nazi radio was most effective in places where anti-Semitism was historically high and had a negative effect in places with historically low anti-Semitism. JEL Codes: D7, N34, N44.
N74|What Do We Really Know About Protection Before The Great Depression: Evidence From Italy|The impact of protection on economic growth is one of the traditional issues in economic history, which has enjoyed a revival in recent times, with the publication of a number of comparative quantitative papers. They all share a common weakness: they measure protection with the ratio of custom revenues to imports, which is bound to bias results if imports are not perfectly inelastic. In this paper, we show that the measure of protection matters, by estimating the Trade Restrictiveness Index (TRI) by Anderson and Neary (2005) for Italy from its unification to the Great Depression. We put forward a different interpretation of some key moments of Italian trade policy and we show that the aggregate welfare losses were small in the long run and mostly related to the outlandish protection on sugar in the 1880s and 1890s. We also show that different measures of protection affect considerably the results of econometric tests on the causal relation between trade policy on economic growth in Italy and in the United States. Accordingly, we argue that the economic history of trade policy needs a systematic re-estimating of protection.
N74|The Ghost in the Attic? The Italian National Innovation System in Historical Perspective, 1861–2011|In this paper we provide a survey of the long term evolution of the Italian “National innovation system” since the unification. . First we provide a broad reconstruction of long term trends by examining a wide range of quantitative indicators of science and technological activities in comparative perspective. Second, on the basis of this quantitative picture, we put forward a conjectural interpretation of the fundamental features of the Italian national innovation system. Our conclusion is that Italy has approached the process of Modern Economic Growth following a peculiar path characterized by a limited commitment to investments in science and technology in combination with low real wages and the intense use of unskilled labour.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N74|Early globalizations: The integration of Asia in the world economy, 1800–1938|This paper contributes to the debate on globalization and the great divergence with a comprehensive analysis of the integration of Asia in the world market from 1800 to the eve of World War II. We examine the patterns of convergence in prices for a wide range of commodities between Europe and the main Asian countries (India, Indonesia, Japan and China) and we compare them with convergence between Europe and the East Coast of the United States, hitherto the yardstick for the 19th century. Most price convergence occurred before 1870, mainly as a consequence of the abolition of the European trading monopolies with Asia, and, to a lesser extent, the repeal of duties on Atlantic trade. After 1870, price differentials continued to decline thanks to falling freights and to better communication after the lay-out of telegraph cables. There was only little disintegration in the inter-war years.
N74|AB’de Entegre Bir Enerji Piyasası İçin Son Hamle: Enerji Birliği|AB, dünyanın en büyük enerji ithalatçısı konumunda bulunmakta ve enerji piyasalarında etkin rol oynamaktadır. Bu nedenle, AB’nin enerji politikası sadece bölgesel değil küresel etkilere de sahip olmaktadır. 1970’li yıllarda yaşanan iki petrol krizi, enerjinin AB’nin gündeminde önemli yer tutmasına yol açmış ve konulan Tek Pazar hedefinin parçası olarak da enerji, AB’nin öncelikli konuları arasına girmiştir. Özellikle 1987 tarihli Avrupa Tek Senedi ve onu izleyen Tek Pazar hedefinin konulmasıyla enerji için tek pazarın gerekli olduğu düşüncesi hakim olmaya başlamıştır. 2009 Lizbon Antlaşması ile enerji başlığı Antlaşma metninin içine ilk defa eklenmiş, böylece enerji farklı bir boyut kazanmış ve hukuki bir dayanağa sahip olmuştur. Ancak, Avrupa düzeyinde belirlenen enerji kuralları olmasına karşın pratikte 28 ulusal düzenleyici yapı mevcuttur. Bu nedenle, AB genelinde enerji üretim tesislerinin daha etkin kullanılmasıyla piyasa etkinliğini ve rekabeti artırmak, tüketiciler için uygun fiyatlarla üretim sağlamak ve bir bütün halinde hareket etmek için entegre olmuş bir enerji piyasasına ihtiyaç duyulmaktadır. Bu doğrultuda Enerji Birliği’nin oluşturulması düşüncesi ortaya çıkmış ve Avrupa Komisyonu Enerji Birliği’ne ilişkin detaylı eylem planını 25 Şubat 2015 tarihinde yayımlamıştır. Bu çalışmada, AB’de ortak bir enerji politikasının oluşturulması girişimlerinin tarihsel süreci incelenmekte ve bir Enerji Birliği’nin geleceği tartışılmaktadır.
N74|Photovoltaic self-consumption regulation in Spain: profitability analysis and alternative regulation schemes| After three years of discussion, the regulation of photovoltaic self-consumption in Spain has been finally passed on October 9th, 2015. We assess the impact of this regulation on the profitability (reflected by Internal Rate of Return) of potential investors in three different segments: residential and small and medium-size enterprises of the commercial and industrial sectors, paying special attention to the effect of the backup charge and the effect of financing cost. We then analyse three alternative regulation schemes focusing on the price at which the surplus electricity of the PV system is sold to the grid: mere self-consumption, net metering and net billing. For each of the investing segments and regulation schemes, we consider alternative configurations: with and without backup charge, and with own capital versus 80% externally financed capital at market interest rates. The results show that the current regulation will hinder the diffusion of self-consumption PV installations by making them economically infeasible across all segments. We further identify that this regulation creates incentivizes for inefficient behaviour, such as disconnection from the grid. According to our results and to the recommendations of the European Commission, we find that a net billing scheme would be more suitable for promoting PV diffusion at minimum cost for the system.
N74|Sharing Mare Nostrum: An analysis of Mediterranean maritime history articles in English-language journals|This discussion paper is a follow-up to a previous bibliometric analysis of articles published in The International Journal of Maritime History and maritime-themed articles published in other economic and business history journals over the last 25 years. The paper looks more closely at articles dealing with the Mediterranean and articles written by scholars from the Mediterranean countries. The article is structured around five propositions about current trends in Mediterranean maritime history publishing in English-language journals.
N74|A Comparative Analysis Of The Eu Member States Regarding Their Interdependence With Russia|The interdependence is definitely the most common concept used to describe the relations between the EU and Russia. Nevertheless, despite their obvious interdependence, there are still a series of debates in literature which usually arise when it comes to describing its typology and its implications, especially in the analysis at the Member States level. Moreover, given the complexity and variety of relations between the EU-27 and the Russian Federation, the present study aims to outline a comprehensive picture of the interdependence between the two actors at a regional level by conducting a comparative analysis of the European Union Member States according to their interdependence with Russia, considering energy as the main aspect of their relations. In this sense, the scientific approach will focus on a comparative analysis of the mutual energy dependencies between the member states and Russia, in order to characterize the interdependence typologies, as well as to identify the distribution of cost and advantages.
N74|The Role of Foreign Participation in Soviet Industrialization: An Institutional View|The foreign participation in USSR industrialization is considered to be a factor of institutional development of Soviet society. The paper considers the intellectual contribution of foreign specialists in the creation of important industrial projects. Foreign businessmen and specialists had considerable difficulties in their activity under influence of hostile institutional environment. Nevertheless, their professional success demonstrated the advantages of capitalism and conduced to dangerous spread of capitalist values into working class consciousness. Using repressions and propaganda, communist leaders institutionalized isolationism, i.e. watchful attitude to Western countries and belief in ability to solve any economic problem relying upon internal resources.
N74|"The Historic ""March"" of the Bulgarian Economy in the Space of the Liberal and the State Capitalism"|"The research uses as methodology the cluster analysis of the types of capitalism made in a project funded by the SRA of UNWE ""The clusters of capitalism (typology and dynamics of the capitalist economies)"" defended and published as a monograph. The historic ""march"" of the Bulgarian economy in the space of the liberal and the state capitalism for the period from 1925 to 2005 is studied. Economic, demographic, infrastructure and social indicators of the Bulgarian economy are examined. The comparative analysis of the socio-economic development of Bulgaria and Greece is made."
N74|Chicken or egg? The PVAR econometrics of transportation|To analyse the mutually dependent relationship between local economic performance, demand for and supply of transport services, we employ the structural panel VAR method that is popular in the macroeconomic literature, but has not previously been applied to the modelling of the within-city dynamics of transportation. We focus on a within-city panel of Berlin, Germany during the heyday of the construction of its dense public transit network (1890–1914). Our results suggest that economic outcomes and a supply of transport infrastructure mutually determine each other. We find a short-run (long-run) elasticity of property prices with respect to transport supply of 2% (8.5%). Both transport demand and supply seem to be driven more by firms than by residents.
N74|Buy or Sell? Hungarian Carbon Credit Trade: Years of Learning|From the beginning, Hungary has played an active role in the trade of state-allocated carbon dioxide emission rights within the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. Our study focuses on carbon dioxide credit turnover of Hungarian firms in the period between 2006 and 2010, seeking to explore the impact of credit prices and accounting classification on trading behaviour of unit trade players in Hungary, in the presence of foreign ownership. Concentrated primarily in foreign-owned Hungarian subsidiaries, the transactions were taken from and tested on the basis of the entity-level database in the official EU Registry. Due to the specificities of the Hungarian carbon dioxide units market, i.e. the extremely high proportion of foreign ownership, the carbon credits behaved as special financial assets. The trade of units reflects not only the influence of the Kyoto Protocol, but the reallocation of these resources from subsidiaries to parent companies as well. The sales and purchases are not closely related to compliance-driven or fundamental demand; rather, main directions are defined by intra-group flows.
N74|Дмитрий Сироткин – Основоположник Судоходства И Судостроительства В Сербии<BR>[Dmitry Sirotkin – The Founder of Navigation and Shipbuilding in Serbia]|English Abstract. The paper is addressed to one of the most famous man of Nizhny Novgorod at the end of XX and the beginning of XXI century, Dmitry Vasilevich Sirotkin, the last pre-revolutionary mayor of this city. The famous shipmanufacturer at Volga, later emigrant in Belgrade, he linked with his wonderful faith two great rivers, two cities and two nations. At the beginning of 1920s he came in Belgrade, became then the founder of inland navigation and shipbuilding in Serbia (on Danube). At this manner, Sirotkin's personality and activity linked not only two brother's cities – Nizhny Novgorod and Belgrade, bat also two brother's nations – Russians and Serbs, made with this the challenge to the next generations – highlight his not yet enough investigated life and activity. Particularly important is the second part of his life, that he was lived in capital of Serbia and Yugoslavia, that general not enough famous is, because he has not received enough recognitions in his second homeland. Russian Abstract. Статья посвящена одному из самых знаменитых людей Нижнего Новгорода конца 19 и начала 20 века, Дмитрию Васильевичу Сироткину, последнему предреволюционному мэру этого города. Известный судопромышленник на Волге, впоследствии эмигрант в Белграде, своей удивительной судьбой связал две великие реки, два города и два народа. Обосновавшись в начале 1920-х в Белграде, он явился основоположником судоходства и судостроительства в Сербии (на Дунае). Таким образом, личность и деятельность Сироткина связала не только два братских города – Нижний Новгород и Белград, но и два братских народа – русских и сербов, оставив вызов следующим поколениям – осветить его ещё недостаточно исследованную жизнь и деятельность. Особенно при этом важно исследование второй части его жизни, проведенной им в столице Сербии и Югославии, которая в общем-то недостаточно известна, из-за чего он и не получил достаточных признаний в своей второй родине.
N74|"The economy in the first five ""mirror"" of rail transport<BR>[Экономика Первых Пятилеток В «Зеркале» Железнодорожного Транспорта]"|"In the article on the example of the implementation of rail transport is considered ""mobilization"" for economic development during the first Soviet five-year plans. It was found that as a result it was not possible to achieve higher growth in freight volumes and high-quality performance in comparison with the period of the recovery taking place in the conditions of the NEP. The increase in traffic was extremely unstable and did not meet the needs of the economy, which, in turn, did not provide a supply of railway production resources in the required quantities. It is shown that in the first five years, a system of universal shortage, but the development was characterized by significant imbalances, inefficiency and low innovation. The conclusion about the need to implement innovative model of market-oriented economic development."
N74|Historical Aspects, Traditions and Statistical Gaps. The German Economy versus the Romanian Economy|This paper reveals some historical aspects and some common traditions of German and Romanian economies, justifying some of the trends of contemporary decades underlying the statistical gap. The specific method used in this article is a statistical confrontation based on historical variables and statistical data, graphs emphasizing the abnormalities in evolution, etc. After a brief introduction, inside the major part of the structure of this paper some selected economic and social evolutions are presented together for both German and Romanian economies, somehow becoming the limits of the European Union construction. Few general gaps of the two economic marginal models as performance and cohesion are detailed during the historical and statistical investigation and the conclusions anticipates some expectations in the medium term dynamics of these economies. At the same time the article discusses Berlin’s position within EU and argues that Germany remains a selective continental hegemon, bent on securing national primacy and profit more than generating win-win solutions for its neighbours.
N74|The public passenger transport. Role and evolution|Achieving a comprehensive analysis on the evolution and role of public passenger transport, analysis of the level of structural and institutional development through the principles, functions and procedures of transport as a basis for national economic growth and development.
N74|El comercio agroalimentario español en la segunda globalización, 1951-2011|This study analyses the evolution of the agri-food trade during the time of greatest transformation of the Spanish economy, namely the second half of the twentieth century and the first decade of the twenty-first. This involves an examination of the evolution of Spanish agri-food exports and imports from 1951 to 2011, along with the corres­ponding trade balance. Similarly, it details changes in the composition of foreign purchases and sales for this type of products, as a reflection of the underlying economic changes. For exports, an econometric exercise is performed to evaluate their main defining factors in the Spanish case. The results indicate a greater diversification and transformation of the products traded. These changes are explained at the microeconomic level by the improvement of income and variations in preferences, and at a macroeconomic level by the powerful effect of the integration of Spain into the EEC in 1986 and the development of the agri-food industry due to an expanding domestic market (home market effect).
N74|The innovation-trade nexus: Italy in historical perspective (1861-1939)|This work investigates the relationship between trade and technological specialisation in Italy, during the long time span ranging from Unification to the eve of the Second World War. To do this, new series of Italy's indices of specialisation in trade and technology are calculated on the base of offcial data. Empirical analysis, based on Spearman rank correlation coefficients and fixed-effects regression, shows the emergence of a positive relationship between specialisation in technology and specialisation in trade after the start of the country's modern economic growth, around the turn of the twentieth century. This, however, was uniquely driven by a negative relationship between technological specialisation and import shares, while no significant relationship between the former and export shares emerges. Furthermore, this finding excludes the most important sector, leading Italian industrialisation, i.e. textiles, the outstanding performance of which can be seen as largely determined by its being particularly suited to the country's factor endowment.
N74|Cinema chains in Russia|"The purpose of the paper is to discuss problems and prospects of tourism clusters development in Russia. The Russian tourism market has huge potential, due to its history, culture, extremely diverse landscapes, rivers, lakes, mountains, flora and fauna, “hidden gems” of small towns with their ancient churches, original local museums and unique sights. In the last decade Russia has witnessed rapid quantitative growth as well as significant changes in strategic development of the tourism industry. Russian Government initiated a number of Federal target programs important for tourism and hotel industry development. In particular, tourism clusters are now in the focus of interest. In 2008, the Russian Government adopted the Concept of cluster policy in the Russian Federation, laying the cluster approach in the basis of the strategy of socio-economic development and considering it as a tool to raise competitiveness of industries and territories. However, the formation of clusters in Russia faces a number of problems due to the peculiarities of the Russian institutional environment. The main challenges facing tourism clusters development in Russia are described. The importance of development joint marketing strategy is underlined. The case of ""Big Volga"" tourism cluster in the Nizhny Novgorod region is presented."
N74|Did patents of introduction encourage technology transfer? Long-term evidence from the Spanish innovation system|In this article, we reflect on how patents of introduction or importation, which compose an institutional policy related to weak IPR systems, could influence long-term international technology transfer. Both theoretically and empirically, the consequences of strengthening IPRs in lagging economies for technology transfer and innovation remain unclear. Although the mainstream literature tends to link stronger patent enforcement with better invention and innovation markets now and in the past, new theoretical and historical evidence supports extreme complexity in the relationship between IPR extension and scope and technological diffusion. For the first time, in this study, we analyze a large series of patents of introduction, which were a common feature of the early stages of almost all patent systems designed to favor technology transfer and innovation above original inventor property rights. Though typically used by pioneers, followers, and latecomers, we know little of how they functioned and their consequences. In this study, we analyze the use of patents of introduction throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in Spain, which was a lagging country on the European periphery. The results demonstrate that this institutional policy could facilitate technology transfer, innovation, and advancement at earlier stages of industrialization. As additional research has demonstrated, such evidence may have serious implications for IPR treatment in both developing and underdeveloped economies.
N74|La dinámica empresarial en el sector exportador del aceite de oliva andaluz, 1886-1939|La crisis abierta en el sector aceitero en el último tercio del siglo XIX obligó a un profundo cambio en los distintos ámbitos del mismo. El presente trabajo busca analizar la actividad empresarial en el sector exportador, poniendo el acento en su destacable incremento, así como en los protagonistas, en las estrategias empresariales planteadas y en las redes que se establecieron tanto entre las empresas exportadoras, como entre estas y el resto de la actividad económica andaluza.
N74|De país turístico rezagado a potencia turística. El turismo en la España de Franco|De país rezagado en el turismo internacional durante el primer tercio del siglo XX, España pasó a convertirse en una potencia turística. ¿Cómo y por qué se produjo esta transformación? ¿Qué papel jugó el turismo de masas en el modelo de desarrollo español entre 1939 y 1975? ¿Qué consecuencias socioeconómicas tuvo? Las respuestas a estas cuestiones son el objeto principal de este trabajo
N74|The Dominant Power Abuse and State Aid in European Union|The abuse of dominant power and State aid are two forms of anti-competitive policies regulated by the European Commission in the spirit of the Treaty on European Union functioning, Lisbon, 2007. They have adverse effects on the development of economic activity, distorting competition, favouring certain economic agents and affecting the consumers.
N74|Restructuring Of Romania’S Energetic Sector, Process With Implications On The Human Factor From Within The Sector|The energetic sector represents a basic strategic infrastructure of the national economy, which the entire development of the country is based on, supplying a general economic interest service. Moreover, the energy represents a public utility with a powerful social impact. Due to these considerations, the development approach of this important sector of Romania’s national economy, is made with specific mechanisms as for a public interest utility, which needs more competitive mechanisms, where the price is formed through a free competition between a diversity of suppliers and clients, which become gradually free to buy the energy they need, based on stable and transparent market mechanisms, supervised by the regulating authorities and trading agents.
N74|The value-added of service industry 1861-1951: the new series at current prices and first interpretations|This paper presents the new yearly series of the value-added of services for Italy, from 1861 to 1951, at current prices. For each sector, after discussing sources and methodology, the results are compared with the early Istat (1957) series. By looking at the production value of specific activities, it is possible to reveal the strong underestimation of the early series. From 1861 to 1911, our new estimate is consistently higher: the gap increases while the Italian economy grows strongly, which may lead to a more favourable evaluation of the contribution of services to the industrialization of the country. Between 1911 and 1938, our series is more cyclical, performing better in the twenties, worse during the 1929 crisis, but then again showing faster recovery in the 1930s. Finally, the changes between 1938 and 1951 are essentially due to the heavy underestimation of services found in the early series for 1951.
N74|Book Translations As Idea Flows: The Effects Of The Collapse Of Communism On The Diffusion Of Knowledge| We use book translations as a new measure of international idea flows and study the effects of Communism's collapse in Eastern Europe on these flows. Using novel data on 800,000 translations and difference-in-differences approaches, we show that while translations between Communist languages decreased by two thirds with the collapse, Western-to-Communist translations increased by a factor of 4 and quickly converged to Western levels. Convergence was more pronounced in the fields of applied and social sciences, and was more complete in Satellite and Baltic than in Soviet countries. We discuss how these patterns help us understand how repressive institutions and preferences towards Western European ideas shaped the international diffusion of knowledge.
N74|The Price of Media Capture and the Debasement of the French Newspaper Industry During the Interwar|This paper develops a new insight enabling the empirical study of media capture: minority shareholders of newspapers and readers face similar risks. Both are adversely affected when corrupt insiders use the newspaper for personal profit and receive invisible revenues. This means that relevant data on influence and exploitation of newspaper has been hiding in plain sight in stock exchange or over-the-counter prices, since stock transactions reflect the value of this capture. Empirical data is consistent with increasing levels of looting in France during the 1930s. We provide a comparison with Britain and argue that Britain managed to protect its newspapers better.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N74|Coopérer pour résister : interactions marchandes et réseaux multiniveaux dans un salon d'échanges de programmes de télévision en Europe Centrale et Orientale|Today television programs produced by a few American companies, the Majors, are among the most popular with viewers. This dissertation examines the process of cultural uniformisation that has driven this phenomenon by focusing on commercial interactions in the global distribution market for television programs. We observe both the actors who promote this uniformisation, the Majors, and the others, who try to resist it. To do this we look at how trade fairs in this sector work. Indeed, this industry is structured by a set of recurrent and annual trade fairs and festivals. The captation strategy of the Majors consists in offering only exclusive contracts and free-riding on the trade fairs themselves. During these events, they leave the official marketplace while remaining in the close vicinity in order to organize private screenings and attract the buyers with the deepest pockets. This behavior is tolerated because the participation, at least formal, ofthe Majors is vital for the organizers of the trade fairs due to the popularity of their production with buyers and the public. Based on ethnographic observations, organizational analyses and a multilevel network study (i.e. inter-individual networks of information exchange and of scheduled meetings, and inter-organizational networks of contracts between companies) in the main tradefair of Eastern Europe, we show that the weakest parties in the system can cooperate to resist the domination of the Majors. This cooperation is often based on local, triadic mechanisms that are multilevel, multimilieux and multiplex that we identify with their substructures, determinants and probability of occurrence.
N74|Crown Rule, Home Charges, and U.K.-India Terms of Trade|This paper examines possible determinants of the long-run bilateral commodity terms of trade between the United Kingdom and British India during the Crown Rule period of 1858-1947. The potential influences of aggregate real incomes, price levels/money supplies, international transportation costs, and the exchange rate are included in the analysis, but we especially focus on the Home Charges that India was obliged to pay to Britain. The econometric results provide some support for the hypothesis that a rise in Home Charges was associated with an improvement in Britain’s terms of trade with India. In addition, a clear role was played by changes in transport costs and in the exchange rate.
N74|"Beyond the ""Grid-Lock"" in Electricity Interconnectors: The Case of Germany and Poland"|The common European electricity market requires both market integration and transmission grid expansion, including trans-border interconnectors. Although the benefits of increased interconnectivity are widely acknowledged, expansion of interconnectors is often very slow. This paper gathers insights on the reasons behind this “grid-lock” drawing on the study of the German-Polish border. Although two interconnectors already exist, the trade is blocked by unplanned electricity loop flows. A third interconnector has been discussed for years, but saw little progress in spite of declarations of support on both sides. Drawing on the existing literature on the topic of grid expansion we identify four hypotheses for the grid-lock: inadequate financing; diverging interests; governance and administration problems; and different actors’ motivations, trust and security perceptions. We evaluate them using the empirical material gathered through document analysis and stakeholder interviews conducted in Germany and Poland. None of the hypotheses on its own can explain the “gridlock”. However, while financing has not been a major obstacle, divergent interests had an impact on the project delay, administrative and governance problems are a great hindrance on the technical level, while motivations influence interstate political relations and policy shaping. EU support and closer bilateral cooperation provide opportunities to address these challenges.
N74|Labour productivity and human capital in the European maritime sector of the eighteenth century|Pre-modern growth was to a large extent dependent on processes of commercialization and specialization, based on cheap transport. Seminal interpretations of the process of economic growth before the Industrial Revolution have pointed to the strategic importance of the rise of the Atlantic economy and the growth of cities linked to this, but have not really explained why Europeans were so efficient in organizing large international networks of shipping and trade. Most studies concerning early modern shipping have focused on changes in ship design (capital investments) in explaining long-term performance of European shipping in the pre-1800 period; in this paper we argue that this is only part of the explanation. Human capital – the quality of the labour force employed on ships – mattered as well. We firstly demonstrate that levels of human capital on board European ships were relatively high, and secondly that there were powerful links between the level of labour productivity in shipping and the quality of the workforce. This suggests strongly that shipping was a ‘high tech’ industry not only employing high quality capital goods, but also, as a complementary input, high quality labour, which was required to operate the increasingly complex ships and their equipment.
N74|Financing utilities: How the role of the European Investment Bank shifted from regional development to making markets|In the face of continuing financial and economic crises, the European Investment Bank (EIB) has been criticized for being overly-conservative in its loans to Europe. Critics in particular have called on the EIB to vastly increase its investment in utilities as a counter-cyclical measure. To take stock and, in order to evaluate the role of the EIB in financing utilities over time, we compile and analyze an original database of all EIB utilities project loans from 1958 to 2004. We find the EIB started out by functioning as a regional development bank, prioritizing utilities finance in its members' poorer zones; however, energy crises in the 1970s marked a shift whereby the logic of EIB finance to utilities became more politically-oriented. By the 1980s, utilities projects supported by the EIB were intimately related to those required for the Single Market. The origins of the EIB's current conservative approach to utilities loans was born in the 1970s and fully consolidated by the 1990s.
N74|Safety and security: The influence of 9/11 to the EU framework for air carriers and aircraft operators|Safety and security have always been two key objectives behind policies and innovation within the air transport industry, at international, European and individual government levels. The management of risk is important in aviation and has always been a challenge to the industry. The events of 9/11 revealed that new policy measures and initiatives were needed, both to deal with the short-term market effects and also for the long-term development inline with the European Union Treaty. A key objective behind the establishment of the European Union has always been the objective to create an internal market, where barriers are removed and existing rules simplified, yet the air transport industry in Europe lacked the mechanisms to protect it from exposure to the events and effects of 9/11.
N74|Long run demand for energy services: income and price elasticities over two hundred years|This article investigates how the demand for energy services has changed since the Industrial Revolution. It presents evidence on the income and price elasticities of demand for domestic heating, passenger transport, and lighting in the United Kingdom over the last two hundred years. As the economy developed and energy service prices fell, income elasticities have generally followed an inverse U-shape curve, and price elasticities have generally followed a U-shape curve. However, these general trends also appear to have been affected by energy and technological transitions, which boosted demand (by either encouraging poorer consumers to fully enter the market or offering new attributes of value to wealthier consumers). The evidence presented offers insights that will be helpful for identifying likely future trends in energy use and carbon dioxide emissions, and for developing long-term climate policies.
N74|Soft power: the media industries in Britain since 1870|This paper discusses the emergence and growth of various media industries in Britain. It shows how a rise in real wages and leisure time, rapid urbanisation and the development of fast urban transport networks, and a rapid growth of the market’s size let to a sharp rise in the demand for media and entertainment products and services, which was met by ever-new technologies coming from constantly emerging new industries, such as recorded music, film, radio, television, cable, videogames, internet, and social media. The paper argued these industries contributed to a sharp productivity rise by industrialising traditional media and entertainment, and to a sharp welfare growth as consumers valued them so highly that they were willing to incur ever-higher opportunity costs to consume them. It also discusses how four factors quality races, marginal revenues equalling marginal profits, the superstar effect and agglomeration benefits shaped the evolution of individual industries, and it assesses the success or failure of British industrial policy towards media industries. The paper observes media’s impact on the aggregate economy through opportunity costs, expectations and aspirations, the functioning of the market, education, and, finally, through shaping the means of institutional change. In addition, the paper makes new decennial benchmark estimates for British consumer expenditure on books between 1870 and 1900, on recorded music between 1900 and 1930 and on cinema between 1910 and 1930, for which previously no estimates were available
N74|Market potential estimates in history: a survey of methods and an application to Spain, 1867-1930|New Economic Geography (NEG) models stress the importance of access to demand as a key driver of the spatial and temporal distribution of economic activity (Krugman, 1991). Therefore, in order to test the theoretical predictions emanating from NEG a sound measure of accessibility is required. In line with Crafts (2005b), this paper constructs market potential estimates for Spain at the province level (NUTS3) between 1867 and 1930 using Harris’s (1954) equation. This period is particularly appealing as it was during these years that the Spanish market became integrated thanks to the fall in transport and trade costs. A number of key processes, including the substitution of traditional transport modes and the improvement in transport technologies (the railways and steam navigation), were set in motion. At the same time, the Spanish economy was experiencing the early stages of industrialization in a context characterised by changing trade policies. Interestingly, these long-term processes brought about asymmetric changes in regional accessibility, thus potentially affecting the evolution of Spain’s regional economies. The results show that the main changes to regional market accessibility in Spain can be traced to the second half of the 19th century, a period characterised by centrifugal tendencies. The availability of this dataset is essential for undertaking empirical exercises, through the lens of NEG, examining the Spanish experience up to the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939), when an increasing spatial concentration in the country’s manufacturing sector and an upswing in regional per capita income inequality took place.
N74|Co-evolution of Technology and Institutions: Government Regulation and Technological Creativity in the Swedish Moped History 1952–70|The first of July 1952, the moped was legislatively excluded from existing restrictions for heavier two-wheeled motorized vehicles. A driver/owner of a “bicycle with auxiliary engine” – this was the original denomination of the vehicle – thus needed no registration, driver’s license or insurance, nor pay any vehicle tax. The legislators did, however, postulate some technical requirements. Besides regulation of the engine, the vehicle should be “bicycle-like” and have pedals. It should thus be driven primarily by means of human, not mechanical, power (i.e., it was not supposed to be a lighter version of a motorcycle). In terms of social and economic goals, the state assumed workers to be the primary users, and a utilitarian use rather than one connected to pleasure and spare time. Very quickly, however, the moped lost all resemblance with the ordinary bicycle (except for the pedals). In a new legislation in 1961, the state yielded to the technical development. The moped no longer needed to resemble a bicycle or have pedals. Meanwhile, the moped also became more of a toy for boys – a vehicle for freedom – rather than the useful tool the state had wished for. In fact, we argue that the demands from user groups not foreseen played a crucial role in changing the legal technical requirements of the moped.This paper deals with the co-evolution, technically and institutionally, of the moped during the period 1952–75. Using a method inspired by evolutionary theory, the moped models released in Sweden in these years are grouped in “families” with distinctive technical features and accompanying presumed uses. We analyze this development using concepts from the theoretical fields of innovation studies and the history of technology (STS/SCOT).
N74|Globalisation and maritime labour in Norway after World War II|"This paper looks at how ""Globalisation"" – narrowly defined as the causes and effects of increased international economic integration – has influenced the demand for and supply of maritime products and services, with a particular emphasis on maritime labour. A central argument is that the manner in which maritime labour has been affected varies enormously among the maritime industries, and there is also variation among different occupations. Today, the Norwegian maritime industries have found ""a new equilibrium"", where old and national traditions have successfully merged with the new and global realities. The discussion paper is structured around six propositions about the relationship between globalisation and Norwegian maritime labour, and these propositions are discussed and linked to empirical data."
N74|The Impact Of The German Autobahn Net On Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study Using Historical Instrument Variables|This paper analyzes the impact of the German autobahn net on the economic performance of German regions. To address endogeneity and reverse causation problems, we use historical instrument variables, i.e. a plan of the railroad net in 1890 and a plan of the autobahn net in 1937. We find a statistically and economically significant causal effect of transport infrastructure investments as measured by changes in the length of the autobahn net of West German NUTS 3 areas on regional employment and the wage bill.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N74|The Impact of the German Autobahn Net on Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study Using Historical Instrument Variables|This paper analyzes the impact of the German autobahn net on the economic performance of German regions. To address endogeneity and reverse causation problems, we use historical instrument variables, i.e. a plan of the railroad net in 1890 and a plan of the autobahn net in 1937. We find a statistically and economically significant causal effect of transport infrastructure investments as measured by changes in the length of the autobahn net of West German NUTS 3 areas on regional employment and the wage bill.
N74|Editor's Choice Long-Run Demand for Energy Services: Income and Price Elasticities over Two Hundred Years|This article investigates how the demand for energy services has changed since the Industrial Revolution. It presents evidence on the income and price elasticities of demand for domestic heating, passenger transport, and lighting in the United Kingdom over the last two hundred years. As the economy developed and energy service prices fell, income elasticities have generally followed an inverse U-shape curve, and price elasticities have generally followed a U-shape curve. However, these general trends also appear to have been affected by energy and technological transitions, which boosted demand (by either encouraging poorer consumers to fully enter the market or offering new attributes of value to wealthier consumers). The evidence presented offers insights that will be helpful for identifying likely future trends in energy use and carbon dioxide emissions, and for developing long-term climate policies. (JEL: Q41, N73, N74, D12)
N74|A Comprehensive Review on Capital Structure Theories|The Black Sea region has proved to be an emerging hub for Europe’s security and has experienced several changes and a great development at the beginning of the twenty-first century. This process is currently carried out, and has important implications for European security in a broader definition of the term - to achieve traditional military security, but also tackling other challenges at the address soft security issues, such as organized crime. Located at the crossroads of three regions of paramount importance - Europe, Middle East and Central Asia – the Black Sea region is a major transit area for energy and at the same time, an important source of asymmetric risks and outbreaks of conflicts. Therefore, analysing this region from an economical point of view, but not forgetting the energy security implications for this area, represents the main focus of this article, along with underlining the importance of various actors in the region and their actions’ impact on the future development of the Black Sea territory and surroundings.
N74|Households Facing Constraints. Fuel Poverty Put into Context|The present paper discusses the concept of fuel poverty taking into account the arbitrages made by households when they are facing economic constraints. Fuel poverty is still lacking a common definition throughout Europe: while the UK and France have (different) official definitions, there is still no definition in a country like Germany, or at the European level. Where definitions exist, they often consider that fuel poor households have high energy needs. The possibility of being fuel poor even without having high energy needs and the various arbitrage possibilities of households – i.e. to under-spend and use too little energy – are not systematically discussed. Our paper tries to fill that gap by putting fuel poverty into the larger context of constraints faced by households. Based on a graphical analysis , it shows that different situations of fuel poverty might occur. It results in the identification of two distinct fuel poverty problems: an “energy inequality” problem, reflected by the fact that some households pay disproportionately high energy bills, and an “energy affordability” problem that can affect a larger share of the population. It finally explores the two types of fuel poverty for European countries and discusses policy implications.
N74|EU cooperation with non-member neighboring countries: the principle of variable geometry|The European Union (EU) represents a large and highly integrated bloc which contributed 19.4% of global GDP and over 30% of global exports in 2012. As of July 1, 2013 it consists of 28 member states. All of them belong to the customs union and the Single European Market (SEM) in which most formal and informal barriers to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital have been removed. In addition, most members share a common currency (Euro) and form a free-travel Schengen zone. The important policy areas such as external trade, customs, competition, other regulations related to SEM, monetary policy (in the case of the Eurozone), certain iscal and other macroeconomic policies, part of indirect taxation, research, energy policy, etc. have been transferred to the competence of supranational EU bodies. Several other questions such as immigration and asylum, visas, common border management, justice and home affairs, and foreign and security policy remain subject to coordination and common decisions. Since the beginning of its existence, the EU has been involved in building close economic and political relations with non-member countries, involving a variety of legal forms. The EU has always been lexible in offering or accepting the exact cooperation model, trying to adjust itself to the speciic needs, constraints and sovereignty concerns of individual partners. The EU has never pushed any country to join the EU or sign association/free trade agreements. EU membership is considered a scarce good, membership in the elite club of developed and rich nations, a prize for good policies and institutions of the potential candidate. The same principle works in the case of association and free trade agreements with countries which are not going to join the EU: it is an offer and a prize for good performance rather than an instrument of economic or political pressure. It is the choice of a potential partner to accept, postpone or reject such a cooperation offer. The EU’s experience in building a complex and lexible net of economic and political relations with non-member countries can serve as a good lesson and example to follow by other regional integration blocs which also face the problem of shaping their external relations with countries which are interested in close cooperation but not membership in a given bloc. On the other hand, the EU’s institutional lexibility creates room for negotiating cross-regional trade and economic integration deals not only with individual countries but also with other blocs such as NAFTA, MERCOSUR, ASEAN or the Eurasian Economic Community.
N74|Embeddedness of regions in European knowledge networks: a comparative analysis of inter-regional R&D collaborations, co-patents and co-publications|This paper investigates the embeddedness of European regions in different types of inter-regional knowledge networks, namely project-based R&D collaborations within the European framework programmes (FPs), co-patent networks and co-publication networks. Embeddedness refers to the network positioning of regions captured in terms of social network analytic (SNA) centrality measures. The objective is to estimate how region-internal and region-external factors influence network embeddedness in the distinct network types, in order to identify differences in their driving factors at the regional level. In our modelling approach, we apply advanced spatial econometric techniques by means of a mixed effects panel version of the spatial Durbin model (SDM) and introduce a set of variables accounting for a capacity specific, a relational as well as a spatial dimension in regional knowledge production activities. The results reveal conspicuous differences between the knowledge networks. Internal capacity- and technology-related aspects but also spatial spillover impacts from surrounding regions prove to be particularly important for centrality in the co-patent network. We also find significant—region-internal and region-external—impacts of general economic conditions on a region’s centrality in the FP network. However, we cannot observe substantial spillover effects of region-external factors on centrality in the co-publication network. Thus, the distinctive knowledge creation foci in each network seem to find expression in the network structure as well as its regional determinants. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
N74|Technological Transfers and Foreign Multinationals in Emerging Markets: Derosne & Cail in the 19th Century|Did multinationals already existed in the 19th century? and if so, what was their role in international technology transfer to colonial markets? In this paper we examine a French machinery manufacturer -Derosne & Cail- one of the most innovative engineering firms in the mid-nineteenth century as well as one of the first European companies supplying advanced sugar technology and railway equipment to emerging colonial plantations. This firm was indeed an early multinational that created an extensive international network of factories, branches, intermediaries and agents across four continents. This socio-technical network sustained the distribution of Derosne & Cail's machinery to sugar planters who, in turn, adapted the new technology to local conditions and helped spread the necessary practical knowledge for the operation of the machines. The strategy of the company became globally successful because technology transfer was linked to the migration of trained mechanical and chemical experts.
N74|The Effects of Highway Construction in the Balkans: Insights from the Via Militaris|Abstract The economic effects of the construction of modern road transport infrastructure in the Balkans, one of Europe’s economically most backward regions, is being analysed in an instrumental variables setting. In order to avoid endogeneity the construction of new highways is being instrumented by the proximity to the major ancient Roman road network that was originally constructed mainly for military purposes, such as the Via Militaris that used to run diagonally through the Balkan Peninsula. First results for Croatian municipalities in the period of analysis between the two census years of 2001 and 2011 suggest that the construction and opening of new highway sections had not only substantial positive economic effects, as measured by the change in employment, on the municipalities where the construction took place but also on the neighbouring municipalities.
N74|The Impact of Transport Infrastructure on Regional Labor Market Performance: A Study For Germany Using Historical Instrument Variables|No abstract is available for this item.
N74|Transition and path-dependence in knowledge-intensive industry location: Case of Russian professional services|This paper searches for roots of current spatial pattern of professional services in location of Soviet-era R&D sector. The Soviet economy sponsored massive R&D oriented mainly on military purposes. Research was carried out in large institutions affiliated with academia or industry. After the collapse of socialism, military spending and related R&D decreased dramatically. Many researchers left Soviet-style institutions and succeed in the market economy. Did however this process mean anything for geography? Under the centrally planned economy, locational decisions were driven by non-market motives. Moreover, it was near-impossible for planners to anticipate which regions would be more promising under market. I focus on professional services since these industries do not rely on physical capital endowments, so sunk costs are unlikely to impose path-dependence. Professional services in Russia typically hire young educated persons which are expected to be mobile, so imperfect labor market is also unlikely to stick people to places ? unlike human capital externalities which are plausibly to do so. I regress employment in professional services in 2009-2011 by 76 Russian regions on the number of R&D staff in 1991. I consider three industries: architecture and engineering; information technology; accounting, auditing and management consulting. Controls to capture industry location fundamentals include modern-day gross regional product or overall employment, number of employees with university degree, number of R&D staff and urbanization. It should be noted that present-day number of R&D staff comprises primarily employees of state-owned Soviet-style institutions while professional service providers are typically up-to-date privately-owned firms. Results reveal that employment in Soviet R&D positively and significantly affects present-day employment in engineering and in IT. No such evidence is found for accounting, auditing and management consulting in which industries researchers' skills were less relevant. Results remains when shares in employment of professional services and R&D sector are plugged into regression instead of absolute numbers. I consider different explanations for this phenomenon. I attempt to track influence of 1991 R&D-related employment on current output-per-worker in IT and engineering and find positive correlation, although marginally significant. So, it is unlikely that Soviet-era pools of human capital created regional poverty traps due to low migration rates, and human capital externalities theory seems plausible. I also find that regions with greater number of R&D staff in 1991 now have greater number of SMEs both in business services and in the rest of economy, so entrepreneurship is a likely mechanism to impose path-dependence.
N74|War-Time Destruction and the Persistence of Economic Activity|A key prediction of a large class of theoretical models is that the location of economic activity is not necessarily determined by fundamentals. To test the empirical relevance of these ideas requires a natural experiment in which a large but ultimately temporary shock dislocates economic activity. Following Davis and Weinstein (2002) a number of papers have used war-time destruction as such a temporary shock. In this paper we revisit this debate and use the cities that were part of pre-war Germany and become part of Poland after the Second World War as a natural experiment. We show that also in this case cities recover surprisingly fast from the war-time shock despite heavy destruction and the expulsion of the entire population. Our results suggest that either the location and size of cities is indeed determined by fundamentals or that even heavily destroyed cities are rebuilt because the ruins contain valuable surviving structures. We provide suggestive qualitative evidence that the second interpretation is more likely correct.
N74|Historical study regarding the protection of consumers within the electric energy and natural gas markets|The supply of electric energy and natural gas is a service of general interest, with a vital importance in satisfying the consumer’s basic needs. The conducted research is descriptive and its main focus is on the study of the field literature, aiming at aspects such as identifying the historic evolution of the electric energy and natural gas markets in Romania, the behaviour of companies operating on these markets and their impact on the consumers’ rights. The research methodology has been established starting from a synthetic analysis of the most recent published studies on the observation of the European policy in the energy field and EU’s efforts to build up a single, competitive market, including two sectors that not long ago were dominated by monopolistic national actors: electric energy and gas. The research methods imply study monitoring and reports as well as forecast analyses regarding the capacity of the Three Energy Packages, once implemented, to support the creation of competitive, transparent and uniformly regulated energy markets within the EU countries, in order to ensure the protection of the consumers of these general interest services. The research has a dual approach, combining quantitative and qualitative elements as well as conducting the analysis of the correlations between the efforts and effects registered in the field of consumer protection. The first section of the article offers conceptual clarifications regarding both the European policy in the energy field and the consumers of general economic services. The second section gives an insight into the energy and gas markets in Romania as well as the main obstacles in the way of their liberalization. The third section presents the efforts made with respect to consumer protection in the field of energy, analyzing the European Directives’ fundamental ideas regarding the protection of consumers and the phase of their embedment into our legislation in order to achieve a full legislative harmonization.
N74|Variability in overseas travel by Americans, 1820–2000|There were substantial fluctuations in the number of American overseas travelers, especially before World War Two. These fluctuations in travel around the long-term upward trend are the focus of this paper. We first identify those fluctuations in the data and then try to explain the patterns. We show that, despite the impact of a myriad of episodic events, fluctuations in travel can be explained to a large extent by changes in the direct price of travel, changes in per capita GDP and wealth in the United States, and by periods of armed conflict.
N74|Autarquía y atraso tecnológico en la industria textil española, 1939-1959|This paper analyzes the effect of Franco's autarchic policy (1939-1959) on the delay in the technological advance of the Spanish textile industry. The study is based on official data from patents, textile machinery imports, and various comparative estimates on the efficiency of the textile industry. It was found that some of textile machinery produced in Spain was introduced, that partially covered the shortage of imported machinery. But, when international technology transfer was interrupted, it was not possible to advance towards a complete replacement of the technology in the textile machinery industry. Based on new empirical evidence, it concludes that the autarchic period not only had a negative impact on the technological development of the Spanish textile industry, but it also led to a genuine regression in international terms. KEY Classification-JEL: N64, N74
N74|Empresa e innovación tecnológica en el distrito industrial de Manresa durante el franquismo. Entre la copia, la adaptación y la creatividad|During the first 20 years of Franco's dictatorship, the Spanish economy remained isolated, and technological innovation suffered a large backlog. Still, Spanish companies were able to advance technologically to gain advantage in the internal market taking advantage of import substitution. The article compares three firms with different characteristics located in Manresa (Barcelona), an industrial city with district behavior in certain sectors. Strategies for business innovation or technological license acquisition during autarchy and “development policy” are discussed. The main contribution of the paper is the explanation of the mechanisms of development and spreading of innovation, and its close relation with the generation of external economies. KEY Classification-JEL: N64, N74, N84
N74|Les cartels, une voie vers l'intégration européenne ?. Le rôle de Louis Loucheur (1872-1931)|The interwar period constituted a “golden age” for cartels. A lot of entrepreneurs or politicians considered even cartels as a good way to rebuild the European economy and to resolve the difficult problem of Reparations. It was the case of Louis Loucheur. Big contractor of civil engineering, Loucheur controlled, at the eve of the World War I a powerful group of construction, electricity and transport. During the war, he became the most important organizer of the French industrial mobilization, with his predecessor, Albert Thomas, a socialist. Taking his inspiration of the Walter Rathenau’s action in Germany, Loucheur surrounded himself of a brain trust of brilliant engineers, accelerated the rationalization process of the French industry and opened the way to an independent national oil policy. After the War, he played a determining role in the French reconstruction. Become a leader of the Republican Left Party, Loucheur campaigned for the development of the international inter-firms agreements and cartels. Loucheur considered that cartels were the only mean to reconcile France and Germany and to compete with us economy. Very active within the League of Nations, he saw cartels as a tool to open the way to United States of Europe. Classification JEL: D43, F23, F53, L26, N73, N74
N74|The Siting of UK Nuclear Power Installations|choosing a suitable site for a nuclear installation requires the consideration and balancin9 of several factors which are sometimes in tension with one another. One particularly interesting tension is a human and demographic one. On the one hand it is beneficial to place nuclear stations close to centres of population, to reduce transmission losses and other costs (including to the local environment) of transporting electricity over large distances from generator to consumer. On the other it is advantageous to place nuclear stations some distance away from such population centres in order to minimise the potential human consequences of a major release of radioactive materials in the (extremely unlikely) event of a major nuclear accident, not only in terms of direct exposure but also concerning the management of emergency planning, notably evacuation. This paper considers the emergence of policies aimed at managing this tension in the UK. In the first phase of nuclear development (roughly speaking 1945 to 1965) there was a highly cautious attitude, with installations being placed in remote rural locations with verylow population density. The second phase (1965 to 1985) saw a more relaxed approach allowin9 Advanced Gas-Cooled Reactor construction closer to population centres (in ‘semi-urban’ locations, notably at Hartlepool and Heysham). In the third phase (1985 to 2005) there was very little new nuclear development, Sizewell B (the first and so far only pressurised water power reactor in the UK) being co-located with an early Magnox station on the rural Suffolk coast. However, there was considerable effort expended on trying to find a site for disposal of radioactive wastes. Renewed interest in nuclear new build grew from 2005 onwards and led to a number of sites being identified for new reactors before 2025; all having previously hosted nuclear stations and including the semi-urban locations of the 1960s and 1970s. Finally, some speculative comments are made as to w<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N74|The great escape? The contribution of the empire to Portugal’s economic growth, 1500-1800|Newly assembled macroeconomic statistics for early modern Portugal reveal one of Europe’s most vigorous colonial traders and at the same time one of its least successful growth records. Using an estimated model in the spirit of Allen (2009) we conclude that intercontinental trade had a substantial and increasingly positive impact on economic growth. In the heyday of colonial expansion, eliminating the economic links to empire would have reduced Portugal’s per capita income by roughly a fifth. While the empire helped the domestic economy it was not sufficient to annul the tendency towards decline in relation to Europe’s advanced core which set in from the 17th century onwards. We conclude that the explanation for Portugal’s long-term backwardness must be sought primarily in domestic conditions
N74|The value of supply security: The costs of power outages to Austrian households, firms and the public sector|This paper presents a model for assessing economic losses caused by electricity cuts as well as Willingness-to-Pay to avoid these power outages as an approximation to the value of supply security. The economic effects for simulated power cuts from 1 to 48h, which take the affected provinces, the day of the week and the time of day into consideration, can be calculated using the assessment tool APOSTEL. The costs due to power cuts are computed separately for all sectors of the economy and for households. The average value of lost load for Austrian households and non-household consumers in the case of a power cut of 1h on a summer workday morning was calculated to be 17.1€ per kWh of electricity not supplied.
N74|Evaluating the Swiss transitory labour contribution to Germany in the Second War|Histories of southern German firms during the Second World War suggest that Switzerland provided many highly-skilled labourers for Germany’s war effort, but no study has to date quantified these contributions. This paper examines the labour exchanges between the two countries, focusing on individuals working within a free movement and trade area in the border region of Switzerland and Germany. A maximum of 1,800 Swiss workers is ascertained to have worked in the German part of this area, representing 7.5% of the total labour force, 12% of the highly-skilled labour force and over 20% of the metal workers in the ten-kilometre German zone. Swiss contributions are somewhat offset by Germans working in the Swiss zone. Most importantly for Swiss neutrality, this papersuggests that, despite initially supportive increased labour transfers at the start of the war, the Swiss government sought from 1941 to prevent workers from transferring to Germany.
N74|German and British balance of payments with the European neutrals in the Second World War|"""This paper examines the Swedish ball bearings industry during the Second World War, including subsidiary operations in Germany and the United Kingdom.1 It determines that these ball bearings were very important to the war effort in both countries, comprising in total about 58% of German supplies and 31% of British. Despite favouring Germany with more exports, the Swedish government allowed the British access to Swedish territory to ensure the delivery of the bearings through the German blockade. In relation to price increases for other exports, prices for ball bearings were time‐dependent on the position of the acquiring country. From an overall perspective, the United Kingdom received a discount which Germany did not share. However, with the exception of direct exports, representing respectively about 10% and 15% of total German and British supplies, it would have been difficult for the Swedish industry to withhold all supplies of ball bearings to either belligerent."""
N74|The siting of UK Nuclear Power Installations|choosing a suitable site for a nuclear installation requires the consideration and balancin9 of several factors which are sometimes in tension with one another. One particularly interesting tension is a human and demographic one. On the one hand it is beneficial to place nuclear stations close to centres of population, to reduce transmission losses and other costs (including to the local environment) of transporting electricity over large distances from generator to consumer. On the other it is advantageous to place nuclear stations some distance away from such population centres in order to minimise the potential human consequences of a major release of radioactive materials in the (extremely unlikely) event of a major nuclear accident, not only in terms of direct exposure but also concerning the management of emergency planning, notably evacuation. This paper considers the emergence of policies aimed at managing this tension in the UK. In the first phase of nuclear development (roughly speaking 1945 to 1965) there was a highly cautious attitude, with installations being placed in remote rural locations with verylow population density. The second phase (1965 to 1985) saw a more relaxed approach allowin9 Advanced Gas-Cooled Reactor construction closer to population centres (in ‘semi-urban’ locations, notably at Hartlepool and Heysham). In the third phase (1985 to 2005) there was very little new nuclear development, Sizewell B (the first and so far only pressurised water power reactor in the UK) being co-located with an early Magnox station on the rural Suffolk coast. However, there was considerable effort expended on trying to find a site for disposal of radioactive wastes. Renewed interest in nuclear new build grew from 2005 onwards and led to a number of sites being identified for new reactors before 2025; all having previously hosted nuclear stations and including the semi-urban locations of the 1960s and 1970s. Finally, some speculative comments are made as to what a ‘fifth phase’ starting in 2025 might look like.
N74|Setbacks And Achievements In Managing The Eastern Neighbourhood|Since its latest enlargements, the European Union has constantly developed various actions and initiatives in order to secure its borders and consequently to be surrounded by countries with dynamic economies and secure and stable political situations. So far, the presence of the union in its Eastern neighbourhood did not have the expected outcome. Where has the European Neighbourhood Policy failed? How is the European Union perceived by its neighbours: social partner, protector, sponsor or regional hegemonic? Is the Eastern Partnership sufficient to revive the Eastern dimension of the ENP? This paper will focus on answering these questions by connecting the theoretical framework of the neighbourhood policy with the existing empirical evidence through an interdisciplinary approach.
N74|Public Policy End-of-Life Vehicles Reflected at Opel/Vauxhall|Disposal of cars and light commercial vehicles at the end of their operational lives(- ELVs) is estimated to generate over ten million tones of material requiring treatment and disposal in 2005 within the European Union. This volume is projected to increase to fourteen million tones by 2015 as the number and average weight of vehicles increases. The company Adam Opel AG operates as a subsidiary of General Motors Europe AG, which is a major part of General Motors Corporation. Adam Opel AG is working on environmental protection for a long time ( before 1990) since they realized they must act responsibly with the resources and they must invested decades of work into environmental innovation to reduce pollution and raise their sustainability. In terms of product development Opel’s recycling strategy is based on two cornerstones: recycling –oriented design and development and implementation of material cycles for vehicle production.
N74|De ruimtelijke metamorfose van Schiphol: van polderdorp naar nevelstad<BR>[Spatial metamorphosis of Schiphol Airport: from polder village to a nebula city]|De geschiedschrijving van vliegvelden en hun metamorfose in metropolitaanse gebieden is onlosmakelijk verbonden met processen van verstedelijking, decentralisatie, economische groei en de ruimtelijke aanwas van steden, buitenwijken en regio’s. Die processen worden niet door enig ontwerp gestuurd, maar door veranderingen in grond-en gebouwengebruik en bewegingen van mensen, goederen, kapitaal, diensten, informatie en de infrastructurele netwerken die de wonende en werkende mens in beweging brengen. Het gaat daarbij om functionele patronen in de bewegingen en transacties die op hun beurt weer invloed hebben op de ruimtelijke structuren, dat wil zeggen de fysieke verschijningsvorm die dergelijke activiteiten ter plekke produceren. In dit (hoofd)stuk willen we inzichtelijk maken hoe de groeistuipen van Schiphol eraan hebben bijgedragen dat het noordwestelijke deel van de Randstad is uitgegroeid tot een bijzonder metropolitaans gebied met een eigen stedelijke structuur en cultuur. Dat verschijnsel hebben we nevelstad genoemd. Hier analyseren we vooral de groeiprocessen zoals die hebben plaatsgevonden in de regio rond Schiphol: in Amsterdam en de Haarlemmermeer. Hier ontstond een verneveling die zich vanaf de jaren zestig over het westen van Nederland snel heeft uitgebreid, tot aan de Brabantse stedenrij toe.
N74|Il turismo automobilistico in Italia nel periodo fra le due guerre mondiali<BR>[Automobile tourism in Italy during the interwar period]|This paper outlines the evolution of automobile tourism in Italy in the 1920s and 1930s, that is, before the so-called mass tourism. The small number of vehicles per inhabitant seems to indicate that this phenomenon had limited importance; however, the situation changes relevantly when considering international tourist flows. During this period, in fact, the number of foreigners travelling to Italy by car grew progressively, leading to an improvement of roads and facilities for motor tourists. Furthermore, to sustain this trend, during the 1930s the government adopted new measures to encourage foreigners to visit Italy by car, also seeking to raise the country’s competitiveness in the international tourist market.
N74|Embeddedness of regions in European knowledge networks. A comparative analysis of inter-regional R and D collaborations, co-patents and co-publications|This paper investigates the embeddedness of European regions in different types of inter-regional knowledge networks, namely project based R and D collaborations within the EU Framework Programmes (FPs), co-patent networks and co-publication networks. Embeddedness refers to the network positioning of regions captured in terms of social network analytic (SNA) centrality measures. The objective is to estimate how region-internal and region-external factors influence network embeddedness in the distinct network types, in order to identify differences in their driving factors at the regional level. In our modelling approach, we apply advanced spatial econometric techniques by means of a mixed effects panel version of the Spatial Durbin Model (SDM), and introduce a set of variables accounting for a capacity-specific, a relational as well as a spatial dimension in regional knowledge production activities. The results reveal conspicuous differences between the knowledge networks. Internal capacity- and technology-related aspects but also spatial spillover impacts from surrounding regions prove to be particularly important for centrality in the co-patent network. We also find significant - region-internal and region-external - impacts of general economic conditions on a regionâ€™s centrality in the FP network. However, we cannot observe substantial spill-over effects of region-external factors on centrality in the co-publication network. Thus, the distinctive knowledge creation foci in each network seem to find expression in the network structure as well as its regional determinants.
N74|Electricity Cost as a Driver of Competitiveness in Northern Europe: The Case of Estonia|The Estonian electricity market will be fully opened in 2013. Given ever-stricter environmental standards limiting the use of domestically available oil shale as main fuel for electricity generation and expansion of regional power pools, it is widely believed that Estonia’s currently low electricity prices are set to increase. Authors argue that cost differentiation and regional competition will be based on transmission charges and add-on fees. Measuring exporting industry’s total electricity costs as a share of total production costs shows that for the majority of Estonian producers electricity costs make up only around 1–2 % of production costs, but noteworthy exceptions exist. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2013
N74|Foreign Direct Investments and Intellectual Property Rights. International Intangible Assets in Spain circa 1820–1939|We devote this paper to reflecting on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) in the long run, particularly analyzing the case of Spain during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Although the interactions between IPRs and FDI have attracted significant research efforts in distinct economic and business areas, the results lack permanent answers. Our findings demonstrate that, from a macro-level perspective, 1) FDI and IPRs are effectively related in the long term; 2) weak IPR protection does not seem to have stopped FDI; and 3) the countries with major FDI in Spain were less worried about IPR management than others with less FDI.
N74|What determines the position of regions in European knowledge networks? A comparative perspective on R&D collaboration, co-patent and co-publication networks|The question of why certain regions are more efficient in creating new knowledge is one of the main research issues in Regional Science. In the recent past, inter-regional knowledge networks - defined as the inter-linkage of collaborative endeavours in knowledge creation across regional boundaries - have been increasingly considered as important element for knowledge generation processes. Such inter-regional knowledge networks may constitute promising channels to tap knowledge that is widely dispersed in geographical space. This paper investigates the position of regions in inter-regional knowledge networks at the European level, taking a comparative perspective on the R&D collaboration network as given by the European Framework Programmes (FPs), the co-patent network and the co-publication network. The aim is to identify how region-specific and spatial factors explain positioning in European knowledge networks. In order to take account of structural properties of each network type, we apply a Social Network Analysis (SNA) perspective, defining a region's network position in terms of its centrality according to inter-regional collaboration intensities. By this, we use eigenvector centrality, placing the region in a central hub position, and betweenness centrality, assigning central regions the ability to control knowledge diffusion in the network. In modelling network centrality we distinguish between regional characteristics that reflect a region's knowledge production capacities (capacity dimension), and the variety in a region's knowledge production activities (relational dimension). Our empirical model specification in form of a mixed effects panel version of the Spatial Durbin Model (SDM) allows accounting for the spatial autocorrelation in explaining network position by differentiating between direct, region-internal, and indirect, region-external impacts arising from our set of explanatory characteristics. The results provide first empirical evidence on regional factors that influence position in inter-regional knowledge networks from a comparative perspective on three different network types, given their distinct network structure in relational as well as spatial terms. The results reveal that internal capacity- and technology-related aspects but also spatial spillover impacts from surrounding regions prove to be particularly important for centrality in the co-patent network. We also find significant - region-internal and region-external - impacts of general economic conditions on a region's centrality in the FP network. However, we cannot observe substantial spillover effects of region-external factors on centrality in the co-publication network. Thus, the distinctive knowledge creation foci in each network seem to find expression in its regional determinants.
N74|Chicken or egg? Transport and urban development in Berlin|Infrastructure and especially mass transit play a major role in urban economics and are the centre of many research questions. Probably due to simultaneous determination of infrastructure supply and demand most research is only carried out on the supply side driven relationship explaining how transport leads to urban development. The intention of the paper is to provide a new and purely empirical perspective on the chicken-and-egg-problem. We propose a panel VAR approach employing a unique data set for historic Berlin between 1870 and 1936. We argue that it is of a planner's interest to not only incorporate the supply side driven relationship but also the demand sided one. We turn the simultaneity problem into a purely empirical question since in practice it becomes difficult to derive theoretical implications from a comprehensive model that fully reflects all mutual interactions. Our analysis follows a twofold approach: Firstly, we estimate the interaction between population and transport. We then secondly extend the analysis by looking into the relation between land values and transport. Our estimates suggest a supply side driven relationship between transport and population and a positive reciprocal one between transport and land values. We conclude that new lines are not built entirely into undeveloped land but need to be connected to areas characterised by high land values to serve as a commuting mode.
N74|Romania Foreign Trade in Global Recession, Revealed by the Extended Method of Exchange Rate Indicators|In this article the authors propose an extended method for assessing foreign trade, which is capitalized on in the analysis of foreign trade/external marketing, under the influence of two of the most difficult recession of the Romanian economy, placed in the last interwar decade and in the first decade of the new millennium. The selection of the periods for the analysis, despite and beyond the methodological shortcomings concerning the provision of statistical comparability, which is relatively overcome by the advantages of the method, was dictated by the regulator impact of the major recessions in Romanian foreign trade, which offers the possibility to identify a national profile of economic behaviour. The structure of the article includes, after an introductory reference to approaching external marketing in the main economic theories, the first section dealing with the repertoire of foreign trade theories, with main emphasis on the specific contemporary issues and trends, but also a section for detailing the extended method proposed and the original statistical tools that are proposed (from the spread of the mobile rates of the contrary flows, to the indices and coefficients of the Hirschman and Gini-Struck type in curve ABC), and of the databases. Once applied in the results section, the extended method manages to quantify the broad outline of a reactive profile, slightly lagging and inertial, of the external marketing / foreign trade of the national economy, in relation to crisis or recession in both time analyses, which is relatively stable for eight decades, providing space for comments that allow greater macro-economic self-awareness. The main final remark shows that a small starting gap, apparently favourable, of Romanian foreign trade, in response to crisis or recession type phenomena, cannot however compensate the inertial trend of these cyclic phenomena, which is slightly longer than one year, and whose negative impact is strongly felt and amplified.
N74|Social Networks of Innovation in the European Periphery : Exploring Independent versus Corporate Patents in Spain circa 1820-1939|No abstract is available for this item.
N74|La competitividad de las exportaciones de vino español y el mercado mundial 1960-2011|Este trabajo analiza la evolución y competitividad de las exportaciones españolas de vino en el mercado mundial desde la década de 1960. Con ello explora las respuestas de la industria vinícola durante la globalización del vino. Analiza el comportamiento evolutivo del sector por tipos de vinos y el peso relativo de las exportaciones en volumen, valor y precios unitarios en el mercado mundial. El estudio de la ventaja comparativa del comercio exterior se realiza a través del índice de Ventaja Competitiva Revelada (VCR) o Índice de Balassa. Demuestra que pese al fabuloso crecimiento de las exportaciones entre 1960 y 2011 la industria española sigue especializada en vinos de bajo coste y en exportaciones a granel. Aunque mejoró la calidad y crecieron las exportaciones de vinos embotellados con denominación de origen, la competitividad del sector muestra serias debilidades que la sitúan entre las más bajas de los países especializados.
N74|Italy’s Comparative Advantage: A Long-Run Perspective|The growth of the Italian economy over the past 150 years since unification was accompanied by a dramatic increase in the country’s integration with European and global commodity markets: foreign trade in the long run grew on average faster than the overall economy. Behind the dynamics of aggregate trade, Italy’s comparative advantage changed fundamentally over the last 150 years. The composition of trade, in terms of both commodities imported and exported and in terms of trading partners, developed from a high concentration of a few trading partners and a handful of rather simple commodities into a wide diversification of trading partners and more sophisticated commodities. In this paper we exploit a new long-term database on Italian foreign trade at a high level of disaggregation to document and analyze these changes. We conclude with an assessment of Italy’s growth prospects from a historical perspective.
N74|The Price of Media Capture and the Looting of Newspapers in Interwar France|This paper develops a new insight enabling the empirical study of media capture: minority shareholders of newspapers and readers face similar risks. Both are adversely affected when corrupt insiders use the newspaper for personal profit and receive invisible revenues. This means that relevant data on influence and exploitation of newspaper has been hiding in plain sight in stock exchange or over-the-counter prices, since stock transactions reflect the value of this capture. Empirical data is consistent with increasing levels of looting in France during the 1930s. We provide a comparison with Britain and argue that Britain managed to protect its newspapers better.
N74|The political economy of mass printing: Legitimacy and technological change in the Ottoman Empire|New technologies have not always been greeted with full enthusiasm. Although the Ottomans were quick to adopt advancements in military technology, they waited almost three centuries to sanction printing in Ottoman Turkish (in Arabic characters). Printing spread relatively rapidly throughout Europe following the invention of the printing press in 1450 despite resistance by interest groups and temporary restrictions in some countries. We explain differential reaction to technology through a political economy approach centered on the legitimizing relationships between rulers and their agents (e.g., military, religious, or secular authorities). The Ottomans regulated the printing press heavily to prevent the loss it would have caused to the ruler’s net revenue by undermining the legitimacy provided by religious authorities. On the other hand, the legitimizing relationship between European religious and political authorities was undermined over a century prior to the invention of the press. European rulers thus had little reason to stop the spread of printing as public policy, nor could the Church have stopped it had it wanted to. The Ottomans eventually sanctioned printing in Arabic script in the 18th century after alternative sources of legitimacy emerged.
N74|Are public policies towards renewables successful? Evidence from European countries|Qualitative and theoretical literature indicates public policies as a major driver in the development of renewables. This paper empirically tests this claim, within a context of several drivers of renewables, by focusing on a large panel of European countries. Given the presence of heteroskedasticity and contemporaneous correlation resulting from the uniformity of public policies supporting renewables, we use a Panel Corrected Standard Errors estimator. Results are consistent with the usual drivers indicated by the literature and they give empirical support to the notion that public policy measures contribute, as a whole or disaggregated, to wider use of renewables. Specifically, policies of incentives/subsidies (including feed-in tariffs) and policy processes prove to be significant drivers of improved RE use. We show that the usual panel data estimators, random effects and fixed effects, are inefficient and lead to the erroneous exclusion of these policies as renewables’ drivers.
N74|Measuring road congestion|The methodology presented here allows to measure and monitor road congestion across Europe using data from TomTom in-vehicle navigation systems. The approach is based on the analysis of a large number of real vehicle speeds that have been measured on each road link and the application of algorithms that allow the estimation of congestion indicators for specific types of roads during selected time periods. The results include the detailed mapping of recurrent congestion both geographically and temporally, as well as the comparison of the quality of service of road networks between different zones.
N74|The Role Of The Energy Community Within The Eu Regional Cooperation|In the last decade we have seen the creation process of a common Energy Policy, which was gradually adopted by all Community countries, and has promoted an integrated competitive European energy market, increased security of supply and supported the use renewable energy sources. But in order for this policy to work efficiently, it also had to promote international cooperation with its neighbors and energy suppliers. With the view of establishing an Integrated Energy Market Organization in South-Eastern Europe, the European Community, along with nine other countries, has signed on 25 October 2005 the treaty establishing the Energy Community. Our research aims to investigate the potential of the European Union to promote security of energy supply and energy markets integration through the Energy Community. The article uses data from theoretical and empirical research on the economic and politic relations between the members of the Energy Community in order to establish the positive and negative outcomes of six year of collaboration.
N74|Oil Price Shock and Structural Changes in CMEA Trade: Pouring Oil on Troubled Waters?|We analyse trade between countries of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance in Eastern Europe between 1950 and 1990. Despite central planning of the CMEA, we show that trade could be explained by standard demand factors surprisingly well. We document that the oil price crisis had several repercussions on Eastern Europe. The Soviet Union as a supplier of crude oil benefited from the energy crisis in the 1970s. By contrast, the individual CMEA countries in Central Europe did not enjoy improved terms of trade with the rest of the world and the CMEA as a whole responded to the oil crisis by intensifying intra-CMEA trade and turning inwards
N74|The public-private financing of the first Italian highways: a historical analysis|No abstract is available for this item.
N74|The public-private partnership in the Italian satellite telecommunication system design: SIRIO and Italsat (1969-1996)|In the last decades of the XX Century the expansion in telecommunications urged the development of an innovative satellite network infrastructure. Satellite telecommunication-a network technology-presents public-good characteristic and high-cost and technological-risks. The case of the design of the Italian satellite telecommunication system consists in a peculiar case of public-private partnership (PPP). This paper compares the Sirio and Italsat satellites systems to highlight the differences in the partnership agreements between the public buyer and the firms involved. In both cases the government provided clear signals of market demand to spur innovative activity, however, contractual obligation proved decisive. In the latter case, the public financial support took the form of a purchase agreement of a service with specific requirements at a specific time in the future, creating incentives for innovation and on-time and on-budget implementation. A public agency then was created to coordinate the research efforts of different firms reducing cost and opportunistic threats.
N74|The financing history of urban water infrastructure in Paris (1807-1925): lessons from the past to enlighten present and future challenges?|Sustainable financing is a major challenge for the water sector both in many developing countries where water and sanitation services are still in the expansion phase and in Europe where the water industry is faced to major investments needs too. To give more depth to the present policy debate a historical perspective on water services financing is needed. This paper is focused on the financing history of the Paris water infrastructure brought to completion in the 1807-1925 time frame (Ourcq canal, water supply network and sewers, long distance aqueducts, water treatment plants, waste water treatment units). A variety of financing schemes and institutional solutions (municipal budget - fiscal resources, concession, municipal bond and land added value capture schemes) are identified and described. A deeper analysis is made on the financial flows of Paris’ water, sanitation and canals service over the 1893-1930 time frame. A discussion on the institutional choices and on the long run cost allocation of the chosen financing schemes is made. It appears that long term debt, inflation and land added value capture mechanisms played key roles in absorbing part of the investments’ costs.
N74|Italy and the first age of globalization, 1861-1940|The paper presents trade policy as in line with that of other continental European powers, with a move to moderate levels of tariff protection for politically sensitive sectors such as steel and textiles and clothing, but also in agriculture, with levels of protection falling slightly before the First World War. Monetary policy was similarly driven by the constraints of capital scarcity, and by the political priority attached to reducing the cost of funding government debt. The most innovative area was probably in industrial policy, where after the 1880s and again in the 1930s in response to sever shocks, quite creative institutional policies were adopted. In particular financial restructuring was used as an opportunity to reshape the structure of industry.
N74|Italy and the First Age of Globalization, 1861-1940|The paper presents trade policy as in line with that of other continental European powers, with a move to moderate levels of tariff protection for politically sensitive sectors such as steel and textiles and clothing, but also in agriculture, with levels of protection falling slightly before the First World War. Monetary policy was similarly driven by the constraints of capital scarcity, and the political priority attached to reducing the cost of funding government debt. The most innovative area was probably in industrial policy, where after the 1880s and again in the 1930s in response to severe shocks, quite creative institutional policies were adopted. In particular financial restructuring was used as an opportunity to reshape the structure of industry.
N74|Towards a more efficient railway: The Beesley lecture|Britain’s railways are a great success story. The rail industry needs now to change to sustain the remarkable progress of the last decade. To get the best service for its customers and a good deal for the taxpayer, the industry needs the freedom to innovate, to deliver better value and to make rail more attractive for passengers and freight. For too long the rail industry, the government, and the regulator have created ever more byzantine funding and decision-making structures, and since privatisation regulator and government have been drawn into operational detail instead of being focused on what matters – ensuring the industry serves its customers at the best price for the taxpayer.
N74|A blueprint for a better railway: how innovation, devolution and competition can help Britain's railways to serve consumers better|This paper sets out the origins and development of the UK's unique system of rail operation, funding and regulation. It sets out options to tackle the system's shortcomings to that it works better in the interests of customens and taxpayers. The industry needs the freedom to innovate, to deliver better value and to make rail more attractive for passengers and freight. For too long the rail industry, the government, and the regulator have created ever more byzantine funding and decision-making structures, and since privatisation regulator and government have been drawn into operational detail instead of being focused on what matters-ensuring the industry serves its customers at the best price for the taxpayer.
N74|La competitividad internacional de la industria vinícola española durante la globalización del vino|This paper analyzes the international competitiveness of the Spanish wine industry at the stage of 'wine globalization'. The comparative advantage through the Revealed Competitive Advantage Index (RCA) or Balassa Index and the behavior of the wines types, and the relative weight of exports in volume, value and unit prices in the world market since the 1960's are examined. The article reports the exports increasing of bottled quality wines with Appellations of Origen and, overall, wine exports growth in recent decades. Spanish wine industry has become a net exporter, challenging the fall in domestic consumption and increased foreign competition; however, the bases of its competitiveness are low-cost wines, quality economic wines, and particularly the bulk wines, which show higher dynamism in the last decade.
N74|Social Networks of Innovation in the European Periphery. Exploring Independent versus Corporate Patents in Spain circa 1820-1939|There is a widespread idea that corporations have completely taken over invention and innovation processes throughout the twentieth century, thus becoming the main users of patent systems. However, recent studies suggest that, in spite of corporate expansion, independent invention is still economically significant nowadays, and that individuals outside the boundaries of the firm were actually the principal source of innovation before World War II. This article analyzes the history of corporate and independent patents in Spain in the long-term, in order to confirm that independents were also very relevant to promoting innovation and technology transfer in latecomers with high rates of technological dependence. Employing a new method of work with patent files, we also offer new historical evidence of the structure, effectiveness and scope of emerging international social networks of innovation. After introducing the research framework, Section Two briefly summarizes the characteristics of the Spanish patent system, and compares corporate and independent patents taken out between 1820 and 1939. Section Three studies the duration and strength of independent patents and the structure of the communities of innovation, and the conclusions make up Section Four.
N74|Do technological booms matter? New evidence on the relationship between firm size and innovativeness|Many papers have been written about the effect of firm size on innovativeness, revealing a positive, a negative or a mixed impact. To this day, the so-called Schumpeterian hypothesis of the above-average innovativeness of large firms has neither been confirmed nor rejected, often because of insufficient data or a too-short observation period. Many studies concentrate only on a specific region or sector, or they analyze a very short time period. Windows of technological opportunities, providing technological booms for both firms and sectors, have not yet been investigated. An analysis of Germany’s chemical, metal and electrical-engineering sectors between 1877 and 1932 reveals that the sector-specific long-term relationship between firm size and innovativeness is negative, except during times of specific technological booms. In combination with firm-specific characteristics, this new aspect can contribute to a better understanding of the long-term relationship between firm size and innovativeness.
N74|Agricultural and Food Trade in European Union Countries, 1963-2000: A Gravity Equation Approach|The proliferation of regional trade agreements in the last decades of the 20th century has intensified the debate about the different processes of regional integration. This study contributes to this debate by analysing the principal determinants of the growth in trade flows of the countries making up the European Union. The work analyses EU agri?food trade from a disaggregated perspective, by products, imports and exports, from 1963 to 2000. An extended gravity equation model is estimated employing Prais? Weistein estimation and fixed effects in order to improve on the results reported in previous studies. The results of the present study show that in EU countries the growth of per capita income stimulated exports and reduced imports. Specifically, its exports were positively influenced by the presence of the home market effect, while its imports were strongly influenced by the effects of the liberalisation of intra?EU trade, as also occurred in the case of intra?EU trade flows.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N74|Comparative Advantages in Italy: A Long-Run Perspective|The history of Italy since her unification in 1861 reflects the two-way relationship between foreign trade and economic development. Its growth was accompanied by a dramatic increase in the country's integration with European and global commodity markets: foreign trade in the long run grew on average faster than the overall economy. Behind the dynamics of aggregate trade, Italy's comparative advantage changed fundamentally over the last 150 years. The composition of trade, in terms of both commodities imported and exported and in terms of trading partners, developed from a high concentration of a few trading partners and a handful of rather simple commodities into a wide diversification of trading partners and more sophisticated commodities. In this chapter we use a new long-term database on Italian foreign trade at a high level of disaggregation to document and analyze these changes. We will conclude with an assessment of Italy's prospects from a historical perspective.
N74|Did Swedish ball bearings keep the Second World War going? Re-evaluating neutral Sweden’s role|"""This paper examines the Swedish ball bearings industry during the Second World War, including subsidiary operations in Germany and the United Kingdom.1 It determines that these ball bearings were very important to the war effort in both countries, comprising in total about 58% of German supplies and 31% of British. Despite favouring Germany with more exports, the Swedish government allowed the British access to Swedish territory to ensure the delivery of the bearings through the German blockade. In relation to price increases for other exports, prices for ball bearings were time‐dependent on the position of the acquiring country. From an overall perspective, the United Kingdom received a discount which Germany did not share. However, with the exception of direct exports, representing respectively about 10% and 15% of total German and British supplies, it would have been difficult for the Swedish industry to withhold all supplies of ball bearings to either belligerent."""
N74|Internet, IT-boomen och reklambranschen under andra hälften av nittiotalet - Transkript av ett vittnesseminarium på ABF-huset i Stockholm den 17 februari 2010|This publication is a commented transcript of a witness seminar in February 2010 within the research project ”The Swedish digital wonder in the advertising industry”. The purpose of the seminar, which was open to the public, was to document the shifting boundaries between the advertising, media, and information technology industries in the wake of the breakthrough of the Internet from the mid-1990s. We invited six persons, who at that time were centrally placed in these industries, to share their reminiscences and comment on testimonies of the other participants. The seminar was moderated by two researchers in the project. The transcript has been edited prudently in order to improve the readability while preserving the colloquial character. We have moreover provided the transcript with explanatory footnotes and a short introduction. The purpose of publishing the transcript in this series is twofold: to create an oral history source and make it accessible, but also to introduce the witness seminar as an historical documentation method in economic history and business history.
N74|Economic Growth and Clean Water in the Göta River - A Pilot Study of Collective Action and the Environmental Kuznets Curve 1895-2000|Because of a growing population and industrialization, total pollution levels in many water-courses around the world have increased considerably for hundreds, if not thousands, of years. In the last few decades, however, the trend of increasing water pollution has been turned in many industrialized countries, delinking economic growth from environmental pollution. This is in essence one aspect of what many environmental economists call an ‘environmental Kuznets curve’. The research question of this project is why there is such a pattern to water quality in many countries? Much previous literature on the topic studies only the positive impact of environmental legislation. This study, focusing upon the case of the river Göta in Sweden, undertakes a more thorough analysis, including other crucial factors as well such as industrial transformation and decline, as well as stakeholder associations. The project utilizes a very long series of data on the water quality in the river Göta, covering more than 100 years of data for crucial indicators, in order to establish what factors were contributing to reducing levels of pollution. Analyzing the driving factors of this ‘Environmental Kuznets Curve’ can give us crucial insights into how a sustainable development might be achieved in the future.
N74|Irish Perceptions of the Great Depression|This paper traces how the Great Depression was perceived in 1930s Ireland. Perceptions were complicated by internal political developments. Fianna Fáil, upon acceding to power in 1932, rapidly expanded protection and engaged in (near balanced budget) fiscal expansion. Despite the tariff war with Britain triggered by the land annuities dispute, Ireland appears to have weathered the storm better than most other European economies. The contemporary writings of academic economists reflected the influence of Lionel Robbins and the Austrian School, while – to paraphrase Ronan Fanning – the winds of change in Irish economics blew much more vigorously in the corridors of the public service.
N74|Challenges And Dillemas Within The Relations Between Russia And The European Union|Every EU enlargement signified a step towards Central and Eastern Europe, therefore, the 2004 „big bang enlargement”, followed by the one in 2007, modified the geopolitical context within the „old continent” and also increased the importance of the European Union regionally, as well as globally. Integrating the ex-soviet countries into the EU meant taking them out of the Russian sphere of influence, as well as attempting to super size the EU territory in order to increase the European power on a long term. Despite the weakening of Russia after the Cold War, the federation still represents a challenge regarding „pax europea”, as Russia still has an amazing military capacity, as well as important natural resources. The entrance into the Russian sphere of influence, the European energetic dependency on Russia, the conflicts within the separatist regions situated at the EU eastern borders are just few of the many challenges regarding the relations between the European Union and Russia.
N74|A Quantile Approach to Identify Factors Promoting Renewable Energy in European Countries|No abstract is available for this item.
N74|FDI of German Companies During Globalization and Deglobalization|No abstract is available for this item.
N74|From national monopoly to multinational corporation: How regulation shaped the road towards telecommunications internationalisation| One of the consequences of major regulatory reform of the telecommunications sector from the end of the 1970s -- particularly, privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation -- was the establishment of a new business environment which permitted former national telecommunications monopolies to expand abroad. From the 1990s, a number of these firms, particularly those based in Europe, joined the rankings of the world's leading multinational corporations. Their internationalisation was uneven, however: while some firms internationalised strongly, others ventured abroad much slower. This article explores how the regulatory framework within which telecommunications incumbents evolved over the long-term shaped their subsequent, uneven, paths to internationalisation. Two case studies representing ‘maximum variation’ are selected: Telefónica, whose early and unrelenting expansion transformed it into one of the world's most international of multinational corporations, and BT, whose overseas ventures failed and, with eroding domestic market share, forced the firm to partially retreat, becoming the least international of the large European incumbents. Long-term ownership, access to capital, management style and exposure to liberalisation strongly influenced firms' approaches to internationalisation.
N74|Energy and Economic Growth in Europe. The Last Two Centuries|The aim of this article is to analyze the role of energy in longterm economic growth. Particular attention will be paid to the relation between energy and GDP. Energy productivity, that is the ratio of output to energy (Y/E), will be reconstructed and, through a decomposition analysis, I will try to show the relative importance both of rising consumption and of changes in the productivity of energy in growth of per capita output.
N74|The Path Towards the Modern Economy The Role of Energy|The transformation of the energy system during the period between the 16th and 19th centuries was the necessary, although not sufficient, condition of modern growth, first in Euro pe and then in the rest of the World. The transition to alternative forms of energy was prompted by the decline in per capita energy availability in early modern Europe du ring the phase of population rise from the late Middle Ages onwards. The transformation taking place in the energy system was composed of two significant changes, the first aimed at saving land, and the second labour.
N74|Wheat varieties and technological change in Europe, 19th and 20th centuries: New issues in economic history|This article: a) analyzes the evolution of biological innovations in wheat varieties from the mid 19th to the end of 20th century in Britain, France, Spain and Italy, and b) shows that the analysis of technological changes in agriculture provides a better understanding of the evolution of grain yields in these countries. The article also shows the effect of four key variables in these innovations: scientific advances in the field of biology, alongside environmental, institutional and technological factors. In addition, it provides a new indicator for the evolution of these innovations, which can be particularly useful to better determine the distribution of short-stemmed and semidwarf wheats over time: wheat production per weight unit of hay harvested.
N74|History and Industry Location: Evidence from German Airports| A central prediction of a large class of theoretical models is that industry location is not uniquely determined by fundamentals. Despite the theoretical prominence of this idea, there is little systematic evidence in support of its empirical relevance. This paper exploits the division of Germany after World War II and the reunification of East and West Germany as an exogenous shock to industry location. Focusing on a particular economic activity, an air hub, we develop a body of evidence that the relocation of Germany's air hub from Berlin to Frankfurt in response to division is a shift between multiple steady states. © 2011 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
N74|Propiedad industrial y competitividad global en perspectiva histórica.Una década de colaboración entre la OEPM y la UAM|La capacidad de competir globalmente ha sido algo cambiante en el tiempo. Los procesos de innovación tecnológica y la educación condicionan en gran medida el crecimiento económico y esa competitividad internacional. La evolución y desarrollo histórico de los derechos de propiedad industrial han sido parte esencial de la gestión de la I+D+i y de la capacidad creativa e innovadora de las distintas sociedades. La historia económica y tecnológica se convierte, de este modo, en una herramienta esencial para el analista especializado en política económica. Y el archivo histórico de la Oficina Española de Patentes y Marcas en un laboratorio del pasado en el que reflexionar sobre el futuro
N74|A more efficient procurement mechanism for reserver capacity in the German market for balancing power|From auction theory we know that multi-unit, pay-as-bid auctions in general lead to bid shading and thus to an inefficient allocation. This result is supported by historical data from the German market for balancing power, which show that bidders bid well above their actual costs. In contrast to the pay-as-bid auction, the Vickrey auction has the dominant strategy property and bidders reveal their true opportunity cost. Consequently, the Vickrey auction allocates efficiently. In this article we show how this auction format can facilitate an efficient capacity procurement process in the German reserve market.
N74|Las cooperativas españolas y los ciclos económicos: una primera aproximación, 1942-2002|Este trabajo tiene como objeto realizar un primer diagnóstico del comportamiento de las cooperativas españolas desde mediados del siglo XX hasta los primeros años de la actual centuria. Muestra cómo reaccionaron las cooperativas ante las trasformaciones estructurales de la economía española donde el impacto de los cambios políticos internos, así como una mayor apertura del país que culminó con la entrada en la Comunidad Económica Europea, modificó un marco normativo que afectó a las empresas cooperativas. Se utiliza el método transversal dejando a un lado el análisis por etapas tan característico en el discurso histórico. La idea es explicar al lector como las empresas cooperativas han ido respondiendo a los vaivenes de los ciclos de la economía española, qué sectores de la actividad productiva se vieron más afectados, y cómo se inició la modernización cuyo resultado fue la aparición de empresas de mayor tamaño. Se quiere indagar si los ciclos de creación de las cooperativas guardan relación con los períodos de expansión o contracción de la economía española. Se trata de conocer si en períodos de dificultades económicas son las empresas con perfil solidario las que mejor reaccionaron
N74|The tourism revolution in the Mediterranean, 1950-2005|The explosion of mass tourism since the end of the Second World War has had a tangible effect on crucial flows of manpower, investment and production strategy towards the leisure economy in a large part of the world, with changes that take us back to what occurred two hundred years earlier in the heat of the Industrial Revolution. However, perhaps it is in particular areas (as was the case with the thrust of industrialisation) such as the Mediterranean basin, where this view can be identified more accurately. Both approaches are reflected in the key objectives of the work. In the first section of this research we discuss the major figures available on the growth of tourism since the Second World War, whilst at the same time outlining the fundamental theoretical keystones of the study: the claim with regard to a particular techno-economic paradigm in the case of mass tourism, involved in the fifth technological revolution seen since the Industrial Revolution. The second section deals specifically with the Mediterranean in its main tourism elements, based on the sources available: number of visitors, overnight stays and tourism expenditure. Finally, some conclusions are offered in order to summarise the work.
N74|El Patronato Nacional de Turismo (1928-1932). Balance económico de una política turística|The National Tourist Board, which was set up in 1928, marked the beginning of the State’s participation in tourism. The main goal was to prepare the country for tourism for the 1929 exhibitions as well as to create the necessary national tourist board, imitating other European countries. Up to the time of the Civil War and during two distinct periods marked by a change in government, it focused on promoting tourism and the hotel industry. If the main lines of its tourism policy were correct, poor financing (it depended on a recently created compulsory insurance for rail travel) almost bankrupted it. Thus, the railway crisis in the thirties dragged national tourism down, subsequently stalling projects and investments. KEY Classification-JEL: G28, H81, N74, O21
N74|Beggar Thy Neighbour: British Imports during the Inter-War Years and the effect of the 1932 tariff|With the competitiveness of UK manufacturing declining steadily during the interwar period, and a significant rise in unemployment in the early 1930s, the UK government responded by introducing the General Tariff in February 1932 in an attempt to halt the increase in unemployment and the deterioration of the current account. This paper focuses formally on UK aggregate imports in the inter-war years, by estimating an import demand function on a new data set, and considers the effectiveness of this fundamental change in trade policy.
N74|The Hungarian automotive sector – a comparative CEE perspective with special emphasis on structural change|Based on the example of the automotive sector the paper investigates some quantity and quality aspects of FDI-driven upgrading and analyzes in a comparative perspective – with the help of industry level data – selected aspects of competitiveness in Central and Eastern Europe. The first group of the surveyed quality indicators includes the evolution of value added over output, and changes in the product mix: we examine whether these two indicators are suitable proxies to assess the extent of quality upgrading with. We conclude that the second group of our surveyed indicators: the import intensity of local production; labor productivity; and the skill content of local activities are more relevant to evaluate quality-type upgrading. Since the broadening of local business functions is a good proxy for quality upgrading, we also tackle this issue in our regional comparisons. The countries covered are Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and in some cases also Romania, Bulgaria and Slovenia. Analyzing selected aspects of upgrading, we compare CEE data with the ones of a benchmark country: Germany. We conclude that in spite of several subsequent foreign direct investment deals, which has produced non-negligible expansion and structural upgrading, and irrespective of the fact that local actors have all stepped on the path of slow quality upgrading, CEE automotive actors have been stuck in cost-based competition. The Czech Republic is a partial exception in this respect. We develop predictions about the industry’s regional perspectives following the global financial crisis.
N74|If Another Gas Dispute Breaks out between the Ukraine and Russia, Would Europe Now Be Equipped to Deal with It?|In January 2009, the supply of natural gas from Russia via the Ukrainian pipeline system was interrupted for nearly two weeks. Particularly the countries in Southeastern Europe were ill-prepared for such an event. Disputes regarding both the payment of natural gas supplies and transit rights between Russia and Ukraine have recently flared up again, which gives rise to the question of whether the EU is now better prepared if a similar scenario to that of January 2009 were to happen again. A number of measures have been introduced since the beginning of the year aiming to overcome any delivery shortfalls, but only a few of them have actually already been implemented, e.g. the creation of technical requirements to reverse the flow of natural gas. Therefore, supply shortages in some Southeastern European countries can not be fully excluded.
N74|The Creation of a Competitive Advantage in the Portuguese Cork Industry: The Contribution of an Industrial District|During the second half of the twentieth century, the Spanish cork industry had lost its hegemonic position to Portugal, in the world market of manufactured cork. In this work we intend to demonstrate that one of the most important explanations of the consolidation of this country’s leadership in the cork business lies in the formation and development of the industrial cork district of Aveiro (Santa Maria da Feira) in the north of Portugal. It was there where the growth of the Portuguese stopper industry took place and with this, the decisive orientation of this nation towards the manufacture of natural cork, substituting the traditional Portuguese trade in cork planks. We argue that the legislation that established the control of the industrial investment in Portugal, the so-called Industrial Conditioning (Condicionamento Industrial) did not restrict the opening of small cottage industries in the north, that fact being a determining reinforcement of the competitiveness of Aveiro in the world stopper trade. Another measure of major importance was the wage regulation covering this industry, being responsible for the wage differential favourable to the north comparing with the south and the centre of the country. Finally, we highlight the role of a big company (Amorim&Irmãos) in the formation and development of this industrial district, which became a leader firm in this sector at a world-wide level. Key words: Cork, “New State”, Portugal, Spain, Industrial District. JEL classification : N4, N5, N74, N8, N9, R32, L52.
N74|Russia And Its Pipeline Weapon|In this paper we intend to present the new power which is given to Russia upon EU due to her great natural resources and due to her control upon pipelines. Now Moscow can exert influence upon countries in Europe not through its revolutionary zeal and its tanks and army, but through its resources. And she knows how to use them and how make the EU dependent on her will: this is a new geopolitics, a 21-th century geopolitics, which is centered upon the control of gas pipelines in Central Asian states and upon EU states' great dependence on Russian pipeline system.
N74|How streetcars shaped suburbanization: a Granger causality analysis of land use and transit in the Twin Cities|This paper presents a causality analysis of the coupled development of population and streetcars in the Twin Cities metropolitan area. Historic residence and network data were assembled for 1900-1930, and linear cross-sectional time-series models were estimated at both a tract and block level using this data. It is found that, in contrast with transportation systems that were expanded in response to increased demand, the rapid expansion of the streetcar system during the electric era has been driven by other forces and to a large extent led land development in the Twin Cities. The main forces that have driven this process include technological superiority, monopoly, close connections with real estate business, and peopleÕs reliance on the streetcar for mobility. Proximity to the streetcar is found to be a crucial factor that determines the distribution and development of residences: it is observed that residential density declines with the distance from streetcar lines, and significantly drops beyond a walkable distance; it is also observed that gaining a closer access to streetcar lines within 800 meters (about a half mile) predicts the increase in residential density to a significant extent.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N74|"""Fortress Europe"" in long-term perspective: agricultural protection in the European Community, 1957-2003"|Since its inception, the European Union’s Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) has been discussed controversely. Data from the OECD and the World Bank show that the protectionist effects of the CAP between the 1960s and the 1980s were larger than those of its national predecessors. Moreover, there is evidence that already the piecemeal reforms of the 1980s re-duced the level of protection and support in the EU, that is prior to the MacSharry reform of 1992.
N74|Risk Premiums in the German Day-Ahead Electricity Market|This paper conducts an empirical analysis of risk premiums in the German day-ahead Electricity Wholesale Market. We compare hourly price data of the European Energy Exchange (EEX) auction and of the continuous over-the-counter (OTC) market taking place prior to EEX. As OTC price data are not publicly available, data provided by the Energy Exchange Austria (EXAA) have been used as a snapshot of the OTC market. It has been found that market participants are willing to pay both, positive and negative premiums for hourly contracts that are significantly different from zero. The largest positive premiums were paid for evening peak hours on weekdays during winter months, the period of time with the highest electricity consumption levels of the year. By contrast, night hours on weekends featuring lowest demand levels display negative premiums. Hence, findings by Longstaff and Wang (2004) can be supported that power traders in liberalised markets behave like riskaverse rational economic agents.
N74|Energy Security in the EU and Beyond|Past episodes of energy insecurity have been fleeting and the fears have been assuaged by market forces or technical change. This paper analyses the nature of the EU's current energy security problems, emphasising the increased importance of natural gas and high level of dependence on Russian supplies through a small number of pipelines. Building alternative pipeline routes is expensive and with finite reserves in any gas field pipelines may be mutually exclusive; especially since China has entered the market for Central Asian gas, new non-Russian pipelines to the EU may not be economically feasible. However, global gas reserves are large, and high energy prices in the 2000s encouraged investment in alternative delivery modes, notable liquefied natural gas (LNG). As a spot market for LNG emerges EU energy-importing countries may face volatile prices, but will not be exposed to insecurity of supply.
N74|Why Did Corporations Patent in Spain? Some Historical Inquiries|In this paper we will explore how international corporations used the Spanish patent system in the late nineteenth century and the first decades of the twentieth century in order to discover what the actual effects of its apparent weakness were. The origins and evolution of corporate patenting in Spain, the effects of compulsory working clauses, the management of assignments, the various strategies followed by the firms, and the effects of patents on technology transfer to the Spanish economy will be clarified. The conclusions yields understanding on real patent management in the long-term by analyzing the strategies of Brown Boveri and Babcock Wilcox corporations in Spain.
N74|Diagnosing the Potential of Renewable Energy in România|Renewable energy brings an attractive horizon for Romania, the projects can generate jobs, cooperation between the interested countries, the increase of living standards and environmental protection. Renewable energy will considerably grow up in coming years thanks to environmental trends exhibited more intense in our country. Beyond the inconveniences inherent in any investment and the related risks, also beyond the natural equilibrium changes, the energy plants’ using new green technology offers many advantages. Their quantification can be statistically correlated leading to a rethinking of models that shape the parameters of competitiveness. In this research we started with the assumption that the potential of renewable energy allows Romania to get a favourable competitive position, mainly if we relate to the role of geostrategic pillar in the energetic system in this region of the continent. Although our research is in early stages, we develop two models of diagnosing the renewable energy sources capacity and efficiency and also their attractiveness for entrepreneurial initiatives.
