N75|Trade in the Shadow of Power: Japanese Industrial Exports in the Interwar years|During the interwar years, Japanese industrialisation accelerated alongside the expansion of industrial exports to regional markets. Trade blocs in the interwar years were used as an instrument of imperial power to foster exports and as a substitute for productivity to encourage industrial production. The historiography on Japanese industrialisation in the interwar years describes heavy industries’ interests in obtaining access to wider markets to increase economies of scale and reduce unit costs. However, this literature provides no quantitative evidence that proves the success of those mechanisms in expanding exports. In this paper we scrutinise how Japan—a relatively poor country—used colonial as well as informal power interventions to expand regional markets for its exports, especially for the most intensive human capital sector of the industrializing economy.
N75|South Asia: Formulating Services Sector Policies for Development, A Policy Perspective|This paper analyses the current development in trade in services in South Asia. South Asia’s language heritage, strong traditions of higher education, computer savvy diaspora and embrace of modern telecom infrastructure, have all contributed to services being a large part of the region’s GDP, with an increasing contribution to their export baskets. Countries in South Asia have formulated aggressive policies to promote the development of trade in services, with a focus on Information Technology and Communication, Professional services, Tourism and Travel, and Healthcare services. It was found that each country in the region has targeted specific niche markets to develop and to increase global exports and outreach. While some countries have formulated ‘Vision Documents” for their economy, others have devised specialized programs for “Priority Sectors”. This study divides the general policy themes under specific categories: (i) Skill development programs, (ii) nation-wide connectivity and digitization plans, (iii) initiatives to boost technology and entrepreneurship, with a focus on start-ups and intellectual property rights (IPRs), (iv) and export and brand promotion policies. This paper then highlights the best practices in the region and provides recommendations to develop a more competitive services sector. This research was undertaken to obtain an in-depth analysis of current policy making to promote the development of services for domestic and trade purposes, as well as assessing the impact of these policy tools. Such findings were primarily based on desk-based research from publicly available information sources combined with discussions with key stakeholders as well as an informed interpretation of the findings.
N75|Central Asia Oil and Gas Industry - The External Powers’ Energy Interests in Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan|After the Soviet breakup, Central Asia has gained importance for several States because of its geographical location and abundance of hydrocarbon reserves. These hydrocarbon reserves are located mainly in three countries: Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Each of them has taken different path regarding its foreign policy and the regulation of investments and participation of external companies and States in its energy sector. Through the development, production and export of their oil and gas reserves, they have pursued a ‘multi-vector’ policy, consolidating differently their relations with other countries. The main States involved – at different levels and for different reasons – in the oil and gas sector of the Central Asian countries are: Russia, China, United States, European countries, Iran, India and Turkey. Among these players, Russia considers Central Asia still part of its sphere of influence for historical reasons, while it has to deal an increasing presence of Beijing. The Western countries has gained influence particularly in Kazakhstan, but they have no political leverage in Turkmenistan. This working paper provides an overview of the current situation of external players’ interests in the oil and gas industry of Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The working paper is structured into four different sections. In the first section, the paper gives an overview of the main interests and pillars of external involvement in Central Asia as a region. The other three sections are devoted to provide separately the current status of energy relations between each Central Asian country and external players, starting from the closest countries (Russia and China) to the regional ones (Iran, Turkey and India) until non-regional countries (United States and European countries). During these analysis, investments in the oil and gas sector as well as energy export routes and volumes are highlighted in order to understand the current situation of the energy relations. At the end of each country section, the main trends and interests of the countries in the regional oil and gas sector are outlined.
N75|Trade in the Shadow of Power : Japanese Industrial Exports in the Interwar years|During the interwar years, Japanese industrialisation accelerated alongside the expansion of industrial exports to regional markets. Trade blocs in the interwar years were used as an instrument of imperial power to foster exports and as a substitute for productivity to encourage industrial production. The historiography on Japanese industrialisation in the interwar years describes heavy industries' interests in obtaining access to wider markets to increase economies of scale and reduce unit costs. However, this literature provides no quantitative evidence that proves the success of those mechanisms in expanding exports. In this paper we scrutinise how Japan—a relatively poor country—used colonial as well as informal power interventions to expand regional markets for its exports, especially for the most intensive human capital sector of the industrializing economy.
N75|Japan and the Asian Divergence: Market Integration, Climate Anomalies and Famines during the 18th and 19th Centuries|This paper asks whether better integration of rice markets in Japan during the 19th and 20th centuries compared to China and India explains the ‘Little Divergence’ in Asia and Japan’s role in the ‘Great Divergence’. It analyses rice prices for 13 markets across Japan during 1720-1857 and finds that Japan had relatively well-integrated rice markets, particularly western Japan. In eastern Japan market integration was partially impeded by distance to Osaka, which was the core market, and the greater ecological vulnerability of rice in northeast Japan to lower temperatures during the ‘little ice age’ that lasted until the mid-19th century. Relatively well-integrated markets did not prevent major famines during 1732-1733, 1783-1786, and 1833-1838, because stocks and supplies were insufficient to withstand the consequences of sequences of crop failures. Better integration of rice markets is indicative of higher allocative efficiency of markets in Japan which is a likely reason that ‘shrinking’ episodes caused fewer setbacks in long-term economic growth compared to in China and India.
N75|Energy Use in Japanese Copper Industry from the Meiji Period to WWI|In recent years, energy constraints are discussed from a historical point of view. This study aims at examining the copper industry's energy use in Japan from the Meiji period to the time of WWI and clarifying the process of, and reasons for, the energy source selection. This study considered not only energy use in the large-scale mines but also energy use in the small-scale mines and miners' homes. As a result, it was clarified that the mines changed into a space that is based on a diverse combination of energy depending on differences in location (access to energy), natural conditions, financial power, the required amount and price of energy, energy use technologies, ore quality, and end-product (usage).
N75|Electrical Bus Mobility in the EU and China: Technological, Ecological and Economic Policy Perspectives|The analysis provides a hybrid techno-economic perspective on EU and China e-bus development dynamics. China is a leading global electric bus user – particularly in certain provinces. In Europe, the European Commission has started an electric bus initiative and several EU member countries have tried to achieve progress with regard to their own municipal e-bus fleets. While the economic analysis shows that e-bus innovation and diffusion dynamics can be influenced by government procurement policy, it is also obvious that certain pricing schemes in e-bus (mixed) municipal mobility networks are not successfully promoting clean e-bus expansion. A key issue is that various grant schemes depress the prices for used e-buses which in turn creates additional risk for e-bus leasing arrangements. Industrial policy aspects as well innovation policy face challenges in the e-bus context. China’s regional e-bus approaches have shown considerable success and part of China’s patent dynamics supports e-bus expansion perspectives. From a technological perspective, there are several alternative modes of e-bus mobility whose technological and economic advantages have to be explored in the context of the characteristics of local and regional bus routes. A very important technological element of e-mobility concerns technical aspects of battery charging – for example, cycle lifetime, power density, charging time and safety. The price dynamics of battery packs is rather high and should stimulate the expansion of e-bus mobility in Europe and China. One key problem faced by Europe and Asia is the challenge of common technical standards. As regards Germany’s and the UK’s position as a potential lead markets for e-bus mobility – or a similar positioning of a network of EU cities – much depends on adequate new policy initiatives. The emissions reductions which could be achieved by transitioning to 100% e-bus mobility in the EU would amount to an estimated 1.3% cut in terms of emissions of the transport sector (without aviation).
N75|Harmonization of Documents for International Transport: A study in the context of South and South-West Asia|Simplification of documentary requirements, an important aspect of international transport facilitation, can have substantial impacts in terms of reducing transport costs and improving trade competitiveness. This is especially so in the case of the South and South-West Asian countries, where procedural reforms for easing cross-border transport remain far behind advanced subregions of the Asia-Pacific region. Against an examination of the existing documentary requirements and legal arrangements in the subregion, this paper provides options for harmonization of road transport documents through a stepby- step approach. It outlines the key elements necessary for such harmonization based on modern electronic information systems. Among various options, the paper highlights solutions for dealing with transport permits and customs transit related documents. Employment of electronic vehicle/cargo tracking based on available models such as the UNESCAP Secure Cross Border Transport Model can strongly support implementation of a subregional road permit system and paperless customs transit system. The paper also provides recommendations for the special case of documentary reforms for transit, which applies to the landlocked countries of the subregion including Afghanistan, Bhutan and Nepal, based on lessons from international models such as the European New Computerized Transit System (NCTS) and ASEAN Customs Transit System (ACTS). Given the complexities of harmonization of cross-border transport documents, the paper calls for cooperation among all competent authorities and stakeholders, including customs and the private sector, at the national and regional levels.
N75|Regional disintegration in South Asia : evidence from the end of the British Empire on maritime networks|In the early 20th century, the British Empire primarily governed South Asia, and these regions shared similar administrations, institutions and commercial practices. After the Second World War, decolonization in South Asia became evident through the partition of India and countries gaining independence. These subsequent events can be seen as regional disintegration, and they offer a potential scope for examining the impacts of such institutional changes on maritime transport networks. By examining a new database detailing vessel movement between South Asian ports and the rest of the world from 1890 to 2000, we explore how maritime transport networks evolved in South Asia. Specifically, we compare the trends of shipping routes among ports before and after 1947. Applying the methodology developed by Redding, Sturm, and Wolf (2011) and Xu and Itoh (2017), we show that regional disintegration clearly lowered vessel movements for the routes that became international after 1947. Additionally, we examine two points; relationship with UK, and the independence of Bangladesh. For most of the cases, we find significantly negative impacts on vessel movements directly affected by regional disintegration.
N75|The structure of coasting trade in British India from 1905 to 1931|During the early 20th century, South Asia experienced its most regionally integrated period in history, and under British rule, port cities were well connected via coasting trade. This paper examines the trade structure within British India between 1905 to 1931 and shows how South Asia was regionally integrated both through quantitative measures and various maps.
N75|Social Capital and Innovation - Can Social Trust Explain the Technological Innovation of the High-performing East Asian Economies?|The economic success and innovative outcomes of the high performing East Asian countries, albeit often characterized as low-trust societies, suggests reexamination of the presumed positive relationship between social trust and innovation. Multi-level analyses conducted in this paper reveal that the role of social capital in innovation is different in East Asia. Shared social norms such as growth primacy and reciprocity and values of accepting competition and performance-based incentives are the most essential driving-force of innovation in the East Asian countries, whereas social trust does not play a positive role there. The importance of the shared social norms and collective goals can be explained by the prominent role of the state in the East Asian development.
N75|The Strategies of Integration on the Textile Companies in the Meiji Period :A Case Study the Kyoto Cotton Flannel Co. Ltd|The purpose of this study is to discuss the significance of the vertically and horizontal integration focus on the textile companies in the Meiji Period. It has been widely accepted that the process was initiated by those formed as spinning companies, which later acquired the weaving sector by mergers and acquisitions because of recession. This paper is to show an alternative way of vertical integration of spinning and weaving processes in cotton industry in early Meiji Japan through a case study of the Kyoto Cotton Flannel Co., Ltd(the Kyomen). Cotton flannel is a finished cotton textile napped on side made to imitate wool flannel. Full-fledged, factory-based machine printing in Japan started to develop when the Kyomen was established in 1895. The Kyomen actively transferred technology for raising the nap of the cloth, dyeing and processing to European. The industry faced various quality problems caused by inexperience in machine printing technique and copper roller engraving. This study provide evidence that the Kyomen was the first Japanese company which overcame these challenges. It was worthwhile to note that the Kyomen achieve vertical integration process by acquisition of Kyoto Spinning Company. Since then, it internalized the spinning process and became able to improve the self-manufactured cotton yarn to fit in printing and napping. It made it possible to improve the quality of cotton flannels. When the competition in this industry is fierce after the Russo-Japanese War, the Kyomen was developing aggressive horizontal integration in order to break out of dependence on the sales cotton flannels. Although the Kyomen failed to finance them and went bankrupt in 1909, it filled an importance role in the rise of the machine textile printing industry in Japan.
N75|A Study on Consumption of European Red Wine in China (1680-1840): state of the art, questions, hypothesis, sources and methodology|The global history perspective and comparison research between Eurocentric and Sinocentric methods on economic history give us new perspective on the topic of European-Chinese trade during early modern period. Compared with the large number of researches on the consumption society of Western Europe around the 18th century about the goods from Eastern world like tea, silk, and porcelain, very few researches have been done about the European commodities in Eastern countries. Especially, the studies on consumption of European wine in China market during the 17th and 18th centuries is completely void. Therefore, based on the economic conditions of southern and eastern China, considered the geographical, political and cultural aspects, several questions and hypothesis are designed, including consumption groups of the European wine, the consumer volumes, consumption habits, wine market shares, the merchant groups’ role, etc. The research will be down upon the cross-referencing of primary data and the materials, along with the application of database.
N75|Aux prémices des humanités numériques? La première analyse automatisée d'un réseau économique ancien (Gardin Garelli, 1961). Réalisation, conceptualisation, réception<BR>[A Precursor of Digital Humanities ? The First Automated Analysis of an Ancient Economic Network (Gardin & Garelli, 1961). Implementation, Theorization, Reception]|From as early as the 1950s, J.C. Gardin's work spanned both archaeology and the emerging automation of numerical computation and documentation. In 1961, with P. Garelli, he published the first automated application of graph theory to historical materials, working from Assyrian cuneiform tablets documenting economic relations. This work was then widely ignored both in archeology and network analysis. However, in the past twenty years, socio-epistemic claims related to the growth of the Internet and computing (digital humanities, computational archaeology, etc.) have brought a surge of interest in Gardin's work, which is now regarded as pioneering. Working from archive materials and publications, this paper shows how a historical sociology of scientific writings can be relevant to the history of automation in historical sciences. The paper examines Gardin's recognition as an influential forerunner of computational archeology, showing that : 1) although Gardin had access to resources (financial, instrumental, etc.) that were rare at the time, and could have provided material for the foundation of a school or a specialty, he did not however pursue this ambition; 2) the demonstrative purposes pursued by Gardin with his study of 1961 economic networks varied between the 1960s (demonstrating the relevance of non-numerical computation) and the 1980s (legitimizing simulation in the social sciences), but were never concerned with network analysis as such.
N75|Visitors’ satisfaction in Dubai and pre-trip destination image|Understanding the factors that influence tourists’ satisfaction and the pre-trip destination image of potential visitors is particularly important for policy makers and tourism marketers. The objective of this study is twofold; first to assess the satisfaction level of tourists who have visited Dubai and further explore the factors that shape it and associate with it. Second, to assess the intention to visit Dubai according to the pre-trip destination image of potential tourists. This empirical study relies on a unique sample of 210 participants from all over the world in the year 2017. Several demographic characteristics as well as variables related to the trip process and the city attributes are collected and explored in order to document any relationship between the two groups. The major findings of the ordered logit analysis demonstrate that the city attributes are the most significant contributors to tourists’ satisfaction and to non visitors’ intention to visit Dubai. Trip factors and demographic characteristics also play a significant role only for the group of visitors. The overall satisfaction is what creates loyalty and drives tourists to repeat their visit.
N75|Upstart Industrialization and Exports, Japan 1880-1910|Japanese exports between 1880 and 1910 increased massively in volume, changed composition, and shifted away from leading industrialized countries toward poorer Asian neighbors. The product mix also varied with the level of development of the destination, with new products and specializations more likely to ship to less developed regional economies. Using a new disaggregated data set of the bilateral-product level exports for the universe of Japanese trade partners, we find that changes in various extensive margins (new markets, new goods) account for over 30 percent of export growth over this period. Determinants of initial entry include trade costs and market size. Products started in a small number of markets and accumulated additional destinations building on earlier successes. Subsequent entry was also influenced by product-level characteristics interacting with destination-specific characteristics. We confirm that export growth for “new” products was stronger in LDCs than in advanced economies, but the latter still claimed a larger share of overall trade growth. There is little evidence that Japan exported low quality manufactured goods to new, low-income destinations. Instead, reductions in trade costs helped Japan augment market share. Exit is relatively rare but appears to be determined by market-specific demand-side effects and product-specific factors.
N75|Portfolio optimization under lower partial moments in emerging electricity markets: Evidence from Turkey|Optimization of the electricity markets under modern portfolio theory has a crucial role for financial decision makers. Power suppliers in deregulated electricity markets need to optimize their generation capacities and bidding strategies so as to effectively participate in bilateral contract and spot markets. Market players have to deal with continuously changing electricity prices in competitive electricity market environment during their daily routine system operations. Electricity not like the others is a unique product/service and cannot be stored economically, however it should be generated and consumed simultaneously. In addition to all, power suppliers face with fuel price, water regime, delivery, and network risks. In view of the scene described above, prudent decision making methodologies are of critical importance to maximize profit while minimizing managing risks.
N75|サービス産業と政策の百年 : 概観|本稿は、1920年前後から戦時経済、終戦、高度成長期を経て今日に至るまでのサービス産業の動向とサービス産業を対象とした政策について概観する。20世紀初頭からの産業構造変化を回顧すると、日本のサービス経済化は、①戦時経済下の不連続を挟みつつ、工業化の進展と並行してサービス産業のシェアも拡大した1920年頃~1970年代初めの期間、②製造業のGDPシェアがピークアウトし、サービス産業のシェア拡大が加速した1970年代～1990年頃、③「失われた二十年」に入り、IT革命、グローバル化、規制緩和等を背景にサービス産業の中での構造変化が顕著になった1990年代以降の３つの局面に分けられる。日本のサービス経済化はおおむね国際標準に沿ったパタンで進んだ。サービス産業は産業政策の対象としての重要性が低かったが、本格的なサービス経済の時代に入り、政策対象としての関心も高まっている。サービス経済化は、都市化、女性就労の拡大といった社会構造の変化とも深く関連してきた。
N75|サービス産業と政策の百年 : 概観|本稿は、1920年前後から戦時経済、終戦、高度成長期を経て今日に至るまでのサービス産業の動向とサービス産業を対象とした政策について概観する。20世紀初頭からの産業構造変化を回顧すると、日本のサービス経済化は、①戦時経済下の不連続を挟みつつ、工業化の進展と並行してサービス産業のシェアも拡大した1920年頃~1970年代初めの期間、②製造業のGDPシェアがピークアウトし、サービス産業のシェア拡大が加速した1970年代～1990年頃、③「失われた二十年」に入り、IT革命、グローバル化、規制緩和等を背景にサービス産業の中での構造変化が顕著になった1990年代以降の３つの局面に分けられる。日本のサービス経済化はおおむね国際標準に沿ったパタンで進んだ。サービス産業は産業政策の対象としての重要性が低かったが、本格的なサービス経済の時代に入り、政策対象としての関心も高まっている。サービス経済化は、都市化、女性就労の拡大といった社会構造の変化とも深く関連してきた。
N75|Upstart Industrialization and Exports, Japan 1880-1910|Japanese exports between 1880 and 1910 increased massively in volume, changed composition, and shifted away from leading industrialized countries toward poorer Asian neighbors. The product mix also varied with the level of development of the destination, with new products and specializations more likely to ship to less developed regional economies. Using a new disaggregated data set of the bilateral-product level exports for the universe of Japanese trade partners, we find that changes in various extensive margins (new markets, new goods) account for over 30 percent of export growth over this period. Determinants of initial entry include trade costs and market size. Products started in a small number of markets and accumulated additional destinations building on earlier successes. Subsequent entry was also influenced by product-level characteristics interacting with destination-specific characteristics. We confirm that export growth for “new” products was stronger in LDCs than in advanced economies, but the latter still claimed a larger share of overall trade growth. There is little evidence that Japan exported low quality manufactured goods to new, low-income destinations. Instead, reductions in trade costs helped Japan augment market share. Exit is relatively rare but appears to be determined by market-specific demand-side effects and product-specific factors.
N75|Trade, Merchants and Lost Cities of the Bronze Age|We analyze a large dataset of commercial records produced by Assyrian merchants in the 19th Century BCE. Using the information collected from these records, we estimate a structural gravity model of long-distance trade in the Bronze Age. We use our structural gravity model to locate lost ancient cities. In many instances, our structural estimates confirm the conjectures of historians who follow different methodologies. In some instances, our estimates confirm one conjecture against others. Confronting our structural estimates for ancient city sizes to modern data on population, income, and regional trade, we document persistent patterns in the distribution of city sizes across four millennia, even after controlling for time-invariant geographic attributes such as agricultural suitability. Finally, we offer evidence in support of the hypothesis that large cities tend to emerge at the intersections of natural transport routes, as dictated by topography.
N75|The Development Effects of the Extractive Colonial Economy: The Dutch Cultivation System in Java|Colonial powers typically organized economic activity in the colonies to maximize their economic returns. While the literature has emphasized long-run negative economic impacts via institutional quality, the changes in economic organization implemented to spur production historically could also directly influence economic organization in the long-run, exerting countervailing effects. We examine these in the context of the Dutch Cultivation System, the integrated industrial and agricultural system for producing sugar that formed the core of the Dutch colonial enterprise in 19th century Java. We show that areas close to where the Dutch established sugar factories in the mid-19th century are today more industrialized, have better infrastructure, are more educated, and are richer than nearby counterfactual locations that would have been similarly suitable for colonial sugar factories. We also show, using a spatial regression discontinuity design on the catchment areas around each factory, that villages forced to grow sugar cane have more village owned land and also have more schools and substantially higher education levels, both historically and today. The results suggest that the economic structures implemented by colonizers to facilitate production can continue to promote economic activity in the long run, and we discuss the contexts where such effects are most likely to be important.
N75|Regulatory policy in India: Moving towards regulatory governance|This paper provides an analysis of India’s existing regulatory regime and its evolution over the last 25 years, and the efforts to improve the regulatory framework as India has transitioned towards a market economy. The paper argues that while India has implemented many sector specific regulatory reforms, the absence of a government wide initiative to improve regulatory quality, or implement a whole of government regulatory policy, has prevented India from creating a consistent and coherent regulatory environment and has undermined trust and integrity in the regulatory system. As a result, outcomes of regulatory governance have so far been quite mixed. In many cases they have fallen far short of expectations. The paper therefore identifies some of the constraints that have challenged India’s regulatory governance, the dominant presence of state owned enterprises, the multi-level government structures and regulatory independence of agencies and institutions. Meanwhile, effective regulatory governance has distinctly evolved in the securities market and it highlights the reasons behind the success of the securities market regulator. The positive example of the Securities Exchange Board of India is outlined to showcase the potential for implementing good regulatory practice through regulatory oversight, better governance of regulators, stakeholder engagement and regulatory impact assessments. The paper also looks at issues related to Regulatory Impact Assessments in the Indian context.
N75|Exploring the Influence of Colonial Railways on Java's Economic Geography|This study explores the impact on Java’s economic geography of railways built by the Dutch colonial government. Pre-1940 Dutch railway construction affords an historical experiment on the spatial distribution of economic activities across urban Java both before and after 1940. Using city data for over 100 years, the study finds that the railways had a short-term impact on the distribution of population, but that in the long run colonial railway investment lost its advantages. Until 1930, the railways substituted for the Great Mail Road. Between 1930 and 2010, however, the Great Mail Road regained an earlier importance in shaping urban Javanese patterns. The study also draws important lessons for recent Indonesian infrastructure development in Indonesia, notably in regard to the railway system itself.
N75|East Asian Integration: Towards an East Asian Economic Community|East Asia is a region of great global significance, currently accounting for around 30% of the global economy by most measures, e.g. production, trade, investment, and finance. It has also become increasingly integrated in various ways. Integration at the micro-level has steadily progressed since the 1960s, as indicated by rising intraregional trade. Moreover, East Asia’s economic regionalisation has become more functionally integrative, this broadly relating to the spread of transnational business and other technical systems where production, trade, and investment have become a function of each other within those systems. For example, as later explored, much of East Asia’s regionalised trade concerns cross-border movement of parts and components within the international production networks of multinational enterprises. Since the 1990s, East Asian states have in addition looked to strengthen regional cooperation and integration intergovernmentally at the macro-level, i.e. involving whole country economies. This has been driven by the need to manage their growing regional economic interdependencies and address future challenges that confront them all, such as globalisation and climate change. As we will discuss, this has been part of regional economic community-building efforts in East Asia, both across the whole region and within it at various subregional levels. We examine the key dimensions of East Asia’s integration, how they have developed over time, and what likely paths lie ahead in the endeavour to strengthen regional economic community-building.
N75|Testing the General Validity of the Heckscher-Ohlin Theorem|We exploit Japan's mid-nineteenth century transition from autarky to open trade to test Alan Deardorff's (1982) seminal and parsimonious autarky price formulation of the Heckscher-Ohlin theorem. Factor price data from Japan's late autarky period impose a refutable restriction on Japan's factor content of trade. Our data are constructed from many historical sources, including a major Japanese survey of agricultural techniques and a rich set of nineteenth century comparative cost studies. Evaluating Japan's factor content of trade during 1865-1876 under alternative theoretical assumptions about technology, we provide robust evidence in favor of the Heckscher-Ohlin hypothesis.
N75|The Engine And The Reaper: Industrialization And Mortality In Early Modern Japan|Economic development leads to improved health over time due to increased access to medical treatment, sanitation, and income, but in the short run the relationship may be negative given disease exposure from market integration. Using a panel dataset of vital statistics for late nineteenth century Japan, I find mortality rates increased during the country's early industrialization period and that railroad access accounts for over five percent of average mortality. Estimates from a triple-differences framework indicate that communicable disease mortality accounts for 91 percent of the additional incidence, which suggests that improved transport may have operated as a vector for transmission.
N75|La balance du carbone incorporé au commerce bilatéral entre la France et la Chine : transferts d’émissions ou nouvelles créations ?|We calculate the balance of carbon embodied in trade (BCET) between China and France during 1996-2005. Our results confirm China’s role as a net carbon exporter and the fast increasing trend of the surplus in BCET since China’s adhesion to the World Trade Organization. However, the quasi-totality of the carbon surplus is due to China’s low carbon efficiency. The part of carbon emission discharged on China’s territory that is directly transferred from France via trade stays very little (1-2 %). The bilateral trade between China and France seems to continue benefiting mainly from their difference in factor endowment; the environmental regulation related comparative advantage plays only a marginal role. Classification JEL : Q56, Q54, N74, N75.
N75|Economics of U.S. natural gas exports: Should regulators limit U.S. LNG exports?|This study assesses the level and destination of U.S. LNG exports, using a global natural market model under a wide range of EMF 31 scenarios. The scenarios reflect different U.S. natural gas resource outlooks, market conditions, changing U.S. environmental regulations, and possible changes in geopolitical conditions that affect the global natural gas demand and supply. U.S. LNG exports respond to market conditions under each scenario and are free from any artificial limits. In the near-term, U.S. LNG exports are uncompetitive in the Reference case and in the long-run U.S. LNG exports are significant when U.S. natural gas resources are plentiful. However under demand shocks (increase demand in Asia) or supply shocks (reduction in Russian supplies) or persistence of oil-indexed pricing cases, U.S. LNG exports become competitive to varying degrees. U.S. exports depend not only on U.S. economics but also on how U.S. prices change relative to price changes in other regions of the world. We conclude that limiting U.S. LNG exports is inconsistent with simulated uncertainties, and it should be left to the market to determine the levels and destination of exports.
N75|The engine and the reaper: The impact of industrialisation on mortality in early modern Japan|"""Economic development leads to improved health over time due to increased access to medical treatment, sanitation, and income, but in the short run the relationship may be negative given disease exposure from market integration. Using a panel dataset of vital statistics for Meiji Japan, I find mortality rates increased during the country's early industrialization, with railroad access accounting for over five percent of average mortality between 1886 and 1893. Estimates from a triple-differences framework indicate that communicable disease mortality accounts for 91 percent of the additional incidence, which suggests that improved transport may have operated as a vector for transmission."""
N75|A Review on Institutional Framework, Principles, and Key Elements for Integrated Electricity Market: Implications for ASEAN|ASEAN member countries are becoming large energy consumers and growing participants in the global energy market. Cross-border electricity trade becomes increasingly important particularly in the context of fast-rising energy demand and growing urban population. This paper attempts to set out the common principles, methodologies, institutions, and structure for designing an integrated cross-border electricity market and delivering practical policy implications for ASEAN. To allow cross-border electricity trade, the region will need a target model, common vision, and principles that govern electricity market and grid operation. In the country level, energy prices administratively determined by the government should be shifted to market-oriented pricing mechanism. Integrated electricity market has an enormous potential that can be realised at reasonable costs. When individual countries pursue regional cooperation mechanism to secure their energy supply, investment comes and contributes to optimisation of available energy resources throughout the region.
N75|The Effects of Barriers to Technology Adoption on Japanese Prewar and Postwar Economic Growth|Following the start of modern economic growth around the mid- 1880s, Japan fs economy continued to substantially lag behind leading economies before World War II, but achieved rapid catch-up after the war. To explain the patterns, we build a dynamic model and examine the role of barriers to technology adoption. We find such barriers hampered catch-up in the prewar period and explain about 40 percent of the postwar miracle. Taking a historical perspective, we argue that factors that acted as barriers include low capacity to absorb technology, economic and political frictions with the outside world, and a lack of competition.
N75|Роль Коренных Народов Дальнего Востока В Становлении И Развитии Российско-Японской Торговли В Xviii-Xix Вв<BR>[The Role Of Indigenous Peoples Of The Far East In The Formation And Development Of Russian-Japanese Trade In The Xviii-Xix Centuries]|The author discusses the role of the indigenous peoples of the Far East (Ainu, Oroch, Nivkhi, Evenki, Udege, Negidals, etc.) in the development of trade between Russia and Japan. He identifi es the role of the indigenous population of the Far East as the mediators in Russo-Japanese trade, and argues that they played this role during the period when the trade between two states was not offi cially resolved. He also characterizes the range of goods, channels of their delivery and distribution, and specifi cs of barter exchange.
N75|Trade and income growth in the Ottoman Empire: assessing the role of volatility and trend growth in terms of trade|Abstract This paper focuses on the Ottoman economy from the beginning of the nineteenth century until the early twentieth century when the first wave of economic globalization coupled with the sweeping forces of rapid industrialization in the West led to major structural changes that are deemed to be responsible for the Great Divergence in income levels. An important part of this process for the Ottoman economy and the rest of the Periphery was secular improvements and increased volatility in the relative price of exports compared to imports, i.e., the terms of trade (ToT). A large body of literature suggests that both the changes in and the volatility of ToT may affect economic development in different ways. We present empirical predictions for Ottoman income growth under various counterfactual ToT scenarios to offer a perspective on the absolute and relative importance of ToT volatility and ToT growth for the Ottoman economy. According to our findings, Ottoman GDP per capita could have grown about 0.63–0.80 $$\text{percentage}$$ percentage points faster on average per year over the period 1800–1870, if the Empire faced only half the decadal ToT volatility it actually experienced over the same period.
N75|Property, Possession, Incorporation: Another Look at Agribusiness Venture Agreements in the Philippines|Of late, incorporating smallholder land, through partnerships with agribusiness firms that cultivate export crops has received some attention among scholars, policymakers and non-government organizations (NGOs). Some see such partnerships as a means of raising smallholder incomes, and achieving rural development. However, several case studies have shown that such partnerships can result in low incomes, and effective dispossession of smallholders. This essay examines how this dynamic occurs by comparing the experiences of smallholders in the Davao Region of the Philippines. I argue that despite the smallholders observable and enforceable property rights, the costs and risks of cultivation, coupled with an unfavorable political environment generate conditions under which smallholders cede control over their holdings in a partnership. This results in both lower incomes, and exclusion from the use of their land.
N75|Regionally-varying and regionally-uniform electricity pricing policies compared across four usage categories|The objective of our research is to predict how electricity demand varies spatially between status quo regionally-uniform electricity pricing and hypothetical regionally-varying electricity pricing across usage categories. We summarize the empirical results of a case study of electricity demand in South Korea with three key findings and their related implications. First, the price elasticities of electricity demand differ across usage categories. Specifically, electricity demands for manufacturing and retail uses are price inelastic and close to unit elastic, respectively, while those for agricultural and residential uses are not statistically significant. This information is important in designing energy policy, because higher electricity prices could reduce electricity demands for manufacturing and retail uses, resulting in slower growth in those sectors. Second, spatial spillovers in electricity demand vary across uses. Understanding the spatial structure of electricity demand provides useful information to energy policy makers for anticipating changes in demand across regions via regionally-varying electricity pricing for different uses. Third, simulation results suggest that spatial variations among electricity demands by usage category under a regionally-varying electricity-pricing policy differ from those under a regionally-uniform electricity-pricing policy. Differences in spatial changes between the policies provide information for developing a realistic regionally-varying electricity-pricing policy according to usage category.
N75|Assessing Market (Dis)Integration in Early Modern China and Europe|This paper challenges established claims of comparable degrees of market integration in Europe and China on the eve of industrialization. Our empirical strategy focuses on the dynamics of price convergence and accounts for general equilibrium effects arising from common shocks and network effects. Using monthly grain prices for 1740-1820 our analysis uncovers a secular process of market disintegration in 221 prefectures of Qing China. Comparing our results with those for grain price panels from Western Europe we conclude that in terms of market integration the Great Divergence was well under way decades before the start of the 19th century.
N75|Urban Energy Consumption in a City of Indonesia: General Overview|This paper aims to investigate the energy consumption pattern in four sectors of Padang, Indonesia: residential, commercial, industrial and transportation sectors, under different urban population scenarios using a cohort model and statistical data. The analysis shows that the energy consumed in the residential sector has the major share in the total energy consumption in Padang. Details on energy consumption and the main driving forces in the four sectors have been presented. Decreasing urban energy consumption could be achieved by increasing efficiency of home appliances, promoting electricity saving behavior, increasing of public awareness for saving energy, and applying energy efficiency labeling for home appliances.
N75|Investigating Factors Affecting CO2 Emissions in Malaysian Road Transport Sector|Today the unprecedented increase in CO2 emissions has become an important global issue because of the intensification in demand from the transport sector due to an upward surge in urbanization and rapid economic growth. The demand for transport services is expected to rise further, causing the CO2 emissions level to increase as well. In Malaysia, the transportation sector accounts for 28% of total CO2 emissions, of which 85% comes from road transport. This has led to strong interest in how the CO2 emissions in this sector can be reduced effectively. This study aimed to investigate factors that influence the CO2 emissions. Amultiple regression model was used based on fuel-based technology data for 1990-2013. Many factors influencing CO2 emissions, i.e., fuel consumption, fuel efficiency (FE), fuel price (FP) and distance travel (DT), were examined for the road transport sector in Malaysia. The results demonstrated that FE, FP and DT were the main factors influencing the CO2 emissions growth. Some policy implications from the empirical results were proposed for CO2 emissions reduction.
N75|Early globalizations: The integration of Asia in the world economy, 1800–1938|This paper contributes to the debate on globalization and the great divergence with a comprehensive analysis of the integration of Asia in the world market from 1800 to the eve of World War II. We examine the patterns of convergence in prices for a wide range of commodities between Europe and the main Asian countries (India, Indonesia, Japan and China) and we compare them with convergence between Europe and the East Coast of the United States, hitherto the yardstick for the 19th century. Most price convergence occurred before 1870, mainly as a consequence of the abolition of the European trading monopolies with Asia, and, to a lesser extent, the repeal of duties on Atlantic trade. After 1870, price differentials continued to decline thanks to falling freights and to better communication after the lay-out of telegraph cables. There was only little disintegration in the inter-war years.
N75|Off the rails: Is state ownership bad for productivity?|The performance of Indian railways in the nineteenth century provides a great context to study the effects of state ownership on productivity and other aspects of firm operations. We rely on a key feature of the institutional background whereby the colonial Government of India purchased a majority ownership stake in private railways at predetermined dates set by contracts negotiated decades before the companies came under state ownership. Controlling for individual railway fixed effects, year fixed effects, and railway-specific time trends, we find no evidence of a decline in TFP following state takeovers of private companies. Instead of reducing productivity, as the recent experiences with privatization would suggest, we find that the Government of India maintained productivity when it became the owner of railways. Government ownership influenced certain areas of operations such as the capital-labor ratio, but not others such as fares. Our results point to the conditions where state ownership is no worse than private ownership in terms of productivity.
N75|Kirgizistan Enerji Tüketiminin Ayristirma Yöntemiyle Analizi (2002-2011)|Bu çalisma 2002-2011 yillari arasinda Kirgizistan ekonomisi için sektörel enerji tüketimini ayrýþtýrma yöntemiyle analiz etmeyi amaçlamaktadýr. Çalýþmanýn sonuçlarýna göre sektörel enerji tüketiminin çýktý ve yapýsal etki nedeniyle arttýðý, yoðunluk etkisi nedeniyle düþtüðü görülür. Ayrýca diðer iki etkiye göre çýktý etkisi sektörel enerji tüketimi üzerinde en güçlü etkiye sahiptir. Sektörel enerji tüketimi, üretim artýþý ile daha çok ilþkili olduðu için, Kýrgýzistan ekonomisinde 2000 yýlýndan sonra görülen hýzlý ekonomik büyüme, çýktý etkisini enerji tüketimindeki artýþýn en önemli faktörü haline getirmiþtir. Yapýsal etki, milli gelir içinde tarým sektörünün payýnýn azalmasýna ve sanayi sektörünün payýnýn artmasýna baðlý olarak enerji tüketimindeki deðiþime arttýrýcý yönde etki yapmýþtýr. Yoðunluk etkisi ise diðer iki etkinin tersine, ekonomide teknolojik geliþim bakýmýndan son yýllarda görülen iyilþtirmeler ve dýþa açýlma gibi nedenlerle enerji tüketimini düþürücü yönde etki yapmýþtýr.
N75|Why resist? examining the impact of technological Advancement and perceived usefulness on Malaysians’ switching intentions: The moderators|The adoption of new technology represents a critical issue that firms need to confront when an improved product version is introduced to customers. Although prior research has established the benefits of technological improvements, it is still unclear why customers are typically slow to accepting new technology despite extensive marketing efforts. The main purpose of this paper is to examine how specific components of switching barrier, namely, lack of service facilities, switching costs, and adoption difficulty, moderate the effects of technological advancement and perceived value on switching intentions. A survey was conducted among highway commuters with alternative technological improvements, particularly an upgraded mobile devise in electronic toll collection (ETC) services. Results indicate that both technological advancement and its perceived value have a positive impact on customers’ intention to switch products. Nevertheless, high levels of perceived switching barriers mitigate the technological advancement–and perceived value–switching intention relationships. Based on the study findings, practical implications are discussed.
N75|The Fragility of Turkish Economy from the Perspective of Oil Dependency|In an emerging economy, energy is a crucial input. Turkey as an oil dependent country, the volatility of oil price might affect more than thought. In this study, the impact of oil price changes in Turkish macroeconomy has been examined. A VAR model is built by using quarterly data from the first quarter of 2003 to the first quarter of 2013. Variables used in the model are Brent oil price, gross fixed capital formation, interest rate, us GDP and inflation. We believe that the analysis has demonstrated the fragility of Turkish economy to oil price volatility with its significant results in the relationship between oil price and main macroeconomic indicators. This study also shows the incredible need of sustainable energy policies to make a country’s economy stable.
N75|Egyptian and Syrian commodity markets after the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire: a Bayesian structural VECM analysis|The disruption of the Ottoman Empire caused dramatic changes to the economic and political structure of the Middle East. The newly established nations, incorporated into British and French formal and informal empires, actively implemented a range of protectionist policies, thus disrupting the regions traditional trade flows and patterns. This paper investigates the impact of this new economic setting on commodity market integration in Syria and Egypt, using Bayesian inference. After testing for co-integration through the calculation of Bayes factors and computing impulse response functions, our results point to the absence of cross border market integration.
N75|Assessing Market (Dis)Integration in Early Modern China and Europe|This paper challenges established claims of comparable degrees of market integration in Europe and China on the eve of industrialization. Our empirical strategy focuses on the dynamics of price convergence and accounts for general equilibrium effects arising from common shocks and network effects. Using monthly grain prices for 1740-1820 our analysis uncovers a secular process of market disintegration in 221 prefectures of Qing China. Comparing our results with those for grain price panels from Western Europe we conclude that in terms of market integration the Great Divergence was well under way decades before the start of the 19th century.
N75|Impact of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) to the contemporary economy|Trade is one of the important aspects of economic policy in the contexts of the third wave of regionalism. It is proven by growing number of trading agreement between regions and what goes after, expansion of positive aspects of economic cooperation. The aim of this article is to describe liberalization of trade and its changes through the ages and also deep analysis of influence of APEC at world economy. In this document the secondary data analysis and review of available literature was used. Analysis let claim that regional integration groups, with APEC in between, have crucial influence at trade and foreign direct investment creation.
N75|Malaysia-China trade: old and new routes|The opening up of China and its subsequent rapid integration into the global economy provided opportunities for Malaysia to increase trade with China through their respective participation in global value chain activities. This paper aims to examine the nature of Malaysia-China trade and the contributory factors to this bilateral trade pattern and to assess the prospects and challenges for this bilateral trade, with the new Silk Road initiatives. The main findings of this paper show increased information and communications technology and palm oil trade between the two countries. But the trade pattern also indicates Malaysia’s trade in electronics and palm oil with China is facing either stagnating or declining revealed comparative advantage. Instead, China’s rise has also raised severe competitive pressures as each country tries to shift up the global value chain. Internal weaknesses also contributed to the weakening competitiveness of Malaysia’s electrical and electronics sector so that the share of this sector’s manufacturing and exports fell substantially, while the share of resource based manufacturing activities gained ground. Malaysia is trying to tap the promises of the new Silk Road initiative for enhancing its trade and investment relations with China. However, realizing this potential faces several hurdles, such as the viability of this initiative and internal challenges within China and Malaysia. The most urgent of the three challenges is for Malaysia to overcome its domestic challenges, since without the requisite domestic changes, no investor, including China, will venture into the country.
N75|The effect of trade policy on firm productivity in Thai manufacturing|The paper examines the effect of trade policy on firm productivity using two recent industrial censuses of Thai manufacturing (i.e., 2006 and 2011). Trade policy and global participation are treated as two different variables in our analysis. Controlling for firms’ global participation, which is defined as export-sale ratio and the extent to which raw materials are imported, our study finds that trade liberalization could induce firms to commit to activities that improve productivity. The effective rate of protection, where output and input tariffs are taken into consideration together, matters in improving firm productivity. Thus, it would be risky to continue tariff reform by focusing solely on a reduction in input tariffs while leaving output tariffs untouched. In fact, both input and output tariffs must be taken into consideration to neutralize incentives in trade policy reform.
N75|Indentifying Bollywood as a crucial factor of India’s economic development: A review analysis|The main content of the following article is to describe the economic growth of an indigenous economy and the factors of its internalization. Bollywood can be used as a paradigmatic showcase for the improvement of ideas in the development of industries of emerging economies. This paper, via an extensive review in several articles, describes Bollywood as an economic factor for Indian’s growth. The reasons that led to this growth are described in an extended way, as well as the role of globalization and Indian’s Diaspora on this development. Finally, it compares the two largest film industries in the world, Hollywood and Bollywood.
N75|Opium after the Manila Galleon: The Spanish involvement in the opium economy in East Asia (1815-1830)|This paper identifies the Spaniards’ involvement in the opium trade in China at the beginning of the 19th century. Several sources have been consulted, mainly the Jardine Matheson Archive at the University of Cambridge and the Archivo General de Indias in Seville. These activities took place from the end of the Manila Galleon until 1830, and were undertaken by some employees of the Spanish Royal Philippine Company in Calcutta and Canton in their private businesses. These houses collaborated closely with the British firms during the opium boom, and Manila private financial support was provided. Thus, Spaniards undoubtedly made a fundamental contribution during a key stage of development of the opium economy and evolution of modern Chinese history, being a precedent of what became the prestigious British company Jardine, Matheson & Co. KEY Classification-JEL: N45. N75. N76. N85
N75|Imposed Efficiency of Treaty Ports: Japanese Industrialization and Western Imperialist Institutions| An intrinsic feature of a pre-modern society is in its fragmentary markets. Fragmentary markets are more likely to fail in the coordination of resource allocation. However, if a concentrated market is exogenously formed and the market could provide the only price to local markets, the market can work as a pivot of coordination for development. Treaty port markets imposed on nineteenth-century Japan worked as the pivot and ignited Japan's industrialization. We examine the silk-reeling industry, which was the major export industry and which led to Japanese industrialization, and the role of treaty ports in its development.
N75|Race-to-the-bottom Tariff Cutting| Unilateral tariff liberalization accounts for the lion's share of trade liberalization since the 1980s and has accompanied the most successful trade-led development model of the past 50 years, “Factory Asia”. Understanding what drove this liberalization is therefore crucial to our grasp of the process of economic development. This paper provides empirical evidence for seven Asian emerging economies from 1988 to 2006 consistent with a tariff race to the bottom driven by a competition for foreign direct investment (FDI). The identification is two-pronged. First, it is shown that tariffs on parts and components, intermediates and capital goods, crucial locational determinants for assembly firms, are correlated in competitive space, i.e. across countries at a similar level of development, but not across all countries. Second, it is shown that the tariff correlation in competitive space is significantly higher for inputs than consumer goods.
N75|China's Road to a Global Scientific Powerhouse|Drawing on the wider ‘catching up’ literature, we examine the rapid growth in Chinese spending on science and technology, which, in spite of its growing infrastructure, remains heavily reliant on foreign inputs. We examine both the economic and political drivers behind China’s scientific development, making a distinction between domestic investments and international technology trade. Firms provide over two-thirds of total R&D funding, most of which has been spent on ‘high-tech’ sectors for export production. The fastest growing research area is in environmental sciences and energy technology. China’s technology imports are shifting away from ‘technologies for production’, towards ‘technologies for innovation’, encouraged by the national development strategy on enhancing scientific research capacities. In particular, we present evidence from China’s imported technology contracts. Energy is the second largest sector after manufacturing in terms of imported technology contracts.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N75|Assessment of the global financial crisis effects on energy consumption and economic growth in Malaysia: An input–output analysis|During the last three decades, dependence on foreign trade has increased sharply in Malaysia, causing the Malaysian economy to become increasingly export-oriented. The global financial crisis (GFC) affected Malaysia?s economic growth tremendously in the fourth quarter of 2008, and policy makers subsequently adopted effective measures to avoid future crises. The government unveiled two stimulus packages; the first—totalling RM7 billion (US$1.9 billion), accounting for 1.04% of the GDP—was launched in November 2008 while the second—totalling RM60 billion (US$16.2 billion), or 9% of the GDP—was launched in March 2009. The objectives of this paper are to (1) discuss the influence of the GFC on Malaysia?s trade and energy consumption and (2) analyse the effect of the Malaysian government?s stimulus plans for economic revival using an input–output model. The results indicate that the drop in exports caused by the GFC led to a 13% decrease in GDP and a 16% reduction in energy consumption. The stimulus packages led to 1.83% and 4.64% increases in economic growth and energy consumption, respectively.
N75|Crown Rule, Home Charges, and U.K.-India Terms of Trade|This paper examines possible determinants of the long-run bilateral commodity terms of trade between the United Kingdom and British India during the Crown Rule period of 1858-1947. The potential influences of aggregate real incomes, price levels/money supplies, international transportation costs, and the exchange rate are included in the analysis, but we especially focus on the Home Charges that India was obliged to pay to Britain. The econometric results provide some support for the hypothesis that a rise in Home Charges was associated with an improvement in Britain’s terms of trade with India. In addition, a clear role was played by changes in transport costs and in the exchange rate.
N75|The political economy of Byzantium: transaction costs and the decentralisation of the Byzantine Empire in the twelfth century|This thesis aims to contribute to an explanation of how the development of political institutions is influenced by the costs of information and exchange across society in a pre-modern context. The Byzantine Empire in the twelfth century presents an apparent paradox of an expanding economy alongside a weakening central state. Application of a dynamic transaction-cost framework can illustrate how political and economic decentralisation can rationally occur as non-state actors begin to gain a comparative transaction-cost advantage over the state. Geopolitical and economic developments of the late-eleventh and twelfth century empowered non-state provincial interests in the Byzantine Empire to the detriment of the central state apparatus, including the imperial bureaucracy. Economic growth, an increasingly fluid provincial political environment, and the decline of the imperial navy simultaneously raised the transaction costs of the state and lowered the transaction costs of local interests. This shift prompted the decentralisation of power that ultimately contributed to the destruction of the Byzantine state in 1204. The state faced increasing relative costs of information acquisition, security provision, and tax collection as provincial transaction costs declined and state networks were allowed to degrade. Decentralisation of political and economic power became first possible, then practical, and finally unavoidable in a process that fatally undermined the cohesion of the empire. This thesis uses a transaction cost framework to provide an economically informed explanation of political decline that complements the traditional politically focused narrative and begins to address the contradiction apparent in a state ruling over increasingly prosperous territory, yet proving so fragile by the closing years of the twelfth century.
N75|Внешняя Торговля Стран Юго-Восточной Азии И Торговые Интересы России В Xviii-Xix Вв<BR>[Fireign trade of the countries of South-East Asia and trade interests of Russia in the XVIII-XIX centuries]|The monograph is devoted to the history of foreign trade relations of the countries of South-East Asia during the XVIII–XIX centuries.Special attention is paid to the foreign trade interests of the Russian Empire in the region of East in the period under review.The text is illustrated with pre-revolutionary photographs and drawings extracted from domestic and foreign sources. Many of them published for the first time, decades later.
N75|The Japanese Experience with Highway Development|Japan now has one of the worldâ€™s most highly developed multimodal transport systems. This was only made possible by successfully building an extensive highway network in a short period of time. The two remarkable aspects of this network have been the scale and layout, which were based not only on traffic volume forecasts but also on the principle of equal access. The Japan Highway Public Corporation (JHPC) was instituted in 1956 to oversee the development and expansion of the highway network. Due to the national governmentâ€™s limited funding capacity, the JHPC initially relied extensively on debt financing, depending on toll revenues to accelerate the nationâ€™s highway development. Eventually the government, seeking to give as many people as possible access to high-speed transport, introduced a pool system of revenues and costs (plus a uniform toll rate system) for all intercity expressway routes. The costs of each route were to be recovered by tolls paid by its users, cross-subsidisation from other routes and public funds. But over the years, the costs of building such a system soared, thereby increasing debt obligations and leading to the disintegration of the JHPC. Japan is now undergoing rapid transition, deregulation and privatisation of its highways, and is on an ambitious debt repayment programme to recover over Â¥40 trillion in less than 40 years. This article is a narrative of the post-war historical experience of the development of highways, especially the expressway category of the road sector in Japan.
N75|The Korean Energy and GHG Target Management System: An Alternative to Kyoto-Protocol Emissions Trading Systems?|The Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Target Management System (TMS) is one of South Korea’s major instruments to achieve national energy policy as well as GHG reduction targets. The TMS was introduced in the late 1990s, focusing on energy only and aiming to reduce the level of South Korea’s energy consumption and fossil fuel imports. During the presidency of Lee Myung-bak, the system was reformed and a GHG abatement function was integrated. This paper applies an analytical governance perspective to investigate the main procedural logic of the TMS. Even though South Korea’s GHG policy is closely linked to the Kyoto Protocol, the Energy and GHG TMS does not rely on market-based instruments. In fact, it combines command-and-control components with strong voluntary network-like mechanisms. The analysis indicates that the Korean TMS thus represents a policy alternative to an emissions trading system. In conclusion and in reference to an eventual Kyoto follow-up agreement, the paper recommends a better integration of such not market based, energy consumption and GHG abatement addressing instruments with global climate change politics.
N75|"The Syrian Energy Policies of the ""Four Seas"" and Their Geopolitical Repercussions"|The article gives, first, a brief historical review of the development of the oil and natural gas sectors of Damascus. Next, the article focuses on oil pipeline networks in Syria, the geopolitical controversy introduced by them and the various investment projects in the energy sector pushed forward by the Syrian government. Finally, the article analyses president Assad’s grand energy policies of the “Four Seas” aiming to transform Syria to an energy networks hub in the Region and comments on the arising geopolitical repercussions.
N75|China's High-Tech Exports: The Myth and Reality| Trade statistics portray China as the largest exporter of high-tech products. This paper demonstrates that China's leading position in high-tech exports is a myth created by outdated trade statistics, which are inconsistent with trade based on global supply chains. Current trade statistics mistakenly credit entire values of assembled high-tech products to China, thus greatly inflating its exports. This paper adopted a value-added approach to more accurately measure high-tech exports, revealing that, in 2009, China's value-added accounted for only about 3 percent of the total value attributed for its exports of iPhones and laptop PCs. Furthermore, if assembly is the only source of value-added by Chinese workers, in terms of technological contribution, these assembled high-tech exports are indifferent from labor-intensive products, and so they should be excluded from the high-tech classification. © 2014 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
N75|Immigrant Skill Selection and Utilization: A Comparative Analysis of Australia, Canada, and the United States|We compare literacy test scores and relative wage and employment outcomes of Australian, Canadian and U.S. immigrants using the 2003/2006 Adult Literacy and Life Skills Survey (ALLS). We find substantially higher immigrant skill levels at the lower end of the distribution in Australia, especially among recent arrivals, but little difference across countries at the top. In addition, we identify substantially larger wage returns to immigrant skill in the U.S., which we argue reflects language-skill complementarities, as opposed to more efficient skill utilization or unobserved productivity characteristics. Our results suggest that the benefit of a point system for the U.S. lies in its potential to limit unskilled immigration flows, rather than in raising skills at the top end of the distribution where the economic growth potential of immigration is likely greatest.
N75|The Efficiency of Freeway Bus Service Industry As Facing The Entrance of High Speed Rail: Taiwan’s Case|"The objective of this paper is to test the relationship between government expenditure and revenue nexus in EU 10 countries during the period 1980-2013. This study uses the panel causality approach proposed by Kónya (2006) that take into account cross section dependency and heterogeneity across countries. The first empirical results point to the ""tax-spend hypothesis"" for Germany, Italy, and Netherlands. We found government expenditure Granger causes government revenue for France and Portugal, consistent with the ""spend-tax hypothesis"". But, there is no relationship between these fiscal variables for Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, and UK, pointing support the ""institutional separation hypothesis"" or ""fiscal independence hypothesis"". After determining the direction of the causality in a country, government must manage the eligible fiscal policies, restore the fiscal balance and reduce the public deficits for a sustainable fiscal and economic path."
N75|Railroad expansion and entrepreneurship: Evidence from Meiji Japan|Railroads in Meiji Japan are credited with facilitating factor mobility as well as access to human and financial capital, but the impact on firms is unclear. Using a newly developed firm-level dataset and a difference-in-differences model that exploits the temporal and spatial variation of railroad expansion, I assess the relationship between railways and firm activity across Japan. Results indicate that railroad expansion corresponded with increased firm activity, particularly in manufacturing, although this effect is mitigated in less populous regions. These findings are consistent with industrial agglomeration in areas with larger markets and earlier development among both new and existing establishments.
N75|Religious identity and the provision of public goods: Evidence from the Indian Princely States|This paper describes a simple model of how a ruler’s religious identity affects public goods provision. Our primary insight is that rulers reduce public goods expenditures to a greater degree when there are privately-provided substitutes excludable by religion.The basic idea is that if the good is provided privately to the ruler’s co-religionists, the ruler faces weaker incentives to provide this public good because his co-religionists receive lower marginal utility from its provision. Testing such a conjecture is an empirical challenge, however, since the religious identity of rulers rarely varies over time and place. We address this problem by exploiting variation in the religion of rulers in the Indian Princely States. Using data from the 1911 and 1931 Indian censuses, we find that Muslim-ruled states had lower Hindu literacy but had no significant impact on Muslim literacy. This result is consistent with our model, as Muslim religious schools provided a substitute for public schools that served both Hindus and Muslims. The model is further substantiated by the fact that the religion of the ruler had no statistically significant impact on railroad ownership or post office provision, neither of which had privately-provided substitutes.
N75|Railroad expansion and entrepreneurship: evidence from Meiji Japan|Railroads in Meiji Japan are credited with facilitating factor mobility as well as access to human and financial capital, but the impact on firms is unclear. Using a newly developed firm-level dataset and a difference-in-differences model that exploits the temporal and spatial variation of railroad expansion, I assess the relationship between railways and firm activity across Japan. Results indicate that railroad expansion corresponded with increased firm activity, particularly in manufacturing, although this effect is mitigated in less populous regions. These findings are consistent with industrial agglomeration in areas with larger markets and earlier development among both new and existing establishments.
N75|Transportation of Energy Resources in the Middle East and Central Asia|The current paper intends to analyze both the current and the emerging trends of the transportation of energy resources in the regions of Middle East and Central Asia. The means of land and sea transportation are examined in the light of both the financial changes and the geopolitics. Oil and natural gas are separately assessed with reference to both the areas of production and consumption as well as the relevant methods of transportation. Furthermore, bilateral relations between energy consuming countries, energy producing countries and countries that act as hubs for the transportation of these resources are evaluated in order to determine their influence in the current and future transportation trends. Suez Canal, Straits of Hormuz and the Straits of Bosporus and Dardanelles feature special characteristics that extend from the commercial field to politics and environmental. Statistical data are supplied to further comprehend the emerging market trends in these areas.
N75|Oil price shocks and trade imbalances|This study aims to examine whether a large part of the variability of trade balances and their oil and non-oil components is associated with oil price fluctuations. The long-run causality running from oil price to overall, oil and non-oil trade balances and their short-run dynamics are investigated by applying the Toda and Yamamoto, 1995 (TY) causality approach and generalized impulse response functions (IRFs), respectively to the monthly data spanning from January 1999 to November 2011. Three Asian economies that represent three distinct characteristics in terms of oil are chosen and examined: Malaysia as an oil exporter, Singapore as an oil refinery and Japan as an oil importer. The stability of the causality is also checked and the estimated impulse responses across different periods are examined. The results have implications for both policy makers and economic modeling of the impact of oil price shocks.
N75|The Informal Economy in Monsoon Asia and Melanesia: West New Guinea and the Malay World|his is the third in a series of papers concerned with the intellectual history of the 'informal economy' and its relevance to current concerns in Papua New Guinea (PNG; the eastern half of the island of New Guinea). Proceeding from the observation that monetized informal economic activity in PNG has been of relatively limited importance, the paper seeks explanations by comparing two stylized constructs, Monsoon Asia (where the informal economy is dynamic) and Melanesia (where it is limited in scope and contribution to livelihoods). Papua (occupying the western half of the island of New Guinea) is seen as a meeting point, or zone of transition, between Monsoon Asia and Melanesia. A long history of 'trading and raiding' on this frontier marked the encounter between ceremonial exchange, as practiced by Melanesians, and the system of tribute imposed on Papuans by Moluccan sultanates. Limited economic specialization and exchange in Melanesia contrasted with the Asian household economy, enmeshed in complex social hierarchies and systems of occupational differentiation. Historically, the Malay Archipelago engaged in a world trading system, into which it drew west New Guinea/Papua over millennia. Travelling peddlers played a key role in the archipelagic trade system, demonstrating the antiquity of the informal economy tradition in the cultures of Monsoon Asia. The paper seeks explanations for the comparative absence of that tradition in Melanesia. Finally, it examines the recent and rapid emergence of an informal economy in Papua, dominated by non-Melanesian immigrants, in the wake of the incorporation of (Dutch) west New Guinea into the Republic of Indonesia in 1963.
N75|Political Economy of Trade Liberalization: The Case of Postwar Japan|How did post-War newer democracies, whose governments faced both pressures from vested special interests and voters, achieve trade liberalization ? Exploiting the case of trade liberalization in 1960s Japan, this paper addresses this question. Because the benefits and costs of trade liberalization are unequally distributed among the population, generating winners and losers, trade liberalization is inherently a highly political issue. The Japanese government and the LDP leaders used two tactics to build a coalition of legislators for trade liberalization. While they used sequencing of liberalization to buy off support from legislators of the Upper-House, they relied on side-payments for legislators of the Lower-House. This strategy choice was consistent with the difference in the sizes of electoral districts between the Upper-House and the Lower-House.
N75|三菱商事における店舗ネットワークの構造と機能：1928-36年度|This paper explores the structure and function of the intra-firm trade network in Mitsubishi Corporation (Mitsubishi Shoji) from 1928 to 1936. In this period, Mitsubishi Co. substantially expanded its global branch network. Using original documents of Mitsubishi Co., we obtained the data on the trade flow between every pair of the headquarters and branches in 1928 and 1936. While the headquarters in Tokyo maintained its position as the central hub in the intra-firm trade network in this period, some major branches, including Dalian in China, grew to be the subsidiary hubs, which resulted in a change in the network structure.
N75|The South Manchuria Railway Company and its Interactions with the Military: An Accounting and Financial History|This study examines aspects of the accounting and financial history of the South Manchuria Railway Company (SMR) from its formation in 1906. In particular we focus on the 1930s, a period in which the activities of the SMR became increasingly dominated by the demands of the Kwantung Army which effectively controlled Manchuria. As a special company, the SMR had always faced the dilemma of pursuing the private interest of shareholders as a business enterprise against the backdrop of the requirement to serve the national interest. Following the formation of the State of Manchuria in 1932, the Kwantung Army placed significant and growing financial demands on the SMR while at the same time wishing to alter the juridical personality of the company. Such demands were repelled by the SMR's management for fear that the change in its legal status would cause problems in obtaining the finance necessary to carry out the army's requirements for new lines and improvements to the existing railway network in Manchuria. This problem, and its eventual resolution through the State of Manchuria taking an equity stake in the company in 1940, provides important insights into the impact of military power and wartime conditions on the operation of special companies. In this way, this study contributes to filling a gap in Japanese accounting and financial history research by examining the motives, commitments and (inter)actions of the various parties concerned - the company's management, the Japanese government, the Kwantung Army and the State of Manchuria - and the interaction of such factors with the social, political and economic conditions surrounding the SMR's operations in Manchuria.
N75|The Geography of Patenting In India: Patterns and Determinants|This study examines the regional profiles of patenting activities in India. The number of most dynamic sub-national spaces in patent applications is found to be limited to just two to three regions or countries. Regionally, West India, North India and South India mostly dominated the patenting activities during 1990‒2010. The patent performance is highly concentrated among individual countries: the two leading states, namely Maharashtra and Delhi accounted for more than half of total patent applications filed in India in the study period. Empirical analysis further emphasized that states patenting activities are shaped by the size of local markets, availability of skilled labour force, knowledge institutions and urban centres.
N75|Kırım’ın Merkantilist Dönemde Karadeniz Ticaretindeki Yeri<BR>[The Place of Crimea at the Black Sea Trade in the Mercantilist Period]|Located on major trade routes, its location at Blacksea, climate, inherited heritage provided having a live economic and commercial life in Crimea. The main sources of infome was animals but Crimea was also well developed at wine trade, the slave trade, sources of salt and dried fishery. From the participated in Ottoman Empire in the last quarter of 15th century to the last quarter of 18th century, Ottoman Empire protected its control on Crimea which was one of the provinces of the Ottoman Empire recognized the various concessions. The trade and economic relations of the Crimea which established a strong and as well as unique link between Ottoman Empire with the various concessions and variety of economic activities will form the basis of this study.
N75|Transportation Infrastructure and Economic Growth in a Dissolving Country: (Ir)relevance of Railroads in the Ottoman Empire|In the literature, there are few studies on the impacts of the railroad construction in the Middle Eastern countries as well mixed findings. Using the data on the population of judicial districts in the Ottoman Empire between 1893 and 1914, we examine the relationship between railroad access and economic growth in local economies. Our empirical results show the size expansion in the affected areas of railroad access. This suggests the presence of positive impact of railroads on economic growth through increasing employment opportunities and fertility rates. To deal with endogeneity problems, we use instrumental variable (IV) strategy. Our 2SLS results also indicate that the causality runs from access to railroads to population growth. The paper contributes to the previous empirical literature by providing evidence for an agricultural society with limited factor mobility due to the lack of transportation infrastructure.
N75|The Devil’s Tears from the Tournament of Shadows: Oil Supply, Markets and Unstable Producers|Oil is the driving force for the modern economy as a cheap energy source and its reliable supply of oil is therefore a crucial element of economic growth. Oil resources however, are unevenly distributed and concentrated into only a few, on average, emerging economies. Inefficient and ineffective resource management can jeopardize the secure flow of oil. Especially since these supplying countries are prone to geopolitical and commercial instability. The status of oil suppliers is derived from an endogenous web of relationships. However, most supply security studies focus mainly on the demand side, and the condition of oil suppliers is assumed to be exogenous. This paper attempts to quantify the security of oil supply from a supply side perspective through a composite indicator-based index. The subsequent composite index analysis combines the indicator results and shows that OPEC is the (relatively) riskiest producer group, followed by the Caspian and Non-OPEC countries. The implications from the analysis are that oil suppliers face not only different degrees of relative risks that vary from one petro-economy to another, but they also provide insights into ways and policies to reduce the relative risk levels of the selected oil suppliers.
N75|La politique d’innovation chinoise face au défi de la transition énergétique China's innovation policy and the challenge of energy transition: the case of photovoltaic and wind turbine industries|Après trente ans de croissance économique annuelle de 9,9 % en moyenne depuis les réformes économiques lancées en 1978, la Chine est devenue la deuxième puissance économique mondiale. Elle est également le premier émetteur de CO2 et consommateur énergétique et de matières premières. La dégradation environnementale impacte sur la vie de millions d’habitants dans les villes ainsi que dans le milieu rural et crée des conflits avec les pays limitrophes. Cette étude propose une nouvelle approche pour analyser les politiques chinoises en matière de la transition durable en appuyant sur les théories du système national d’innovation (SNI). En analysant les deux industries clés de la transition énergétique en Chine – le photovoltaïque et l’éolienne, nous montrons la force et les faiblesses de la politique pour promouvoir l’innovation verte en Chine. Ces analyses nous permettent de retenir l’hypothèse qu’une convergence des politiques industrielle, énergétique et d’innovation est en train d’émerger pour former une politique de la transition durable en Chine. After thirty years of annual economic growth of 9.9% since the economic reforms initiated in 1978, China has become the world’s second largest economy. It is also the largest emitter of CO2 and consumers of energy and raw materials. Environmental degradation in China affects the lives of millions of people, in the cities as well as in rural areas, and creates conflicts with neighboring countries. This study proposes a new approach to analyze Chinese sustainable transition policies based on the theories of the national innovation system (NIS). By studying the two key industries - the photovoltaic and the wind turbine - of the energy transition in China, we show the strength and weaknesses of Chinese policies to promote green innovation in the country. These analyzes allow us to retain the hypothesis of a convergence of industrial, energetic and innovation policies to form a policy of sustainable transition in China.
N75|Energy Access and Energy Security in Asia and the Pacific|Lack of access to electricity and modern cooking fuels constitutes energy poverty. Access to modern energy requires improved technologies and financing instruments and sources. The pro-poor public–private partnership model is one useful vehicle for raising capital to finance projects. Five factors appear to be necessary in combination for programs and partnerships to successfully promote energy access and eradicate energy poverty: selecting appropriate technology, promoting community participation, emphasizing maintenance and service, coupling service with incomes, and building local capacity.
N75|“Amazing Thailand” – Its Contribution To Growing The Country’S Competitiveness|This paper describes and analyses the branding campaigns of Thailand from 1998 to 2011, shows how the brand has evolved, explains the best practices applied by the Thai authorities in this field and assesses the effects of the branding strategy from the perspective of the increasing number of tourists, revenues from tourism and the country’s international prestige
N75|Testing for common cycles in non-stationary VARs with varied frecquency data|This paper proposes a new way for detecting the presence of common cyclical featureswhen several time series are observed/sampled at different frequencies, hence generalizingthe common-frequency approach introduced by Engle and Kozicki 1993 and Vahid andEngle 1993. We start with the mixed-frequency VAR representation investigated in Ghysels2012 for stationary time series. For non-stationary time series in levels, we showthat one has to account for the presence of two sets of long-run relationships. The First setis implied by identities stemming from the fact that the differences of the high-frequencyI1 regressors are stationary. The second set comes from possible additional long-run relationshipsbetween one of the high-frequency series and the low-frequency variables. Ourtransformed VECM representations extend the results of Ghysels 2012 and are very importantfor determining the correct set of variables to be used in a subsequent commoncycle investigation. This has some empirical implications both for the behavior of the teststatistics as well as for forecasting. Empirical analyses with the quarterly real GNP andmonthly industrial production indices for, respectively, the U.S. and Germany illustrate ournew approach. This is also investigated in a Monte Carlo study, where we compare our proposedmixed-frequency models with models stemming from classical temporal aggregationmethods.
N75|Regulation, Ownership, and Costs: A Historical Perspective from Indian Railways|This paper studies the relationship between operational costs and state ownership in Indian railways between 1874 and 1912. We find the move to state ownership significantly decreased working expenses. The cost declines are not driven by anticipation effects, changes in reporting standards, or long run trends. Rather, the evidence suggests the colonial Government of India reduced operational costs by cutting labor costs. Our surprising results can be explained by the undemocratic colonial nature of the Government of India, a fiscal system heavily reliant on railways for revenues, and a regulatory environment under private ownership that weakened incentives to lower costs. (JEL L32, L51, L92, N45, N75, O18, R41)
N75|Labour Markets in Recession and Recovery: The UK and the USA in the 1920s and 1930s|We examine the labour market experience of the UK and the US in the recessions of the early 1920s and the early 1930s and the subsequent recoveries. These were deep recessions, comparable to that of 2008-9, but the recoveries were very different. In the UK the recovery of the 1920s was incomplete but that of the 1930s was rather less protracted than in the US. By contrast the US experienced very strong recovery in the 1920s but weaker recovery from the much deeper recession of the 1930s. A key ingredient to understanding these patterns is the interaction between economic shocks and labour market institutions. Here we survey the large literature on interwar labour markets to identify the key elements that underpinned labour market performance. We find that developments in wage setting institutions and in unemployment insurance inhibited a return to full employment in interwar Britain while in the US, New Deal legislation impeded labour market adjustment in the 1930s. We conclude with an assessment of the policy responses to labour market crises in the past and in the present
N75|A Factor Augmentation Formulation of the Value of International Trade|We develop a two-country, two-sector model with a continuum of workers to address the link between migration and trade where policy is determined by a simple referendum. In particular, we address two questions. First, are states already in free trade areas more likely to support full integration than states without free trade? Second, is trade liberalization more likely to be supported by a simultaneous referendum on trade and migration than in one on trade alone? The key to our analysis is the recognition that for free trade, migration, or trade and migration to be adopted, the relevant policy must pass the referendum in both countries. We identify conditions under which that occurs. Our model provides an interpretation of the evolution of the politics of economic integration related to NAFTA and European Union.
N75|Demand for bus services between Bangkok and other provinces|The purpose of the study is to study the factors affecting the behavior and the demand for using buses between Bangkok and other provinces. This study examines the four main factors affecting the number of passengers. The factors consist of i) personal factors, ii) social factors, iii) carrier transport factors and iv) the beginning and end points of the trip factors. To fulfill the purpose of the study, the Poisson approach was employed. The data used in this study is the primary data obtained from samples of passengers who travel by bus between Bangkok and other provinces. 400 samples in total were selected from the bus terminal in Bangkok. The result shows that the Poisson approach cannot be explained by using the specification test for over dispersion; yet the marginal effect after the negative binomial regression can estimate the result with significance at five percent. Generally, there are 13 variables that affect the number of passengers: education, role of the family, schedules, entertainment (movie), entertainment (game), picking up and dropping passenger outside the terminal, number of seats per bus, role of the travel agent, time spent on the bus, facade of the bus, snack on the bus, promotion of bus transport, and promotion of other modes of transports.
N75|Trade liberalisation and inequalities in Nepal: A CGE analysis|In this paper we examine the effects of trade liberalisation on inequality in the small developing country of Nepal. We use a Computable General Equilibrium approach applied to a newly developed social accounting matrix, simulating three liberalisation scenarios: (i) import liberalisation; (ii) export liberalisation; and (iii) import and export liberalisations implemented together under different exchange rate regimes. Outcomes reveal that industry reallocation following liberalisation does not respond to classical trade theory expectations about factor intensity and abundance. On the distributive side, liberalisation seems to increase the high-skilled/low-skilled gap and favour rich households relatively more. However, since under fixed exchange rate also the two poorest household groups increase their income levels, liberalisation may also expected to be beneficial for poverty alleviation.
N75|The political economy of mass printing: Legitimacy and technological change in the Ottoman Empire|New technologies have not always been greeted with full enthusiasm. Although the Ottomans were quick to adopt advancements in military technology, they waited almost three centuries to sanction printing in Ottoman Turkish (in Arabic characters). Printing spread relatively rapidly throughout Europe following the invention of the printing press in 1450 despite resistance by interest groups and temporary restrictions in some countries. We explain differential reaction to technology through a political economy approach centered on the legitimizing relationships between rulers and their agents (e.g., military, religious, or secular authorities). The Ottomans regulated the printing press heavily to prevent the loss it would have caused to the ruler’s net revenue by undermining the legitimacy provided by religious authorities. On the other hand, the legitimizing relationship between European religious and political authorities was undermined over a century prior to the invention of the press. European rulers thus had little reason to stop the spread of printing as public policy, nor could the Church have stopped it had it wanted to. The Ottomans eventually sanctioned printing in Arabic script in the 18th century after alternative sources of legitimacy emerged.
N75|Transactions: A New Look at Service Sector Foreign Direct Investment in Asia|This paper presents new micro-level data consisting of individual greenfield investment projects and mergers and acquisitions as a source for detailed analysis of service sector cross-border investment flows among the Asian Development Bank (ADB) regional members. The new transactional foreign direct investment (FDI) data are methodologically distinct from traditional BPM5- compliant FDI data but found to yield generally comparable aggregates, when compared with the latest available International Monetary Fund (IMF) data from the Comprehensive Direct Investment Survey for the ADB regional members. The service sectors are found to receive considerably larger amounts of foreign investment, when compared with the Asian region’s manufacturing and raw materials sectors. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries account for roughly three-quarters of total recorded inward service sector FDI of about $2 trillion, relatively evenly split between the United States, the EU-27, and regional OECD-level-income countries. The presence of sizable regional “upward flowing” service sector investments into OECD-level- income economies is verified. Preliminary policy conclusions are drawn based on the new transactional FDI data results concerning prospects for regional service sector liberalization, threshold income levels for inward service sector FDI, upward-flowing regional services FDI, and preferred modes of service sector investments.
N75|Competition among movie theaters: an empirical investigation of the Toho–Subaru antitrust case|This study assesses the 1951 Toho–Subaru antitrust merger case in the Japanese movie theater market. Using information regarding the location of theaters in the Tokyo metropolitan area, I examined the relationship between the number of attendees and the structure of the local market competition: a regression equation relating to the number of attendees and the local market structure was derived from a model of product differentiation, which incorporated the features of a movie theater market. The results revealed that nearby rival theaters had negative effects on other theaters’ attendance numbers, and these effects did not dissipate even where there was 10 km between each theater. Based on empirical results, it appears that the Tokyo High Court and the competition agency defined the geographic movie theater market as being smaller than it actually was. The results of this study suggest that the application of econometric analysis, combining geographic information, is useful in merger reviews of retail industries, such as movie theaters. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2012
N75|From the linear model to incremental innovation: Science and Industry in India|In the course of the first 45 years of India’s post Independence development, the focus of scientific activity was changed: from that of a science of raw material extraction, oblivious of any industrial imperative, to a science of material production, aimed at inducing technological awareness within industry. This change in focus, requiring original thought and practical experimentation, achieved with some difficulty, was accompanied by policy hesitation, and faced reverses. The most notable conceptual development was the recognition of the complementary nature of twin processes of industrial innovation: the laboratory to industry, or linear innovation chain, and the incremental or evolutionary innovation process. This intellectual advance was reflected in the creation of both relevant institutional structures, and of inter-institutional linkages. The result was a diversified industrial base together with considerable, albeit highly uneven, levels of technological competence. The subsequent 20 year period is characterised by a reliance on the market mechanism as the channel directing scientific activity and industrial energy. Market fundamentalism is dismissive of the necessity of creative thought on the contemporary dialectics of the science and industry relationship. This, let alone providing the basis for further advance, has led to the degradation of achieved capabilities in comprehension of this relationship.
N75|Transactions: A New Look at Services Sector Foreign Direct Investment in Asia|"This paper presents new micro-level data consisting of individual greenfield investment projects and mergers and acquisitions as a source for detailed analysis of services sector cross-border investment flows among the Asian Development Bank (ADB) regional membership in Asia. The new transactional foreign direct investment (FDI) data are methodologically distinct from traditional BPM5-compliant FDI data but found to yield generally comparable aggregates, when compared with the latest available International Monetary Fund (IMF) data from the Comprehensive Direct Investment Survey for the ADB regional membership. The services sectors are found to receive considerably larger amounts of foreign investment, when compared with the Asian region's manufacturing and raw materials sectors. OECD countries account for roughly three-quarters of total recorded inward services sector FDI of about $2 trillion, relatively evenly split between the United States, the EU-27, and regional OECD-level-income countries. The presence of sizable regional ""upward flowing"" services sector investments into OECD-level-income economies is verified. Preliminary policy conclusions are drawn based on the new transactional FDI data results concerning prospects for regional services sector liberalization, threshold income levels for inward services sector FDI, upward-flowing regional services FDI, and preferred modes of services sector investments."
N75|Structural Interdependence in the Energy Sector in Turkey: Input-Output Analysis|The increasing human needs recently and the dependence of the most of these needs on the energy make this sector more and more significant everyday. Should it known that how the other sectors are depended on the sub-sectors of the energy, it would be so easy to produce policy. Input-output analysis as a unit of economic activity researches the sectors and especially the exchanges of intermediate input between the sectors. So input-output analysis is a major instrument in terms of enabling to research the production and usage of the outputs of the productive sectors in economic scale, in sectoral level and quantatively. In the analysis made by using the input-output tables of Turkey Statistics Office for 2002 it was observed that energy sector has been a key sector recently. Also the relation of energy sector with the others was searched and the most input-output marketing sector of the energy sector was analyzed.
N75|Globalisation and the Ottoman Empire: A study of integration between Ottoman and world cotton markets|The Ottoman Empire underwent a process of integration with the global economy during the second half of the Nineteenth Century. This paper explores one aspect of this process, examining the linkages established between the cotton industries in Egypt and Western Anatolia, which we consider as part of the Empire, and the international cotton market during the first wave of globalisation. We undertake a quantitative exploration of the pattern of price transmission between the Ottoman and the international cotton markets over this period, connecting changes in the nature of spatial market integration to major economic and political developments.
N75|Australia-China: Not just 40 years|This article looks back at the relationship between Australia and China, particularly following the normalisation of relations in 1972.
N75|Climate Change and Agriculture In South Asia: Looking for An Optimal Trade Policy| This paper aims to study how alternative trade policies will help mitigate the effects of climate change in agriculture in South Asia. We use a modified version of MIRAGE CGE for long term projections and allowing modeling of climate change effects (impact on yield) at a subregional level (163 geographical units at the world level) to simulate the effects of 13 SRES scenarios in 8 different trade policy landscapes. Based on these results, we discuss the ranking of trade policy options based on expected values but also in terms of variance using the theory of decision in uncertainty. Choices between unilateral and regional strategies for the countries of the sub regions are compared. Our results confirm that South Asia will be one of the most adversely affected regions in terms of the impacts of climate change on agricultural yield. Both the overall level of economic activity and trade flows will react to this change (-0.5 percent of real income for the region in average, up to -4 percent for Pakistan). Beyond national real income, we also look at the distributional effects of climate change. Unskilled worker real wages, proxy for poor people income, are largely and generally negatively impacted by climate change. We show that trade policies weakly affect the overall economic impact of climate change but leads to more significant changes for the poor.
N75|Thailand's International Tourism Demand: Seasonal Panel Unit Roots and the Related Cointegration Model|Tourism is the main service sector in Thailand. It generated about 6.5% of national income (GDP) in 2009. 547 billion baht came from international tourists and 380 billion baht from domestic tourists in 2008. This study analyzes panel data by using the seasonal unit roots test. Firstly, we apply the CHEGY-IPS panel seasonal unit roots test developed by Otero (2007). Secondly, we develop a long run relationship model to estimate the number of international tourists to Thailand from 1997 to 2010 using the generalized method of moments (GMM).The results reveal panel seasonal unit roots in all model variables: GDP of the tourists¡¯ country of origin, competitive ratio of CPI between Thailand and country of origin, currency exchange rates, and transportation costs. The results from cointegration estimation by the GMM demonstrate that there is a positive relationship between GDP and the number of international tourist arrivals: a 1% increase of GDP leading to an increase of 1.5% of the number of international tourists. Regarding the exchange rate, a negative relationship is found: a 1% stronger Thai currency will lead to a decrease of 0.55% in the number of international tourists. Lastly, season has a significant effect upon the number of tourists. The number of tourists in January to March is higher than in other quarters.
N75|Testing the General Validity of the Heckscher-Ohlin Theorem: The Natural Experiment of Japan|We exploit Japan's 19th century opening up to trade to test a general formulation of the Heckscher-Ohlin theorem. This formulation is based on Ohlin's measure of factor scarcity where autarky factor prices impose a refutable prediction on the economy's factor content of trade. Our test combines factor price data in Japan's autarky period with commodity trade data and a technology matrix in Japan's early free trade period. Our technology matrix is derived from a major Japanese survey of agricultural techniques during the early Meiji period, accounts by European visitors and numerous studies by Japanese and western scholars that draw on village records, business accounts and other historical sources. Evaluating Japan's factor content of trade during 1868-1875 at the corresponding autarky factor prices, we fail to reject the Heckscher-Ohlin prediction in each sample year.
N75|19. Yüzyıl'da Osmanlı İmparatorluğu'nda Süngercilik Ve İzmir Limanı'ndan Sünger İhracatı (1850-1900)|Çalışmada 19. yüzyılda bir “zoophyte” olarak tasnifi yapılmiş deniz canlısı süngerin denizaltından çıkartılmasına dayalı süngercilik bir iktisadi faaliyet olarak Osmanlı İmparatorluğu sınırları dahilinde ele alınmaktadır. Burada sunulan bilgiler, bu konuda yapılmış sayılı çalışmanın yanısıra ulaşılan tarihi veri kaynaklarından edinilmiş verilere dayanmaktadır. Bu veriler dahilinde, bir iktisadi faaliyet olarak tanımlanması yanısıra, süngerciliği etkileyen gelişmeler de açıklanmaya çalışılmıştır. Ayrıca süngerin 19. yüzyılda İzmir'den gerçekleştirilen toplam ihracat içerisinde azımsanmayacak paya sahip bir ihraç ürünü olarak, uluslararası piyasalarda rekabet gücünü de belirleyen kendisine has özelliklerine de değinilmektedir. Dahası, 19. yüzyılın ikinci yarısında, bu ekonomik faaliyet üzerinde önemli etkileri ortaya çıkan belli teknik gelişmeler de sözkonusudur. Süngercilik tekniklerindeki bu gelişmelerden de bahsedilmekte ve etkileri açıklanmaya çalışılmaktadır. Nihai olarak, Osmanlı İmparatorluğu'nun en önemli ihraç limanlarından birisi olan İzmir’den gerçekleştirilen sünger ihracatının, 19. yüzyıl ikinci yarısı boyunca gösterdiği gelişmelerin belirleyenleri de tanımlanmaya çalışılmıştır.
N75|Can India Achieve Double-digit growth ?|In recent years, India has enjoyed one of the highest growth rates worldwide, weathering the global financial crisis better than many other countries. Prudent macroeconomic policies will be critical to prolonging the current expansion, given the risks associated with high inflation and volatile capital flows. A steadfast commitment to fiscal consolidation is needed to continue to reduce the large deficit that emerged in the aftermath of the slowdown and avoid crowding out private investment. Stepping up structural reforms will also be necessary if double-digit growth rates are to be achievable over the coming decade or so. Indeed, the operating environment for private business remains challenging. While infrastructure is improving in key sectors, partly thanks to greater private investment, bottlenecks endure and efforts to intensify competition and ensure continued strong investment are required. Labour market reforms are also required to promote job creation. Rapid economic development has boosted living standards and reduced poverty but poverty remains high. There is a need to strengthen social welfare systems and access to health and education to ensure widespread benefits from continued high growth. This Working Paper relates to the 2011 OECD Economic Survey of India (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/india) L'Inde peut-elle réaliser un taux de croissance à deux chiffres ? L'Inde a connu, ces dernieres annees, l'un des taux de croissance les plus eleves au monde, et a su mieux que bien d'autres pays traverser la crise financiere mondiale. Pour prolonger l'expansion actuelle, des politiques macroeconomiques prudentes sont essentielles, etant donne les risques lies a une inflation elevee et a flux capitaux volatiles. Le pays devra egalement s'engager resolument sur la voie de l'assainissement budgetaire s'il veut continuer a reduire le large deficit apparu au lendemain du ralentissement economique et eviter l'eviction de l'investissement prive. L'acceleration des reformes structurelles est egalement necessaire pour rendre possible une croissance a deux chiffres sur la decennie a venir. En effet, l'environnement dans lequel operent les entreprises privees reste difficile. Si l'infrastructure s'ameliore dans certains secteurs cles, en partie grace a un accroissement des investissements prives, des goulets d'etranglement demeurent et il faudra s'efforcer d'intensifier la concurrence et de maintenir le dynamisme des investissements. Des reformes du marche du travail seront egalement necessaires pour promouvoir la creation d'emplois. Le developpement economique rapide a stimule le niveau de vie et reduit la pauvrete mais le nombre d'Indiens vivant dans l'indigence reste eleve. Il faudra renforcer les systemes de protection sociale et l'acces a la sante et a l'education pour que la poursuite de la croissance profite au plus grand nombre. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l'Etude économique de l'OCDE de l’Inde 2011 (www.oecd.org/eco/etudes/inde)
N75|The economic background of Rizal’s time|We survey economic conditions just before and during the lifetime of Jose Rizal, roughly leading to the second half of the 19th century, on three levels: that of the world, of the Spanish Empire, and of the Philippines. We show how in this period, coinciding with the first era of globalization, of discord within the Spanish Empire and of incipient prosperity in the archipelago, the economic and social foundations were laid for Rizal and his contemporaries to conceive of and demand greater autonomy and, ultimately, independence.
N75|Rizal’s Morga and insights into pre-Hispanic institutions and trade|This essay demonstrates how Rizal’s annotations of Morga’s Sucesos de las Islas Filipinas can be used even today to derive insights useful for investigating pre-Hispanic economic and political institutions. This is done through a close reading of three broad topics treated by Rizal: first, the notion of a “confederation” of chiefs and the complexity of polities; second, the character of precolonial law and enforcement; and third, the engagement of pre-Hispanic polities in international trade. Finally the role of indigenously produced goods in the dynamics of chiefly rulership and foreign trade is discussed. The essay provides an analysis of the potential of pre-Hispanic research and possible directions for future efforts.
N75|Is electrification welfare improving?: non-experimental evidence from rural Bhutan|This paper investigates the income and educational impacts of a large village-based electrification program in rural Bhutan. We designed and administered a household and village-level socio-economic survey in the electrified and non-electrified villages and collected data on wide range of developmental outcomes. Using Propensity Score Matching (PSM) and propensity-based weighted regression, we find that access to electricity improved economic and educational outcomes. While access to electricity increased non-farm income by 60-70%, and it had no significant effect on farm-income. Since non- farm income consists of a small percentage of total household income, the impact should be considered modest and not large. We also nd that children in electrified households have 0.75 additional years of schooling, an increase of about 24%. Additionally, amount of evening study time at home is 10 minutes more for the children in the treated households compared to untreated households. We employed different matching algorithms and our results are consistent and robust to all matching estimator. Our study contributes to the few studies on infrastructure literature which has often been focused on transport, telecom, and water projects. Given the limited use of electricity for income-generating activities in Bhutan, investments in other complementary infrastructure, such as, markets, roads, information technology, credit may help the households to realize the full benefits of electrification.
N75|A stepwise-projection data envelopment analysis for public transport operations in Japan|With tightening budgets and increasingly critical reviews of public expenditure, there is a need for a careful analysis of the performance of public bodies in terms of an efficient execution of their tasks. These questions show up everywhere in the public domain, for instance, in the provision of medical facilities, the operation of postal services, or the supply of public transport. A standard tool to judge the efficiency of such agencies is Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). In the past years, much progress has been made to extend this approach in various directions. Examples are the Distance Friction Minimization (DFM) model and the Context-Dependent (CD) model. The DFM model is based on a generalized distance friction function and serves to improve the performance of a Decision Making Unit (DMU) by identifying the most appropriate movement towards the efficiency frontier surface. Standard DEA models use a uniform proportional input reduction (or a uniform proportional output increase) in the improvement projections, but the DFM approach aims to enhance efficiency strategies by deploying a weighted projection function. This approach may address both input reduction and output increase as a strategy of a DMU. A suitable form of multidimensional projection functions is given by a Multiple Objective Quadratic Programming (MOQP) model using a Euclidean distance. Likewise, the CD model yields efficient frontiers in different levels, while it is based on a level-by-level improvement projection. The present paper will first offer a new integrated DEA tool -merging from a blend of the DFM and CD model using the Charnes-Cooper-Rhodes (CCR) method - in order to design a stepwise efficiency-improving projection model for a conventional DEA. The above-mentioned stepwise-projection model is illustrated on the basis of an application to the efficiency analysis of public transport operations in Japan.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N75|China´S Increasing Economy And The Impacts On Its Energy Strategy|This work enters into the topic of one of the world´s most increasing economy, the economy of China. It will treat the question, how a country, hence a political system which was such closed and had a quite small economical standard and growth rate was able to improve in a tremendous way. This present fact discovers various questions, such like: How is it possible that a closed socialist state can improve its economical increase and international trade in a tremendous way? How is an increase in trade and production combined with energy consumption? How can China secure its energy sources in order to secure its production and energy household? The document starts with the theory of free trade to step into that topic.
N75|Gestión De Almacenes Y Tecnologías De La Información Y Comunicación (Tic)|Este artículo de revisión bibliográfica busca identificar el estado del arte y lautilización de las Tecnologías de la Información y Comunicación (TIC) en lagestión de almacenes y su aplicación en la industria colombiana. A partir dela revisión realizada, se identifica que las tecnologías aplicadas a la gestiónde almacenes contribuyen a la simplificación de las operaciones, reducciónde costos y mejora de los flujos de información; mientras que los principalesobstáculos para su implementación son los altos costos, la cultura organizacionaly la inadecuada estructuración de los procesos. En relación con el usode las TIC en Colombia, se identificó un bajo grado de implementación enlas pequeñas y medianas empresas (pymes) y un nivel medio en las grandesempresas.
N75|Estudios De Caso Sobre La Gestión Del Conocimiento En Cuatro Organizaciones Colombianas Líderes En Penetración De Mercado|Este artículo sobre estudios de caso muestra que existe un alto grado de coincidencia entre el concepto y el enfoque que tienen las organizaciones sobre la gestión del conocimiento, pero que hay diferencia en la importancia que cada organización da a cada una de las variables constitutivas de esa gestión. Estos resultados se obtuvieron de una investigación realizada en dos fases: una de revisión teórica, relacionada con el concepto y los enfoques de gestión del conocimiento y otra de trabajo de campo, a partir de entrevistas a diez directivos y encuestas a 525 personas de cuatro organizaciones localizadas en la ciudad de Bogotá (Colombia) líderes en penetración del mercado de los sectores manufacturero y de servicios.
N75|Why did Countries Adopt the Gold Standard? Lessons from Japan|Why did policymakers adopt the gold standard? Although previous research has identified ex post effects of gold standard adoption on trade and bond yields, few studies have sought to understand whether these were the actual outcomes of interest to policymakers at the time of adoption. We examine the political economy of Japan's adoption of the gold standard in 1897 by exploring the ex ante motives of policymakers as well as how the legislative decision to adopt gold won approval. We then link the beliefs of contemporaneous policymakers to data so that we can test the economic effects of adoption. In contrast to previous studies examining bond yields, we find little evidence that joining the gold standard reduced Japan's country risk or investors anticipated a dramatic decline in borrowing rates for the government. Moreover, we find no evidence of a domestic investment boom or that investors anticipated one and bid it into stock prices. However, as some policymakers suggested, we find that membership in the gold standard increased Japan's exports by lowering transactions costs and because the price of gold fell relative to silver, making exports to silver standard countries more competitive. While Japan also received a boost in exports to its regional trading partners when it switched from paper to silver, going onto gold allowed Japan to tap into the growing share of global trade that was centered on the gold standard: by the late 1890s nearly 60 percent of Japanese exports and total trade were with members of the gold club.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N75|Railroads of the Raj: estimating the impact of transportation infrastructure|How large are the benefits of transportation infrastructure projects, and what explains these benefits? To shed new light on these questions, I collect archival data from colonial India and use it to estimate the impact of India's vast railroad network. Guided by six predictions from a general equilibrium trade model, I find that railroads: (1) decreased trade costs and interregional price gaps; (2) increased interregional and international trade; (3) eliminated the responsiveness of local prices to local productivity shocks (but increased the transmission of these shocks between regions); (4) increased the level of real income (but harmed neighboring regions without railroad access); (5) decreased the volatility of real income; and (6), a sufficient statistic for the effect of railroads on welfare in the model accounts for virtually all of the observed reduced-form impact of railroads on real income. I find similar results from an instrumental variable specification, no spurious effects from over 40,000 km of lines that were approved but never built, and tight bounds on the estimated impact of railroads. These results suggest that transportation infrastructure projects can improve welfare significantly, and do so because they allow regions to exploit gains from trade.
N75|Trade Disputes Between China and the United States: Growing Pains so Far, Worse Ahead?|This study covers the history of Sino-US trade relations with a particular focus on the past decade, during which time each has been a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO). Providing a brief history of 19th and 20th century economic relations, this paper examines in detail the trade disputes that have arisen between China and the United States over the past decade, giving dollar estimates for the trade flows at issue. Each country has partaken in their share of protectionist measures, however, US measures have been characteristically defensive, protecting declining industries, while Chinese measures have been characteristically offensive, promoting nascent industries. We also cover administrative and legislation actions within each country that have yet to be the subject of formal complaint at the WTO. This includes an original and comprehensive quantitative summary of US Section 337 intellectual property rights cases. While we view the frictions in Sino-US trade a logical consequence of the rapid increase in flows between the two countries, we caution that each country work within the WTO framework and respect any adverse decisions it delivers so that a protracted protectionist conflict does not emerge. We see the current currency battle as one potential catalyst for such conflict if US and Chinese policymakers fail to manage it judiciously.
N75|Energy consumption in Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan:cointegration analysis|Recognizing the significant role that energy plays on growth, the South Asian countries are beginning to focus on their energy issues and formulate common energy policies. The SAARC Energy Center (SEC) was established in 2005 to address energy challenges in the South Asian region. In this paper the authors investigate the presence of cointegration and causality relationships for energy consumption in the three largest SAARC countries: Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan and argue that establishing mutually beneficial energy policies in the three countries helps the SEC meet its goals and objectives.
N75|Modelling Gender Impacts of Policy Reforms in Bangladesh: a Study in a Sequential Dynamic CGE Framework|The research explores the gender aspects of policy reforms in Bangladesh in a sequential dynamic computational general equilibrium (CGE) framework. This research uses the most updated SAM of Bangladesh and is the first attempt to build a gendered sequential dynamic CGE model for the Bangladesh economy. A ‘home production’ version of the gendered CGE model for the Bangladesh economy is developed. The study tries to understand how gender interests are affected by greater exposure to trade and other policy reforms. The short-run and long-run impacts of policy reforms in the labour market and in the household in a gendered framework are also explored. The research performs two simulations to examine the impact of (1) domestic trade liberalisation in Bangladesh, and (2) the phasing-out of the Multi-Fibre Agreement (MFA) on textile and garments. This research builds a gendered social accounting matrix (SAM) for the year 2000 and uses it in a sequential dynamic computable general equilibrium framework, following the representative household approach. It is found that domestic trade liberalisation leads to a significant expansion of the ready-made garments sector in the economy, which then leads to an increase in the labour market supply share of unskilled female labour. However, this results in a fall in the shares of domestic labour supply and leisure of unskilled female members of the households. The fall in the share of leisure time may have significant negative implications for the time spent on education by this labour category. It is also observed that the long-run impacts are different from the short-run impacts with respect to the magnitude of the effects. In the case of the second simulation, it can be noted that the MFA phase-out works in completely the opposite direction. The share of market labour supply of unskilled female members of the households decreases, and the shares of domestic work and leisure increase for most of the households both in the short and long run.
N75|The Political Economy of Preindustrial Korean Trade|Preindustrial Korea had little foreign trade in spite of the advantage of being a small peninsular country. We present a theory of political economy to show that the preindustrial Korean policy of suppressing private trade, like that of China, only can be explained by noneconomic factors such as the consideration of externalities and rulers' incentives, bounded rationality of policymakers, and the path dependence of history. It was a rational or bounded-rational decision to increase total gains, that is, economic and noneconomic gains, from trade under the east Asian geopolitics.
N75|Globalization, Trade & Wages: What Does History tell us about China?|Chinese imports and exports grew rapidly during the first three decades of the twentieth century as China opened up to global trade. Using a new data set on the factor-intensity of traded goods at the industry level, we show that Chinese exports became more unskilled-intensive and imports became more skill-intensive during these three decades. The exogenous shock of World War I dramatically raised the price of Chinese exports and increased the demand for these goods overseas and for unskilled workers producing these goods in China. When the war ended, trade costs declined, leading to a rise in China's terms of trade and further growth in China's export sector. Difference-in-differences regression estimates show that World War I boosted exports in China and did so substantially more for unskilled industries than skilled industries. We show that the observed decline in the skill premium in China is consistent with China's changing terms of trade. The skill-unskilled wage ratio flattened out during the 1910s and then fell by eight percent during the 1920s. We simulate the effects of World War I using a dynamic, general equilibrium factor-endowments model of trade, and demonstrate that an exogenous shock to the price of traded goods can produce a decline in the skill premium similar to what China experienced in the 1920s.
N75|Railroads of the Raj: Estimating the Impact of Transportation Infrastructure|How large are the benefits of transportation infrastructure projects, and what explains these benefits? To shed new light on these questions, this paper uses archival data from colonial India to investigate the impact of India's vast railroad network. Guided by four predictions from a general equilibrium trade model, I find that railroads: (1) decreased trade costs and interregional price gaps; (2) increased interregional and international trade; (3) increased real income levels; and (4), that a sufficient statistic for the effect of railroads on welfare in the model (an effect that is purely due to newly exploited gains from trade) accounts for virtually all of the observed reduced-form impact of railroads on real income in the data. I find no spurious effects from over 40,000 km of lines that were approved but - for four different reasons - were never built.
N75|Production and Marketing Activities of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association in Aomori Prefecture between the l870s and l920s|This article analyzed the production and marketing activities of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association established in Takedate Village in the Tsugaru district of Aomori Prefecture in 1907. In the early stages of the Meiji period, this area was considered as backward in terms of commodity production and circulation. However, the Agricultural Co-operatives Association, Takedate-kumiai had been highly evaluated for its business marketing across the nation, and had built a brand name for itself. Takedate-kumiai was the cutting-edge case of the industrial associations which is supposed to have spread out in earnest in the 1930s. We obtained the followings results. (1) By means of production inspection before packaging, the association made an effort toward not only the production of high-quality apples but also their trusted shipment in accordance with the brand name and standards established for itself. All these were extremely advanced efforts in agricultural commodity transactions. (2) However, until the early 1910s, the business sales of the association encountered certain problems. One problem was that the association partners had illegally sold apples to merchants and therefore, could not gather enough apples to sell. Another problem was that the specification wholesalers in the great city did not make all their payments smoothly. While being such status, the association thought much of the trust and the autonomy at the partners and the wholesales. It supported without laying down compulsion and a penalty regulation. (3) The problems mentioned in the above point were solved in the latter half of 1910s. The association received special awarding in 1916 and became flagrant nationwide and succeeded in establishing a brand name image. The partners recognized that apples sold on behalf of the association should be done so at favorable prices. As the association fs apples became famous in the markets of consuming regions, wholesalers came to recognize special wholesale contracts with this association as an honor. Consequently, the association grew to be an economic organization that took the initiative in product sales to wholesalers even in important cities such as Tokyo.
N75|Technology transfer with requisitioned material from Germany: The impact of gPB reports h on Japanese postwar technological development|Toward the end of World War 2, British and U.S. governments created a joint program to investigate German technology and requisitioned numerous technical documentations, some of which were opened to public as technical reports. Japanese industries, refereeing them to as the gPB reports h, tried to obtain and utilize them for their postwar recovery until they started enthusiastic technology introduction by technology licensing in 1950 fs. This study describes the dissemination process of PB reports in Japan and evaluates their impact. A few engineers mainly in chemical industry who were belonged to companies, universities and national research institutes recognized the great value of PB reports, and then pressed Japanese government to introduce them with a State budged. Not only the individuals, but also the governmental organs established in the postwar democratization process of science and technology played important roles for policy making of package purchase of PB reports from U.S. government in 1952. In the case of dyestuff and caustic soda, some joint R&D groups were organized in academic circles and industrial associations to share the information from PB reports which contained classified factory data of IG Farben, Bayer and so on. Japanese companies utilized them to domesticate German chemical products and develop their original technologies. On the other hand, the case of electronics parts shows that small companies which could not afford to introduce technology from foreign companies by their own received benefit by the reports and got an opportunity for their development. As a result, a technology gap between Japan and advanced countries which had widened during the war were reduced till the end of 1950 fs.
N75|The impact of the global economic crisis on non-oil operations of ports in Iran|It is generally accepted that the recent economic crisis of 2007-2010 has caused widespread economic recession in different countries. Since the ports and coastal regions are of great importance to economic infrastructure, this study examined the possible impact resulting from such a global economic crisis on the ports in Iran. First, the annual number of berthing vessels of gross tonnage over a thousand tons as well as loading and unloading of non-oil cargoes and containers were extracted from statistical reports of Ports and Maritime Organization. Then an attempt was made to predict the amount of expected non-oil operation by the advanced quantitative statistical methods in Iran's ports. According to the results obtained from comparing predicted and actual statistics, these ports have been affected by the current economic crisis, but after one-year delay.
N75|Aligning with both the Soviet Union and with the Pharmaceutical Transnationals: Dilemmas attendant on initiating Drug Production in India|The paper discusses the processes typically underlying the Government of India’s technological choices in the mid 1950s, with a case study of the pharmaceutical industry. It argues that questions of the future development of India’s pharmaceutical industry was impacted by debates over placing it in the public or private sector, and over securing finance from the government’s own budget,from transnational corporations or through Soviet aid. A close scrutiny of the trajectory of these debates reveals how the highly contested conception of the required scope of the production process finally emerged. This scope then determined why, when faced with an offer from the USSR for an integrated pharmaceutical complex also manufacturing dye intermediates; and from the German conglomerate Bayer for a standalone plant for chemical intermediates, both for drugs and dyes, the Government decided to accept the Bayer proposal.
N75|The Industrial Revolution in Miniature: The Spinning Jenny in Britain, France, and India|This paper uses the adoption and invention of the spinning jenny as a test case to understand why the industrial revolution occurred in Britain in the eighteenth century rather than in France or India. It is shown that wages were much higher relative to capital prices in Britain than in other countries. Calculation of the profitability of adopting the spinning jenny shows that it was profitable in Britain but not in France or in India. Since the jenny was profitable to use only in Britain, it was only in Britain that it was worth incurring the costs necessary to develop it. That is why the jenny was invented in Britain but not elsewhere. Irrespective of the quality of their institutions or the progressiveness of their cultures, neither the French nor the Indians would have found it profitable to mechanize cotton production in the eighteenth century.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N75|The effect of exchange rate volatility on international trade in East Asia|In this paper, we empirically investigate the relationship between exchange rate volatility and international trade, focusing on East Asia. Our findings are summarized as follows: first, intra-East Asian trade is discouraged by exchange rate volatility more seriously than trade in other regions. Second, one important source of the discouragement is that intermediate goods trade in international production networks, which is quite sensitive to exchange rate volatility compared with other types of trade, occupies a significant fraction of East Asian trade. Third, the negative effect of the volatility is greater than that of tariffs and smaller than that of distance-related costs in East Asia.
N75|An Emerging Powerhouse in Eurasian Geopolitics : The Shanghai Sýx+|The paper is a study of a rather recent regional interstate formation in Asia, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Its background and progress is highlighted. With all indications, the organisation has caught the attention of researchers and will continue to occupy the agenda of the 21st century international politics. Bearing in mind the size and weight of its membership within the area it spans, the organisation is set to be a powerhouse to reckon with beyond its regional borders. After its structure is described, what the organisation implies for Russian and Chinese interests is taken up. The Organisation has significant implications for the Central Asian States and the neighboring countries. As an institutional actor in the global game, its regional and global implications are highlighted.
N75|Special Economic Zones and Economic Corridors|"Various reports show that special economic zones (SEZ) have become a prime catalyst for regional development in developing countries such as China and the ASEAN countries. The SEZ can be defined as a specific geographical region with economic laws that are more liberal than a country's typical economic laws. Many SEZs have characteristics of bonded zones, export processing zone (EPZ) or free trade zones and provide special incentives, including tax exemption or reduction to investors. The purpose of the paper is to enumerate the candidates for SEZ in Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, and Vietnam (CLMV countries) according to four types: ""metropolitan areas,"" ""ports and harbors,"" ""border areas"" and ""junctions or intersections."" The first two types are based on the experience of forerunning ASEAN countries and the latter two are based on the economic corridors of the Greater Mekong Sub region Economic Cooperation Program. The paper concludes by identifying locations for the questionnaire and flowchart approach-based surveys, and presenting country-specific strategies."
N75|Testing the general validity of the Heckscher-Ohlin Theorem: the natural experiment of Japan|We exploit Japan's 19th century opening up to trade to test a general formulation of the Heckscher-Ohlin theorem. This formulation is based on Ohlin's measure of factor scarcity where autarky factor prices impose a refutable prediction on the economy's factor content of trade. Our test combines factor price data in Japan's autarky period with commodity trade data and a technology matrix in Japan's early free trade period. Our technology matrix is derived from a major Japanese survey of agricultural techniques during the early Meiji period, accounts by European visitors and numerous studies by Japanese and western scholars that draw on village records, business accounts and other historical sources. Evaluating Japan's factor content of trade during 1868-1875 at the corresponding autarky factor prices, we fail to reject the Heckscher-Ohlin prediction in each sample year.
N75|Thailand-U.S. FTA of Table Grape: The Impact on Related Sectors|Thailand imports a large volume of table grapes from the United States of America. The Thai – U.S. Free Trade Agreement (FTA) will reduce tariff on imports and thus import value changes which will affect related sectors of Thai economy system. The objectives of this study are to estimate trend of importing quantity and value of table grapes from the U.S. caused by the reduction of import tariff under the FTA, and to evaluate the impact of the tariff reduction on related sectors of the Thai economy. The result found that the relative price of grape and real capita income elasticities of demand are -1.1 and 4.7, respectively. The relative price was expected to decrease while the real capita income increases. This would raise the import value and lead to the accumulation of 19,520.4 million baht from 2007 to 2017. The sectors related to the fruit orchard sector as an intermediate input users were least affected by 13.62 million baht decrease of the economic value. In contrast, the intermediate input sectors would be most affected by 6,587.80 million baht decrease of the economic value. These sectors were agricultural services sector, fertilizer, pesticide and insecticide sector, wholesale trade sector, basic chemicals sector, banking service sector, cutlery and hand tools sector, petroleum refinery gas separated plant sector, retail trade sector, and plastic wares sector. The government and related organizations should develop measures to reduce the impacts that may occur. An efficient restructuring of the agricultural production system of affected sectors is also recommended.
