N76|Evaluación de la Misión Bogotá S.XXI en materia de cobertura de servicios públicos domiciliarios (1990-2017)|Este ensayo pretende evaluar el cumplimiento o no de los objetivos de cobertura en servicios públicos domésticos (SPD) propuestos por la Misión Bogotá S. XXI, 28 años después de su creación, específicamente en los servicios de energía eléctrica, acueducto, alcantarillado, aseo y gas natural. El trabajo se estructura en cuatro secciones: 1) contexto socioeconómico de Bogotá a finales del S.XX; 2) propuestas hechas por la Misión en materia de cobertura de los SPD y condición inicial de Bogotá en este aspecto; 3) evaluación sectorial de los alcances de la Misión en materia de cobertura y 4) conclusiones. Se llega al resultado de que el cumplimiento de los objetivos dependerá en buena medida de la metodología utilizada para medir la cobertura; si bien en las dos metodologías analizadas en todos los SPD para 2017 superan tasas del 70%, existe una, basada en las proyecciones de demanda del servicio, que muestra coberturas cercanas al 100% y otra, basada en proyecciones del número total de hogares, que muestra tasas entre el 71y 78% para 2017. This essay aims to assess the compliance or not of the coverage objectives in domestic public services (SPD) proposed by the Bogota S.XXI Mission, 28 years after its creation, specifically in the electric power services, aqueduct, sewerage, and toilet and natural gas. The work is structured in four sections, 1) socioeconomic context of Bogotá at the end of the 20th century; 2) proposals made by the Mission regarding coverage of the SPD and the initial condition of Bogotá in this regard; 3) sectorial evaluation of the scope of the Mission in terms of coverage and 4) Conclusion. As a result, the fulfilment of the objectives will depend to a large extent on the methodology used to measure the coverage, although in the two analyzed methodologies all SPD for 2017 surpass rates of 70%, there is one, based on the demand projections of the service, which shows coverage close to 100% and another, based on projections of the total number of households, showing rates between 71% and 78% for 2017.
N76|Un bicentenario del café en Colombia: estrategia competitiva y cambio estructural|Un análisis empírico de la estrategia exportadora de Colombia frente a Brasil en el mercado cafetero durante 1826-2018, considerando una competencia oligopolista por productos diferenciados. La relación de cointegración bilateral de las exportaciones según precios, costos, demanda y cambios en la política comercial fue estimada mediante un modelo de mínimos cuadrados ordinarios dinámico. Los resultados sugieren que Colombia transitó desde ser un incipiente exportador y tomador de precios, hasta convertirse en oligopolista del café suave ante la política de valorización del Brasil. Luego de la ruptura del Acuerdo Internacional del Café, protagonizando un intercambio de roles, cuyos efectos se simulan según un escenario contrafactual. *** An empirical analysis of the export strategy of Colombia against Brazil in the coffee market during 1826-2018, considering an oligopolistic competition for differentiated products. The relationship of bilateral cointegration of exports according to prices, costs, demand and changes in trade policy was estimated using a dynamic ordinary least squares model. The results suggest that Colombia went from being an incipient exporter and price taker, until becoming an oligopolist of soft coffee before Brazil's valorization policy. After the breakdown of the International Coffee Agreement, starring in an exchange of roles, whose effects are simulated according to a counterfactual scenario.
N76|El nuevo modelo de recolección de basuras en Bogotá: ¿Populismo saliente o monopolización entrante?|En febrero de 2018, Bogotá percibió un cambio rotundo en el sistema de recolección de residuos sólidos, pasando de un modelo regido por la compañía Aguas de Bogotá (AB) –de composición pública- a un esquema ejecutado únicamente por entidades privadas, en medio de los escándalos de corrupción, negligencia, parcialismo y sanciones millonarias alrededor del servicio de aseo. Se presenta pues un dilema entre el populismo saliente y la monopolización entrante. El presente documento despliega las diferencias entre los esquemas de recolección de basuras en Bogotá, teniendo como eje central las condiciones técnicas y sociales de las empresas y los inconvenientes que tuvieron que padecer los usuarios, estas personas fueron terriblemente afectadas en términos de la salud pública, ya que la acumulación de residuos orgánicos e inorgánicos, la presencia de diferentes plagas (roedores, insectos) y fuertes olores, todo gracias a la ineficiencia burocrática y administrativa que se reflejaron con mayor acuciosidad el 12 de febrero de 2018. Para ello, se analizó la información recopilada de varias fuentes periodísticas, además de emplear documentación oficial de las entidades relacionadas con el fin contrastar las realidades expuestas por los agentes inmersos en la problemática.
N76|Furthering regional energy security instead of national approaches|Abstract This paper argues that furthering energy security should move beyond a national approach and consequently consider a regional one. The case study considers Mercosur and UNASUR, covering the period between 2015-2050. The methodology is based on energy modeling and scenarization using the Open Source Energy Modelling System – South America Model Base (OSeMOSYS-SAMBA), a model of planning for the expansion of long-term energy systems. The modeling exercise supports the argument that greater electricity integration in Mercosur (and in South America as a whole) promotes a reduction in the need to increase installed capacity, as well as lower geographic and socio-environmental impacts. Keyword: Energy Security; Energy Integration; Mercosur; UNASUR. JEL Codes: C6, N76, O13, Q4
N76|Desarrollo de las vías de comunicación en Colombia: el problema de la construcción de carreteras de 1945 a 1970|En el presente documento se realiza un estudio acerca del desarrollo en la infraestructura vial que Colombia experimentó durante el periodo comprendido de 1945 hasta 1970. Mediante el análisis de fuentes primarias recuperadas del Archivo General de la Nación se pretende dar solución al siguiente interrogante: ¿De qué manera los obstáculos legislativos y de financiamiento frenaron el desarrollo en las carreteras como vías de comunicación en Colombia durante el periodo 1945 – 1970? Finalmente, se pretende llegar a la conclusión de que, la existencia de una legislación ineficiente y la falta de recursos para el financiamiento de las obras, afectaron negativamente el desarrollo de la infraestructura vial del país durante el periodo estudiado y condicionaron nocivamente su progreso actual. ****** In this document we investigated about the development of Colombia’s road infrastructure during the period between 1945 and 1970. Throughout the analysis of primary sources recovered from the General Archive of the Nation we attempt to give an answer to the following question: In what way the legislative and financing obstacles stopped the development in roads as communication routes in Colombia from 1945 to 1970? We conclude that the existence of an inefficient legislation and the lack of resources for the financing of the works, affected negatively the development of the country road infrastructure during the period studied, and that these conditioned its actual progress.
N76|Income terms of trade and economic convergence: Evidence from Latin America|The paper considers the effects of income terms of trade (ToT) on GDP per capita in Latin American economies and examines whether improvement in the income ToT (in absolute and relative terms) contributes to the stochastic convergence between respective economies and the US. It is shown that in the majority of the economies, income ToT had positive effects on the level of GDP per capita. The stochastic convergence was documented in Chile, Dominican Republic, and Uruguay. The positive effects of income ToT increase on GDP per capita convergence were documented only in Chile and Uruguay. The growth of the volume of exports played a key role in the process, while the effects on the part of net barter ToT were insignificant. In both economies, the improvement in the income ToT relative to the US level played a positive role in convergence.
N76|The Reconstruction Of Brazil’S Foreign Trade Series, 1821-1913|To date, research on the economic history of Brazil during the 19 th century has relied on official foreign trade statistics, the accuracy of which has repeatedly been put into question. This paper provides insights into the accuracy of the official series by examining the accuracy of the export and import series for Brazil during the 19 th century. We re-estimate the official import series using trading partner sources, and find that the official series was marginally under-valued during certain periods of the 19 th century. Furthermore, we provide new upper- and lower-bound estimates of the export series by testing different assumptions regarding the size of the cost, insurance and freight to free on board factor adjustments. Finally, we introduce a new import price index for the period 1827-1913.
N76|Why did Argentina become a super-exporter of agricultural and food products during the Belle Époque (1880-1929)?|The objective of this paper is to explain, from a cliometric perspective, the determinants of the growth of Argentina’s exports between 1880 and 1929. To do this, we have constructed a gravity model with the principal products exported each year by Argentina to its most important trading partners. In this way, we believe that this study constitutes a relevant and original contribution to the analysis of economic growth from a historical perspective and specifically in explaining the factors determining the export success of the settler countries during the first wave of globalisation. Our results show that Argentina’s export-led growth must be explained from both the supply and demand sides. We also find that the reduction in transatlantic transport costs boosted exports.
N76|Poor man's crop? Slavery on Brazilian cotton regions (1800-1850)|The literature about cotton production in Brazil during the nineteenth century in large part associates cotton as a “poor man’s crop” – cultivated by small farmers who did not employ a large slave labor force. Information from population maps between 1800 and 1840, however, shows that slaves represented half the population in Maranhão, the most important cotton exporter in Brazil until 1850. This represented a higher share than that observed in any northeast region in Brazil, and was comparable to those recorded in the United States’ Cotton South. This paper shows that, during the cotton boom years (1790-1820), not only large plantations cultivated the cotton exported from northeast Brazil to Britain and other countries in Europe, but also that slave prices were higher in Maranhão than in other provinces.
N76|Height and infant mortality during the civil war and the autarchy: The Valencian Community (Spain)|This article analyzes the biological wellbeing among male conscripts in the region of Valencia (Eastern Spain) during the Civil War and the subsequent period of autarchy during Franco’s dictatorship. For this purpose we use 124,284 height records from 20yr conscripts born between 1900 and 1954 from ten municipalities along with region-level infant mortality rates. We analyze inter-cohort deviations from a secular trend which is established upon cohorts that were not exposed to war and postwar-related environmental stress. Results show that the mean height cohort trend slowed down meaningfully among cohorts that were raised in the context of the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939) and/or during the autarchic postwar decade (1940-1949). Interestingly, the effects of this environmental stress are to have been greater during the adolescent period. The height series at the local level evidence very dissimilar magnitudes of the nutritional crisis in this Spanish region. The worsening of the net nutritional status was greater in industrial towns as well as in rural areas with some agriculture specialization. By contrast, the impact of war and postwar, as measure by height, was negligible in other areas. Finally, although infant mortality declined during the decade of 1940s the combined analysis of height and mortality uncovers that such decline was likely associated with medical advances and interventions in the field of hygiene rather than with improved nutrition.
N76|Una aproximación a la historia del ferrocarril en Brasil (1850-1950): Legislación, empresas y capitales británicos|The main objective of this paper is to study the long-term Brazilian railways, between 1850 and 1950, since the beginning of the construction of the first railways until the end of British hegemony. We understand that the history of the railways shows how few cases the effects of the processes of mobility of factors that boosted the dissemination of the first and second industrial revolution. Brazil is a good example. The early development of the railways and the presence of British capital, in a time when the state was still in the process of consolidation, reinforcing the theory of dependency that has been described by many as an informal empire. The large size of the territory, which led to the emergence of networks of regional vocation that had no connection with each other, the crucial importance of export flows, with special emphasis of coffee, in the configuration of the network from the inside to periphery, and continuous adaptation legislation to facilitate business financing, are some of the points on which we focus our analysis.
N76|Too late but profitable: Railroads in Colombia during 1920–1950|During the 1920s, the Colombian economy experienced the highest growth rate in its history. The economic reforms of 1923 (central bank, gold standard, banking legislation, fiscal reorganization), a coffee boom, and an unprecedented influx of foreign capital were the driving forces behind this success. The loans obtained by 1929 amounted to 257 million dollars. Those funds were used mainly to build much needed infrastructure, particularly railroads. In this paper, we estimate the rates of return of the investments made in Colombian railroads during the period 1924–1950. We consider that Colombia ended up paying only around 85% of the loans obtained in the 1920s, owing to the suspension of foreign debt payments; as a result, the profitability in the construction of railways was higher. The rates of return on the railroads constructed and extended in the 1920s are comparable to those obtained for European countries in the nineteenth century. KEY Classification-JEL: N26. N76. O16. O18
N76|Empresas de vapores en el Caribe Colombiano: La navegación fluvial y los ferrocarriles en el Magdalena Grande y el Bajo Magdalena, 1870 - 1930|En este trabajo se indaga sobre la presencia de empresas y empresarios extranjeros en el Caribe colombiano entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El objetivo es conocer su participación en el comercio exterior colombiano, así como sus aportes a la innovación tecnológica en un sector estratégico como el del transporte. Para este fin, en el artículo se analizan las experiencias empresariales en la navegación fluvial a vapor, así como en los ferrocarriles de Barranquilla y Santa Marta, actividades que han estado siempre asociadas a inversionistas extranjeros.
N76|Cartagena de Indias y su tierra adentro a fines del siglo XVIII: Un análisis demográfico|La huella profunda del legado colonial, en términos del enorme desbalance en desarrollo material entre las ciudades portuarias del Caribe colombiano (Cartagena, Santa Marta, Mompox), ha sido una constante de la vida republicana de la región. Ello se ha manifestado en: 1) la extrema pobreza rural, 2) la persistencia de un alto grado de urbanización y 3) las enormes desigualdades en ingresos y riqueza al interior de las zonas rurales. La gran paradoja del Caribe neogranadino a fines del siglo XVIII es que sus principales ciudades, Cartagena y Mompox, estaban dentro de las más dinámicas y prósperas a pesar de que la población de las zonas rurales era muy escasa y dispersa, y la mayoría vivía en condiciones miserables y por fuera de los ámbitos de poder colonial, como el de la Iglesia Católica. Este trabajo analiza esa escasa integración entre el Caribe urbano y el mundo rural haciendo uso de la información demográfica recolectada hacia 1777 en el Virreinato de Nueva Granada. ******ABSTRACT: The long term impact of the colonial legacy in terms of the imbalance in the levels of economic development between the port cities (Cartagena, Santa Marta, Mompox) has been a been evident in the Colombian Caribbean. This legacy has had an influence on: 1) the extreme levels of rural poverty, 2) the persistence of high levels of urbanization, and 3) the enormous disparities in levels of income and wealth within the rural sector. The tragic paradox of the Caribbean region of the Viceroyalty of New Granada at the end of the eighteenth century was that although its main cities were among the most dynamic and prosperous in the viceroyalty, as was evident in its public and private architecture, the population of the rural areas was very small, widely dispersed, the mayority lived in miserable conditions, and away from the control of the colonial authorities and the Catholic Church. The limited integration between the urban and rural Caribbean is analyzed in this paper using information of the population census collected around 1777 by the Spanish Crown.
N76|Empresas de vapores en el Caribe Colombiano: La navegación fluvial y los ferrocarriles en el Magdalena Grande y el Bajo Magdalena, 1870 - 1930|En este trabajo se indaga sobre la presencia de empresas y empresarios extranjeros en el Caribe colombiano entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El objetivo es conocer su participación en el comercio exterior colombiano, así como sus aportes a la innovación tecnológica en un sector estratégico como el del transporte. Para este fin, en el artículo se analizan las experiencias empresariales en la navegación fluvial a vapor, así como en los ferrocarriles de Barranquilla y Santa Marta, actividades que han estado siempre asociadas a inversionistas extranjeros. ******ABSTRACT: This paper investigates about the presence of foreign companies and businessmen in the Colombian Caribbean between the 1870s and 1930s. This in order to understand their participation in the Colombian foreign trade, as well as their contributions to technological innovation in a strategic sector such as transportation. For this purpose, business experiences in river steamboat and railroad transportation in Barranquilla and Santa Marta are analyzed, activities which have always been linked to foreign investors.
N76|Cartagena de Indias y su tierra adentro a fines del siglo XVIII: Un análisis demográfico|La huella profunda del legado colonial, en términos del enorme desbalance en desarrollo material entre las ciudades portuarias del Caribe colombiano (Cartagena, Santa Marta, Mompox), ha sido una constante de la vida republicana de la región. Ello se ha manifestado en: 1) la extrema pobreza rural, 2) la persistencia de un alto grado de urbanización y 3) las enormes desigualdades en ingresos y riqueza al interior de las zonas rurales. La gran paradoja del Caribe neogranadino a fines del siglo XVIII es que sus principales ciudades, Cartagena y Mompox, estaban dentro de las más dinámicas y prósperas a pesar de que la población de las zonas rurales era muy escasa y dispersa, y la mayoría vivía en condiciones miserables y por fuera de los ámbitos de poder colonial, como el de la Iglesia Católica. Este trabajo analiza esa escasa integración entre el Caribe urbano y el mundo rural haciendo uso de la información demográfica recolectada hacia 1777 en el Virreinato de Nueva Granada.
N76|Transacciones internacionales de electricidad en Colombia. Impactos a la demanda interna|En este trabajo se presentan los impactos a la demanda interna en Colombia, producidos por las transacciones internacionales de electricidad. Se hace un análisis de las transacciones con los enlaces existentes (Venezuela y Ecuador) y se proyecta el impacto que pueda producir la futura conexión con Panamá. ****** This study presents the impacts on Colombian domestic demand produced by international transactions of electricity. It analyzes the transactions with the current transmission lines (Venezuela and Ecuador), and projects the impact than could produce a future connection with Panamá.
N76|Turismo all-inclusive en República Dominicana. Un análisis desde la perspectiva de la demanda turística|El sistema “todo incluido” se ha convertido en un servicio predominante en los destinos de sol y playa, generando importantes beneficios para los turistas, aunque también algunos aspectos negativos para el destino. En República Dominicana se configura como la principal oferta turística del país, destacando en Punta Cana - Bávaro y Puerto Plata. El objetivo de esta investigación es analizar las valoraciones de los turistas internacionales de “todo incluido” que llegan a Puerto Plata, para conocer su percepción. Esta investigación se ha basado en la realización de un cuestionario a los visitantes extranjeros. Los principales resultados muestran que son turistas de un perfil económico medio-alto, destacando aquellos visitantes que eligen este destino por Internet y las agencias de viajes. Las playas y la facilidad de entrada al país han sido los aspectos más valorados por los turistas.
N76|Transporte y mercado interno en Colombia: una contribución a un debate hasta ahora desconocido, 1928-1950|Algunos autores sostienen que durante el siglo XIX y principios del XX, el desarrollo del mercado interno colombiano fue escaso como consecuencia del atrasado sistema de transportes. Sin embargo, otros autores atribuyen el pobre desarrollo de las vías de comunicación precisamente a la ausencia de un mercado interno consolidado. El documento establece los términos de este debate inadvertido hasta ahora en la literatura sobre la primera mitad del siglo XX, incluso en la historiografía económica colonial, proponiendo la prueba de causalidad de Granger (procedimiento Toda-Yamamoto) como estrategia metodológica para contribuir empíricamente al debate.
N76|Baseline projections for Latin America: base-year assumptions, key drivers and greenhouse emissions|This paper provides an overview of the base-year assumptions and baseline projections for the set of models participating in the LAMP and CLIMACAP projects. We present the range in baseline projections for Latin America, and identify key differences between model projections including how these projections compare to historic trends. We find relatively large differences across models in base year assumptions related to population, GDP, energy and CO2 emissions due to the use of different data sources, but also conclude that this does not influence the range of projections. We find that population and GDP projections across models span a broad range, comparable to the range represented by the set of Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs). Kaya-factor decomposition indicates that the set of baseline scenarios mirrors trends experienced over the past decades. Emissions in Latin America are projected to rise as a result of GDP and population growth and a minor shift in the energy mix toward fossil fuels. Most scenarios assume a somewhat higher GDP growth than historically observed and continued decline of population growth. Minor changes in energy intensity or energy mix are projected over the next few decades.
N76|Economics of U.S. natural gas exports: Should regulators limit U.S. LNG exports?|This study assesses the level and destination of U.S. LNG exports, using a global natural market model under a wide range of EMF 31 scenarios. The scenarios reflect different U.S. natural gas resource outlooks, market conditions, changing U.S. environmental regulations, and possible changes in geopolitical conditions that affect the global natural gas demand and supply. U.S. LNG exports respond to market conditions under each scenario and are free from any artificial limits. In the near-term, U.S. LNG exports are uncompetitive in the Reference case and in the long-run U.S. LNG exports are significant when U.S. natural gas resources are plentiful. However under demand shocks (increase demand in Asia) or supply shocks (reduction in Russian supplies) or persistence of oil-indexed pricing cases, U.S. LNG exports become competitive to varying degrees. U.S. exports depend not only on U.S. economics but also on how U.S. prices change relative to price changes in other regions of the world. We conclude that limiting U.S. LNG exports is inconsistent with simulated uncertainties, and it should be left to the market to determine the levels and destination of exports.
N76|An illiquid market in the desert: estimating the cost of water trade restrictions in northern Chile|This paper estimates the cost of a policy to restrict water trades to mining firms in northern Chile to protect riparian ecosystems and indigenous agriculture. In response to the policy, mining firms have developed high-cost desalination and pumping facilities to secure adequate water supplies. We develop a methodology and estimate the cost of market transactions that fail to occur due to the policy. Lost trade surplus is estimated at $52 million per year. Without trade restrictions, around 86% of the remaining agricultural water in the region would be transferred to mining.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N76|Bolivia’S Energy Consumption And Economic Growth Profile: Is There A Link?|an annual average growth rate of 3.6% over the period of 1998 and 2008, the Bolivian economic statistics shows that over 60% of the country’s GDP growth rate can be attributed to its export sector. However, energy consumption also grew significantly over the same period. Thus we seek to establish the directional causality between energy consumption and economic growth in Bolivia using secondary annual data for the period of 1971 to 2010. The Granger-causality tests indicate that there is an unidirectional causality that runs from economic growth to energy consumption with no feedback. The study, therefore, recommends that policies meant to manage growing energy demand can be instituted without obstructing growth in Bolivia. Energy taxation and pricing reform can help raise additional revenue for development
N76|The Rise of the Cotton Trade in Brazil during the Industrial Revolution|When and why did Brazilian cotton become important to the Industrial Revolution? After 1780, Brazil increased substantially its trade share relative to other cotton suppliers. Between 1791 and 1801, Brazilian cotton represented 40 percent of raw cotton imports in Liverpool, rivalling the West Indies. Using archival data between 1760 and 1808, this paper shows that Brazil benefited from increasing British demand for a new variety of cotton staple that emerged with mechanized textile production. Previous explanations for the rise of Brazilian cotton trade attributed it to the revolutions in the Caribbean in the 1790s, and the American Revolutionary War, which ended in 1783. Evidence, however, suggests that these explanations are incomplete or incorrect. The United States did not export cotton to Britain before 1790, and British imports from the West Indies did not fall after the revolutions. The increase in cotton trade between Brazil and Britain can be explained by four parallel stories: 1) how diplomatic conflicts between Portugal and Britain involving the wine trade increased Brazilian cotton importance in the Portuguese trade balance; 2) how cotton plantations in Brazil managed to respond to Britain’s increasing demand after the 1780s; 3) why the West Indies were not a viable alternative to Brazilian cotton; 4) why the Brazilian cotton staple had natural advantages over initial alternatives for new textile machines in Britain.
N76|La estadística de las exportaciones argentinas, 1875-1913. Nuevas evidencias e interpretaciones|Argentine export statistics from the last decades of the nineteenth century up until the First World War has been widely revisited over the years. This paper presents a reconstruction of an economic data series, contributing to well-documented debates around the reliability and limitations of existing official records. This new database adopts a systematic, multilateral and long-term approach. The level of granularity both, in terms of product breakdown and geographic distribution, is its main contribution. Through this work, we describe how original data was modified, and our results are compared with previous data series. Key highlights from our research include: the identification of export cycles, the performance of volumes vs. prices, the fragmentation trend of the Argentine international trade, a revaluation of the intermediate ports, and the diversification destinations. KEY Classification-JEL: F14. N01. N7. N76
N76|Big push or big grab? Railways, government activism, and export growth in Latin America, 1865–1913|" type=""main""> Railways were one of the main engines of the Latin American trade boom before 1914. Railway construction often required financial support from local governments, which depended on their fiscal capacity. However, since the main government revenues were trade-related, this generated a two-way feedback between government revenues and railways, with a potential for multiple equilibria. The empirical tests in this article support the hypothesis of such a positive two-way relationship. The main implication of our analysis is that the build-up of state capacity was a necessary condition for railway expansion and also, to a large extent, for export expansion in Latin America during the first globalization."
N76|Global Finance Brief: Do Loan-to-Value Ratio Regulation Changes Affect Canada Mortgage Credit?|Analyzing the Canadian housing market to understand LTV ratio regulation changes
N76|El Apostadero de la Marina de Cartagena, sus trabajadores y la crisis política de la independencia|Este artículo estudia el Apostadero de la Marina de Cartagena de Indias durante el tránsito entre los siglos XVIII y XIX y, en particular, las características de los trabajos que en él se realizaban. Muestra que las labores de los sistemas defensivos demandaban grandes concentraciones de trabajadores, y que estas formas de trabajo estaban más allá del pequeño taller artesanal encabezado por un maestro y con la participación de la unidad familiar o de un escaso número de oficiales y aprendices. Sugiere que existió una relación entre la crisis del Imperio a partir de 1808, la crisis presupuestal del Apostadero y la crisis política de Cartagena, con el respaldo que los trabajadores brindaron al proyecto de independencia absoluta de España.
N76|El apostadero de la Marina de Cartagena de Indias, sus trabajadores y la crisis política de la independencia|Este artículo estudia el Apostadero de la Marina de Cartagena de Indias durante el tránsito entre los siglos XVIII y XIX y, en particular, las características de los trabajos que en él se realizaban. Muestra que las labores de los sistemas defensivos demandaban grandes concentraciones de trabajadores, y que estas formas de trabajo estaban más allá del pequeño taller artesanal encabezado por un maestro y con la participación de la unidad familiar o de un escaso número de oficiales y aprendices. Sugiere que existió una relación entre la crisis del Imperio a partir de 1808, la crisis presupuestal del Apostadero y la crisis política de Cartagena, con el respaldo que los trabajadores brindaron al proyecto de independencia absoluta de España.
N76|Estimación del consumo de combustibles en el transporte terrestre en Ecuador|El sector de transporte terrestre es el sector con mayor consumo de combustibles en el Ecuador, por lo que es necesario determinar de manera eficiente cuales son los grupos de automotores con mayor demanda, con el fin de controlar el crecimiento en el consumo de combustibles. El parque automotor del Ecuador ha presentado una gran tasa de crecimiento en los últimos años, por esta razón es de vital importancia implantar metodologías que permitan establecer políticas de levantamiento y recolección de datos para estimar eficientemente los indicadores necesarios para su correcta valoración; varias de las metodologías se proponen en este estudio. Algunos países, y organismos internacionales, ya han realizado estudios de este tipo donde se proponen metodologías que pueden ser utilizadas con este fin, la selección del método varía según la información disponible en cada país. El modelo propuesto en este estudio toma en cuenta tres variables: el parque automotor nacional, el indicador KVR, y la intensidad de consumo de combustible, clasificados por tipo de vehículo y carburante que consumen, el cual puede ser implementado en el país para estimar eficientemente el consumo de combustibles en este sector.
N76|Uruguay And The First Globalization: On The Accuracy Of Export Performance, 1870-1913|In order to understand Uruguay’s long-run economic evolution it becomes crucial to interpret its export performance during the First Globalization. The lack of accuracy of official figures, especially official prices used, calls for an adjustment of Uruguayan export series. We have used empirical evidence to test the accuracy of quantities and values of export records, first, according to import partners’ records and, second, according to international market prices. Results show a general undervaluation of official export values during the period along with severe distortions in the registers caused by transit trade. We reconstructed new Uruguayan export f.o.b values and an export price index which present a more unstable and less dynamic export evolution than that of neighbouring Argentina.
N76|Brazilian export growth and divergence in the tropics during the nineteenth century|The objective of this paper is to reappraise both the accuracy of the official export statistics and the conventional narrative of Brazilian export growth during the period immediately following independence. We undertake an accuracy test of the official values of Brazilian export statistics and find evidence of considerable under-valuation. Once corrected, during the postindependence decades (1821-1849) Brazil's current exports represented a larger share of its economy and its constant growth is found to be more dynamic than any other period of the nineteenth century. We posit that this dynamism was related to an exogenous institutional shock in the form of British West Indies slave emancipation that afforded Brazil a competitive advantage.
N76|The Empiricists' Insurgency|Research on insurgency has been invigorated this past decade by better data, improved methods, and the urgency of understanding active engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan. This empiricists’ insurgency reinforces a classic literature on the essential role of civilians while challenging older theories about how they affect conflict outcomes. It provides a general framework describing “irregular” insurgencies (where government capacity exceeds rebel capacity), which is analytically cohesive and empirically tested using subnational data from multiple conflicts. The new research provides guidance on intervention design, including governance improvement, development programs, and rules of engagement. The design of interventions matters: some key evidence comes from measuring the effects of misguided policies. The framework may enable better conceived and implemented interventions, including foreign engagements with and without troop deployment, depending on the type of insurgency and mindful of political limitations. We position these findings in the literature, and highlight directions for future research, including legal aspects of countering insurgency.
N76|Motives as Locational Determinants: A Study of FDI between India and LAC|This paper addresses the issue of motives as locational determinants of foreign direct investment (FDI) flows from India to the Latin American region. India and the Latin America and Caribbean (LAC) have emerged as important centers of global FDI but have traditionally had insignificant FDI flows between them. The paper is a pioneering study examining motives of the newly emerging FDI relationship between India and the LAC region. The study uses a firm level data base across seven countries and multiple industries in an augmented gravity framework. It contributes to the literature on emerging markets as it concludes that FDI flows from India to the LAC are both asset seeking and asset exploiting, bridging the gap between traditional and modern explanations of FDI. Using a negative binomial regression model the study establishes that FDI flows dominate from the information technology and pharmaceutical industries and are market-seeking for nearshore advantages to the USA and strategic asset seeking for patents and technology.
N76|The dynamics of international trade in cereals, 1900-1938|The aim of this paper is to analyse the dynamics of international trade in cereals in the first third of the twentieth century. To this end we will study its evolution over this period, comparing it also with the general trade of food and agricultural products. In addition, we will examine the structure of this trade. For wheat, maize and rice we will examine the operation of their respective markets, with special attention to the import and export flows between consumers and producers. To better understand the functioning of the market for these products, we will examine the changes in supply, demand and prices.
N76|Globalization and Technological Capabilities: Evidence from Mexico’s Patent Records ca. 1870-1911|Using a new database of all patents issues in Mexico between 1870 and 1911, this paper explores the impact of the vast wave of technology imports into Mexico during the nineteenth century period of globalization. Historians have established that massive technology imports made possible sustained economic growth and early industrialization during this period, but have not systematically explored the degree to which the skills and know-how embodied in new imported technologies stimulated adaptive and inventive activity in Mexico. Did imported technologies stimulate local technological creativity, or were Mexican technicians largely isolated from the adoption and use of imported techniques? The evidence shows that imports did stimulate patenting activity by Mexicans, although this response was modest in relation to increased patenting by inventors from North Atlantic countries. In general, Mexican inventors focused on activities outside the core technical advances on the global frontier, and often on activities that were more entrepreneurial than technical, although we can observe several important exceptions. These findings support the argument that technological capabilities were scarce in Mexico and local technicians had few opportunities to engage with and learn from imported know-how.
N76|The British commercial houses in Peru and Chile between the two world wars: success and failure|The previously successful British merchant houses on the west coast of South America faced significant problems between the two world wars. Earlier historians have referred to difficulties such as the volatility of commodity prices, the organisation and structure of the firms, and changes in patterns of trade. This paper, instead, compares their different experiences on the basis of archives from the merchants and their banks, concluding that their response to crisis differed, depending on the manner and extent of diversification, their core expertise, the quality of their management, and the support of their banks. The outcomes varied from outright failure to continued growth, with the two largest firms struggling to survive and adapt to the new business environment.
N76|Uruguay y la Primera Globalización. Sobre la precisión del desempeño exportador, 1870-1913|In order to understand Uruguayan long-run economic evolution it becomes crucial to interpret its export performance during the First Globalization. The lack of accuracy of official figures, especially official prices used, calls for an adjustment of Uruguayan exports series. We have used empirical evidence to test the accuracy of quantities and values of exports' records, first, according to import partners' records and, second, according to international market prices. Results show a general undervaluation of official export values during the period along with severe distortions in the registers caused by transit trade. We reconstructed new Uruguayan export f.o.b values and export price index, which present an export evolution more unstable and less dynamic than the one showed by its neighbor Argentina.
N76|Creación y trayectoria de una empresa pública uruguaya: La Administración de Ferrocarriles del Estado (AFE)|This paper studies the historical evolution of the State Railway Administration (AFE, by its Spanish initials), the state-owned company that has the monopoly on railway services in Uruguay. The railway was nationalized in 1948 when the British owned companies that had operated the network since the 19th century were purchased by the Uruguayan state, and occurred in the context of the post-war move, worldwide, towards greater state intervention. AFE was formed in 1952 when the ex-British railways were merged with the rest of the network that was already in state hands. The company faced grave problems from the start, since it had inherited a railway network that was in very bad shape, and a fleet of locomotives and wagons that was insufficient and excessively old. In addition, the railway network was too large for the country's needs. The main problem, which grew worse over the years, and which affected railways in many parts of the world, was the increasing competition from the automobile. Given this situation, and along with the failure of the state's attempts to regulate the transport market and its incapacity to finances the necessary investments to maintain and modernize the railway, the company grew smaller and the railway services declined, losing their place as the country's primary mode of transport. The goal of this paper is to explain the local determinants of the deterioration of the company and the loss of importance of the railway within the transport sector. The sources used are primarily the company's own records, and using the Argentine case as a point of comparison, we examine the railway's productive and financial performance.
N76|Navigating in Troubled Waters: South American Exports of Food and Agricultural Products in the World Market, 1900-1938|The present study offers a new quantitative base to analyze the evolution of exports of agricultural and food products from South America in the complicated period between 1900 and 1938. The data base has been elaborated from the information published by the International Institute of Agriculture (IIA), in those years. The paper also constructs a terms of trade series for South American agricultural exports, using the data of Grilli-Yang (1988), updated by Pfaffenzeller (2007). It is considered to be the first time of offering for this period a series for the evolution for the terms of trade in the region which takes into account in its construction the relative weight of the exports of the distinct agricultural products. An explanation is provided of the position of South America in the world market for agricultural products on the eve of the First World War. Then it is analyzed first the impact of the war on the volume of agricultural exports from the region and in second place that of the Great Depression. Finally the evolution of the terms of trade of South American agricultural exports throughout the period is analyzed..
N76|The impact of early nineteenth-century globalization on foreign trade in the Southern Cone: A study of British trade statistics|This paper deals with the impact of ‘early’ nineteenth-century globalization (c. 1815–1860) on foreign trade in the Southern Cone (SC). Most of the evidence is drawn from bilateral trades between Britain and the SC, at a time when Britain was the main commercial partner of the new republics. The main conclusion drawn is that early globalization had a positive impact on foreign trade in the SC, and this was due to: improvements in the SC's terms of trade during this period; the SC's per capita consumption of textiles (the main commodity traded on world markets at that time) increased substantially during this period, at a time when clothing was one of the main items of SC household budgets. British merchants brought with them capital, shipping, insurance, and also facilitated the formation of vast global networks, which further promoted the SC's exports to a wider range of outlets. KEY Classification-JEL: N70. N76. O19. R11
N76|Opium after the Manila Galleon: The Spanish involvement in the opium economy in East Asia (1815-1830)|This paper identifies the Spaniards’ involvement in the opium trade in China at the beginning of the 19th century. Several sources have been consulted, mainly the Jardine Matheson Archive at the University of Cambridge and the Archivo General de Indias in Seville. These activities took place from the end of the Manila Galleon until 1830, and were undertaken by some employees of the Spanish Royal Philippine Company in Calcutta and Canton in their private businesses. These houses collaborated closely with the British firms during the opium boom, and Manila private financial support was provided. Thus, Spaniards undoubtedly made a fundamental contribution during a key stage of development of the opium economy and evolution of modern Chinese history, being a precedent of what became the prestigious British company Jardine, Matheson & Co. KEY Classification-JEL: N45. N75. N76. N85
N76|Muy tarde pero rentables: Los ferrocarriles en Colombia durante el período 1920-1950|Durante la década de los años veinte, la economía colombiana experimentó la mayor tasa de crecimiento de su historia. Las reformas económicas efectuadas en 1923 (el banco central, el patrón oro, la legislación bancaria, la reorganización fiscal), el auge del café, y la afluencia sin precedentes de capital extranjero fueron las fuerzas impulsoras detrás de este éxito. En esa década, el país recibió 25 millones de dólares de los Estados Unidos por concepto de indemnización por su papel en la separación de Panamá de Colombia. Además, las reformas y el crecimiento de las exportaciones de café permitieron un enorme aumento de los préstamos extranjeros. El valor de los préstamos obtenidos hasta 1929 ascendió a 257 millones de dólares. Tales fondos se utilizaron principalmente para la construcción de infraestructura pública, en particular los ferrocarriles. Aproximadamente el 45% de los préstamos extranjeros durante ese período fueron invertidos en la construcción de ferrocarriles. Dieciséis de los 25 millones de dólares recibidos por concepto de reparación por Panamá también se invirtieron en ferrocarriles. En el presente estudio, se estima la tasa global de retorno y las tasas internas de retorno para cada uno de los ferrocarriles existente en esa época. Para estos cálculos, se tiene en cuenta que Colombia en realidad pagó sólo el 85% de los préstamos que obtuvo en la década de los años veinte, debido a los efectos de la Gran Depresión y la suspensión de pagos de la deuda externa. Las tasas de rendimiento de los ferrocarriles construidos y ampliados en la década de los años veinte fueron comparables a las obtenidas por los países europeos en el siglo XIX.******ABSTRACT: During the 1920s, the Colombian economy experienced the highest rate of growth in its history. The economic reforms of 1923 (the central bank, gold standard, banking legislation, fiscal reorganization), the coffee boom, and the unprecedented influx of foreign capital were the driving forces behind this success. During that decade, the country received 25 million dollars from the United States as compensation for its role in the separation of Panama from Colombia. Those reforms and the growth in coffee exports also allowed for an enormous increase in foreign loans. The value of the loans obtained by 1929 came to 257 million dollars. Those funds were used mainly to build much needed public infrastructure, particularly railroads. Approximately 45% of the foreign loans during that period were invested in railroad construction. Additionally, 16 of the 25 million dollars received as reparation for Panama were invested in railroads. In this paper, we estimate the global rate of return and the internal rates of return on individual railroads. For those calculations, we consider that Colombia ended up paying only around 85% of the loans obtained in the 1920s’s, owing to the effects of the Great Depression and the suspension of foreign debt payments . The rates of return on the railroads constructed and extended in the 1920´s are comparable to those obtained for European countries in the nineteenth century.
N76|A estrutura tecnológica das exportações dos países em desenvolvimento nos anos 2000: análise e implicações para o crescimento|This paper examines the technological structure of exports from developing countries between 2000 and 2010, according to the classification by technological intensity proposed by Lall (2000). It compares data on exports from developing and developed countries, and from the main export regions among developing countries. Considering the idea that the technological structure of exports has crucial implications for development, the paper also investigates the relation between export structure and economic growth, using panel data. The estimation results suggest that – despite the boom in commodities demand and prices during most of the decade – countries with export structures with higher technological content have presented higher growth rates during the period of analysis.
N76|Muy tarde pero rentables: Los ferrocarriles en Colombia durante el periodo 1920-1950|Durante la década de los años veinte, la economía colombiana experimentó la mayor tasa de crecimiento de su historia. Las reformas económicas efectuadas en 1923 (el banco central, el patrón oro, la legislación bancaria, la reorganización fiscal), el auge del café, y la afluencia sin precedentes de capital extranjero fueron las fuerzas impulsoras detrás de este éxito. En esa década, el país recibió 25 millones de dólares de los Estados Unidos por concepto de indemnización por su papel en la separación de Panamá de Colombia. Además, las reformas y el crecimiento de las exportaciones de café permitieron un enorme aumento de los préstamos extranjeros. El valor de los préstamos obtenidos hasta 1929 ascendió a 257 millones de dólares. Tales fondos se utilizaron principalmente para la construcción de infraestructura pública, en particular los ferrocarriles. Aproximadamente el 45% de los préstamos extranjeros durante ese período fueron invertidos en la construcción de ferrocarriles. Dieciséis de los 25 millones de dólares recibidos por concepto de reparación por Panamá también se invirtieron en ferrocarriles. En el presente estudio, se estima la tasa global de retorno y las tasas internas de retorno para cada uno de los ferrocarriles existente en esa época. Para estos cálculos, se tiene en cuenta que Colombia en realidad pagó sólo el 85% de los préstamos que obtuvo en la década de los años veinte, debido a los efectos de la Gran Depresión y la suspensión de pagos de la deuda externa. Las tasas de rendimiento de los ferrocarriles construidos y ampliados en la década de los años veinte fueron comparables a las obtenidas por los países europeos en el siglo XIX.
N76|Conexão física e integração política na América do Sul com foco no desenvolvimento socioeconômico: uma análise do Eixo Amazonas|O presente artigo propõe analisar em que medida a ampliação dos fóruns de diálogo político entre os países da América do Sul, nos anos recentes, pode favorecer a agenda integracionista da região, e, principalmente, de que maneira o fortalecimento da conexão física pode constituir um fator de desenvolvimento. Especificamente, procurará examinar, focando na análise do Eixo Amazonas englobado nos projetos da Iniciativa de Integração da Infraestrutura Regional Sul-Americana (IIRSA), possíveis efeitos da integração física no desenvolvimento socioeconômico. O estabelecimento de uma agenda de projetos voltados à integração regional se fortalece no contexto de sincronicidade política, com eleições de governos chamados “progresssistas”, no início do século XXI, que objetivam, ademais, melhorias em indicadores sociais. Procura-se investigar como a integração física baseada na infraestrutura poderá levar a uma integração mais ampla, através da atração de investimentos, transferências de conhecimento, da maior integração em cadeias produtivas e circulação de bens e serviços.
N76|Geography, Policy, or Productivity? Regional Trade in five South American Countries, 1910-1950|Regional trade in South America since independence has long been much smaller than would be expected if geography were the only constraint on trade. Several potential explanations exist: low technological and demand complementarities; low productivity; high natural and policy barriers to trade. Focusing on the latter explanations, policy makers have long advocated a South American/Southern Cone Free Trade Area–proposed as early as 1889. Would reductions in trade costs have been sufficient to significantly raise trade, or was trade low for other reasons? We study bilateral trade between 1910 and 1950, when large external shocks altered global supply and demand. These shocks help us show that intra-regional trade could have been boosted with reductions in trade costs. South American regional trade could have benefitted from more benign trade policy or better infrastructure. Regional trade in textiles, which took off from the 1930s, supports our argument that trade improved when trade costs fell.
N76|Presença e ausência do estado na trajetória da indústria da construção naval brasileira, 1959-1989 [Presence and absence of the state in the trajectory of the Brazilian shipbuilding industry, 1959-1989]|This article aims to discuss the role of state planning in the setting up, the expansion and the crisis of the heavy shipbuilding industry in Brazil, between 1959 and 1989. The text is divided into five topics. The first discusses the setting up of the heavy marine industry within the political and strategic goals of the Plano de Metas, which is followed by a slowdown between 1963-1966. It ends with the transformation of CMM and of the SUNAMAM in 1969. A period of consolidation then becomes evident, marked by the rapid growth of the naval complex. The latter followed the shipbuilding plans established between 1969 and 1982. In the third topic, we discuss the beginning of the reversal of expectations, caused by the difficulties in meeting the growth goals set in the 1981 and 1982 plans. This is associated with the crisis in SUNAMAM. In the fourth topic, between 1982 and 1989, while SUNAMAM agonized and funding sources grew scarce, the industry enters a downturn route with a partial dismantling of the naval complex. Finally, the text provides a brief comparative history of the Latin American merchant marines and shipbuilding industries.
N76|A evolução da indústria de máquinas e equipamentos no Brasil: Dedini e Romi, entre 1920 e 1960 [The evolution of the machinery and equipments industry in Brazil: Dedini and Romi, between 1920 and 1960]|The aim of this paper is to examine the evolution of the market machinery industry in Brazil and Sao Paulo between 1920 and 1960, with the object study of two major companies for consolidation in this industry country, Dedini and Romi. The choice of these companies due to the existence of specific studies and historical collections with economic and financial documents. Will highlight the similarities and differences in the performance of these two companies in context of market developments machinery industry. Companies emerged as a small workshop in the first decades of the twentieth century, evolved with the specific market where it operated with great changes in the 1920 and 1930 and signed in the sector after a decade 1940. In the 1960's were the main companies in the sector in which they operated.
N76|Brazil’s Place in the Global Economy|Brazil is a country with long-standing ambitions for a major role in the world economy and in global governance, but its footprint in various measures of both remains relatively modest. On current trends, the gap between ambition and achievement will likely remain large, so we provide a critique of Brazil’s strategy in terms of economic statecraft; reflect on the wisdom of choices made in the past in terms of multilateralism vs. regionalism; and suggest a new approach that could enhance Brazil’s leadership role at the regional and global levels. It would involve the Brazilian government and business elites making clearer and more daring national choices, including shedding increasingly arcane and detrimental strategic alliances, in order to enable the country to become more involved with and thus influential on the global economic stage.
N76|Repeat tourism in Uruguay: modelling truncated distributions of count data|This paper studies the determinants of repeat visiting in Uruguay, where loyal visitors are a relevant part of the total. From a statistical point of view, the number of times a visitor has been to a place constitutes count data. In this regard available information on Uruguay presents relevant limitations. Count data is in fact reported only for those who visited the country up to five times, whereas records about the most frequent visitors are collapsed into one residual category. This implies that the classic models for count data such as Poisson or negative binomial cannot be put into consideration. The paper suggests instead modelling the available part of the empirical distribution through quantile count data regression. It is a model based on measures of location rather than mean values, which allows estimating tourists’ behaviour as the number of visits increases. A set of explanatory variables related to budgetary constraints, socioeconomic, trip-related and psychographic characteristics are taken as regressors to the considered count data. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
N76|The Brasilia experiment : road access and the spatial pattern of long-term local development in Brazil|"This paper studies the impact of the rapid expansion of the Brazilian road network, which occurred from the 1960s to the 2000s, on the growth and spatial allocation of population and economic activity across the country's municipalities. It addresses the problem of endogeneity in infrastructure location by using an original empirical strategy, based on the""historical natural experiment""constituted by the creation of the new federal capital city Brasília in 1960. The results reveal a dual pattern, with improved transport connections increasing concentration of economic activity and population around the main centers in the South of the country, while spurring the emergence of secondary economic centers in the less developed North, in line with predictions in terms of agglomeration economies. Over the period, roads are shown to account for half of pcGDP growth and to spur a significant decrease in spatial inequality."
N76|Immigrant Skill Selection and Utilization: A Comparative Analysis of Australia, Canada, and the United States|We compare literacy test scores and relative wage and employment outcomes of Australian, Canadian and U.S. immigrants using the 2003/2006 Adult Literacy and Life Skills Survey (ALLS). We find substantially higher immigrant skill levels at the lower end of the distribution in Australia, especially among recent arrivals, but little difference across countries at the top. In addition, we identify substantially larger wage returns to immigrant skill in the U.S., which we argue reflects language-skill complementarities, as opposed to more efficient skill utilization or unobserved productivity characteristics. Our results suggest that the benefit of a point system for the U.S. lies in its potential to limit unskilled immigration flows, rather than in raising skills at the top end of the distribution where the economic growth potential of immigration is likely greatest.
N76|The Brasília Experiment: Road Access and the Spatial Pattern of Long-term Local Development in Brazil|"This paper studies the impact of the rapid expansion of the Brazilian road network, which occurred from the 1960s to the 2000s, on the growth and spatial allocation of population and economic activity across the country's municipalities. It addresses the problem of endogeneity in infrastructure location by using an original empirical strategy, based on the ""historical natural experiment"" constituted by the creation of the new federal capital city Brasília in 1960. The results reveal a dual pattern, with improved transport connections increasing concentration of economic activity and population around the main centers in the South of the country, while spurring the emergence of secondary economic centers in the less developed North, in line with predictions in terms of agglomeration economies. Over the period, roads are shown to account for half of pcGDP growth and to spur a signifficant decrease in spatial inequality."
N76|Comerciantes en economías de frontera: El caso de La Guajira Colombiana, 1870-1930|The main purpose of this article is to analyze the commercial activities in La Guajira, Colombia, as well as the in titutional and geographical constraints traders faced between 1870s and 1930s. The result that La Guajira developed a frontier economy, characterized by a weak institutional presence, economic practices with few state surveillance, wide presence of indigenous population, inhospitable zones for colonization and active trade with neighboring countries. The lack of institutions allowed the traders to grow without further controls. The entrepreneurs and regional leaders, linked to extractive activities such as: salt, pearls and logwood, as well as trade, could not create the adequate institutions and business environment to consolidate the departments economy with a production structure based on endogenous production, competitive companies and a job market adjusted to the national legislation. RESUMEN: El objetivo del presente documento es analizar las actividades comerciales en el territorio de La Guajira colombiana, así como las limitaciones institucionales y naturales a que se vieron sometidos sus comerciantes entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El estudio plantea que en La Guajira se desarrolló una economía de frontera, caracterizada por la escasa presencia institucional, prácticas económicas con escasa vigilancia estatal, amplia presencia de población indígena, zonas inhóspitas para la colonización y activo comercio con países vecinos. La falta de Estado permitió que los negociantes adelantaran sus actividades sin mayores controles. Los empresarios y dirigentes regionales vinculados a las actividades extractivas como sal, perlas, palo de tinte, así como al comercio, no pudieron crear las instituciones ni el ambiente empresarial propicio para que en la economía guajira se consolidara un tejido productivo basado en la producción endógena, con empresas competitivas y un mercado de trabajo ajustado a la legislación nacional.
N76|Comerciantes en Economías de Frontera: El Caso de La Guajira Colombiana, 1870-1930|El objetivo del presente documento es analizar las actividades comerciales en el territorio de La Guajira colombiana, así como las limitaciones institucionales y naturales a que se vieron sometidos sus comerciantes entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El estudio plantea que en La Guajira se desarrolló una economía de frontera, caracterizada por la escasa presencia institucional, prácticas económicas con escasa vigilancia estatal, amplia presencia de población indígena, zonas inhóspitas para la colonización y activo comercio con países vecinos. La falta de Estado permitió que los negociantes adelantaran sus actividades sin mayores controles. Los empresarios y dirigentes regionales vinculados a las actividades extractivas como sal, perlas, palo de tinte, así como al comercio, no pudieron crear las instituciones ni el ambiente empresarial propicio para que en la economía guajira se consolidara un tejido productivo basado en la producción endógena, con empresas competitivas y un mercado de trabajo ajustado a la legislación nacional.
N76|LA PUERTA DE ÉBANO DEL PACÍFICO COLOMBIANO. El puerto de Buenaventura 1990-2011|El objetivo de esta investigación es describir la importancia económica del Puerto de Buenaventura, a partir de un análisis histórico durante las dos últimas décadas y su desempeño en la apertura económica de los años 90, además de establecer un punto de referencia ante nuevos desafíos de la economía colombiana como lo son TLC con los Estados Unidos y la conquista de los mercados de Asia Pacífico; de esta manera identificar al puerto como agente económico clave para el desarrollo económico y social de Colombia en la próxima década.
N76|La industria del calzado argentina bajo los dos primeros gobiernos peronistas (1946-1955)|En este artículo estudiamos cómo afectó la política económica de los dos primeros gobiernos peronistas a la industria del calzado. Concentramos nuestro análisis en tres ejes principales: el abastecimiento de maquinaria, el comercio exterior y la política crediticia. Cabe señalar que la industria del calzado hacia el inicio de la presidencia de Perón había iniciado un proceso de exportaciones que es pronto interrumpido. Para realizar este trabajo analizamos diversos tipos de fuentes empresariales: libros de empresas, balances; corporativas, publicaciones de la Cámara de la Industria del Calzado y gubernamentales. Creemos que esto aporta tanto la historia de la economía y la industria, como a profundizar el análisis político sobre las relaciones entre los empresarios y el gobierno peronista. A su vez, el estudio de este caso permite interrogarnos sobre las posibilidades y límites que experimentaban los países latinoamericanos en el contexto de la segunda posguerra para desarrollar una industria exportadora.
N76|Estructura tecnológica de las exportaciones industriales en América Latina (1990-2010)|Se analiza el comportamiento de las exportaciones industriales de una muestra representativa de países latinoamericanos en el periodo 1990-2010, teniendo en cuenta el contenido tecnológico de las mismas y contrastándola con el desempeño de Estados Unidos, la Unión Europea y Corea del Sur. En este tiempo la mayoría de países de la región se comprometió con una serie de reformas al comercio internacional que en algunos casos se profundizaron y en otros se estancaron o se reversaron. La hipótesis del trabajo es que, en términos generales y relativos, la región presentaba en la entrada del nuevo milenio un incipiente proceso de diversificación exportadora basada en productos con mayor incorporación de tecnología. Este proceso se ha venido opacando, con algunas excepciones (Brasil, México), por la expansión del comercio de productos básicos y mineros, reprimarizando la oferta exportable y colocando a la mayoría de países de la región en una precaria senda de inserción en la economía mundial. La información aquí analizada apoya la validez de dicha conjetura. Technological Structure of Industrial Exports in Latin America (1990-2010) We analyze the behavior of industrial exports from a representative sample of Latin American countries in the period 1990-2010, taking into account its technological content and contrasting it with the performance of the United States, the European Union and South Korea equivalent exports. At this time most countries of the region undertook a series of reforms in international trade, which in some cases were further deepened, while in others stagnated or were reversed. The main hypothesis of the paper is that the region presented, at the beginning of the new millennium, a process of exports diversification towards products with greater technology intensity. This process has been overshadowed, with some exceptions (Brazil, Mexico), by the expansion of trade in primary products, which recomposed the export basket in detriment of industrial products, and placed some of these countries in a precarious path of integration into the world economy. The information analyzed supports the validity of this conjecture.
N76|On The Accuracy Of Export Growth In Argentina, 1870-1913| Argentine export growth before the First World War is considered one of the most relevant variables in order to understand the main characteristics of Argentina's long-run modern economic growth properly. The lack of accuracy of the official export series, especially the relative official values used, lies behind some of the controversies and doubts of the historiography when addressing the causes and consequences of Argentina's international convergence. We have used empirical evidence to test the accuracy of quantities and value exports records, first, according to their import partners' records and, second, according to international market prices. Results show that the hypothesis of export price undervaluation bias is correct. In the light of these results we reconstructed a new Argentine export f.o.b. values and price index using international prices valued in pounds sterling which allows us to offer a new proposal indicating a more dynamic Argentine export growth during the Belle Époque years.
N76|Café y transporte en Colombia: el Ferrocarril de Cúcuta|El texto analiza el proceso de construcción y operación del Ferrocarril de Cúcuta, el cual fue pensado como un sistema de transporte con importantes resultados regionales. Este proyecto contó con una de las rutas más interesantes del siglo XIX: el trayecto de Cúcuta a Puerto Villamizar, el cual fue una iniciativa del capital privado, construido por ingenieros nacionales, en los tiempos y presupuestos asignados y sin ningún tipo de financiación o de subsidio gubernamental. Sin embargo, los otros ramales fueron tardíos y no cumplieron a cabalidad con su propósito. El sistema construido y operado por el Ferrocarril de Cúcuta le permitió a la elite económica y política liberal de esta región una vía de comunicación eficiente y de bajo costo para movilizar el principal producto agrícola de exportación del momento, el café, al tiempo que le permitió a la misma elite su consolidación hegemónica y, en no pocas ocasiones, le proporcionó los medios materiales para oponerse al gobierno de la Regeneración durante las guerras civiles del siglo XIX.
N76|Companhias estrangeiras de eletricidade na Argentina e no Brasil: o caso da American & Foreign Power (1926-1965)|O artigo analisa a evolução, estratégia e posição das subsidiárias da American & Foreign Power (AMFORP) na Argentina e no Brazil desde sua chegada nesses mercados em meados da década de 1920, até sua nacionalização. São comparadas as performances e estratégias de entrada nos países, assim como as relações entre as empresas subsidiárias americanas e os governos dos dois países. Finalmente, o artigo analisa o papel do investimento direto estrangeiro no desenvolvimento do setor elétrico argentine e brasileiro. O estudo foi baseado nos Relatórios Anuais da American & Foreign Power (1923-1963) e de estatísticas oficiais e informes dos dois governos, como também dos Estados Unidos.
N76|Los españoles y la revolución comercial mexicana: las cadenas de supermercados, 1921-2011|En este artículo enfatizo el papel desempeñado por los españoles en la creación de las grandes cadenas de supermercados en México. La cercanía a Estados Unidos y la aportación española resultaron decisivas en su engrandecimiento. Esta historia, al tiempo, revela la importancia del papel desempeñado por las minorías nacionales en la formación de la gran empresa en América Latina. Al tiempo revela un aspecto desconocido hasta la fecha: la fortaleza de estas firmas comerciales, su capacidad de adaptación a los cambios experimentados en el mercado y su competitividad frente a Wal-Mart. Adicionalmente, este artículo permite identificar la transferencia de conocimientos y experiencias adquiridos en el sector de México a España en la década de 1960. KEY Classification-JEL: N76, N86, O15, O54
N76|Intraregional trade in South America, 1913-50. Economic linkages before institutional agreements|With the exception of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), trade integration is still modest in Latin America, at around 20% of total trade. Surprisingly, these levels were higher in 1945, when the figure for imports stood at 25.6%. Paradoxically, this result shows that trade integration reached its peak before trade integration agreements were signed. To understand the reasons for this, we examine intraregional trade throughout the interwar period (1913-1950). We analyze five national cases: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile and Peru. As far as we know, this is the first paper in the literature on intraregional trade during the interwar period. There are other papers on intraregional trade in Latin America, but they focus on the period after the 1960s. The analysis of intraregional trade in the interwar period is also useful to the Latin American industrialization debate. Given the disruption in world trade flows and the existence of some industrial capacity, the paper looks at any possible increase in intra-industry trade. There are two main conclusions: a) with the exception of the World War periods, intraregional trade has been low since 1913; b) in general, intraregional trade reflects the overall trade specialization: there is a high concentration of low value added products.
N76|Transportes, modernização e formação regional: subsídios a história da era ferroviária em Minas Gerais|This study examines the process of railway modernization in Minas Gerais. It uses theoretical classification that combines external variables, especially the expansion of the capital into the periphery, with internal variables, above all the hegemony of the raw material exporting model, marked by strong regional diversity. It was noted that the inappropriateness of the dominant standard of railway modernization in Brazil in relation to the structure of the economy of Minas did not prevent expansion of the tracks from reaching their greatest length in the territory of Minas Gerais. Political and financial factors presided over the Minas railway fever, which, in spite of being contemporary, underlined the irrational, onerous and dysfunctional nature of the system of concession, public subsidies and maintenance by the State of the regional network. On the ideological level, a supposedly legitimating association was mobilized between railways and modernity. On the substantive level, elements of the history of railway companies with activities in Minas Gerais were covered, were covered, and a time period is proposed for the Minas railway age, accompanied by systematization of the expansion process of the railway network based on.
N76|El ferrocarril de Antioquia: empresarios extranjeros y participación local|El propósito de este artículo es mostrar cómo la construcción y operación del Ferrocarril de Antioquia permite analizar, desde el punto de vista de las políticas públicas y de la acción de los empresarios extranjeros, los procesos sociales desde la perspectiva local y regional del Estado. Metodológicamente, se hace uso de fuentes primarias de la época y de bibliografía secundaria desde una perspectiva de historia económica y empresarial, para realizar un contraste de cómo, a pesar de no cumplir con ninguna de las metas propuestas en los contratos firmados inicialmente, el Ferrocarril se convirtió en un símbolo de lo posible y del tránsito a la modernidad.
N76|Los conflictos alrededor del “cambio institucional” petrolero venezolano entre 1936 y 1943 [Primera parte]|Los ministros Néstor Luis Pérez (1936-1938) y Manuel Rafael Egaña (1938-1941 y 1949) en el gobierno de López Contreras (1936-1941) hicieron importantes contribuciones al desarrollo del marco institucional petrolero después de la muerte de Gómez en diciembre de 1935. La gestión de estos ministros tuvo que enfrentar las demandas que las compañías petroleras internacionales ejercieron en bloque contra la nación desde 1937, a raíz de la promulgación de la Ley sobre Hidrocarburos y demás Minerales Combustibles de 1936. Con esa ley, el Estado intentó suprimir la exoneración de derecho de importación a las concesiones anteriores a esa ley. A pesar de que la nación perdió todas las demandas entre 1938 y 1941, Pérez y Egaña lograron encontrar los mecanismos adecuados para compensar esas derrotas jurídicas formales. Con esos mecanismos informales lograron promocionar los éxitos que desesperadamente necesitaba el Estado venezolano para configurar el cambio institucional que el país estaba pidiendo en cuanto a obligar a las compañías internacionales a someterse a un régimen de impuestos no específicamente petroleros (derechos de importación). Aquí se examina ese proceso que allanó el camino para el espectacular éxito de la posterior Ley de Hidrocarburos de 1943 desde el enfoque neoinstitucional de Douglass North.
N76|Los conflictos alrededor del “cambio institucional” petrolero venezolano entre 1936 y 1943|Resumen Los ministros Néstor Luis Pérez (1936-1938) y Manuel Rafael Egaña (1938-1941 y 1949) en el gobierno de López Contreras (1936-1941) hicieron importantes contribuciones al desarrollo del marco institucional petrolero después de muerte de Gómez en diciembre de 1935. La gestión de estos ministros tuvo que enfrentar las demandas que las compañías petroleras internacionales ejercieron en bloque contra la Nación des- de 1937 a raíz de la promulgación de la Ley sobre Hidrocarburos y demás Minerales Combustibles de 1936. Con esa ley, el Estado intentó suprimir la exoneración de dere- cho de importación a las concesiones anteriores a esta. A pesar de que la Nación perdió todas las demandas entre 1938 y 1941, Pérez y Egaña lograron encontrar los mecanis- mos adecuados para compensar esas derrotas jurídicas formales. Con esos mecanismos informales, lograron promocionar los éxitos que desesperadamente necesitaba el Estado venezolano para configurar el cambio institucional que el país estaba pidiendo en cuan- to a obligar a las compañías internacionales a someterse a un régimen de impuestos no específicamente petroleros (derechos de importación). Aquí se examina ese proceso que allanó el camino para el espectacular éxito de la posterior Ley de Hidrocarburos de 1943 desde el enfoque neo institucional de Douglass North.
N76|Inversión pública y restricción presupuestaria en la infraestructura de transporte en Colombia: 1960-2011|El artículo analiza la evolución histórica de la inversión pública y la restricción presupuestaria en la infraestructura de transporte en Colombia durante el periodo 1960-2011, mediante la identificación de los periodos de ajustes fiscales y su relación con la evolución de la inversión en dicho sector. La finalidad es conocer las causas del deterioro progresivo en la inversión de infraestructura del sector transporte a partir del análisis de variables macroeconómicas y política económica para el sector durante el periodo de investigación. La metodología aplicada se inscribe en la complementariedad del análisis cuantitativo y cualitativo de variables macroeconómicas que, junto con el análisis histórico de adopción de política económica para el sector, arroja un diagnostico integral sobre la situación actual del transporte en Colombia.
N76|Interrelación entre la deserción escolar y las condiciones socioeconómicas de las familias: El caso de la ciudad de Cúcuta (Colombia)|El presente artículo establece las conexiones entre la educación y el desarrollo adoptando el enfoque de las capacidades planteado por Amartya Sen. La educación es un medio que posibilita la movilidad social y permite superar las situaciones de pobreza y desigualdad, además auspicia la formación ciudadana y fomenta el debate público, permitiéndole a la ciudadanía influir en el manejo de la sociedad y mejorar la calidad de vida. La investigación plantea la idea de que la condición socioeconómica de las familias es quizás el principal factor que determina la deserción escolar en el ciclo secundario en la ciudad de Cúcuta. Para establecer el grado de influencia, se analiza la situación de la deserción dentro del sistema educativo nacional, departamental y municipal, haciendo uso de las estadísticas manejadas por el Ministerio de Educación Nacional (MEN); seguidamente, se identifican las características de los desertores y sus familias; de igual manera se plantea un modelo econométrico que permite observar las interrelaciones e incidencia de las variables sobre el objeto de estudio. Finalmente se establecen algunas conclusiones y recomendaciones.
N76|Construyendo el futuro de México: Propuestas de políticas públicas|La presente obra analiza diez de los principales retos que México debe enfrentar para lograr un desarrollo pleno y sostenible; un desarrollo orientado a contribuir en la construcción de un futuro promisorio para el país. Los retos analizados son: el estado de derecho y la gobernanza nacional; la seguridad; el cambio a la economía del conocimiento; la competitividad en una economía globalizada; el desarrollo de la PyMEs; las finanzas públicas; la educación básica; la salud; la pobreza y la desigualdad social; y la sostenibilidad.
N76|Oil and Gas in Mexico|Mexico is a highly centralized federation. The states and municipalities are highly dependent on federal transfers and so equally at risk to the country’s fiscal dependence on oil. Although Mexico has become more truly federal since multiparty competition has become vibrant and several states are in opposition hands, the states remain very minor actors in relation to oil and gas. However, as the political system has democratized, states have had an increasing say regarding oil and gas activities, particularly when these involve social or environmental damage or costs. This institutional framework has implications on Pemex (a major contributor to public budget), whose development is hindered in all stages of production. In this paper we discuss measures to promote Pemex’ development in the context of Mexico’s federal system, such as: (i) the Government must find additional and more diverse sources of public revenue (ii); Pemex itself must derive greater wealth from its investment in petroleum projects (iii); Pemex must also be able to allocate more of its investment to exploration in order to replenish its depleted sources (iv); political manipulation in the estimation of the oil revenues should be eliminated brought greater certainty, transparency, and accountability for federalism in Mexico, and (v), a clear mechanism to distribute the oil proceeds is crucial. The new fiscal scheme must make clear how Pemex pays rights and taxes, based on rules set by the National System of Fiscal Coordination.
N76|Origens dos empresários da indústria de máquinas e equipamentos em São Paulo, 1870-1900 [Entrepreneur origins in the capital goods sector of the state of São Paulo, 1870-1900]|The aim of this paper is to identify the origins of entrepreneurs, such as nationality and the genesis of capital to start the activity in the machinery and equipment industry in Sao Paulo and developments in the sector over the period 1870 to 1900. We will try to identify the entrepreneurs of the industry and its relation to the import and export trade, the farmers of products for export (mainly coffee), immigrants traders and immigrants who have some technical knowledge.
N76|El PBI, tres siglos pasados y media centuria venidera|Este documento presenta un pronóstico de larga duración, todo el siglo XXI, para las variables económicas más fundamentales del Perú: la población, el producto bruto interno global y por habitante. Podemos derivar la futura trayectoria de la gran mayoría de agregados económicos a partir de estas series básicas: indicadores sociales, inversión, componentes de la demanda agregada, exportaciones e importaciones, y estructura de la producción, ya que dichos agregados están estrechamente relacionados con el PIB y los cambios demográficos.
N76|El ferrocarril de Bolívar y la consolidación del puerto de Barranquilla (1865-1941)|Este trabajo analiza la construcción y el funcionamiento del Ferrocarril de Bolívar, que a pesar de su corta extensión dio lugar a procesos económicos que provocaron cambios profundos en el territorio del Bolívar Grande, pues contribuyó al fortalecimiento de una subregión pujante y vinculada al desarrollo económico de la última parte del siglo XIX. El análisis de los contratos para poner en marcha este ferrocarril muestra las debilidades del Estado colombiano frente a los inversionistas, que vieron en los ferrocarriles una oportunidad de especulación financiera.
N76|El federalismo y la fiscalidad del Estado Soberano de Panamá, 1850-1886|La historia económica de Panamá durante el siglo XIX es bastante desconocida en Colombia y la de sus cuentas fiscales es un laberinto difícil de entender. Esta investigación enfrenta ambos problemas, recurriendo a la demografía, a la geografía y a los presupuestos del Estado Soberano de Panamá. Se plantea, además, que el sistema federal de 1855 y 1886 constituyó un modus vivendi aceptable para los dirigentes del istmo. Los intereses estratégicos de Panamá se vieron comprometidos por el centralismo que se consolidó con la Constitución de 1886. El reparto inequitativo de la renta del ferrocarril entre Bogotá y Panamá, el fracaso en la construcción del canal interoceánico, la Guerra de los Mil Días que ganaron los conservadores, y la negación del tratado Herrán-Hay se conjugaron para que las élites panameñas abandonaran a Colombia.
N76|From Foreign to State Investment in the Brazilian Electric Power Sector: the Expropriation of the American Foreign and Power in Brazil (1959-1965)|The first half of the 1960s was a hallmark in the process of nationalization of the electric power sector in Brazil. The Brazilian State raised its participation in terms of installed capacity from 6.8% in 1952 to more than 54% in 1965. After the Second World War, the demand for energy in Brazil soaked, pulled by an increasing process of industrialization and urbanization. Since the private-owned concessionaries (both national and foreign firms)seemed not interested in meeting that demand, the State was called to play a more preeminent role in energy’s production, setting the stage for the increase of the government share in the field. Thus, the paper deals with the six last years of Amforp’s involvement in the Brazilian electric power sector, employing original data from US and Brazilian archives. The US enterprise came to Brazil in the 1920s, but by the late 1950s its participation and its role in the country was being challenged by many people. Personified as a representative of US interests in Brazil, and charged of not only spoiling national resources as well as of being negligent as to the services provided to society, Amforp faced many judicial charges in courts, leading in 1959 to the takeover of one of its subsidiaries in the state of Rio Grande do Sul by the governor Leonel Brizola. What could be only a matter of the provision of public services in a regional arena, settled by a financial and juridical agreement, became a major diplomatic issue between Brazil and the United States at the early 1960s. At that period, Brazil faced serious balance of payment constrains. As a crucial money-lender, Washington used this condition to blackmail the Brazilian government. Credits were withheld to force the administration of Joao Goulart (1961-1964) to settle Amforp’s expropriation in the ways desired by the company. In this sense, the paper analyses the diplomatic agreements that led to Amforp’s departure of the Brazilian market, showing how this established not only a redefinition of the strategies of foreign investments in Brazil, but also a change of the role played by the Brazilian state in the local electric power sector.
N76|Historia de una empresa pública uruguaya: 60 años de Obras Sanitarias del Estado (OSE)|"The objective of this paper is to analyze the long-run economic and productive evolution of State Sanitation Works (SSW), the state-owned monopoly that provides piped water to the whole country and sewage management to rural areas. This research was carried out within the framework of the project ""Non-financial public enterprises in Uruguay and their relation to the political economy from a long-run perspective: 1912-2010"". First, we describe the evolution of water and sewage services in the period before SSW's founding in 1952, placing these trends within the Latin American context. The central part of the document examines the primary economic and production variables in regard to SSW's performance, relating them to the two development models through which the country, and a large part of the world, transited. The first one based on the industrial development directed by the state and the market expansion, and the second one characterized by the increasing dominance of external openness and neo-liberal policies. Finally, we analyze SSW's reform process, the modernization of its administrative and operating systems, the reduction of personnel and the attempts at privatization, as well as the end of these efforts."
N76|História Econômica da Construção Naval no Brasil: Formação de Aglomerado e Performance Inovativa|O objetivo deste artigo é descrever e analisar a formação e a expansão do aglomerado inter-relacionado de estaleiros para a construção naval, localizado no Rio de Janeiro e em Niterói. Serão apresentadas as condições concretas que possibilitaram o Estado do Rio de Janeiro implantar uma moderna indústria da construção naval pesada, pós-1960, a partir do padrão de acumulação da economia brasileira. Destacaremos o papel desempenhado pela indústria motriz na promoção de uma performance inovadora, por meio de encomendas e aquisições. O texto está dividido em dois períodos: construção naval no Império (1822-1889) e na República (1889-1956). Em cada período, serão analisados, separadamente, os seguintes tópicos: Arsenal de Marinha da Corte e do Rio de Janeiro, estaleiros privados e Marinha Mercante. Na conclusão, serão abordadas as dificuldades enfrentadas pelo Arsenal e pelos estaleiros privados, na transição tecnológica das embarcações de madeira para o ferro e o aço.
N76|Análisis de la estructura exportadora del Uruguay|This paper analyses the evolution of the export structure of Uruguay for the period 1996-2010. Two indicators were used in order to study the concentration grade of products and destination: the concentration ratio and the Herfindahl index. The concentration ratio of the export destinations reflected an increase in the grade of diversification throughout the period of study, whose structure changed from being moderately concentrated to slightly concentrated. This phenomenon complies with a less relative participation of the region together with a higher relevance of other export market destinations such as some European and South American countries. On the other hand, when examining the concentration grade that presents the main products, it was observed a low concentrated structure which has not changed throughout the period of study. Finally, the case of the meat has to be emphasized as it concentrates more than the fifth of the total exports, and it has the most diversified market which shows a considerable flexibility to redirect to other markets when receiving a demand shock.
N76|Democracia y Crecimiento Económico en Colombia 1958-2000|El artículo es una historia económica de la segunda parte del siglo XX, después del restablecimiento de la democracia en 1958. Se describen los progresos de Colombia en términos de ingreso per capita, cambios en la estructura de la economía, la participación femenina, los progresos y reversos en ciertos indicadores sociales, y los cambios en las políticas de desarrollo económico y de comercio exterior.
N76|El consumo de automóviles en la América Latina y el Caribe (1902-1930)|The automobile as a durable consumer good spread in Latin America in the first three decades of the 20th century. The consumption of automobiles in the region was determined by foreign trade, with the exception of some countries which in the 1920s managed to set up automobile assembly plants with imported parts. This only occurred in places where both the market was big enough and income levels, high enough —Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay. Additional factors explain-ing the spread of the consumption of automobiles are the expansion of protectionist measures and a greater inequality in income distribution. In this regard, we propose that there was a negative impact on final consumption when consumption was biased towards up-market automobiles, while in those countries where consumption per inhabitant is high there is a proportionally greater consumption of down-market vehicles. Automobile imports show much of automobile consumption and allow us to calculate the vehicles in use, as well as to indicate which countries produced automobiles. The role played in these countries by the United States is virtually absolute as from 1920, after the First World War, although prior to this it had to share much of the market, albeit reduced, with various countries —France, Italy, Germany and Great Britain.// El automóvil como bien de consumo duradero se difunde en la América Latina en el primer tercio del siglo XX. El comercio exterior determina su consumo en la región, a excepción de algunos países que en el decenio de los veinte consiguen instrumentar plantas de ensamblaje de automóviles con piezas importadas, lo que ocurre solamente allí donde coincide una cierta dimensión del mercado con una renta alta (Argentina, Brasil, México y Uruguay). Otros factores explicativos, aunque en un claro segundo plano, son la extensión de medidas proteccionistas y una mayor desigualdad en la distribución de la renta. Al respecto proponemos que hubo un efecto negativo en el consumo final cuando el consumo se sesgó hacia los automóviles de gama más cara; en tanto que en los países donde el consumo por habitante es alto se consumen cantidades proporcionalmente altas de vehículos de la gama de precios bajos. Las importaciones de automóviles muestran buena parte del consumo de automóviles y nos permiten calcular los vehículos en circulación, además de indicar cuales fueron los países en los que se desarrollaron experiencias propias en la producción de autos. El papel que en ellas desempeña los Estados Unidos es casi absoluto a partir de 1920, después de la primera Guerra Mundial, aunque anteriormente tiene que compartir buena parte del, aún reducido mercado, con varios países europeos (Francia, Italia, Alemania y Gran Bretaña).
N76|La empresa industrial de América Latina: Análisis de la eficiencia mediante grupos estratégicos|This work is twofold. On the one hand, we analyze the presence of strategic groups in four sectors (machinery and equipment, chemicals, metal products and textiles) in 14 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. On the other hand, estimate the efficiency of companies and their countries of origin (country-effect) with best practices (best-practice) in order to identify firm's leaders. The results obtained show that the strategic groups with higher levels of innovation in product / process or external acquisition of technology through licensing are those integrate by companies more efficient.
N76|The regional economic structure of Brazil in 1959: an overview based on an inter-State input-output system|This paper aims at describing the regional configuration of 1959 Brazil’s productive structure through the estimation of an Inter-State Input-Output system. The estimated matrix is the oldest of this kind for Brazil. It can, hence, be an important tool for the study of the regional productive structure at an historical moment in which the regional question appeared as a central national issue. In this paper we describe estimation procedures and sources of data, and present some general characterization of the regional structure of the economy in 1959 through selected structural indicators.
N76|The contribution of railways to economic growth in Latin America before 1914: a growth accounting approach|Railways are usually considered as one of the most important innovations that fostered the transition of Latin America to economic growth before 1914. The social saving estimates that are available for several Latin American countries seem to confirm that view. However, the interpretation of the results of the social saving literature is not straightforward, since the comparison among social savings calculated for different countries and years may be troublesome, and the actual meaning of the social saving estimates is not clear. This paper suggests an alternative approach to the economic impact of railways in Latin America. It presents estimates of the direct growth contribution of the railway technology in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Uruguay before 1914, which are calculated on the basis of the growth accounting methodology. The outcomes of the estimation indicate that railway effects on Uruguayan economic growth were very low. By contrast, in the other three cases under study (Argentina, Mexico and Brazil) the railways provided huge direct benefits. In Argentina and Mexico, these amounted to between one fifth and one quarter of the total income per capita growth of the period under analysis. By contrast, in the case of Brazil, the outcomes of the analysis indicate that the direct contribution of railways to growth would have been higher than the whole income per capita growth of the Brazilian economy before 1914. This unexpected result might suggest that the national level is not the most adequate scale to analyse the economic impact of network infrastructure in the case of large, geographically unequal and insufficiently integrated developing economies.
N76|Antes y después de 1810: escenarios en la historia de las exportaciones rioplatenses de cueros desde 1760 hasta 1860|This paper focus on the history of River Plate’s exports of hides from 1760 to 1860, a century that ran from the beginning of the Bourbon reforms in America until the beginning of the “first globalization”. The aim of this paper is to show some basic magnitudes of this crucial commodity in the region’s history of international trade, from the early years as a staple until its maturity. Thus, this work collects from primary and secondary sources data on volume, prices and values of exported hides from Buenos Aires and Montevideo along the period. This evidence is useful to grasp how volumes, prices and values performed before and after the critical year of 1810, when the colonial ties with Spain were broken. The results underline three main facts: first, exports of hides from the Rio de la Plata grew at a high rate before 1810 due to a large increase in volumes and in spite of flat prices. Second, they experienced a much more slowly and fluctuating growth after the independence; in spite of wars and political turmoil, this time volumes exported were even greater than before while prices declined until 1850. Third, export prices of hides notably rise in 1850, and just then they acted as the driving force upon value.
N76|Inversión Extranjera Directa Y Construcción De Ferrocarriles En Colombia: El Caso Del Ferrocarril De Panamá (1849-1869)|A mediados del siglo XIX se evidencia uno de los procesos de inversión extranjeramás exitosos de América Latina y en particular en Colombia: la construccióny puesta en funcionamiento de la Panama Railroad Co. Esta línea férrea sediseñó y ejecutó como una ruta de paso entre los océanos Atlántico y Pacífico.Esta empresa fue una de las más rentables de su momento y reflejó de maneraclara los intereses económicos y políticos de los Estados Unidos. La empresase configuró en uno de los monopolios de transporte más importantes de laépoca, y significó uno de los recursos fiscales más apreciados por el gobiernocolombiano, presentando simultáneamente profundas asimetrías de poderentre Estados Unidos y Colombia.
N76|Paradigma Tecno-Económico Del Sector Eléctrico En Colombia A Través De Innovaciones Tecnológicas, Organizacionales, Financieras Y De Mercadeo. Caso De Análisis: Isa. S.A|Este artículo elabora un recuento de la evolución histórica que ha desarrollado el sector eléctrico en Colombia desde fi nales del siglo XIX hasta inicios del siglo XXI en cuanto a la evolución de las diferentes innovaciones tecnológicas desplegadas en el país, acompañadas a lo largo del tiempo por innovaciones de tipo organizacional, fi nancieras y de mercadeo. De esta forma se pretende proporcionar un avance metodológico para el seguimiento histórico de los mercados eléctricos que ayude a solucionar un problema encontrado en el avance de mercados consolidados en países en desarrollo, como es el atraso del efecto de difusión tecnológica de los países adelantados industrialmente hacia los países rezagados. Una primera aproximación muestra que Colombia presenta un atraso en su ciclo de desarrollo tecnológico y que una primera oleada tecnológica se encuentra actualmente en su fase de madurez. Se muestra a ISA S.A. como grupo empresarial ejemplo de este proceso.
N76|La Constitución Política de 1991 Y La Apertura Económica|El documento analiza las incidencias del pensamiento neoliberal en la formulación de la Constitución Política de Colombia promulgada en 1991, como parte de su fundamento explícito. Así mismo, se revisa su incidencia dentro de las decisiones que en ella se tomaron, y que de una u otra forma, afectan la vida política, social y económica del pueblo colombiano. Se concluye que el neoliberalismo como teoría y política de mercado, establece condiciones para aplicarse en el diseño constitucional, con base en el rediseño de las reglas de juego propuestas por el Consenso de Washington.
N76|Relación de la Presentación de Información de Negocios On-Line con las Variables Financieras en las Empresas Colombianas|Las organizaciones hacen uso de diversos canales para la divulgación y revelación de la información de sus negocios, como por ejemplo Internet, canal a través del cual se pueden satisfacer las necesidades de los usuarios con mayor agilidad y brindando mejores condiciones de accesibilidad. La divulgación y revelación de la información puede verse determinada por el entorno y las características financieras que definen a las compañías. El presente trabajo hace un análisis de correlación entre las variables financieras y el uso de Internet para revelar y divulgar información del negocio de manera individual y según el sector económico al que pertenecen las 500 empresas más representativas de Colombia. De acuerdo con los resultados obtenidos, variables como el patrimonio, el activo y los ingresos, se diferencian significativamente en las empresas que utilizan sitios Web para revelar y divulgar la información, respecto de las que no lo hacen. En el caso del sector al que pertenecen las compañías, existen diferencias estadísticamente significativas en las variables financieras relacionadas con el tamaño de la empresa en sectores tales como: telecomunicaciones, hidrocarburos, bebidas y alimentos.
N76|Importancia De La Restricción Presupuestria Intertemporal En Una Economía Abierta: Caso Colombiano|Este documento analizó la importancia de la restricción presupuestaria intertemporal y la relevancia que cobra en medio de una coyuntura de incertidumbre y volatilidad como herramienta de diagnostico de la sostenibilidad internacional de los países; fue elaborado como una reflexión de investigación sobre los patrones de endeudamiento aplicando al caso de nuestro país. Para el análisis de los conceptos sobre los que se basa este documento se realizó un análisis sobre la evolución de la deuda externa colombiana en el periodo 1990-2008 por medio del estudio gráfico del comportamiento del indicador a través del tiempo, con el propósito de identificar cómo ha sido el patrón de endeudamiento del estado colombiano en el periodo de observación. Se consideraronelementos del principio teórico de Restricción Presupuestaria Intertemporal para analizar la situación de nuestro país con referencia este tema. Como reflexión final queda el interrogante sí es viable el patrón de endeudamiento del país y cuáles serían los medios por los cuales se debe conseguir un endeudamiento legitimo.
N76|Determinates De Las Muertes Por Homicidio En Colombia En El Periodo De 1970-2008|Las muertes por asesinatos son la principal causa de muertes en Colombia, ubicándolo en el primer lugar como el país con más asesinatos en relación con el número de habitantes. No es de esperar menos, porque si se observan las cifras de evolución de las muertes por homicidios es muy fácil llegar a esta conclusión. En el año de 1970 la cifra registraba un total de 4.455 casos, en 1980 pasó a 8.561, luego en 1990 se presentaron 24.304 casos pasando en 1999 a 24.358 y de una manera espectacular crece a 28.837 casos en 2002, siendo ésta la situación más crítica de los últimos 30 años. De aquí en adelante la situación ha mejorado ya que en 2005 se presentaron 18.111 casos y en 2008 la cifra fue de 11.861 casos.Las muertes por homicidio, es sin duda, uno de los flagelos más sobresalientes que azota a la sociedad colombiana, y se origina principalmente porque dentro del territorio nacional se encuentra toda una serie de características sociales, tales como el desempleo y el crecimiento de la población, sociopolíticas como la organización de grupos armados ilegales, y económicas como el crecimiento del PIB, que inciden notablemente en el comportamiento de éste fenómeno.Así las cosas, es importante investigar y determinar cuáles son los principales determinantes de las muertes por homicidio en Colombia (1970-2008), citando como objetivo principal el establecimiento y evaluación de los más relevantes factores económicos, políticos y sociales que influyen en la permanencia y el crecimiento de esta plaga.
N76|Bench Marking|La siguiente investigación tiene por objetivo, Aplicar la teoría del benchmarking al programa de administración de empresas de la universidad de Cartagena, analizando los procesos administrativos y académicos mediante técnicas de recolección de información. Esta es de naturaleza cualitativa, pues lo que pretende es describir un fenómeno. Esta investigación no pretende probar o medir un acontecimiento, todo lo contrario se busca encontrar nuevas realidades sobre el ámbito de aplicación de la teoría de referencia. Por último se elabora una completa descripción del proceso de aplicación de Benchmarking y sus definiciones fundamentales, en el programa de Administración de Empresas de la Universidad de Cartagena.
N76|Asepsia En Los Supermercados De La Ciudad De Cartagena|En Colombia los supermercados abrieron sus puertas a muy temprana edad (década del 50), sin embargosu mayor desarrollo ocurre a partir de mediados de la década del 90 coincidente con el ingreso al país de losgrandes minoristas internacionales Makro y Carrefour.Este desarrollo se da primordialmente por la apertura de grandes conformaciones y la sistematización deun nuevo portafolio de bienes y servicios, además de su presentación, basada en un sin número devariables como lo son el orden, la calidad y la asepsia, las cuales consolidan la decisión del consumidor a lahora de escoger un supermercado1 y por supuesto en lo que ofrecen.Gracias a esta evolución ha sido posible la intervención del consumidor, quien a partir de la imagen queproyectan los productos ofrecidos en los supermercados, deciden y optan según sus conveniencias escogerel de su preferencia.
N76|Land Conflicts, Property Rights, and the Rise of the Export Economy in Colombia, 1850–1925|This research attempts to explain the poor performance of the Colombian economy in the world markets during the late nineteenth century. Based on data on exportable production at the municipal level in 1892, coffee production in 1925 and of public land allocation and land conflicts during the nineteenth and twentieth century, we found that the greatest obstacle that faced Colombian export development was the weakness of settlers´ property rights in the frontier lands. The quantitative results show that in the absence of land conflicts, the municipality´s exportable production would have been at least twice as muchas that observed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N76|Características de la marginalidad urbana: el caso del Estado de Oaxaca|Any conventional poverty line, determined from the purchase power standard ought to establish distinctions inside the essential expenditures, defining that poverty line, in the urban space as well as in the countryside. Migration flows toward cities are the result of employment composition. Farming activities are developed in rural fields, meanwhile industrial and service ones are achieved in urban spaces. Urban expansion has a diversifying capability for income and occupational structure. Marginalization is related to the anarchical urban growing, one of which consequences is that population groups can be found at the periphery, searching for job or carrying out low productivity activities.
N76|Colonial Innovation System, Sub-Imperial Institutions and the Creole Elite in Nineteenth-Century Cuba|This article examines the relationship between colonialism and technology transfer via the study of nineteenth century Cuban institutions dedicated to the stimulation of innovative activity, particularly the patent system. Preliminary findings suggest three noteworthy claims. First, during the nineteenth century Cuban Creole elites set up a ‘Colonial Innovation System’ made up of ‘sub-imperial’ institutions autonomously administered in a context where rival Atlantic empires functioned as a ‘shadow’ economic metropolis of Cuba. Second, despite having the same patent laws as metropolitan Spain, Cuban sugar elites obtained practical control and management of the patent sub-institution on the island. Third, this achievement led to an autonomous functioning of the patent system in Cuba that allowed sugar-mill owners to participate actively in the global networks of technological exchange and to generate higher levels of patent activity than in metropolitan Spain.
N76|Las relaciones entre Estados Unidos y Uruguay en el largo plazo|During 2004 and 2005, the United States became the main importer of Uruguayan goods, which was unusual when compared to the recent past. This gave raise to a public debate about the future of commercial (and non-commercial) relationships with this important trade partner. The aim of this paper is to analyze the path of the commercial relationship between Uruguay and the United States during 1930-2005 in order to identify historical episodes when it acquired more significance. The evidence reported four main episodes in which both countries became closer during the period. Each one was featured by a particular institutional arrangement, based on the interaction of both strategic interests of the United States and the internal circumstances prevailing in Uruguay.
N76|The electric revolution in Latin America|Latin America participated in the electric revolution which profoundly transformed the most developed Western economies between 1880 and 1930. The electrification of Latin America began relatively soon after these economies, but it was incapable of keeping up with them. Public electric lighting was introduced early in the big Latin American cities, where electric trams started running at almost the same time as in Europe, and electricity spread rapidly in the mining sector. In the most advanced countries or areas in the region, the manufacturing industry substituted the steam engine with the electric motor, following the example of industry in the United States and Europe. Nevertheless, towards 1930 electricity consumption per inhabitant for Latin America was far below that of the more advanced economies, and only the Latin American countries which lead the process of electrification had reached levels of electric consumption that were similar to those of the late industrialised European countries. One of the most striking features of the electric revolution in Latin America is rooted precisely in the enormous national differences. These differences are indicative of the great economic inequalities existing in the heart of the region and these nations’ highly diverse capacity for economic modernisation.
N76|The fiscal impact of the War of the Pacific|In the War of the Pacific (1879–1883), Chile defeated Peru and Bolivia, and acquired territories that contained vast deposits of sodium nitrate, a leading fertilizer. Chile’s export tax on nitrates later accounted for at least one half of all government revenue. We employ a multi-country model of export taxation in order to simulate the potential government revenues that Bolivia, Chile and Peru could have earned under the counterfactual scenario that Chile did not conquer the nitrate-rich provinces of its adversaries. Our results are that Peruvian and Bolivian government revenues could have been at least double their historical levels. We estimate that, over the remainder of the nineteenth century, Chile’s earnings from nitrates would have fallen by 80%.
N76|The Contribution of Railways to Economic Growth in Latin America before 1914: the cases of Mexico, Brazil and Argentina|This paper presents preliminary estimates of the contribution of the railway technology to GDP growth in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico before 1914, and compares them with the available figures for two European economies (Britain and Spain). The results of the estimation indicate that the growth contribution of railways was substantially higher in those three Latin American economies than in Britain or Spain, although in Argentina and Mexico that high contribution was disguised behind the fast growth of the aggregate economy. This result is interpreted as a sign of the central role that the railways performed in the export-led growth episode of those three economies.
N76|La inversión en equipo de transporte de América Latina, 1890-1930: una estimación basada en la demanda de importaciones|The development of modern transport systems over the first economic globalisation has been recognised as a key instrument for inserting Latin-America into the international economy. However, to this date, there was no quantitative global and detailed evaluation of the amounts invested on transport equipment in the region. This article covers this gap supplying homogeneous and consistent annual series for the period 1890-1930 for all the sovereign countries of the time. It also describes the historical profile of the Latin-American series and analyses the differences across the national series. The large disparities in the levels of investment per capita observed reflect the diverse degree of economic development attained by the Latin- American republics over the period. KEY Classification-JEL: L62, L91, N16, N76
N76|Da arte de conhecer as doenças: o diagnóstico da Economia Mineira de 1968 e o planejamento do desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais|The issue of politically oriented regional development occupies an important place in the Economic History of Minas Gerais during the republican period. Since the start of the 20th century, and throughout the most important transformative stages of the Brazilian economic system, notably between the 1930s and 1960s, overcoming underdevelopment and the peripheral position of the state has been a priority for the elites of Minas. For a variety of reasons that we will attempt to demonstrate, we understand that it is essential to study the Diagnóstico da Economia Mineira, published in 1968, by the Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (BDMG), if the goal is to understand the vicissitudes of the state’s economic development, especially considering the aforementioned priority. This study emphasizes the meaning of this rich document, especially the long-lived institutional relationships and theoretical matrixes that lent it legitimacy and made it suited it to its time. The text is structured in three coplementary parts: i) description and analysis of the document; ii) brief background of developmentism in Minas Gerais during the republican period; iii) presentation of four case studies about the themes of the Diagnóstico: transportation, electric energy, sugar industry and steel making.
N76|El atardecer de la modernización: La historia del megaproyecto hídrico GUATAPÉ- PEÑOL en el noroccidente colombiano, años 1960/1970|ResumenLa historia de Antioquia, y en particular la económica, ha sido contada como un todo e incluso en algunas de sus dimensiones específicas: minera, industrial, comercial. Dado el relevante impacto político y sociocultural que la construcción de hidroeléctricas ha tenido desde finales del siglo XIX, una historia que quizás nos debemos es la socioeléctrica, uno de cuyos capítulos fue el proyecto Guatapé Peñol caracterizado, por el hundimiento de dos pueblos y tierras aptas para el cultivo. Una mirada del proyecto, recuperando la voz desde esos dos pueblos, es el propósito del artículo. AbstractThe Antioquia´s history, in economics mainly, has been treated as a whole, even on very precise grounds as: minig, industry and commerce. Although the political and sociocultural impact that the new hydroelectric power stations have had since the ending of twentieth century, the one that need to be told is the socioelectrical history, specially the Guatapé Peñol project, whith the final sinking of two towns and a large amount of land useful for peasants. A glimpse to this project, that regains the voice of those towns is the purpose of this paper.
N76|El crecimiento metropolitano en el contexto del subdesarrollo Latinoamericano: El caso de México|The control of the expansion, in the metropolitan areas, represents, now a days, one of the most important challenges that the governmental authorities, in almost every region should face, to understand the context in which metropolitan settlers life's develops, with it's different local, regional, national and world-wide interactions; constitutes an indispensable condition, in the methodological process of city planning.
N76|Stretching the Inelastic Rubber: Taxation, Welfare and Lobbies in Amazonia, 1870-1910|This paper examines the effect of government intervention via taxation on domestic welfare. A case-study of Brazilian market power on rubber markets during the boom years of 1870-1910 shows that the government generated 1.3% of GDP through an export tax on rubber but that it could have generated 4.7% in total, had the government set the tariff at the optimal level. National, regional and local constraints prevented the government from maximizing regional welfare. In a context of lobbies, government budget maximization may have differed from regional welfare maximization.
N76|O progresso a vapor: navegação e desenvolvimento na Amazônia do século XIX [Steam progress: navigation and development in the 19th century Amazon]|The establishment of regular steamboat line in the Amazon region was neither a quick nor a simple decision. It was the result of a long decision-making process that was created along with the start of the Brazilian parliamentary life, in 1826. During its evolution, it underwent numerous advances and setbacks before the opening of the Amazon River to all friendly countries definitively began to attract foreign capital for the activity, starting in 1867. This article examines this crucial process for the formation of the Brazilian national state and the final incorporation of the Amazon into the Empire, recognizing that a fact of such importance could never be resolved in a few months only with the goodwill of some Paraenses to remain united to the Court of Rio de Janeiro.
N76|Between the Workshop and the State: Training Human Capital in Railroad Companies in Mexico and Chile, 1850-1930|This paper analyzes the human capital training strategies adopted between the 1850s and 1930s by railroad companies in Mexico and Chile. These two countries enable one to contrast the different routes taken by the same type of firm, technology and labor force. A propos of this, we suggest that because of its complexity, capital intensity and new work methods, railway technology had a positive impact on human capital training in the cases studied. During the period when railways were the main form of land transport studied -covered by this study- they combined the labor force with foreign workers and modern technology and it was not until well into the 20th century that a formal system of technical schools was established. Instead, informal and formal learning cycles and routes tended to be followed. That is why this paper considers three aspects: I) the institutional and social factors that helped or hindered industrial operations, maintenance and production training; II) the way learning, training and talent retention cycles were shaped and talent migrated towards other activities or was dispersed or lost; and lastly, III) how training was institutionalized through what were known as “firm schools” responsible for training human capital as an internalization response to coping with shortages in the labor market.
N76|Engineering Change in Mexico: The Adoption of Computer Technology at Grupo ICA (1965-1971)|This article documents the adoption of computer technology by a civil engineering services and construction company in Mexico at the time that it became the first Mexican multinational enterprise. Computerization took place independently of cross border growth. The challenges, failures and successes of computerization attest to the transformation in the use of computer applications from the mechanization of routine procedures to the creative use of these applications. In line with company policy, the latter lead to the establishment of the computer centre as a standalone, profit generating business unit. However, this policy responded to ‘laissez faire’ and fiscal (i.e. minimizing tax payments) rather than strategic considerations. To little surprise computer services never grew to be a significant income stream.
N76|Biofuels: Players and discussions in Latin America|This paper examines the debates within the existing map of players involved in the issue of bio fuels in Latin America, a region that appears to be a potential producer and user of this growing energy source. The study shows that these players agree –in varying degrees– or disagree, depending on their perspectives, their interests and capabilities in terms of power. Also, they make up a web of relationships that affect and influence their speeches. Because it is a specific field in construction, there are dynamic and open processes with alliances with different degrees of sustainability among the players and where the information appears as a crucial element to act, say and decide. The three aspects that often generate disparities in the main current discussions on bio fuels are economic, social and environmental.
N76|Fiabilidad de las estadísticas de comercio exterior referentes a América Latina y el Caribe (1908-1930) - Una aproximación al patron geográfico de las discrepancias distributivas a traves del carbón|The statistical accuracy of Historical Foreign Trade Sources has been stated by Federico and Tena (1991) and Tena (1985, 19991 y 1992). This article follows his works in the most suspect field: geographical distribution. We have use Latin American Coal Trade Data among 1908-1930. Most international trade, considering weight, was coal trade; meanwhile it is an ideal product to isolate geographical effects. Statistical disagreements persistence makes us to think this is not a random phenomenon. We have specified an econometric model based on distance. Results show that including geography we can understand statistical disagreements. As a consequence Latin American Sources appear reasonably accurate, as well as those of its trade partners, considering each geographical pattern. The knowledge of the statistical sources error allows us to learn about their reliability margins.
N76|En los comienzos de la empresa pública argentina: la Administración de los Ferrocarriles del Estado y las Obras Sanitarias de la Nación antes de 1930|In this work we examine the emergence and development until 1930 of two of the first Argentine public enterprises organised during the 20th century: Administración General de los Ferrocarriles del Estado (State Railways National Administration) and Obras Sanitarias de la Nación (Water and Drainage National Works), created in 1909 and 1912 respectively. The trajectory of both entities is examined and compared, as well as their origins during the last third of the 19th century and the process through which they managed to achieve a certain autonomous character. In this sense the investment process — connected with the cycle of the great increase in expenditure and public investment by the State— is examined in relation to the rentability achieved and the conformation, in both entities, of a staff of public servants that tended to shape a State technical burocracy, some of whose members arrived to the highest leading places afterwards. KEY Classification-JEL: N46, N76, N86
N76|Las agencias de informes crediticios en la Argentina: una aproximación al funcionamiento de los mecanismos informativos en el mercado crediticio (1892-c.1935)|During the last decades, economic theory has devoted considerable attention to the role of information asymmetry in credit markets and problems connected with this phenomenon. However, institutional aspects —particularly, how information is gathered and shared— have not been studied as thoroughly. Only recently has research been conducted on the origins of credit-reporting agencies and on the different responses lenders designed to minimize the impact of information asymmetries. As far as Latin America is concerned, there is no previous historical research available. In that sense, this paper aims to depict some of the mechanisms used within the Argentine business community at the beginning of the twentieth century to generate and disclose information about borrowers, with particular emphasis on Argentina’s first credit-reporting agencies. KEY Classification-JEL: N26, 016, N76, N86
N76|Causas da Mudança Tecnológica na Indústria de Bens de Capital no Estado de São Paulo na Década de 1930|"O artigo tem como objetivo explicar os resultados encontrados em trabalho anterior (Marson 2007), que identificou mudança tecnológica na indústria de bens de capital no Estado de São Paulo na década de 1930, através da analise das fontes de crescimento dessa indústria no período, pela metodologia da contabilidade do crescimento"" (growth accounting). Os resultados encontrados foram que entre 1928 e 1932 o crescimento é resultado de um aprofundamento do capital (capital deepening), ou seja, um ajuste para um nível mais alto de capital por trabalhador efetivo. Para o período de 1933 a 1937 o fator responsável pelo crescimento nessa indústria foi ou o progresso técnico, através do cálculo da Produtividade Total dos Fatores (Total Factor Productivity), ou o trabalho efetivo, dependendo da metodologia adotada. Nesse artigo tenta-se explicar estes resultados, analisando todas as empresas que produziam bens de capital no estado de São Paulo, através de uma Tabela Matriz compilada da fonte primária (Estatística Industrial do Estado de São Paulo), tentando identificar mudanças na forma organizacional, ou seja, analisando se o sistema de produção sofreu alterações do modo artesanal (oficinas) para o sistema fabril (fábricas); e mudanças na mecanização da industria. Os resultados encontrados explicam as causas da mudança tecnológica na indústria de bens de capital na década de 1930."
N76|A Indústria de Bens de Capital no Processo de Industrialização na Década de 1930: Crescimento e Diversificação no Estado de São Paulo|O objetivo deste artigo é fazer um resgate ao tema da industrialização e mostrar a importância da indústria de bens de capital (indústria de máquinas, metalúrgica, de transporte e elétrica) para o processo de industrialização no estado de São Paulo na década de 1930, tentando responder algumas questões em aberto na historiografia. Qual a importância da década de 1930 para o processo de industrialização no estado de São Paulo? Quais as mudanças na estrutura industrial nesta década? Quais as mudanças na estrutura da própria indústria de bens de capital? Tentaremos contribuir com a historiografia tratando do debate na qual os efeitos da Grande Depressão da década de 1930 foram favoráveis ou não para a indústria de bens de capital.
N76|La Compañía Colombiana de Navegación Aérea, 1919-1921. Una aventura empresarial pionera en Suramérica|Resumen: La temprana participación de empresarios colombianos en el establecimiento de compañías de aviación en Colombia durante la primera década del siglo XX, estuvo marcada por el riesgo ante una industria aeronáutica apenas explorada a nivel mundial. El artículo describe la creación y el funcionamiento en 1919, de la primera compañía de aviación en Colombia: Compañía Colombiana de Navegación Aérea, CCNA. La documentación proveniente de archivos personales, diarios y prensa de la época, permitió explorar la corta vida de esta compañía. Este primer intento empresarial abrió el camino de lo que se convertiría años más tarde en una lucrativa industria que revolucionó la forma de trasladarse de un lugar a otro y fortaleció los vínculos económicos y políticos entre zonas aisladas geográficamente.
N76|Technological Integration and Income Gaps|Leontief (1963) claimed that underdeveloped countries are poor because they are by far less economically diversified. This paper shows that a general equilibrium model with a stable input-output structure and a productivity externality due to input diversification may be consistent with Leontief´s hypothesis. An open economy version of the model yields the possibility of breaking the factor price equalization theorem so that developed economies enjoy higher capital remuneration and higher income level. Some empirical evidence on the relationship between technological integration and real income is provided.
N76|Technological Integration and Income Gaps|Resumen: Leontief (1963) sostiene que los países subdesarrollados son pobres porque son en gran medida, económicamente menos diversificados. Este artículo muestra que un modelo de equilibrio general con una estructura de insumo-producto estable y con una externalidad de la productividad generada por diversificación de factores, puede ser consistente con la hipótesis de Leontief. Una versión del modelo en economía abierta permite la posibilidad de violar el teorema de la igualación del precio de los factores, permitiendo así que las economías desarrolladas obtengan una alta remuneración de capital y un alto nivel de ingreso. Se presenta alguna evidencia empírica sobre la relación entre la integración tecnológica y el ingreso real.
N76|Income distribution in the Latin American Southern Cone during the first globalization boom, ca: 1870-1920|Latin America is the most unequal region in the world and there is a lively debate concerning the explanations and timing of such high levels of income inequality. Latin America was also the region, not including European Offshoots, which experienced the most rapid growth during the first globalization boom. It can, therefore, be taken as an interesting case study for how globalization forces impinged on growth and income distribution in peripheral regions. This paper presents a first estimate of income inequality in the Southern Cone of South America (Brazil 1872 and 1920, Chile 1870 and 1920, Uruguay 1920) and some assumptions concerning Argentina (1870 and 1920), and Uruguay (1870). We find an increasing inequality trend between 1870 and 1920 which can be explained as a process of inequality both within individual countries and between countries. This trend is discussed along three lines: the relation between inequality and per capita income levels; the dynamics of the expansion to new areas, and movements of relative factor prices and of the terms of trade.
N76|Human development and inequality in the 20th Century : the Mercosur countries in a comparative perspective|This article is in line with the United Nations attempts to approach human development in wider terms than per capita GDP, and in line with an ever lively debate on the historical standard of living and on the role of inequality in development. We focus on three Mercosur countries (Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay) and we view them in comparison with four core countries (France, Germany, USA and UK) along the 20th Century. The paper makes different attempts to construct diverse indices and to change the weights of their different components in order to better explain human development in different periods. A contribution of the paper, so long limited to Uruguay and the USA, is to adjust the historical human development index by inequality measures for all of its components. The results show that Argentine started to diverge, even in human development, at early stages of the 20th Century; that Uruguay diverged from the mid-century and that Brazil continued to tighten the gap up to 1980, diverging afterwards without being able to come close to the levels of the core countries. Total inequality in Uruguay and USA showed similar levels and trends: it decreased until the 1950s, and increased afterwards to similar levels. While inequality affects human development within both countries, it doesn?t help to understand the differences between them, due to the mentioned similarity of the Gini-coefficients.
N76|La América Latina y El Caribe en 1913 y 1925. Enfoque desde las importaciones de bienes de capital|We study the levels of economic development achieved by every independent Latin American and Caribbean country in 1913 and 1925 from a new regional perspective. We focus on the imports and the domestic production –equivalent to apparent consumption- of capital goods. The first contribution is to establish the reliability of the foreign trade statistics. The second is to estimate the size of the capital goods acquired by the twenty republics. We also is to estimate domestic output. The new empirical evidence shows the huge differences existing within the region in per capita expenditure by 1913, when the first globalization wave was coming to an end. The comparison between 1913 and 1925 levels makes clear that, generally speaking, First World War and its immediate aftermath did favor capital goods import substitution all over the region, but quite unevenly.// En este artículo estudiamos el desarrollo económico alcanzado por la totalidad de los Estados latinoamericanos y caribeños soberanos en 1913 y 1925 desde una perspectiva inédita en el estudio del conjunto de la región: las importaciones y la producción –que sumadas equivalen al consumo aparente– de bienes de capital. Asegurada la fiabilidad de las estadísticas del comercio exterior, procedemos a reconstruir las magnitudes de los bienes de capital adquiridos por las 20 repúblicas. También estimamos la producción interna. La nueva evidencia empírica pone de manifiesto las enormes diferencias existentes en el seno de la región en el consumo per cápita de bienes de capital al término de la primera oleada globalizadora. La comparación entre los niveles de 1913 y 1925 revela que, en general, la contienda mundial no favoreció el proceso de sustitución de importaciones de la región, pero no en todos los países por igual.
N76|Uma outra modernização. Transportes em uma província não exportadora ? Minas Gerais, 1850-1870|Another modernization: transportation in a non-exporting province ? Minas Gerais, 1850-1870 - Between 1750 and 1880, Minas Gerais developed an economy predominantly non-exporting as well as relatively independent of external markets of other Brazilian regions and of foreign markets. Due to such unique historical evolution, contemporaries had to develop specific understanding and ways of dealing with transportation problems. In nineteenth century, mainly in its third quarter, it were established the conditions for the modernization process of transportation in Minas. Those conditions allowed such modernization to take place apart from the determinations resulting from the hegemony of a primarily exportation economic model, specially based on hastening the construction of an integrated system. This text enlarges considerations about the history of transportation in the province of Minas Gerais. It presents and analyses documental evidences which demonstrate it can be mistaken the understanding of modernization of Brazilian transportation considering a single model as well as the tendency to generalize to the whole country the historical experience of modernization based upon a railroad system.
N76|The Colombian Aerial Navigation Company Between 1919 and 1921. An Entrepreneurial Adventure in South America|The early participation of Colombian entrepreneurs in the establishment of airlines in Colombia during the first decade of the twentieth century was marked by risk, faced with an aviation industry that recently began worldwide. This article describes the creation and operation in 1919 of the first airline in Colombia: Compañía Colombiana de Navegación Aérea, CCNA. The documentation from personal files, newspapers and press at the time, allowed to explore the short life of this company. This first attempt paved the way for what would become years later in a lucrative industry that has revolutionized the way of moving from one place to another and strengthened economic and political ties between geographically isolated areas
N76|O porto de São Francisco do Sul na dinâmica regional catarinense [The port of São Francisco do Sul in the regional Santa Catarina state dynamics]|The objective of this article is to argue for the insertion of the port of São Francisco do Sul into the regional dynamics of the state of Santa Catarina with emphasis on the answers given by the port to the specialization, diversification and integration of the states economy. Besides the introduction and final consideration, the text is divided into three parts. The first part examines the construction, the improvements and expansion plans. This topic looks at the frustrated attempts to build the new port, legal concessions, its creation as an organized port, investments made for Petrobras and the state government, and constant bottlenecks in port structure. After that, the port load movement from since the beginning of the 20th century will be presented, as a long term historical series. And finally, an economic history periodization of the port of São Francisco do Sul will be presented, beginning in 1908, when the first study for the construction of the new port was carried out.
N76|A hybrid methodology for the Cox proportional hazard model|The paper proposes a methodology that uses the synergy between the statistics and the artificial intelligence to obtain estimations of the parameters of the proportional hazard Cox’s Model using the neo diffuse neuron structure proposed by Yamakawa in 1994. The methodology consists of three stages divided in turn in phases to obtain the estimations. There was used information of three complexes of the Venezuelan industry CVG-Venalum. The proposed methodology gives results with confidence intervals more precise that the obtained by the Cox’s methodology.
N76|Crescimento e Mudança Tecnológica na Indústria de Bens de Capital no Estado de São Paulo, 1928-1937|No abstract is available for this item.
N76|The First World War and coal trade geography in Latin America and the Caribbean (1890-1930)|This paper aims to illustrate the dynamics of coal trade between Latin America and its main trade partners, i.e. the USA, Great Britain and Germany, before and after the enormous disruption caused by the First World War. The coal trade was used as an indicator of modernization for Latin American countries, given that oil was at that time of secondary importance. Energy imports have determined the possibilities of each Latin American country in its process of development. Here we address this question and place special emphasis on supply channels, concluding that the trade link with main suppliers was of key significance. Although this was very clear by the end of the period, the process had started well before the First World War, at least for the majority of LA&C countries. These points are developed through a gravity model applied to the bilateral coal trade. The importance of the market supplier share is addressed through cluster methodologies.
N76|Uma outra modernização: transportes em uma província não-exportadora - Minas Gerais, 1850-1870|Between 1750 and 1880, Minas Gerais developed an economy predominantly non-exporting as well as relatively independent of external markets of other Brazilian regions and of foreign markets. Due to such unique historical evolution, contemporaries had to develop specific understanding and ways of dealing with transportation problems. In nineteenth century, mainly in its third quarter, it were established the conditions for the modernization process of transportation in Minas. Those conditions allowed such modernization to take place apart from the determinations resulting from the hegemony of a primarily exportation economic model, specially based on hastening the construction of an integrated system. This text enlarges considerations about the history of transportation in the province of Minas Gerais. It presents and analyses documental evidences which demonstrate it can be mistaken the understanding of modernization of Brazilian transportation considering a single model as well as the tendency to generalize to the whole country the historical experience of modernization based upon a railroad system.
N76|Conflictos de tierras, derechos de propiedad y el surgimiento de la economía exportadora en el siglo XIX en Colombia|Este estudio desarrolla la relación entre la expansión de la oferta de tierras y el desarrollo exportador a finales del siglo XIX e intenta explicar la lánguida inserción de la economía colombiana a la economía mundial durante la ola de globalización que se inició a mediados del siglo XIX. Con base en la información sobre producción de cultivos exportables a nivel municipal de 1892, adjudicación de baldíos y conflictos de tierra durante el siglo XIX se encuentra que el mayor obstáculo que enfrentó el desarrollo exportador fue la debilidad de los derechos de propiedad de los colonos en las tierras de frontera, resultante del riesgo de expropiación o usurpación por parte de terratenientes locales. A partir de los resultados cuantitativos se calcula que en ausencia de conflicto de tierras la probabilidad de que un municipio hubiese tenido producción de productos exportables habría sido 50% más alta mientras la producción de productos exportables habría sido por lo menos el doble de la observada. Para corregir por la posible endogeneidad entre el desarrollo exportador local (municipal) y los conflictos de tierra locales se utiliza como instrumento de estos últimos la cercanía geográfica a la presencia de instituciones coloniales (Encomienda en 1560 y Esclavitud -poblaciones con más de 20 esclavos en 1800).
N76|Lost decades? : independence and latin America’s falling behind, 1820-1870|This paper explores the connections between independence and Latin America’s relative decline during the half a century after independence. The release of the fiscal burden was partly offset by higher costs of self-government, while opening up to the international economy represented a handmaiden of growth. Colonial emancipation had a different impact across regions and widened regional disparities. Per capita income grew and though Latin America fell behind to the U.S. and Western Europe, improved or kept its relative position to the rest of the world. ‘Lost decades’ seems an unwarranted depiction of the period 1820-1870.
N76|Modern energy consumption and economic modernisation in Latin America and the Caribbean between 1890 and 1925|In the absence of comparable macroeconomic indicators for most of the Latin American economies before the 1930s, the apparent consumption of energy is used in this paper as a proxy of the degree of modernisation of Latin America and the Caribbean. This paper presents an estimate of the apparent consumption per head of modern energies (coal, petroleum and hydroelectricity) for 30 countries of Latin American and the Caribbean for 1890 to 1925, multiplying the number of countries for which energy consumption estimates were previously available. As a result, the paper provides the basis for a quantitative comparative analysis of modernisation performance beyond the few countries for which historical national accounts are available in Latin America.
N76|Recuperación y expansión de la agroindustria azucarera mexiquense en un contexto de crisis (1821-1854)|This work analyses the sugar agro-industry of the State of Mexico, during the first haft of nineteenth century from three main issues: the production of sugar, cane rum and sugar-cane syrup; their markets and the commercial networks. Related to these issues, the article realizes a contribution of the general discussion on the operation of Mexican economy in this period, showing a regional differential activity. KEY Classification-JEL: N36, N56, N76, Q13
N76|Taxas cambiais do mil-réis(1795-1913)<BR>[Exchange rates of the mil-reis (1795-1913)]|Three nominal exchange rate series are presented, for the mil-reis and the dollar in relation to sterling, and for the mil-reis in relation to the dollar. For each of these, two series are constructed: current rates and long-term rates, representing the secular tendency of these exchange rates. The main out-of-trend fluctuations of the mil-reis and the dollar are discussed, as well as the advantage of analyzing fluctuations and trend together. The text includes tables showing rates for all 6 series.
N76|"O Capital Como Sujeito E O ""Sentido Da Colonização"""|The objective of this paper is to discuss the main lines of the Brazilian historiography about colonial period that had emerged after the Caio Prado Júnior' s model and, starting from its metodological fundaments, evaluate the explicative power and adequacy of the considered models. In this historiography, the majority of the authors analyzes the Brazilian colonial period with the concepts developed by Marx, in the Historical Materialism approach. However, although apparently belong to a same theoretical conception, such authors find very different results. Such differences are due to the different interpretations of marxian theory, and they can be understood by a comparison of the methodological aspects of them.
N76|La infraestructura del transporte vial y la movilización de carga en Colombia|Como se ha demostrado en varios estudios, la infraestructura de transporte, y en especial las carreteras son de significativa importancia en el crecimiento y desarrollo de un país. El presente documento quiere llamar la atención sobre la infraestructura vial y su importancia en la movilización de carga en Colombia toda vez que el 80% de la carga del país se moviliza por carretera. Los resultados muestran una red vial limitada y de poca capacidad, aún si se compara con otros países latinoamericanos en vía de desarrollo. En cuanto a la movilización de carga, la antigüedad de los vehículos y su poca capacidad de carga hace que los costos de transporte se mantengan altos, afectando la competitividad de los bienes transportados.
N76|La infraestructura del transporte vial y la movilización de carga en Colombia|Como se ha demostrado en varios estudios, la infraestructura de transporte, y en especial las carreteras son de significativa importancia en el crecimiento y desarrollo de un país. El presente documento quiere llamar la atención sobre la infraestructura vial y su importancia en la movilización de carga en Colombia toda vez que el 80% de la carga del país se moviliza por carretera. Los resultados muestran una red vial limitada y de poca capacidad, aún si se compara con otros países latinoamericanos en vía de desarrollo. En cuanto a la movilización de carga, la antigüedad de los vehículos y su poca capacidad de carga hace que los costos de transporte se mantengan altos, afectando la competitividad de los bienes transportados.
N76|Política tarifária no II Reinado: evolução e impactos, 1850-1889 [Tariff policy in the Second Reign - evolution and impacts, 1850-1889]|"The article analyses the evolution of Brazilian tariff policy between 1844 and 1889. At first a review of the various tariff schedules adopted during the period is made, with their main features highlighted. The next section seeks to assess the impact of tariff policy on the degree of protection afforded to the domestic sector. To that effect, three types of exercises are carried out: first, the ""real cost of imports"" and its determinants are calculated; we then calculate coefficients of partial correlation between the quantity of imports, GDP, price of imports, the rate of exchange and import tariffs; finally, we estimate econometrically import demand equations. The exercises reveal that during the II Reign tariffs were important in explaining variations in total imports, although this importance diminished after 1869."
N76|Corporate Policy in Mexico During the Porfirian Age. The Telephone Companies, 1881-1905|In Mexico City, in the heyday of the Porfirio Díaz’s regime (1877-1911), a telephone system was developed by a private carrier, whose parent company was American Bell Telephone Company, which grew into a privately owned monopoly that served a clientele made up mostly of businessmen and government institutions. This essay tries to explain the company’s corporate policies to grow and profit in this incipient market, as well of the municipal council to regulate its operations till 1903, when its administrative powers were taken away by the federal government.
N76|Market Power and Commodity Prices: Brazil, Chile and the United States, 1820s-1930|The paper focuses on market power by certain countries in specific commodity markets as a crucial factor in explaining the level of protection. It is argued that a country which is a price maker in the world market of a specific commodity might affect its world price through export taxes, import taxes and commodity stockpiling. Standard reduced form equations were estimated to test if significant market shares in international markets of Brazilian coffee, Chilean saltpetre and US cotton implied domestic variables were relevant for the determination of the corresponding world commodity prices. Results suggest the producers succeeded in passing through increases in internal costs to the relevant world commodity price.
N76|Energy as an indicator of modernisation in Latin America by 1925|In absence of comparable macroeconomic indicators for most of the Latin American economies beyond the 1930s, this paper presents an estimate of the apparent consumption per head of coal and petroleum for 25 countries of Latin American and the Caribbean for the year 1925, doubling the number of countries for which energy consumption estimates were previously available. Energy consumption is then used as an indicator of economic modernisation. As a result, the paper provides the basis for a quantitative comparative analysis of modernisation performance beyond the few countries for which historical national accounts are available in Latin America.
N76|Capital goods imports and investments in Latin America in the mid 1920s|The assessment of Latin American long term economic performance is in urgent need of mobilizing more data to match the pressing demands of growth analysts. We present a systematic comparison of capital goods imports for 20 Latin American countries in 1925. It relies on both the foreign trade data of the importing countries and of the major exporting countries –the industrialized economies of the time. The quality of foreign trade figures is tested; an homogeneous estimate of capital goods imported is derived, and its per capita ranking is discussed providing new light on Latin American development levels before import substitution.
N76|Geographical deviations in foreign trade statistics: A study into European trade with Latin American Countries, 1925|We have analyzed the spatial accuracy of European foreign trade statistics compared to Latin American. We have also included USA’s data because of the importance of this country in Latin American trade. We have developed a method for mapping discrepancies between exporters and importers, trying to isolate systematic spatial deviations. Although our results don’t allow a unique explanation, they present some interesting clues to the distribution channels in the Latin American Continent as well as some spatial deviations for statistics in individual countries. Connecting our results with the literature specialized in the accuracy of foreign trade statistics; we can revisit Morgernstern (1963) as well as Federico and Tena (1991). Morgernstern had had a really pessimistic view on the reliability of this statistic source, but his main alert was focused on the trade balances, not in gross export or import values. Federico and Tena (1991) have demonstrated how accuracy increases by aggregation, geographical and of product at the same time. But they still have a pessimistic view with relation to distribution questions, remarking that perhaps it will be more accurate to use import sources in this latest case. We have stated that the data set coming from foreign trade statistics for a sample in 1925, being it exporters or importers, it’s a valuable tool for geography of trade patterns, although in some specific cases it needs some spatial adjustments.
N76|La América Latina y la economía mundial en el largo siglo XX|This paper draws the broad trends of Latin American economic development and its relations to the world economy since 1870. It presents the raw materials dependence of the region, its industrialization strategy, the incidence of unstable capital flows, as well as of macroeconomic policy, as the fundamental factors that helped to shape the central features of Latin American economic development during this “long twentieth century”. It also explores the role of mayor international shocks vs. that of ideas and policies in the two major transitions experienced during the century. The analysis is divided in three broad phases: the “export age”, from the 1870s/1880s to the 1920s; the phase of “state-led industrialization”, between the 1930s and the 1970s; and the most recent period, which is termed the “neo-liberal order”.// Este ensayo presenta las principales tendencias del desarrollo latinoamericano y sus relaciones con la economía mundial desde 1870. Considera la dependencia regional de las materias primas, su estrategia de industrialización, la incidencia de la inestabilidad de los flujos de capital y la política macroeconómica como los factores fundamentales que ayudaron a moldear los rasgos centrales del desarrollo de la América Latina durante ese “largo siglo XX”. Explora también el papel que tuvieron los choques internacionales frente al papel de las ideas y las políticas en las dos transiciones principales que se experimentaron durante el siglo. El análisis se divide en tres fases: la “era de las exportaciones”, entre los decenios de 1870-1880 y los años 1920; la fase de “industrialización dirigida por el Estado” entre los decenios de 1930 y 1970, y el periodo más reciente, al que se denomina como “el orden neoliberal”.
N76|Nacimiento de un mercado especial. El servicio telefónico en la ciudad de México, 1881-1911|In the heyday of the Porfirian Age, Mexico City saw the birth a new market: that of the telephone service. This essay refers to the creation of this market stressing its private nature and the monopolic structure of the urban market. This situation did not change much after the introduction of a new player, Swedish company Ericsson, which henceforth shared the market with its American rival. la ciudad de México vio el nacimiento de un mercado nuevo durante el Porfiriato (1877-1911): el mercado del servicio telefónico. Este ensayo trata acerca de la creación de este mercado haciendo hincapié en su carácter privado y la estructura monopólica del mercado urbano. Esta situación no se modificó sustancialmente luego de la aparición de un nuevo actor, la empresa sueca Ericsson, la cual compartió el mercado con su competidora estadounidense.
N76|O Estado e o crescimento econômico na America Latina: Brasil e México, 1880-1920|"The self-proclaimed ""liberal"" economic policies of Brazil and Mexico in the period of 1870-1910 emphasized, according to the conventional historiography, small government, foreign investment and free trade. We found, however, that the states in Brazil and Mexico, while graded by the theory of liberalism, in fact played central roles in economic development. Links to the international economy paradoxically forced some interventionist policies through new financial and monetary policies, raising tariffs, participation in commodity markets, and promotion of state enterprises such as the nationalization of the railroads. Officials were not driven simply by ideology and their actions changed over time. National sovereignty and political peace were as compelling as the balance of payments and per capita GNP. Markets did not run oar their own, they required states' guidance."
N76|O Rio de Janeiro e as primeiras linhas transatlânticas de paquetes a vapor: 1850-1860|The first line of steamship navigation between Europe and Brazil was the British Royal Company, which was subsidized by the British government not only to do the postal service, but also to transport passengers and goods, mainly those of smallest volume and highest freight value. Due to the very great success of this company many other steamship navigation companies started to compete with it. The quickness of its comfortable and elegant steamships, the cheapness of the return freight and, above all, the regularity and punctuality of its vessels converted the British Royal Company into the favourite of Brazilian customers and even of its competitors, who had to face their defeat in the middle of frustration and admiration feelings for the British efficiency. The Rio de Janeiro's connection to England, in twenty eight days with a fixed schedule, revolutionized Brazilian business life: foreign capitalists could now control their investments and better evaluate the advantages for doing new investments; the exchange floatations decreased and the commercial relationships of both sides of the Atlantic increased. This new commercial order created a new dynamics to all sorts of business and new perspectives for the displacement of people and capital, transforming Brazil into a modern country.
N76|Crédito e cartões. Os ambulantes judeus no Rio de Janeiro|This article refers to ambulant trade performed by Jewish immigrants during the first half of the twentieth century in the city of Rio de Janeiro. That practice, an important way of integration within the informal urban economy, was based upon the solidarity networks and organizations of the Jewish local community. The pedlar, by enabling lower income groups to buy on credit, gave origin to a sizeable popular market for consumption goods.
N76|Why Brazil Did Not Develop a Merchant Marine; Brazilian Shipping and the World in the 19th Century|The weak performance of the Brazilian merchant marine is surprising, as a huge external sector is normally expected to go hand in hand with the development of a national merchant marine. To elucidate this question, the article proposes an analysis and discussion of the development of the Brazilian merchant marine in the nineteenth century. The early focus on the extremely specialized importation of African slaves led to a near abandonment of long distance shipping when this trade was banned in 1830. The same tendency to desist from exterior shipping can also be found in the United States in the late 19th century. A comparison of the two countries demonstrates, that the need for developing the national territory and for providing transportation facilities for the growing interior economies diverted the concentration from exterior ventures to national ones.
N76|Indicadores sectoriales y desarrollo economico en Latinoamerica|A traves de un analisis comparativo de 21 paises latinoamericanos se demuestra el efecto positivo que tiene la Industria, el Comercio Exterior y el Turismo sobre el desarrollo economico de un pais. Sin embargo, el crecimiento, en terminos per capita, ha sido demasiado moderado para la mayoria de los paises latinoamericanos en los ultimos años, en algunos casos debido a un excesivo aumento de la poblacion (como en Brasil y Mexico), y en otros, por el limitado crecimiento o simplemente estancamiento de los niveles de produccion. We analyse the positive effects of industry, external trade and tourism on economic development, with a comparative study of twenty-one Latin American countries and an especial reference to the case of MERCOSUR and Andean Community. Besides tourism the industrial evolution is also very important to improve the development of services sector through some intersectoral relations.
N76|Bilanzierung von Unternehmenszusammenschlüssen nach US-GAAP|No abstract is available for this item.
N76|La concesion de Mares, el interes industrial y la fundacion de la empresa colombiana de petroleos, ECOPETROL|This article studies the reversion of the de Mares Concession managed by the Tropical Oil Company, a subsidiary of Standard Oil of New Jersey, and the creation of the Colombian Petroleum Company, ECOPETROL, in 1951. The role of different social and political actors is analyzed. Special attention is lent to the powerful National Association of Industrialists, ANDI. In contrast to other Latin American cases during the first half of the twentieth century, ECOPETROL was the result of the expiry of a contract with a multinational enterprise, not the consequence of nationalist pressures and/or expropriations. Besides this, the evidence shows that the Colombian petroleum workers did not play a major role in the creation of ECOPETROL; this refutes the existing literature on the topic. ECOPETROL was the result of negotiations that took place exclusively among sectors of the Colombian elite, North American capital, and the U.S. government.
N76|Expansão do mercado interno e evolução institucional no processo de industrialização: uma análise comparativa Brasil-Estados Unidos|The purpose of this paper is to contribute to the debate on the factors which prevented Brazil from becoming a fully industrialized economy, as the United States did, after the culmination of its agrarian-export period. The main conclusion is that, in the USA, basically due to its better domestic income distribution, the export sector played a much more dynamic role in generating domestic markets, thus inducing a process of institutional change which reinforced the process of economic expansion that eventually led the American economy to the threshold of its industrial phase stricto sensu. The paper finally suggests that an improvement on the income distribution profile continues to be necessary condition, although not a sufficient one, for the economic development of countries like ours.
N76|A Companhia Brasileira de Paquetes a Vapor e a centralidade do poder monárquico|The Brazilian state after the country's independence had to be built up. Its great internal distances favoured the rise of regionalist feelings. The national state's power centrality would only become possible through the development of communications with the regions. The Companhia Brasileira de Paquetes a Vapor (Brazilian Steam Navigation Company), by linking the capitals of all maritime provinces, had taken responsibility for the distribution of mail, and thus transformed itself in one of the fundamental means for implementing the political decisions of the monarchy, by warranting its territoriality and effective capacity to penetrate the civil society. But, through its privileges and subventions, this company was assimilated by the state, failing to modernize itself. At the end of its monopolistic concession, it was unable to face foreign competition and went bankrupt.
N76|Liberacion comercial y crecimiento economico en Mercosur 1994-2000|"El presente trabajo es un estudio del desarrollo del Mercado Comun del Sur, desde sus antecedentes juridicos y su creacion en 1991 hasta la actualidad, señalando una fecha de referencia (1995), con objeto de analizar los efectos de la entrada en vigor del arancel externo comun en el crecimiento economico del Mercosur, contrastando el ""shock"" producido por la apertura de sus mercados al exterior, si bien la liberalizacion comercial venia siendo progresiva, de acuerdo al programa de desgravacion arancelaria. This paper studies the evolution of Mercosur, from its regulatory commences and its birth in 1991 to the present day. In order to analyse the effects of the implementation of a common external tariff in 1995 over the economic growth of Mercosur, we tested the shock caused for this policy measure. However, we should take into account that a policy addressed to achieve more international openness of these economies had been being progressively implemented before this date."
N76|Efectos económicos de la adulteración monetaria en Bolivia, 1830-1870|El gobierno boliviano ordenó la reducción del contenido fino de las monedas de plata de corte menor en 1829 con el propósito de mitigar la escasez de numerario. Esta práctica se prolongó por cuatro décadas y terminó afectando a casi toda la plata que se acuñaba anualmente en la Casa Nacional de Moneda. La interpretación tradicional ha enfatizado los efectos negativos de la adulteración monetaria; sin embargo, integrantes de una nueva corriente historiográfica sostienen que la acuñación de moneda feble protegió la economía regional de la competencia de productos similares procedentes de Europa y estimuló el crecimiento económico, no sólo en Bolivia sino también en el norte argentino y en el sur peruano. En este trabajo examino las hipótesis, evidencias y conclusiones de ambas corrientes historiográficas y sugiero que la expansión económica que experimentaron las economías vecinas a partir de los años cuarenta fue un fenómeno vinculado al comercio con ultramar y que la adulteración monetaria impidió que la economía boliviana tuviera un mejor desempeño en las primeras décadas de la república.
N76|Políticas corporativas en México: el caso de la Compañía Telefónica Mexicana, 1881-1911<BR>[Corporate strategy in Mexico: the case of Compañía Telefónica Mexicana, 1881-1911]|Since its inception in Mexico City the Mexican Telephone Company tried to deal with a budding market in an organized way. to do so it used several methods and approaches, including monopy pricing, suing potential competitors for patent violations, and controling the supply of technology. This essay intends to analyze the Mexican Telephone Company's corporate policies in Mexico City during the Porfirian Age (1881-1911)
N76|Comercial Relations Between USA and Cuba in Times of Peace and War,1803-1807|Commercial regulations of the Hispanic monarchy gave great importance to the relations between the metropolis and its colonies. In times of war, Spain was not able to supply her colonies by its own means. Her incapacity of maintaining the imperial communications forced Spanish government to open ports to the neutrals. When the war against Great Britain start in December of 1804 the Anglo-Americans didn't waste the opportunity and start to trade as neutrals according to a royal order dictated by the king. Thanks to the handwritten Balances of the port of Havana from 1803 to 1807 we can reconstruct Cuban commerce at the beginning of the XIXth Century and compare the volume of merchandises exported and imported from Havana in times of peace and war. This source also shows the importance of the North-Americans as intermediary and re-exporter. Trade links were intensifying in war times. Anglo-American trade with Cuba have been multiplied almost three times. Anglo-Americans followed the routes and guidelines that the British and the French had been practicing for years, but with different interests in commercial relations with Cuba
N76|El sector externo en el Uruguay 1911-1930|Although the Uruguayan participation in world trade was insignificant, the external sector had a crucial role in the national economy of such a small and open country. On the one hand, the country's economic growth depended on livestock exports, on the other, continued state funding was supported by import tariffs and international loans. The progress of the reform project led by the Batllismo, was conditioned by external contingencies and the way they were internalized. This paper presents an analysis of key developments and trends related to trade exports and imports between 1911 and 1930, and the balance of trade in goods, services and capital flows with the rest of the world, viewed through an estimation of the Balance of Payments. Also included is an estimate of the Gross National Disposable Income and a synthetic description of the exchange rate trend.
N76|Japanese imports of Brazilian raw cotton in the second half of the 1930s: the beginning of significant Japanese-Brazilian trade and investment relations|No abstract is available for this item.
N76|Interpretación económica del último periodo colonial mexicano|In recent contributions, some economic historians established the existence of a crisis in the mining industry during the late colonial period in Mexico. Nevertheless, their arguments are weaken if we consider the effects of the mining sector on the rest of the economy. We will show that the decline in the price of silver in terms of maize was caused by increases in the production of the mining sector. Thus, the crisis-in-mining hypothesis is rejected. We calculate that Bourbon reforms caused a 25% reduction in costs in some firms in the mining industry. Thus, boom in the production of silver also was caused by the government policies. We will show that these policies could also have increased investment in Mexico.// Recientemente, parte de la historiografía económica ha establecido la existencia de una depresión en el sector minero mexicano del último periodo colonial. Sin embargo, los argumentos son poco sostenibles. Los datos respecto a la producción de plata y los precios del maíz se interpretan en un modelo de equilibrio general, y se muestra que la caída en el valor relativo de la plata en relación con el maíz se debe a la misma expansión minera. La hipótesis de crisis minera es rechazada por la evidencia que conocemos hasta ahora. Se muestra que las reformas borbónicas redujeron en una cuarta parte los costos en algunas minas, por lo que sí pudieron provocar el florecimiento observado del sector. Al revisar otros argumentos sobre descapitalización de la economía, encontramos que las reformas borbónicas no redujeron, si no que pudieron incrementar la inversión en la Colonia. También se estudian otros temas, como la inflación y la crisis colonial. Clasification-JEL N46, N76
N76|Union Success in Representation Elections: Why Does Unit Size Matter?|I establish four facts regarding the pattern of NLRB supervised representation election activity over the past 45 years: 1) the quantity of election activity has fallen sharply and discontinuously since the mid-70's after increasing between the mid-1950's and the mid-1970's; 2) union success in elections held has declined less sharply, though continuously, over the entire period; 3) it has always been the case that unions have been less likely to win NLRB-supervised representation elections in large units than in small units; and 4) the size-gap in union success-rates has widened substantially over the last forty years. I develop a simple optimizing model of the union decision to hold a representation election that can account for the first three facts. I provide a pair of competing explanations for the fourth fact: one based on differential behavior by employers of different sizes and one purely statistical. I then develop and estimate three empirical models of election outcomes using data on NLRB elections over the 1952-98 time period in order to determine whether the simple statistical model can account for the size pattern of union win rates over time. I conclude that systematic union-selection of targets for organization combined with the purely statistical factors can largely account for the observed patterns.
N76|The Impact of the Mexican Drug War on Trade|This paper studies the unintended economic consequences of increases in violence following the Mexican Drug War. We study the effects on exports in municipalities with different levels of exposure to violence after the policy. A focus on exports allows us to control for demand shocks by comparing exports of the same product to the same country of destination. Building on the close elections identification strategy proposed by Dell (2015), we show that municipalities that are exogenously exposed to the Drug War experience a 40% decrease in export growth on the in- tensive margin. Large exporters suffer larger effects, along with exports of more complex, capital intensive, and skill intensive products. Finally, using firm level data, we provide evidence consistent with violence increasing marginal exporting costs.
