N80|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886‒1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
N80|Luxury relying on banking and finance (19th-21st centuries)|Luxury-specific production systems have expanded through upstream-downstream integration, from commodities (silk, precious metals, etc.) to processing industries and luxury houses themselves. Banks financed companies, trade, foreign exchange and flows of means of payment. Starting in the 1980s, business bankers supported companies building a capitalism of luxury firms: they helped them to integrate the game of financial markets. For managers of companies in the luxury sector, the challenge has always been to create strong self-financing capacities in order to be able to distribute dividends ensuring the loyalty of family shareholders, finance investments (workshops, shop networks), and contain indebtedness. When tensions were encountered, the dependence on bankers and investors, in the event of a stock exchange listing, often led to the takeover of control by leading groups.
N80|Promise, Trust and Betrayal: Costs of Breaching an Implicit Contract|We study the cost of breaching an implicit contract in a goods market, building on a recent study that documented the presence of such a contract in the Coca-Cola market, in the US, during 1886?1959. The implicit contract promised a serving of Coca-Cola of a constant quality (the “real thing”), and of a constant quantity (6.5oz in a bottle or from the fountain), at a constant nominal price of 5¢. We offer two types of evidence. First, we document a case that occurred in 1930, where the Coca-Cola Company chose to incur a permanently higher marginal cost of production, instead of a one-time increase in the fixed cost, to prevent a quality adjustment of Coca-Cola, which would be considered a breach of the implicit contract. Second, we explore the consequences of the Company’s 1985 decision to replace the original Coke with the “New Coke.” Using the model of Exit, Voice, and Loyalty (Hirschman 1970), we argue that the unprecedented public outcry that followed the New Coke’s introduction, was a response to the Company’s breaching of the implicit contract. We document the direct and quantifiable costs of this implicit contract breach, and demonstrate that the indirect, although unquantifiable, costs in terms of lost customer goodwill were substantial.
N80|Bankers drawing lessons from history: lucidity or blindness?|"Lessons from economic history are ever difficult to seize on because the motto \""this time is different\"" and so many managerial fads foster a lack of lucidity. Anyway business and banking historians stick to their struggle to convince managers and bankers to read into academic books or journals, and to pick up levers to gauge cyclical trends, evolutions of balance sheet, pending risks, etc. This article delves into the history of banking crisis to fuel arguments about the challenges to be faced against herding bad practices as behavourial finance gathered Momentum since the 2007-2009 crisis."
N80|Why Do Boards Exist? Governance Design in the Absence of Corporate Law|We study how owners trade off the costs and benefits of establishing a board in a historical setting, where boards are optional and authority over corporate decisions can be freely allocated across the general meeting, the board, and management. We find that informed owners and boards are substitutes, and that boards exist in firms most prone to collective action problems. Boards monitor, advise, and mediate among shareholders, and these different roles entail different allocations of authority. Boards also arise to balance the need for small shareholder protection with the need to curb managerial discretion.
N80|Business registration pillars: Good regulatory practice for ASEAN|Business registration is crucial for ensuring accountable, transparent and viable business environments. By bringing businesses into the formal economy, governments are able to provide more strategic and targeted policies for businesses and consumers. The objective of this working paper is to look at the importance of business registration for governments, businesses and citizens. It explores the this issue through a series of case studies that support good practices in customer orientation and joined-up government. Each of the different case studies fall under a pillar that aims to support countries in the development of their business registration systems.The paper also aims to provide policy directions for countries in Southeast Asia when developing modern business registration systems and provides some background for the development of ASEAN’s regional business registration principles.
N80|The transformation of the Prato industrial district: an organisational ecology analysis of the co-evolution of Italian and Chinese firms|Abstract This work analyses and measures the transformation of the industrial district of Prato in the last two decades, adopting the density dependence model of Organisational Ecology. The paper has two primary research aims: (i) to investigate the recent transformation of the Prato industrial district through the foundings and failure flows of its firms’ populations, and (ii) to examine the co-evolution and reciprocal influences between the populations of the district’s Italian and Chinese firms. Through an in-depth study of the foundings and failures that have occurred in Chinese and Italian textile and clothing firms over the last two decades, this study develops analysis of demographic and organisational ecology, and investigates the processes of legitimation and competition. The results of the study indicate that the district’s Italian and Chinese firms experienced two distinct evolutionary phases during the research period: while the former declined, the latter saw development in spite of recent economic crises. The analyses also demonstrate how the evolution of Italian and Chinese populations moved in opposite directions: as the first failed, the second saw increases in the number of its foundings. This indicates the presence of a substitution effect between each firms’ population at the district level.
N80|Patenting fashion: Salvatore Ferragamo between craftmanship and industry|In the 20th century, a wide array of manufacturing activities related to fashion featured a long-lasting phase of continuous innovations both in production methods and ornamental designs. Among them, the Italian footwear industry stands out as one of the most recurrent entries in the databases of registered patents. Drawing on evidence collected from the American and Italian register of patents, the paper focuses on Salvatore Ferragamo with the aim of understanding the reason why he patented inventions and ornamental models, regarding both whole shoes and parts of them, with increasing regularity and what his attitude as an inventor tells us about product innovation in the footwear industry. KEY Classification-JEL: N80. N70
N80|What are the biggest obstacles to growth of SMEs in developing countries? – An empirical evidence from an enterprise survey|SMEs are drivers of economic growth and job creation in developing countries. It is paramount to determine the factors that hinder their growth. This paper uses the Enterprise Survey from the World Bank which covers data from 119 developing countries to investigate the biggest obstacles SMEs are confronting and the determinants that influence the obstacles as perceived by enterprise managers. The results show that SMEs perceive access to finance as the most significant obstacle which hinders their growth. The key determinants among firms' characteristics are size, age and growth rate of firms as well as the ownership of the firm. The latter – the role of the state in financing SME – is particularly intriguing. External reasons for the financing dilemma are also examined. It is shown that the main barriers to external financing are high costs of borrowing and a lack of consultant support.
N80|Micro Enterprise Financing in an Islamic Economic Framework: Bangladesh Perspective|The paper studies the deficiency of the neo liberal policy agenda that aims totransform non-governmental organization (NGOs) engaged in poverty alleviationinto formal financial institutions seeking access to capital market and performingon a commercial basis. It propounds that poverty focused credit programs aimedat distributive equity are logically inconsistent with an ethically neutral liberal marketorder. In comparison, it is inferred in the paper that Islamic economic principles affirm the logical consistency and adequacy to reality of Islamicfinancial program and poverty focused credit programs. These programs, as indicated by the welfare banking ofIslamic Banks in Bangladesh, seek access to financialmarkets, which are characterized by the presence of Shariah instrument prohibiting interest and profiteering and promoting charity.
N80|The Modern Enterprise - Successor of Business Organization Forms in Ancient Rome and Medieval Europe|"In recent years, researchers and practitioners are increasingly interested in the role and influence of the forms of business organization on the economy and society. Interpretations of the role of companies in the modern period, ranging from enthusiastic support (as the most important invention of capitalism, an explanation of the Western civilization’s expansion) to moderate and often critical positions, where the company is seen as a solution, not necessarily optimal, to market imperfections. On the other hand, we often ponder upon the explanation of political, administrative and infrastructural success of ancient Rome: the state or the enterprise (the private initiative)? Closer to our time, we rediscover with amazement that the ""dark"" Middle Ages are not at all dark and lacking in progress, at least in terms of capitalist organization and logic. The development of trade in the two poles of medieval Europe (the Mediterranean and the Balto-Scandinavian area), of industry and trade in the North-Western quadrant (Flanders and neighbouring regions), was concurrent with the improvement of organizational forms of business, with the diversity and flexibility of entrepreneurial or even corporate frameworks. Of course, the study of historical sources (ancient or medieval) cannot provide direct answers or solutions to the questions of modern society, because the challenges of today are rather different to those of the past. On the other hand, understanding history can help companies to build a more complete and a wiser enterprise functionality and role in the modern society, to reformulate the questions and to find new solutions. Our paper, with a clear juridical perspective on economic history, focuses on the organization of firms in ancient Rome and medieval Europe, tries to provide examples, useful interpretations and diverse solutions to the problems of contemporary society and economy."
N80|Inspired and inspiring: Hervé Moulin and the discovery of the beauty contest game|We draw an unusually detailed picture of a discovery, the beauty contest game — with Hervé Moulin as the center of the initial inspiration. Since its inception, the beauty contest game and the descriptive level k model has widely contributed to the growth of experimental and behavioral economics and expanded also to other areas within and outside of economics. We illustrate, in particular, the recent interaction between macroeconomic theorists and experimenters, who independently had worked on the puzzles and consequences due to beauty contest features. Furthermore, we introduce a new variety of the two-person beauty contest game with two different payoff structures that leads to different game-theoretic properties unperceived by naïve subjects and game theory experts alike.
N80|Impacto de la crisis en las grandes empresas familiares del mundo. Una primera aproximación cuantitativa para 11 países|Este working paper presenta una primera elaboración rudimentaria de dos bases de datos sobre las mayors empresas familiares del mundo en dos hitos cronológicos: 2005 (antes de la actual crisis), y 2010 (después del inicio de la actual crisis). Los objetivos principales son describir algunas de las principales evidencias empíricas cuantitativas observadas, y reflexionar sobre posibles impactos de la crisis en las mayores empresas familiares que existían en 11 países en 2005. Algunas conclusiones muy preliminares son, en primer lugar, que la crisis no parece haber provocado un col·lapso general entre las mayores empresas familiares del mundo, lo que indicaria buena resistencia a la actual situación de crisis. Segundo, que los aparentes efectos negativos de la crisis en este grupo de empresas parecen haber sido más significativos entre las empresas familiares de la vieja Europa que en las de otros continentes. Tercero, que los efectos aparentemente más positivos parecerían darse entre conglomerados de control familiar con domicilio social en economies emergentes, en los que hay empresas muy dinámicas en sectores de alta tecnologia, energia y finanzas. Una hipòtesis a investigar en el futuro derivada de estas observaciones es que en la crisis actual las grandes empresas familiares de economias emergentes, en sectores intensivos en capital y tecnologia, parecen tener mejores comportamientos económicos que grandes emporios familiares industriales de sectores menos capital intensivos.
N80|Familias empresarias y grandes empresas familiares en América Latina y España: una visión de largo plazo|Son numerosos los libros y artículos que analizan las claves del éxito de las familias empresarias y grupos familiares que perduran en el tiempo, si bien la gran mayoría de los negocios registrados como empresas desaparecen en dos generaciones. Aunque esos datos pudieran hacer pensar en el fracaso de este tipo de empresas, a través del estudio de los mayores negocios familiares de ocho países de América Latina y España a lo largo de más de un siglo, esta obra pone de manifiesto que las familias empresarias desaparecen de una empresa y surgen en otras continuando con la actividad a lo largo de décadas en un continuo proceso de adaptación, diversificándose en sectores que presentan mayores expectativas de rentabilidad o seguridad, alterando para ello la denominación jurídica de los negocios, el organigrama o los esquemas de gobierno. Con la metodología propia de la historia empresarial que combina archivos públicos y privados, entrevistas con un enfoque interdisciplinar, y con la participación de veintidós especialistas de once países, este libro revela que en América Latina y España son las familias empresarias, a través de empresas independientes o grupos, la clave histórica de la riqueza de los territorios en los que se desarrollan. Esta monografía se acompaña por un portal, accesible a través del sitio web de la Fundación BBVA, en el que se presentan distintos recursos adicionales como un análisis estadístico y gráfico de los datos resultado de esta investigación, además de una base de datos con la información sobre los mayores negocios familiares en los nueve países analizados para el año 2010. El conjunto de esta obra proporciona una herramienta de utilidad para un público lector del ámbito académico, así como para consultores y gestores económicos.
N80|Not all smooth sailing: Barriers to small business success for owner/managers from Middle Eastern communities in Melbourne|There has been very little international research on Arab entrepreneurs from the Middle East, who began to land on American shores during the late 1880s and on other parts of the world for decades. Little attention has also been given to Arab entrepreneurs from the Middle East, who began to land on Australian shores during the late 1860s, and who have been greatly contributing to the Australian economy and cultural diversity for almost 150 years. Thus, in an attempt to fill the gap, this paper investigates barriers to small business success, using a sample of Middle Eastern communities in Melbourne, Australia, specifically the Lebanese, Egyptian and Iraqi communities, the three largest in the state of Victoria with developed community infrastructures. Unfortunately, a list of the total target population did not conveniently exist for sampling purposes; and it was impractical to compile such a list, therefore, cluster sampling was utilized, particularly, area sampling, as geographic areas were identified. For pragmatic reasons, and to enhance representativeness of the sample, PPS technique was used to identify the proportion of each sample for each community for interviews. Thus, around ten per cent (n=16) in proportion to the total number of working population (N=165) were subsequently interviewed. Individual in-depth, semi-structured and audiotaped interviews were conducted using a list of open-ended questions relating to the barriers to business success. Interviews were manually content-analyzed using conventional content analysis and constant comparative methods. Thus, the analysis of participants’ comments reflected the following barriers to business success: (i) dealing with difficult people; (ii) loss of support sources; (iii) personal idiosyncrasies of the owner/managers; (iv) financial barriers; (v) lack of specific business experience; and (vi) others. The analysis of participants’ comments also indicated that dealing with difficult people as a barrier to business success was further analysed into (A) extended family, friends and people from own community, (B) employees and (C) customers, the other five barriers could not be analysed further. Quotations and excerpts from interviews were used to facilitate understanding interviewees’ points of view, as well as to illustrate and support each the first and the second levels of analysis for each of the barriers. This study lies in its contribution to academic literature, and its results should improve understanding of entrepreneurial behavioral patterns through the development of teaching and training programs, which can assist government and relevant bodies in introducing public policy that helps improve entrepreneurs’ success.
N80|Inventing Prizes: A Historical Perspective on Innovation Awards and Technology Policy|Prizes for innovations are currently experiencing a renaissance, following their marked decline during the nineteenth century. However, Daguerre’s “patent buyout,” the longitude prize, inducement prizes for butter substitutes and billiard balls, the activities of the Royal Society of Arts and other “encouragement” institutions, all comprise historically inaccurate and potentially misleading case studies. Daguerre, for instance, never obtained a patent in France and, instead, lobbied for government support in a classic example of rent-seeking. This paper surveys empirical research using more representative samples drawn from Britain, France, and the United States, including “great inventors” and their ordinary counterparts, and prizes at industrial exhibitions. The results suggest that administered systems of rewards to innovators suffered from a number of disadvantages in design and practice, some of which might be inherent to their non-market orientation. These findings in part explain why innovation prizes lost favour as a technology policy instrument in both the United States and Europe in the period of industrialization and economic growth.
N80|The hidden role of women in family firms|Women have historically played an important hidden role in family firms, and a great deal of research is now shedding light on this role. In spite of the more formal nature of their work in the present day, still a considerable volume of women’s contributions remains invisible to official statistics. This study, based on interviews with over 500 women in small and medium family firms, brings this informal work into view, quantifying it in terms of hours worked and monetary value, exploring the reasons for its informality and examining the risks and precariousness it entails.
N80|Supplier Relationship Strategies in the Automotive Industry: An International Comparative Analysis|The automotive industry is a very important one as it has a large impact on the economies of every country and on our own lives. Analysing the supplier relations in this field is an interesting action as this industry is very mature in terms of development and application of purchasing practices. The first three world manufacturers cover 42% of the market and come from three different continents: Toyota, the leader, from Japan, Volkswagen, the second, from Germany, Europe and General Motors from America. Their philosophy in terms of supplier relationship is not very different, but the implementation can really depend on the cultural specificities. This article aims to discover the differences in company culture and strategy in terms of supplier relations but also analyse the impact of these relations on annual sales. The international comparative analysis will point out whether the company culture can be easily implemented in locations all over the world or the local particularities are more important.
N80|How they made news pay: news traders’ quest for crisis-resistant business models|This paper discusses the problem, implied by Arrow’s fundamental paradox of information, of how to make money from news. To earn money from important news, news traders need to tell the potential buyer what it is, yet once they have revealed it, the buyer no longer needs to pay. This paper discusses how historically this paradox made it difficult for news agencies to profit from selling important news during crises, and how they gradually developed new business models in response. It examines these models and investigates how they interacted with market structure, resulting in just a few international news agencies dominating the international news supply.
N80|Explicit Evidence of an Implicit Contract|"We offer the first direct evidence of an implicit contract in a goods market. The evidence comes from the market for Coca-Cola. Since implicit contracts are unobservable, we adopt a narrative approach to demonstrate that the Coca-Cola Company left a written evidence of the implicit contract with its customers—a very explicit form of an implicit contract. The implicit contract promised a 6.5oz Coca-Cola of a constant quality, the ""secret formula,"" at a constant price, 5¢. We show that Coca-Cola attributes and market structure made it a suitable candidate for an implicit contract. Focusing on the observable implications of such an implicit contract, we offer evidence of the Company both acknowledging and acting on this implicit contract, which was valued by consumers. During a period of 74 years, we find evidence of only a single case of true quality change. We demonstrate that the company perceived itself as vulnerable to consumer backlash by reneging on the pledge, and conclude that the perceived costs of breaking the implicit contract were large. (JEL E12, E31, K00, K12, K22, K23, L14, L16, L66, M21, M31, N80, A14)"
N80|La evolución de los mayores negocios familiares en España (1964-2010). Nuevas fuentes, nuevos métodos, nuevos resultados|Los negocios familiares son la forma dominante de propiedad empresarial. Sin embargo, apenas existe reflexión crítica sobre metodologías apropiadas para estudiarlos de forma agregada, en una perspectiva de largo plazo, y a reducir este vacío se dirige el presente trabajo. Se propone una nueva metodología que elabora bases de datos a partir de fuentes apenas utilizadas en los estudios históricos de empresa familiar, en España, para el período entre mediados de los años 1960 y 2010. Los resultados muestran: a) el papel central inicial de Madrid y el País Vasco; b) el auge a la cúpula del capitalismo familiar de regiones de la periferia peninsular a partir de la década de 1980; c) el renovado auge de Madrid como centro de la cúpula de este capitalismo familiar a principios del siglo XXI; la resiliencia de algunas dinastías; y e) la evolución en la especialización económica de las dinastías familiares
N80|Problematyka spolecznej odpowiedzialnosci w nauczaniu historii biznesu w Harvard Business School/Social Responsibility in Business History Teaching at Harvard Business School|Based on case studies prepared at the Harvard Business School, the article analyses the content of university courses on business history. Its aim is to answer the question whether or not business history courses are used for discussing the problems of CSR or moral dilemmas behind strategic decisions made by managers. The article argues that the chance of enhancing the understanding of social problems on the part of the managers and shaping their responsiveness to them, created by the presence of courses on history in the academic curriculum, remains, to a large extent, unrealised. Teaching materials are still influenced by the Chandlerian paradigm and thus focus on changes in organisational structures and strategies of large multinational companies. They pay little attention to the social environment of business, rarely pose questions on the motivations of human actions or value hierarchies and avoid discussions on the social consequences of management decisions.
N80|Money for nothing: How firms have financed R&D-projects since the Industrial Revolution|We investigate the long-run historical pattern of R&D-outlays by reviewing aggregate growth rates and historical cases of particular R&D projects, following the historical-institutional approach of Chandler (1962), North (1981) and Williamson (1985). We find that even the earliest R&D-projects used non-insignificant cash outlays and that until the 1970s aggregate R&D outlays grew far faster than GDP, despite five well-known challenges that implied that R&D could only be financed with cash, for which no perfect market existed: the presence of sunk costs, real uncertainty, long time lags, adverse selection, and moral hazard. We then review a wide variety of organisational forms and institutional instruments that firms historically have used to overcome these financing obstacles, and without which the enormous growth of R&D outlays since the nineteenth century would not have been possible.
N80|Du Mont-de-Piété à la Grameen Bank : la finance sociale à travers le temps et l’espace \r\nEssai sur une cohérence institutionnelle et une diversité des pratiques|Le Mont-de-Piété est né dans l\'Italie du XVe siècle pour répondre aux conséquences néfastes de l\'usure, très vite il devient un acteur social offrant une aide financière en réponse aux conséquences d\'un développement économique rapide qui agit sur les structures sociales des sociétés européennes du XVIII-XIXe siècle. Le microcrédit au Sud, popularisé depuis une trentaine d\'année par la Grameen Bank, possède de nombreuses filiations avec l\'émergence du microcrédit européen. Sans nier certaines spécificités, le Mont-de-Piété et la Grameen Bank trouvent leurs origines dans les structures mêmes des économies en transition, en marche vers le capitalisme.
N80|Financial Analysis From An Accounting Point Of View|Despite the developments which tend to relax the relationship between financial analysis and accounting, property information provided by the latter irreplaceable render its use for diagnostic approaches financial foundation. An efficient information system can provide relevant indicators to users based on accurate and real information and financial analysis results are based on a diagnosis of return and risk. The aim of this article is to present primarily the origin and evolution of the relationship between financial analysis and accounting, and the fundamental role which accounting holds, through the information it produces, into analysts’ work. The used research method is the bibliographic one, being studied timely books and articles of the domain. Literature does not provide concrete answers to this problem, resolutions being expected especially from practitioners.
N80|Why business historians need a constructive theory of the archive|Archival records are a constitutive element of business historical research, and such research, in turn, is fundamental for a holistic understanding of the role of enterprise in modern capitalist societies. Despite an increasing debate within business history circles about the need to theorize the historian as author and creator of narratives, a fuller reflection on the uses and limitations of the archive in business historical research has not yet taken place. This article takes its lead from theories of organisational epistemology, and asks to what extent business historians are trapped by an outdated, realist methodology and epistemology which is in danger of ignoring the multiple roles that archives play in their knowledge production.
N80|The silence of the archive: post-colonialism and the practice of historical reconstruction from archival evidence|History as a discipline has been accused of being a-theoretical. For business historians working at business schools, however, the issue of methodology looms larger, as it is hard to make contributions to social science debates without explicating one’s disciplinary methodology. This paper seeks to outline an important aspect of historical methodology, which is data collection from archives. In this area, postcolonialism has made significant methodological contributions not just for non-Western history, as it has emphasized the importance of considering how archives were created, and how one can legitimately use them despite their limitations.
N80|Book review: The long divergence: how Islamic law held back the Middle East by Timur Kuran|This is a critical evaluation of the book entitled The Long Divergence:How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East by Timur Kuran.
N80|The managerial transformation of Italian co-operative enterprises 1946--2010| The Italian co-operative enterprises have prospered in the last 30 years in various sectors. In this essay we analyse the role played by managerialisation in allowing Italian co-ops to compete nationally and internationally with capitalist enterprises. On the basis of a substantial set of company histories and managers interviews, we have built a three generations model of co-ops managers, which shows the changes that have allowed co-ops to become fully equipped with managerial skills. The strong leadership of umbrella organisations, the inner careers of most managers and legislation have been instrumental in avoiding demutualisation, the killer of co-ops in many other countries.
N80|Interpreting the Roles and Economic Importance of Cooperative Enterprises in a Historical Perspective|Cooperative enterprises have been in existence in all fields of economic activity for around 200 years, but they have tended to bunch in some sectors. This paper will examine which sectors have the most cooperatives at a world level, attempt to sketch out a typology and enquire into the reasons for this bunching. There are essentially four cooperative forms: Users cooperatives, Producers cooperatives,Workers cooperatives, and Social or community cooperatives. While workers cooperatives have received a disproportionate amount of attention from the theoretical literature, I argue that historically this has been the least successful type of cooperative and only recently has seen some revival in the service sector. The role of capital, management styles and intrinsic motivations will be considered to explain this historical evidence. The final section of the paper is devoted to drawing lessons from the historical material analyzed in the paper.
N80|Accounting fraud, business failure and creative auditing: A micro-analysis of the strange case of Sunbeam Corp|This paper puts under the magnifying glass the path to failure of Sunbeam Corp. and emphasizes the reasons of its singularity and exceptionality. This corporate case emerges as an outlier from the analysis of the US fraud cases mentioned by WebBRD: the consideration of the time between fraud disclosure and the final bankruptcy reveals the presence of an exceptional sampled case. In fact, the maximum value of this temporal variable is estimated equal to 840 days: it is really far from the range estimated by the survival function for the entire sample and it refers to Sunbeam Corp. Different hypotheses are evaluated in the paper, starting from the consideration of Sunbeam's history peculiarities: fraud duration, scapegoating and creative auditing represent the three main points of analysis. Starting from a micro-analysis of this case that the SEC investigated in depth and this work describes in detail, inputs for future research are then provided about more general problems concerning auditing and accounting fraud.
N80|Demutualization and its Problems|Over the last three decades cooperatives experienced acceleration of institutional innovation with the introduction of many variations to the reference model. It is certainly not surprising that coops changed their organizational structure over time to face the challenges of world. In the United States and in Canada they are commonly referred to as New generation cooperatives, in Italy and Spain as cooperative groups or network of cooperatives. One of the main feature of these new organizational structures is their attempt to take some advantages of the investor oriented firms (above all in capital raising activities) while retaining the mutual/cooperative status. Many of these changes have been undertaken to facilitate the growth of the enterprises both in domestic market and abroad. Due to the wideness of the phenomenon we could name the last three decades the age of hybridization. However in some cases the search for new structures went further and assumed the aspect of conversion of mutuals into stock firms. Our paper will deal with this latter part of the story, focusing on cooperatives that preferred conversion or demutualization to hybridization. The paper describes the chronology and the geography of demutualization and analyses the forces that drove it over the last decades. The main conclusion is that demutualization provided solutions for real problems, as hybridization did, however the choice between these two options seems to have been more a matter of ideology than of efficiency.
N80|Trading Away Wide Brands for Cheap Brands|Firms face competing needs to expand product variety and reduce production costs. Trade policy affects firm investments in product variety and production processes differently. Access to larger markets enables innovation to reduce costs. Although firm scale increases, foreign competition reduces markups. Firms react by narrowing their product varieties to recapture these lost markups. I provide a theory detailing this conflicting impact of trade policy and address welfare gains from trade. Accounting for firm heterogeneity, I show support for the theoretical predictions with firm-level innovation data from Thailand's manufacturing sector which experienced unilateral home tariff changes during 2003-2006.
N80|The start of a second automobile revolution: corporate strategies and public policies|"The paper compares the current automobile scenario with the debut of the automobile to understand whether the development of cleaner cars could trigger the start of a ""Second Automobile Revolution"". Four conditions led to the appearance and widespread adoption of the oil car: (i) the crisis of the previous transport system; (ii) the development of various technical solutions, thanks to innovations coming from other sectors; (iii) the formation of a coalition of actors to implement one of those solutions despite its great uncertainties; (iv) and the macro-economic decisions and public policies that ensured the generalization of the adopted solution. Today, the first and second conditions appear to exist in that, it being no longer physically or economically viable to continue the oil car motorization of the large emerging countries, various alternative cars have been designed. At present, we are observing the creation of actors’ coalitions to support the various solutions, although commercial, geopolitical and economical reasons could lead to the preponderance of the electric car, making it the car of a ""Second Automobile Revolution"". That would completely change the architecture, the industry, the geography, the economy, the geopolitics, and the sociology of the automobile."
N80|The comeback of the Swiss watch industry on the world market: a business history of the Swatch Group (1983-2010)|The objective of this paper is to contribute to a better understanding of the comeback of the Swiss watch industry on the world market since the end of the 1980s. It focuses on the Swatch Group (SG), currently the world’s biggest watch company. In 1983, the merger of the largest watch group (SSIH) and of the trust controlling the production of parts and movements of watches (ASUAG) into SG was the main measure taken to overcome the Japanese competition. Managed since 1986 by Nicolas G. Hayek (1928-2010), SG experienced a high growth and recovered its competitiveness on the world market, becoming a driving force for the entire Swiss watch industry. This success is traditionally explained by the firm itself and by scholars as the result of the launch of a new product (Swatch, a cheap plastic quartz watch first marketed in 1983) and the persistence of an old technical culture in Switzerland which enabled this rebirth. This paper, based on SG annual reports, focuses on the strategy adopted by SG since 1983. It shows that, rather than product innovation (Swatch), it was the rationalization and globalization of the production system (concentration of strategic parts’ production in Switzerland; transfer of production facilities in Asia), together with a new marketing strategy (brand segmentation, distribution and retailing facilities, communication, etc.) which were the two main sources of the comeback of the Swiss watch industry on the world market. While Japanese still attach great attention to product innovation, SG largely established its competitiveness on non-technological innovation.
N80|The Comeback of the Swiss Watch Industry on the World Market: A Business History of the Swatch Group (1983-2010)|The objective of this paper is to contribute to a better understanding of the comeback of the Swiss watch industry on the world market since the end of the 1980s. It focuses on the Swatch Group (SG), currently the world fs biggest watch company. In 1983, the merger of the largest watch group (SSIH) and of the trust controlling the production of parts and movements of watches (ASUAG) into SG was the main measure taken to overcome the Japanese competition. Managed since 1986 by Nicolas G. Hayek (1928-2010), SG experienced a high growth and recovered its competitiveness on the world market, becoming a driving force for the entire Swiss watch industry. This success is traditionally explained by the firm itself and by scholars as the result of the launch of a new product (Swatch, a cheap plastic quartz watch first marketed in 1983) and the persistence of an old technical culture in Switzerland which enabled this rebirth. This paper, based on SG annual reports, focuses on the strategy adopted by SG since 1983. It shows that, rather than product innovation (Swatch), it was the rationalization and globalization of the production system (concentration of strategic parts f production in Switzerland; transfer of production facilities in Asia), together with a new marketing strategy (brand segmentation, distribution and retailing facilities, communication, etc.) which were the two main sources of the comeback of the Swiss watch industry on the world market. While Japanese still attach great attention to product innovation, SG largely established its competitiveness on non-technological innovation.
N80|European acquisitions in the United States: re-examining Olivetti-Underwood fifty years later|While Italy's catch-up in the course of the 20th century has been nothing short of extraordinary, it has failed to produce a large number of global business players. Nonetheless, half a century ago an Italian company concluded what was at the time the largest-ever foreign takeover of a US company. The paper analyzes the Olivetti's acquisition of Underwood and frames it in the broader picture of the literature on the management and performance of foreign companies in the United States. We provide a historical narrative focused on three main issues: 1) head office control and subsidiary autonomy; 2) Olivetti's adaptation to the American business system; 3) the development of internal knowledge resources within the subsidiary. Lessons and implications are relevant for business historians and management scholars in general.
N80|Donor Policies, Industry Structure, and the Global Allocation of Electrification Aid, 1970-2001|Access to electricity is widely recognized as an essential element of economic development. This paper uses a comprehensive dataset on electrification aid projects to quantify and model the determinants of multilateral and bilateral electrification aid in the last three decades of the 20th century. Total annual electrification aid fluctuated substantially over the period. While multilateral and bilateral donors were relatively concentrated, aid recipients were widely dispersed. Our major finding is that electrification aid by the 1990s had moved marginally toward poorer countries, except for those in Africa, and toward countries with better governance structures and ones that had restructured their electric power sector. This likely reflected the liberalization and privatization policies affecting the industry from the mid-1980s on.
N80|Particularidades de China para el desarrollo empresarial: reflexión a partir de casos de estudio| [ES] China ha irrumpido como actor principal del escenario global al haber protagonizado, durante las tres últimas décadas, un proceso de transformación económica y social de gran magnitud. Ahora bien, vender productos –sobre todo, del sector de alimentación– de origen occidental en China es, con diferencia, el reto más complicado al que deben enfrentarse las compañías de deciden entrar a operar en este mercado.
N80|Bolagsrevisorn - En studie av revisionsverksamhet under sent 1800-tal och tidigt 1900-tal. Från frivillighet till lagreglering och professionalisering|The development of Swedish auditing, in light of the increase in legislation of limited liability companies and the international history of audit at the turn of the 20th century, is investigated. An important factor is the description of the contemporary view of control and management in trade and industry. The separation between ownership and administration made the lawmakers realise the necessity of supervision of companies, the starting point of the investigation is thus the control structures in the companies, which gradually increased. The paper evaluates the auditor´s business as affected by the introduction and development of control structures of companies during the late 19th and early 20th centuries together with the developing legislation of limited liability companies. A case study investigates the auditor´s business in a number of companies in Sweden (southern Halland) from different angles, including the election of auditors as well as questions of independence, responsibility and confidentiality. The paper discusses the audit business including the use and development of memoranda and auditor´s reports. Auditors´ business experience was more important than audit practice. Their integrity was great in relation to the clients. Auditors were elected far before legislation. Audit standards gradually increased.
N80|Pirates|No abstract is available for this item.
N80|Ciocnirea civilizatiilor: Turcia si UE? - A Clash of Civilizations: Turkey and the European Union?|Starting from the long debated civilization paradigm initiated by Huntington and based upon the role of religion, this study is aimed at investigating the problem of Turkey’s integration in the European Union, both from the Turkish perspective and the European one. Structured on two distinct parts, our current research seeks, on one hand, to point out a possible internal Turkish crisis, reflected in the significant changes of Islamism, felt after the secularization process initiated by Ataturk and continued by his supporters:; on the other hand we will note the amplification of an international-wide crisis, noted in the position that Europeans adopted towards accepting Turkey in the EU. Between these two levels, we will also talk about sensible topics for Turkey, such as: political Islam, Islam resurgence, privatization and deprivatization of religion; regarding EU, the following question rises: is it a civilizational identity project, with a Christian heritage or does it aims to be a multi-civilizational and multi-religious project, which accepts among its components Islamic countries.
N80|Public enterprise in the modern western world: an historical analysis|The aim of this paper is to explain the pattern of public enterprise in Western Europe, Japan and USA in the late 20th century, just before the onset of privatisation. It is argued that this requires an understanding of the origins which date from the early 19th century. The task then becomes one of explaining differences over time and across countries. The focus is on those enterprises levying prices and required to break even financially. A common misconception is that the establishment of such public enterprises at both the state and municipal level was a device for overcoming problems of natural monopoly and/or a socialist instrument for mitigating worker exploitation. It is argued that the former was mainly dealt with by arms’ length regulation and that socialist forces were limited. The key questions that have to be answered and around which the paper is organised are: why was public enterprise common in grid networks; why were state owned enterprises in manufacturing more common in Germany, Spain, Italy; why were USA and UK (up to 1939) different; was municipal and state socialism important; what does the privatisation experience tell us about public enterprise; what do performance studies reveal? The answer is that public enterprise was often an instrument for promoting social and political unification, securing national defence and related strategic considerations, increasingly in the 20th century for promoting economic growth, with regulatory failures and socialist pressures playing a more subsidiary and/or occasional role.
N80|Socialt kapital och karteller|This study discusses social capital and related concepts that can be useful when analysing cartels. Different types of definitions of social capital are discussed. It is concluded that organisations can generate social capital which results in increased ability to cooperate in efficient ways. Organised social capital can lead to confidence, facilitating cooperation when trust is not enough. The empirical case discussed in the paper is cartel formation in Swedish brewing industry. This study confirms many results indicated in different case studies: the importance of organisation, leadership, control apparatus, industry specific circumstances, and that cartel success often is preceded by failures. The brewing case is used in the theoretical discussion of social capital. The societal context of this study is the stricter cartel policy since the 1990s. A hypothetical construction of four phases for 1870-2009 is made, based on institutional environment and possibilities for cartels to cooperate efficiently.
N80|The Nature of Inventive Activities : Evidence from a Data-Set of R&D Awards|"This paper presents an exploratory study on the characteristics of inventive activities as captured on the basis of the analysis of a data-set of R&D awards. Our data source is the ""R&D 100 Awards"" competition organized by the journal Research and Development. Since 1963, the magazine (which at that time was called Industrial Research) has been awarding this prize to 100 most technologically significant new products available for sale or licensing in the year preceding the judgment. The jury is composed of university professors, industrial researchers and consultants with a certified level of competence in the specific areas they are called to asses. The main criteria for assessment are: i) technological significance (i.e., whether the product can be considered a major breakthrough), ii) competitive significance (i.e., how the product compares to rival solutions available on the market). Throughout the years, key breakthroughs inventions such as Polacolor film (1963), the flashcube (1965), the automated teller machine (1973), the halogen lamp (1974), the fax machine (1975), the liquid crystal display (1980), the printer (1986), the Kodak Photo CD (1991), the Nicoderm antismoking patch (1992), Taxol anticancer drug (1993), lab on a chip (1996), and HDTV (1998) have received the prize. We use these data to study the shifts in the distribution of innovative activities across countries, sectors and types of institutions and the changes in the sources of inventive activities over time. Our preliminary findings show: i) the emergence of a challenge to US technological leadership from other rival nations such as Japan and Germany, ii) the critical role of scientific instrumentation as a powerful source of technological breakthroughs, iii) a change in the institutional arrangements where innovative activities take place, from individual corporations, to partnerships increasingly involving public research organizations and universities, iv) a large chunk of inventive activities undertaken without patent protection."
N80|Artistic styles: revisiting the analysis of modern artists’ careers|No abstract is available for this item.
N80|Intangible assets and competitiveness in Spain: an approach based on trademark registration data in Catalonia (1850-1946)|This paper studies the origins of trademark registration in Spain and offers, for the first time, data across sectors and regions with a long-term perspective. In apparent contradiction to the slow path of industrialization and the economic backwardness of Spain between 1850 and the 1940s, empirical evidence on trademark registration suggests that, in this field, Spanish policies and Spanish firms seemed to be well ahead of other countries. Spain was among the pioneering countries in the Western world in having a state legislation protecting brand registration since 1850. Also, some Spanish regions and industrialized sectors adopted similar strategies to those of its European counterparts in terms of using consistently branding and registered trademarks. Our evidence suggests that firms seem to have used brands and marks, first to fight against fraud and imitation and second to add intangible assets to its products in order to endow them with persistent identity trends regarding origins or quality of the product that were difficult to replicate, as often happened with patents. This created and accumulated, over that period of time, a marketing knowledge among consumers, which may have been useful to maintain the competitiveness of some industrial districts and regions.
N80|À la recherche d'une théorie de la firme pertinente historiquement. Retour sur le cas d'intégration verticale General Motors/ Fisher Body (1926)|The paper analyses whether the economics of the firm is, or can be, historically relevant. In order to answer this question, we re-examine the famous historical case of vertical integration Fisher Body-General Motors. The archive related to this famous case being now accessible, we consider that this is a major opportunity to reconsider the case, and further to propose new guidelines on what an historically relevant economics of the firm may look like. JEL codes: L20, N80, O30
N80|Chisso Corporation y la enfermedad de Minamata. Caso de Negocios 10|La Chisso Corporation tiene su planta más famosa en Minamata, una ciudad costera de la prefectura de Kumamoto, en la isla de Kyushu, Japón sudoccidental. Chisso y enfermedad de Minamata son nombres indisolublemente unidos, ya que esta empresa fue responsable de la irrupción de la enfermedad, un mal neurológico provocado por el envenenamiento con mercurio. En este trabajo presentamos la relación entre Chisso y la enfermedad de Minamata, como escenario para la identificación de varios problemas vinculados con la ética de los negocios y, en menor medida, con la ética personal y social. En sucesivas secciones, relatamos someramente el caso; reseñamos la historia de Chisso; describimos la enfermedad en sus primeros años y las reacciones que provocó en distintos medios; damos un panorama actual de la situación de la ciudad y sus habitantes; estudiamos la probable incidencia de la cultura japonesa en el desarrollo de los acontecimientos; trazamos un perfil ético rudimentario de Chisso Corporation y enumeramos las cuestiones éticas que plantea el caso; finalmente, resumimos otros temas por investigar en futuros estudios.
N80|Did Economics Cause World War II?|Historians have long recognized the role of economic resources and organization in determining the outcome of World War II: the Nazi economy lacked the economic resources and organization to oppose the combined might of the U.S., U.K., and U.S.S.R. A minority view is that the Germans were defeated not by economics, but by Hitler's many strategic and tactical mistakes, of which the most important was the invasion of the Soviet Union. Compared to this debate about the outcome of the war, there has been less attention to economics as the cause of World War II. This is a review article of a new economic history of the Nazi economy by Adam Tooze which cuts through the debate between economics and Hitler's mistakes as fundamental causes of the outcome. Instead, Tooze argues that the invasion of the Soviet Union was the inevitable result of Hitler's paranoia about the land-starved backwardness of German agriculture as contrasted with the raw material and land resources of America's continent and Britain's empire. The American frontier expansion that obliterated the native Indians provided Hitler with a explicit precedent, which he often cited, for pushing aside the native populations in the east to provide land for German Aryan farmers. Germany's agricultural weakness is summarized by its low land-labor ratio, but Poland and the Ukraine had even less land per person. Thus simply acquiring the land to the east could not solve Germany's problem of low agricultural productivity without removing the native farming populations. Far better than other histories of the Third Reich, Tooze reveals the shocking details of General Plan Ost, the uber-holocaust which would have removed, largely through murder, as many as 45 million people from eastern agricultural land. Tooze, like the Nazis before him, fails to emphasize that the solution to Germany's agricultural problem was not acquiring more land for the existing German farm population, but rather by raising the land-labor ratio by making the existing German land more efficient, mechanizing agriculture and encouraging rural-to-urban migration within Germany.
N80|Internationalising to create Firm Specific Advantages: Leapfrogging strategies of U.S. Pharmaceutical firms in the 1930s and 1940s & Indian Pharmaceutical firms in the 1990s and 2000s|Internationalisation is a useful strategy to gain firm specific advantages during periods of technological discontinuity. The pharmaceutical industry offers us two such episodes as examples: when the antibiotics revolution was beginning and when the possibilities of genetic routes to new drug discovery were realised. This paper compares the strategies adopted by laggard U.S. firms scrambling to gain capabilities in antibiotics, and Indian firms equally eager to acquire positions in new biotechnology based drugs and shows that both groups used internationalisation strategies to gain technological advantages and build up their firm specific advantages.
N80|Gender and family firms: an interdisciplinary approach|This study contributes to developing our understanding of gender and family business, a topic so crucial to recent policies about competitive growth. It does so by providing an interdisciplinary synthesis of some major theoretical debates. It also contributes to this understanding by illuminating the role of women and their participation in the practices of the family and the business. Finally, it explores gender relations and the notion that leadership in family business may take complex forms crafted within constantly changing relationships. Leadership is introduced as a concept that captures the reality of women and men in family firms in a better way than other concepts used by historians or economists like ownership and management.
N80|Vertical integration or specialisation: producing and commercialising cotton goods (1815-1913)|This article describes the ways in which cotton goods were commercialised during the nineteenth century and the first third of the twentieth. Several national cases are analysed: Britain, as the Workshop of the World; France, Germany, Switzerland and the US, as core economies; and Italy and Spain as countries on the European periphery. The main question that we address is why some cotton industries vertically integrated their production and commercialisation processes, but others did not. We present a model that combines industrial district size and product differentiation to explain why vertical integration was present in most cases and why there was vertical specialisation in Lancashire and Lowell.
N80|Putting the Corporation in its Place|This article challenges the idea that the corporation is a globally superior form of business organization and that the Anglo-American common-law is more conducive to economic development than the code-based legal systems characteristic of continental Europe. Although the corporation had important advantages over the main alternative form of organization (partnerships), it also had disadvantages that limited its appeal to small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). As a result, when businesses were provided with an intermediate choice, the private limited liability company (PLLC) that combined the advantages of legal personhood and joint stock with a flexible internal organizational structure, most chose not to organize as corporations. This article tracks the changes that occurred in the menu of business organizational forms in two common-law countries (the UK and the US) and two countries governed by legal codes (France and Germany) and presents data showing the rapidity with which firms in each country responded to enabling legislation for PLLCs. We show that the PLLC was introduced first and most easily in a code country (Germany) and last and with the most difficulty in a common-law country (the US). Late introduction was associated with prolonged use of the partnership form, suggesting that the disadvantages of corporations did indeed weigh heavily on SMEs.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N80|Du paternalisme au managerialisme :les entreprises en quête de responsabilité sociale (Towards corporate social responsability)|Cet article confronte deux tentatives pour constituer les entreprises en organisations socialement responsables. Le paternalisme de la fin du XIXe siècle présentait le patron comme un père vis-à-vis de ses ouvriers. Le managérialisme de nos jours fait des managers des gestionnaires citoyens vis-à-vis des parties prenantes. Ces deux systèmes visent l’harmonie des intérêts entre les classes sociales, le bonheur de ceux qui travaillent et l’autoréglementation des organisations. La responsabilité sociale des entreprises marque un seuil supplémentaire de l’emprise organisationnelle, non seulement dans la gestion des ressources humaines, mais aussi dans les relations avec la société tout entière. Elle marque aussi un changement dans la forme de croyance fondatrice : hier religieuse, aujourd’hui gestionnaire. This article confronts two attempts to constitute the companies in organizations socially responsible. The paternalism of end of the 19th century introduced the owner like a father with respect to his workmen. Managerialism nowadays made of the managers citizens with respect to take holders. These two systems aim at the harmony interests between the social classes, the happiness of those which work and the autoreglementation of the organizations. The corporate social responsability marks an additional threshold of the organisational influence, not only in human ressources, but too in the relations with the very whole company. It marks also a change in the form of belief founder : yesterday religious, today administrative.
N80|National Identity and Intercultural Outlook: a Critical Review of Hong Kong's Civic Education Since the 1980's|This paper argues that in the new landscape of a postmodernist world, civic education would need to nurture national identity and promote intercultural outlook hand in hand. This article reviews development of Hong Kong’s civic education development in this light. In the case of post-colonial Hong Kong, a sensible balance is most needed as the city is to continue as an international city that functions as one of China’s windows to the world.
N80|Türkiye’de Burjuva Sınıfının Sosyal Profili|Bourgeoisie is the major social class that made major social and cultural evolution, economic and politic revolution together with industrial capitalism. In this process bourgeoisie which based on capitalist marker relations, production instruments, capital accumulation, was not only an economic power but also a power which transform social, politic and cultural structures. In this essay I will discuss bourgeoisie’s historical development and class/interest conflicts with bureaucracy. On this purpose Turkish bourgeoisie’s origins, which takes its power from the relations with the state’s bureaucratic and economic relations rather than social and cultural capital, with analyze.
N80|El Mercado De Función Empresarial|This work starts from the conceptual and theoretical world developed by Schumpeter, to advance in the study of the financing of innovations, i.e. the relationship between capital and the entrepreneur. It establishes the fundamental proposition that the function of the entrepreneur is susceptible to being commercialised, and agreement on its price is much more complex than the fixing of interest rates. This fundamental proposition guides our steps towards other propositions naturally derived from it and relating to corporate entrepreneurship, strategic management, venture capital, the agency theory and family companies, in order to demonstrate its possible utility as a new theoretical tool for the understanding of the complex phenomena around these and other research issues. This allows us to bring together areas of study that are not usually considered together, i.e. the above areas in the broad area of business organisation, and economic history, in short business history.
N80|Development of the Bulgarian entrepreneurship|"The genesis and the basic factors in the development of the Bulgarian entrepreneurship are investigated. Evaluations are drawn of its condition and the overall economic development, and concrete specifics and reasons are sorted out. Some comparative evaluations and generalizations are advanced from the viewpoint of the economic freedom, the scale of state interference, the influence of the European culture and the interrelations ""Capital - Labor"". The successful future of the enterprising idea passes through the complicated process of confirmation and general acceptance of such social norms and rules as economizing time, aptitude to saving, fulfillment of contract, observing good discipline, payment of taxes etc, accepted by all participants in the market process."
N80|Development of the Bulgarian Entrepreneurship|The paper studies the genesis and basic factors influencing the development of the entrepreneurship in Bulgaria. It presents an outline of the history of the Bulgarian business and entrepreneurship and examines the characteristic features of the different periods, as well as the factors underlying these features. Some generalized evaluations are made concerning the influence of the economic freedoms, the degree of state intervention, the influence of the European culture and the “capital-labour” relations. The thesis developed in the paper is that the future of the Bulgarian entrepreneurship depends on the difficult process of adoption and general acceptance by all participants in the market of new social values concerning the economy of time, thriftiness, contract obligations, job discipline, tax payment, etc.
N80|Le financement d'une start-up:L'Air Liquide 1898 - 1913|"(VF)Au début du 20e siècle, L'air Liquide est une jeune entreprise française créée pour appliquer à l'échelle industrielle les découvertes de la chimie minérale : la liquéfaction de l'air. Les différentes étapes du financement de cette ""start-up"" ou ""société en germe de développement"" à l'époque, sont analysées dans le contexte d'incertitude sur la technologie et la production future avec l'implication des différentes classes d'investisseurs et le recours au marché Over The Counter:""la Coulisse"". (VA) At the beginning of the 20th century, L'Air Liquide was a young French company, founding to apply on an industrial scale, the discoveries in mineral chemistry : liquefaction of air. The different stages in its financing are analyzed in the context of the uncertainty of the technology and future production with the implication of the different classes of investors and the Over The Counter market:""la Coulisse""."
N80|The twin internationalisation strategies of U.S. carmakers: GM and Ford|"The paper analyses Ford and GM\'s globalisation strategies. He discusses the convergence regarding the integration of European and North-American activities, as well as in the changing economical and geographical firms\' boundaries. This paper is part of the GERPISA research programme \""Internationalisation of the auto industry: between globalisation and regionalisation\"""
N80|The development of budgetary control in France and Britain from the 1920s to the 1960s: a comparison| During the first sixty years or so of the twentieth century, a number of accounting techniques were developed for use in the management of business. One of those new techniques was budgetary control. This paper examines the dissemination and diffusion of budgetary control in France and Britain between the 1920s and the 1960s, outlining the similarities and differences in the experiences of the two countries, and examining some of those factors that influenced them. The paper concludes with some proposals for a programme for future research in (international) accounting change.
N80|Measuring the Effect of Arbitration on Wage Levels: The Case of Police Officers|The authors empirically evaluate how the provision of an arbitration statute affects police officers' wages by comparing wage levels across political jurisdictions and over time using a sample of states. Two complementary data sources are used: panel data for the years 1961â€“92 on state-level wages of police officers, and individual-level data on police officers from the 1970, 1980, and 1990 Decennial Censuses. The empirical results from both data sets are remarkably consistent and provide no robust evidence that the presence of arbitration statutes systematically affected overall wage levels. On average, the effect of arbitration was approximately zero, although the authors find substantial heterogeneity in the estimated effects across states.
N80|Firms as the source of innovation and growth: the evolution of technological competence|It is argued that the firm is the principal source of innovation and growth, a device for the establishment of technological competence, and for its continued development over time. Markets, products and background knowledge may change quite dramatically over time. Yet as a result of the cumulative nature of learning in the production processes of firms, the profile of corporate technological competence will tend to persist over quite long periods, provided there is institutional continuity. Within the same firm, competence may evolve into related areas, but the firm's technological origins will remain identifiable in its subsequent trajectories. However, if the institution itself changes more dramatically, this technological persistence may be disrupted. Supporting evidence is provided from data on the patenting of 30 large US and European companies, which have been continuously active since the interwar period. The science and the knowledge base, and the composition of products and markets may shift quite radically, but the firm's productive and technological system itself is potentially more stable. The firm provides a vehicle for potential institutional continuity and a device for managing transitions within the economic system.
N80|La micro empresa ¿palanca de desarrollo?|"“En alguna parte de su Fenomenología del Espíritu, Hegel notó para siempre que "" la solución de un problema histórico no puede encontrarse sino dentro del problema mismo"". Con demasiada frecuencia sin embargo, las teorías y las políticas de desarrollo han insistido en abordar su problema de verdadero fondo sin contar con los pobres o mejor incorporándolos antes como destinatarios que como actores de su propio destino. Primero se nos dijo que la acumulación de capital en actividades modernas impulsaría el crecimiento, esperando que sus frutos se filtrarían luego hacia los pobres. Más adelante, que lo crucial no era reducir la pobreza sino el número de los pobres, mediante las herramientas del control demográfico. A poco andar, que la tierra debería entregarse al campesino para alzar su productividad y contener la urbanización. Después, que, ante la lentitud de los programas redistributivos, el Estado debería consagrarse a satisfacer directamente las ""necesidades básicas"" de la población rezagada. En fin, hoy, que los esfuerzos anteriores serán pírricos en ausencia de un Nuevo Orden Económico Internacional. Frente a estos enfoques, respetables sin duda en muchos aspectos, el naciente énfasis sobre la microempresa tiene la ventaja conceptual de buscar la solución a partir del problema y la quizá más honda ventaja política de confiar la solución a sus interesados inmediatos, ¿En qué pues consiste el problema y cuáles condiciones podrían contribuir a extraer de él algunos elementos de solución?”"
